
10-K
1
d405915d10k.htm
10-K


10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549   
  FORM 10-K
    
 


x
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 
 


¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
For the transition period
from            to             
Commission File Number 001-32833   
  TransDigm
Group Incorporated  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
   
Delaware 
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) 
41-2101738 
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)   






1301 East 9th Street, Suite 3000, Cleveland, Ohio
 
44114

(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(Zip Code)
 (216) 706-2960  (Registrants’ telephone number, including area code)   
  Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   






Common Stock
 
New York Stock Exchange

(Title)
 
(Name of exchange on which registered)
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
None  Indicate by
check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes  x    No  ¨  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant
to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes  ¨    No  x 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes  x    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes  x    No  ¨  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or smaller
reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
 










 Large accelerated filer  x
 
    Accelerated filer  ¨
 
    Non-accelerated filer  ¨
 
    Smaller reporting company  ¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).    Yes  ¨    No  x 
The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of March 31, 2012, based
upon the last sale price of such voting and non-voting common stock on that date, was $5,540,323,145.  The number of shares
outstanding of TransDigm Group Incorporated’s common stock, par value $.01 per share, was 51,694,655 as of October 27, 2012.  Documents incorporated by reference: The registrant incorporates by reference in Part III hereof portions of its definitive Proxy Statement for its 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. 
   
 


Table of Contents
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 










 
  
 
  
Page
 

PART I
  

  








ITEM 1
  
BUSINESS
  
 
1
  





ITEM 1A
  
RISK FACTORS
  
 
6
  





ITEM 1B
  
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
  
 
15
  





ITEM 2
  
PROPERTIES
  
 
16
  





ITEM 3
  
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
  
 
17
  





PART II 
  

  








ITEM 5
  
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
  
 
18
  





ITEM 6
  
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
  
 
22
  





ITEM 7
  
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  
 
28
  





ITEM 7A
  
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
  
 
50
  





ITEM 8
  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
  
 
51
  





ITEM 9
  
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
  
 
51
  





ITEM 9A
  
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
  
 
51
  





ITEM 9B
  
OTHER INFORMATION
  
 
54
  





PART III
  

  








ITEM 10
  
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
  
 
54
  





ITEM 11
  
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
  
 
55
  





ITEM 12
  
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
  
 
56
  





ITEM 13
  
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
  
 
56
  





ITEM 14
  
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES
  
 
56
  





PART IV
  

  








ITEM 15
  
EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
  
 
56
  






  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
  
 
75
  
  


Table of Contents
Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 
This report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Discussions containing such forward-looking statements may be found in Items 1,1A, 2, 3, 5 and 7 hereof and elsewhere within this Report generally.
In addition, when used in this Report, the words “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “should” and similar words or expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Although the Company (as
defined below) believes that its plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable, such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause
actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made in this Report. The more important of such risks and uncertainties are set forth under the caption “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Report. Many such factors
are outside the control of the Company. Consequently, such forward-looking statements should be regarded solely as our current plans, estimates and beliefs. We do not undertake, and specifically decline any obligation, to publicly release the
results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect any future events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. All forward-looking
statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements.  In this report, the term “TD Group” refers to TransDigm Group Incorporated, which holds all of the outstanding capital stock of TransDigm Inc. The terms “Company,”
“TransDigm,” “we,” “us,” “our” and similar terms refer to TD Group, together with TransDigm Inc. and its direct and indirect subsidiaries. References to “fiscal year” mean the year ending or ended
September 30. For example, “fiscal year 2012” or “fiscal 2012” means the period from October 1, 2011 to September 30, 2012.  PART I   


ITEM 1.
BUSINESS  The Company 
TransDigm Inc. was formed in July 1993 in connection with the acquisition of certain businesses from IMO Industries Inc.
TransDigm Group Incorporated (“TD Group”) was formed in July 2003 to facilitate the acquisition of TransDigm, Inc. In March 2006 and May 2007, certain stockholders of TD Group and certain members of our management sold shares of TD
Group common stock in underwritten public offerings. TD Group did not offer any shares of common stock for sale in the offerings and TD Group did not receive any of the proceeds from the sale of shares by the selling stockholders. As a result of the
initial public offering in 2006, TD Group’s common stock is publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “TDG.”  We believe we are a leading global designer, producer and supplier of highly engineered aircraft components for use on nearly all commercial and military aircraft in service today. Our business is well
diversified due to the broad range of products we offer to our customers. We estimate that about 90% of our net sales for fiscal year 2012 were generated by proprietary products. In addition, for fiscal year 2012, we estimate that we generated about
 3/4 of our net sales from products for which we are the sole source provider. 
Most of our products generate significant aftermarket revenue. Once our parts are designed into and sold on a new aircraft, we generate
net sales from aftermarket consumption over the life of that aircraft, which is generally estimated to be approximately 30 years. A typical platform can be produced for 20 to 30 years, giving us an estimated product life cycle of 50-60 years. We
estimate that approximately 55% of our net sales in fiscal year 2012 were generated from aftermarket sales, the vast majority of which come from the commercial and military aftermarkets. These aftermarket revenues have historically produced a higher
gross margin and been more stable than sales to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs. 
  1 


Table of Contents
Products  We primarily design, produce and supply highly-engineered proprietary aerospace components (and certain systems/subsystems) with significant aftermarket content. We seek to develop highly customized
products to solve specific needs for aircraft operators and manufacturers. We attempt to differentiate ourselves based on engineering, service and manufacturing capabilities. We typically choose not to compete for non-proprietary “build to
print” business because it frequently offers lower margins than proprietary products. We believe that our products have strong brand names within the industry and that we have a reputation for high quality, reliability and customer support.
 Our business is well diversified due to the broad range of products that we offer to our customers. Some of our more
significant product offerings, substantially all of which are ultimately provided to end-users in the aerospace industry, include mechanical/electro-mechanical actuators and controls, ignition systems and engine technology, specialized pumps and
valves, power conditioning devices, specialized AC/DC electric motors and generators, NiCad batteries and chargers, engineered latching and locking devices, rods and locking devices, engineered connectors and elastomers, cockpit security components
and systems, specialized cockpit displays, aircraft audio systems, specialized lavatory components, seatbelts and safety restraints, engineered interior surfaces and lighting and control technology. 
Sales and Marketing 
Consistent with our overall strategy, our sales and marketing organization is structured to continually develop technical solutions that
meet customer needs. In particular, we attempt to focus on products and programs that will lead to high-margin, repeatable sales in the aftermarket.  We have structured our sales efforts along our major product offerings, assigning a product manager to certain products. Each product manager is expected to grow the sales and profitability of the
products for which he or she is responsible and to achieve the targeted annual level of bookings, sales, new business and profitability for such products. The product managers are assisted by account managers and sales engineers who are responsible
for covering major OEM and aftermarket accounts. Account managers and sales engineers are expected to be familiar with the personnel, organization and needs of specific customers, to achieve total bookings and new business goals at each account and,
together with the product managers, to determine when additional resources are required at customer locations. Most of our sales personnel are evaluated, in part, on their bookings and their ability to identify and obtain new business opportunities.
 Though typically performed by employees, the account manager function may be performed by independent representatives
depending on the specific customer, product and geographic location. We also use a number of distributors to provide logistical support as well as primary customer contact with certain smaller accounts. Our major distributors are Aviall, Inc. (a
subsidiary of The Boeing Company) and Satair A/S (a subsidiary of Airbus).  Manufacturing and Engineering 
We maintain 35 principal manufacturing facilities. Most of our manufacturing facilities are comprised of manufacturing, distribution and
engineering functions, and most facilities have certain administrative functions, including management, sales and finance. We continually strive to improve productivity and reduce costs, including rationalization of operations, developing improved
control systems that allow for accurate product profit and loss accounting, investing in equipment, tooling, information systems and implementing broad-based employee training programs. Management believes that our manufacturing systems and
equipment contribute to our ability to compete by permitting us to meet the rigorous tolerances and cost sensitive price structure of aircraft component customers. 
  2 


Table of Contents
We attempt to differentiate ourselves from our competitors by producing uniquely engineered
products with high quality and timely delivery. Our engineering costs are recorded in Cost of Sales and in Selling and Administrative captions in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Total engineering expense represents approximately 6% of our
operating units’ aggregate costs, or approximately 3% of our consolidated net sales. Our proprietary products, and particularly our new product initiatives, are designed by our engineers and are intended to serve the needs of the aircraft
component industry. These proprietary designs must withstand the extraordinary conditions and stresses that will be endured by products during use and meet the rigorous demands of our customers’ tolerance and quality requirements. 
We use sophisticated equipment and procedures to comply with quality requirements, specifications and Federal Aviation Administration
(the “FAA”) and OEM requirements. We perform a variety of testing procedures, including testing under different temperature, humidity and altitude levels, shock and vibration testing and X-ray fluorescent measurement. These procedures,
together with other customer approved techniques for document, process and quality control, are used throughout our manufacturing facilities. 
Customers  Our customers
include: (1) distributors of aerospace components; (2) worldwide commercial airlines, including national and regional airlines; (3) large commercial transport and regional and business aircraft OEMs; (4) various armed forces of
the United States and friendly foreign governments; (5) defense OEMs; (6) system suppliers; and (7) various other industrial customers. For the year ended September 30, 2012, Boeing (which includes Aviall, Inc., a distributor of
commercial aftermarket parts to airlines throughout the world) accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales. Our top ten customers for fiscal year 2012 accounted for approximately 43% of our net sales. Products supplied to many of our customers
are used on multiple platforms.  Active commercial production programs include the Boeing 737, 747, 767, 777 and 787, the
Airbus A319/20/21, A330/A340 and A380, the Bombardier CRJ’s, Challenger and Learjets, the Embraer RJ’s, the Cessna Citation family, the Raytheon Premier and Hawker and most Gulfstream airframes. Military platforms include aircraft such as
the Boeing C-17, F-15, F-18 and V-22, the Lockheed Martin C-130J, F-16 and F-35 Joint Strikefighter, the Northrop Grumman E-2C Hawkeye, the UH-60 Blackhawk, CH-47 Chinook and AH-64 Apache helicopters, the General Atomics Predator Drone and the
Raytheon Patriot Missile. TransDigm has been awarded numerous contracts for the development of engineered products for production on the Airbus A350XWB, A320 NEO and A400M programs, the Bombardier Learjet 85, the Sikorsky S-97 and Boeing P-8
Poseidon.  We believe that we have strong customer relationships with almost all large commercial transport, regional, general
aviation and military OEMs. The demand for our aftermarket parts and services depends on, among other things, the breadth of our installed OEM base, revenue passenger miles (“RPMs”), the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet
and, to a lesser extent, airline profitability. We believe that we are also a leading supplier of components used on U.S.—designed military aircraft, including components that are used on a variety of fighter aircraft, military freighters and
military helicopters.  Competition  The niche markets within the aerospace industry that we serve are relatively fragmented and we face several competitors for many of the products and services we provide. Due to the global nature of the
commercial aircraft industry, competition in these categories comes from both U.S. and foreign companies. Competitors in our product offerings range in size from divisions of large public corporations to small privately-held entities, with only one
or two components in their entire product portfolios.  We compete on the basis of engineering, manufacturing and marketing
high quality products, which we believe meet or exceed the performance and maintenance requirements of our customers, consistent and timely delivery, and superior customer service and support. The industry’s stringent regulatory, certification
and 
  3 


Table of Contents

technical requirements, and the investments necessary in the development and certification of products, create barriers to entry for potential new competitors. As long as customers receive
products that meet or exceed expectations and performance standards, we believe that they will have a reduced incentive to certify another supplier because of the cost and time of the technical design and testing certification process. In addition,
we believe that the availability, dependability and safety of our products are reasons for our customers to continue long-term supplier relationships.  Government Contracts  Companies engaged in supplying defense-related
equipment and services to U.S. Government agencies are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. These risks include the ability of the U.S. Government to unilaterally: (1) suspend us from receiving new contracts pending
resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; (2) terminate existing contracts; (3) reduce the value of existing contracts; (4) audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs; and
(5) control and potentially prohibit the export of our products.  Governmental Regulation 
The commercial aircraft component industry is highly regulated by both the FAA in the United States and by the Joint Aviation Authorities
in Europe and other agencies throughout the world, while the military aircraft component industry is governed by military quality specifications. We, and the components we manufacture, are required to be certified by one or more of these entities or
agencies, and, in many cases, by individual OEMs, in order to engineer and service parts and components used in specific aircraft models.  We must also satisfy the requirements of our customers, including OEMs and airlines that are subject to FAA regulations, and provide these customers with products and services that comply with the
government regulations applicable to commercial flight operations. In addition, the FAA requires that various maintenance routines be performed on aircraft components. We believe that we currently satisfy or exceed these maintenance standards in our
repair and overhaul services. We also maintain several FAA approved repair stations.  In addition, sales of many of our
products that will be used on aircraft owned by non-U.S. entities are subject to compliance with U.S. export control laws. 
Our operations are also subject to a variety of worker and community safety laws. The Occupational Safety and Health Act
(“OSHA”), mandates general requirements for safe workplaces for all employees. In addition, OSHA provides special procedures and measures for the handling of certain hazardous and toxic substances. 
Raw Materials  We
require the use of various raw materials in our manufacturing processes. We also purchase a variety of manufactured component parts from various suppliers. At times, we concentrate our orders among a few suppliers in order to strengthen our supplier
relationships. Raw materials and component parts are generally available from multiple suppliers at competitive prices.  Intellectual
Property  We have various trade secrets, proprietary information, trademarks, trade names, patents, copyrights and other
intellectual property rights, which we believe, in the aggregate but not individually, are important to our business. 
  4 


Table of Contents
Backlog  As of September 30, 2012, the Company estimated its sales order backlog at $833 million compared to an estimated sales order backlog of $737 million as of September 30, 2011. The increase in
backlog is primarily due to the acquisitions of Aero-Instruments, Harco and AmSafe discussed below, totaling approximately $62 million and an increase in orders across existing OEM product lines and to a lesser extent the aftermarket. The majority
of the purchase orders outstanding as of September 30, 2012 are scheduled for delivery within the next twelve months. Purchase orders may be subject to cancellation or deferral by the customer prior to shipment. The level of unfilled purchase
orders at any given date during the year will be materially affected by the timing of the Company’s receipt of purchase orders and the speed with which those orders are filled. Accordingly, the Company’s backlog as of September 30,
2012 may not necessarily represent the actual amount of shipments or sales for any future period.  Foreign Operations 
Although we manufacture a significant portion of our products in the United States, we manufacture some products in Belgium, China,
Malaysia, Mexico, Sri Lanka and the United Kingdom. We sell our products in the United States, as well as in foreign countries. Although the majority of sales of our products are made to customers including distributors located in the United States,
our products are ultimately sold to and used by customers, including airlines and other end users of aircraft, throughout the world. A number of risks inherent in international operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations, including currency fluctuations, difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations, general economic and political uncertainties and potential for social unrest in countries in which we operate, limitations on our ability
to enforce legal rights and remedies, restrictions on the repatriation of funds, change in trade policies, tariff regulation, difficulties in obtaining export and import licenses and the risk of government financed competition. 
Our direct sales to foreign customers were approximately $508.8 million, $305.5 million, and $170.6 million for fiscal years 2012,
2011 and 2010, respectively. Sales to foreign customers are subject to numerous additional risks, including the impact of foreign government regulations, political uncertainties and differences in business practices. There can be no assurance that
foreign governments will not adopt regulations or take other action that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on the business or market opportunities of the Company within such governments’ countries. Furthermore, there can be no
assurance that the political, cultural and economic climate outside the United States will be favorable to our operations and growth strategy. 
Environmental Matters 
Our operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations that govern,
among other things, discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the generation, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the remediation of contamination and the health and safety of our employees. Environmental laws
and regulations may require that the Company investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present operations. Certain facilities and third-party sites utilized by subsidiaries of the
Company have been identified as potentially responsible parties under the federal Superfund laws and comparable state laws. The Company is currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a number of sites under applicable laws.
 Estimates of the Company’s environmental liabilities are based on current facts, laws, regulations and technology. These
estimates take into consideration the Company’s prior experience and professional judgment of the Company’s environmental specialists. Estimates of the Company’s environmental liabilities are further subject to uncertainties regarding
the nature and extent of site contamination, the range of remediation alternatives available, evolving remediation standards, imprecise engineering evaluations and cost estimates, the extent of corrective actions that may be required and the number
and financial condition of other potentially responsible parties, as well as the extent of their responsibility for the remediation.  Accordingly, as investigation and remediation proceed, it is likely that adjustments in the Company’s accruals will be necessary to reflect new information. The amounts of any such adjustments could
have a 
  5 


Table of Contents

material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or cash flows in a given period. Based on currently available information, however, the Company does not believe that future
environmental costs in excess of those accrued with respect to sites for which the Company has been identified as a potentially responsible party are likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. 
Environmental liabilities are recorded when the liability is probable and the costs are reasonably estimable, which generally is not
later than at completion of a feasibility study or when the Company has recommended a remedy or has committed to an appropriate plan of action. The liabilities are reviewed periodically and, as investigation and remediation proceed, adjustments are
made as necessary. Liabilities for losses from environmental remediation obligations do not consider the effects of inflation and anticipated expenditures are not discounted to their present value. The liabilities are not reduced by possible
recoveries from insurance carriers or other third parties, but do reflect anticipated allocations among potentially responsible parties at federal Superfund sites or similar state-managed sites, third party indemnity obligations, and an assessment
of the likelihood that such parties will fulfill their obligations at such sites.  Employees 
As of September 30, 2012, we had approximately 5,400 full time, part time and temporary employees. Approximately 12% of our employees
were represented by labor unions. Collective bargaining agreements between us and these labor unions expire at various dates ranging from November 2012 to April 2016. We consider our relationship with our employees generally to be satisfactory.
 Legal Proceedings  We are from time to time subject to, and are presently involved in, litigation or other legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Based upon information currently known to us, we
believe the outcome of such proceedings will not have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on our business, our financial condition or results of operations.  Available Information  TD Group’s Annual Report on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, including any amendments, will be made available free of charge on the Company’s website, www.transdigm.com, as soon as reasonably practicable, following the filing of
the reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission.   


ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS  Set
forth below are important risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect our business and financial condition and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report.
 Our business is sensitive to the number of flight hours that our customers’ planes spend aloft, the size and age of the worldwide
aircraft fleet and our customers’ profitability. These items are, in turn, affected by general economic conditions. 
Our business is directly affected by, among other factors, changes in revenue passenger miles (RPMs), the size and age of the worldwide
aircraft fleet and, to a lesser extent, changes in the profitability of the commercial airline industry. RPMs and airline profitability have historically been correlated with the general economic environment, although national and international
events also play a key role. For example, in the recent past, the airline industry has been severely affected by the downturn in the global economy, higher fuel prices, the increased security concerns among airline customers following the events of
September 11, 2001, the Severe 
  6 


Table of Contents

Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, epidemic and the conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq. In addition, global market and economic conditions have been challenging with continued turbulence in the
U.S. and international markets and economies and have prolonged declines in business and consumer spending. As a result of the substantial reduction in airline traffic resulting from these events, the airline industry incurred large losses and
financial difficulties. Some carriers have also parked or retired a portion of their fleets and have reduced workforces and flights. During periods of reduced airline profitability, some airlines may delay purchases of spare parts, preferring
instead to deplete existing inventories. If demand for new aircraft and spare parts decreases, there would be a decrease in demand for certain of our products.  Our sales to manufacturers of aircraft are cyclical, and a downturn in sales to these manufacturers may adversely affect us. 
Our sales to manufacturers of large commercial aircraft, such as The Boeing Company, Airbus S.A.S, and related OEM suppliers, as well as
manufacturers of business jets, which accounted for approximately 26% of our net sales in fiscal year 2012, have historically experienced periodic downturns. In the past, these sales have been affected by airline profitability, which is impacted by,
among other things, fuel and labor costs, price competition, downturns in the global economy and national and international events, such as the events of September 11, 2001. In addition, sales of our products to manufacturers of business jets
are impacted by, among other things, downturns in the global economy. Prior downturns have adversely affected our net sales, gross margin and net income.  We rely heavily on certain customers for much of our sales.  Our largest
customer for fiscal year 2012 was The Boeing Company (which includes Aviall, Inc., a distributor of commercial aftermarket parts to airlines throughout the world). Boeing accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales in fiscal year 2012. Our top
ten customers for fiscal year 2012 accounted for approximately 43% of our net sales. A reduction in purchasing by one of our larger customers for any reason, such as economic downturn, decreased production or strike, could have a material adverse
effect on our net sales, gross margin and net income.  We generally do not have guaranteed future sales of our products. Further, when we
enter into fixed price contracts with some of our customers, we take the risk for cost overruns.  As is customary in our
business, we do not generally have long-term contracts with most of our aftermarket customers and, therefore, do not have guaranteed future sales. Although we have long-term contracts with many of our OEM customers, many of those customers may
terminate the contracts on short notice and, in most cases, our customers have not committed to buy any minimum quantity of our products. In addition, in certain cases, we must anticipate the future volume of orders based upon the historic
purchasing patterns of customers and upon our discussions with customers as to their anticipated future requirements, and this anticipated future volume of orders may not materialize. 
We also have entered into multi-year, fixed-price contracts with some of our customers, pursuant to which we have agreed to perform the
work for a fixed price and, accordingly, realize all the benefit or detriment resulting from any decreases or increases in the costs of making these products. Sometimes we accept a fixed-price contract for a product that we have not yet produced,
and this increases the risk of cost overruns or delays in the completion of the design and manufacturing of the product. Most of our contracts do not permit us to recover increases in raw material prices, taxes or labor costs. 
U.S. military spending is dependent upon the U.S. defense budget.  The military and defense market is significantly dependent upon government budget trends, particularly the U.S. Department of Defense (the “DOD”) budget. In addition to normal business risks,
our supply of products to the United States Government is subject to unique risks largely beyond our control. Future DOD budgets could 
  7 


Table of Contents

be negatively impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, a change in defense spending policy by the current presidential administration, the U.S. Government’s budget
deficits, spending priorities, the cost of sustaining the U.S. military presence in the Middle East and possible political pressure to reduce U.S. Government military spending, each of which could cause the DOD budget to remain unchanged or to
decline. A significant decline in U.S. military expenditures in the future could result in a reduction in the amount of our products sold to the various agencies and buying organizations of the U.S. Government. 
We intend to pursue future acquisitions. Our business may be adversely affected if we cannot consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or if we
cannot effectively integrate acquired operations.  A significant portion of our growth has occurred through acquisitions.
Any future growth through acquisitions will be partially dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. We intend to pursue acquisitions that we believe
will present opportunities consistent with our overall business strategy. However, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates to purchase or may be unable to acquire desired businesses or assets on economically acceptable terms. In
addition, we may not be able to raise the capital necessary to fund future acquisitions. Because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, including difficulties
in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight.  We regularly engage in discussions with
respect to potential acquisition and investment opportunities. If we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. Future acquisitions could likely result in the incurrence of additional debt and
contingent liabilities and an increase in interest and amortization expenses or periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. 
Acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments
concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any business we acquire into our existing business. The successful integration of new businesses
depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. The successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the management of the acquired business, which could
decrease the time that they have to service, attract customers and develop new products and services or attend to other acquisition opportunities.  We are subject to certain unique business risks as a result of supplying equipment and services to the U.S. Government.  Companies engaged in supplying defense-related equipment and services to U.S. Government agencies are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. These risks include the ability of the
U.S. Government to unilaterally:   


 
•
 
 suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; 
 


 
•
 
 terminate existing contracts;   


 
•
 
 reduce the value of existing contracts; and   


 
•
 
 audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. 
Most of our U.S. Government contracts can be terminated by the U.S. Government for its convenience without significant notice.
Termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. 
  8 


Table of Contents
On contracts for which the price is based on cost, the U.S. Government may review our costs
and performance, as well as our accounting and general business practices. Based on the results of such audits, the U.S. Government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. In addition, under U.S.
Government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including most financing costs, amortization of intangible assets, portions of research and development costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be subject to reimbursement. 
In addition, even where the price is not based on cost, the U.S. Government may seek to review our costs to determine whether our pricing
is “fair and reasonable”. Five of our subsidiaries and divisions were subject to such a pricing review for years 2002 through 2004 and it is possible that we will be subject to a similar pricing review in the future. Such a review could be
costly and time consuming for our management and could distract from our ability to effectively manage the business. As a result of such a review, we could be subject to providing a refund to the U.S. Government or we could be asked to enter into an
arrangement whereby our prices would be based on cost or the DOD could seek to pursue alternative sources of supply for our parts. Any of those occurrences could lead to a reduction in our revenue from, or the profitability of certain of our supply
arrangements with, certain agencies and buying organizations of the U.S. Government.  Our business may be adversely affected if we would
lose our government or industry approvals or if more stringent government regulations are enacted or if industry oversight is increased.  The aerospace industry is highly regulated in the United States and in other countries. In order to sell our components, we and the components we manufacture must be certified by the FAA, the DOD and
similar agencies in foreign countries and by individual manufacturers. If new and more stringent government regulations are adopted or if industry oversight increases, we might incur significant expenses to comply with any new regulations or
heightened industry oversight. In addition, if material authorizations or approvals were revoked or suspended, our business would be adversely affected.  In addition to the aviation approvals, we are at times required to obtain approval from U.S. Government agencies to export our products. Additionally, we are not permitted to export some of our products.
A determination by the U.S. Government that we failed to receive required approvals or licenses could eliminate or restrict our ability to sell our products outside the United States, and the penalties that could be imposed by the U.S. Government
for failure to comply with these laws could be significant.  Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and
could harm our ability to react to changes to our business and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness.  We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of September 30, 2012, our total indebtedness was approximately $3,619.1 million, which was approximately 74.8% of our total capitalization.
 In addition, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. For example, as
of September 30, 2012, we had approximately $302.9 million of unused commitments under our revolving loan facility. Although our senior secured credit facility and the indentures (together with the indenture governing the 5 1/2% notes discussed below, the “Indentures”) governing the
7 3/4% senior subordinated notes issued in December 2010 (the
“7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes”) contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and the
indebtedness incurred in compliance with these qualifications and exceptions could be substantial. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage would increase. 
Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. For example, it could: 
 


 
•
 
 increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and industry conditions; 
  9 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our
cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate requirements;   


 
•
 
 limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; 
 


 
•
 
 place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and 
 


 
•
 
 limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the documents governing our indebtedness, among other things, our ability
to borrow additional funds, make investments and incur liens.  In addition, all of our debt under the senior
secured credit facility, which includes a $2.02 billion term loan facility and a revolving loan facility of $310.0 million, bears interest at floating rates. Accordingly, in the event that interest rates increase, our debt service expense
will also increase. In order to reduce the floating interest rate risk, as of September 30, 2012, the Company was party to three forward starting interest rate swap agreements that fix the rate of interest beginning December 31, 2012
through June 30, 2015 on an aggregate notional amount of $353 million of debt under the senior secured credit facility.  On October 9, 2012, the Company amended the secured credit facility to provide for an additional term loan facility in the aggregate principal amount of $150 million. The additional term loan
facility was fully drawn on October 15, 2012. The Company also issued $550 million in aggregate principal amount of its
5 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2020 (the “5 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes”) at an issue price of 100% of the principal amount on October 15, 2012.
 Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to
generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness, including the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes (as well as the 5 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes). We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit
facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness. If we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt
or seeking additional equity capital.  To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability
to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, including the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes (as well as the 5 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes) and amounts borrowed under the credit facilities, and to fund our operations, will depend on
our ability to generate cash in the future, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. 
We cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently
anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or at all or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our
indebtedness, including the amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility and the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes (as well as the 5 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes), or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets,
restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our ability to restructure or refinance our
debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us

  10 


Table of Contents

to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments, the Indentures and the senior secured credit
facility may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which
could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms and would otherwise adversely affect the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes (as well as the 5 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes).  The terms of the senior secured credit facility
and Indentures may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions.  Our senior secured credit facility and the Indentures contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on TD Group, TransDigm Inc. and its
subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and TransDigm Inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the Indentures) and may limit their ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. The senior
secured credit facility and Indentures include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of TD Group, TransDigm Inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and TransDigm Inc. and its
subsidiaries (in the case of the Indentures) to:   


 
•
 
 incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; 
 


 
•
 
 pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; 
 


 
•
 
 make investments;   


 
•
 
 sell assets;   


 
•
 
 enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; 
 


 
•
 
 incur or allow to exist liens;   


 
•
 
 consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; 
 


 
•
 
 engage in transactions with affiliates;   


 
•
 
 create unrestricted subsidiaries; and   


 
•
 
 engage in certain business activities.  A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility or the Indentures. If any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility
and the holders of the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes (as well as the 5 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes) may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other
amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. The lenders under the senior secured credit facility also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. In addition,
following an event of default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders under that facility will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which includes our available cash, and they will also
have the right to prevent us from making debt service payments on the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes (as well as the 5 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes). If the debt under the senior secured credit facility or the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes (as well as the 5 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes) were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our debt. 
We could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. 
Our operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations that
govern, among other things, discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the generation, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the remediation of contamination and the

  11 


Table of Contents

health and safety of our employees. Environmental laws and regulations may require that the Company investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites
associated with past and present operations. Certain facilities and third-party sites utilized by subsidiaries of the Company have been identified as potentially responsible parties under the federal Superfund laws and comparable state laws. The
Company is currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a number of sites under applicable laws.  Estimates of
the Company’s environmental liabilities are based on current facts, laws, regulations and technology. These estimates take into consideration the Company’s prior experience and professional judgment of the Company’s environmental
specialists. Estimates of the Company’s environmental liabilities are further subject to uncertainties regarding the nature and extent of site contamination, the range of remediation alternatives available, evolving remediation standards,
imprecise engineering evaluations and cost estimates, the extent of corrective actions that may be required and the number and financial condition of other potentially responsible parties, as well as the extent of their responsibility for the
remediation.  Accordingly, as investigation and remediation proceed, it is likely that adjustments in the Company’s
accruals will be necessary to reflect new information. The amounts of any such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or cash flows in a given period. Based on currently available information,
however, the Company does not believe that future environmental costs in excess of those accrued with respect to sites for which the Company has been identified as a potentially responsible party are likely to have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s financial condition.  Environmental liabilities are recorded when the liability is probable and the costs are
reasonably estimable, which generally is not later than at completion of a feasibility study or when the Company has recommended a remedy or has committed to an appropriate plan of action. The liabilities are reviewed periodically and, as
investigation and remediation proceed, adjustments are made as necessary. Liabilities for losses from environmental remediation obligations do not consider the effects of inflation and anticipated expenditures are not discounted to their present
value. The liabilities are not reduced by possible recoveries from insurance carriers or other third parties, but do reflect anticipated allocations among potentially responsible parties at federal Superfund sites or similar state-managed sites,
third party indemnity obligations, and an assessment of the likelihood that such parties will fulfill their obligations at such sites.  We
are dependent on our highly trained employees and any work stoppage or difficulty hiring similar employees could adversely affect our business.  Because our products are complicated and highly engineered, we depend on an educated and trained workforce. There is substantial competition for skilled personnel in the aircraft component industry, and
we could be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled employees. We may not be able to fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract and retain qualified personnel. 
As of September 30, 2012, we had approximately 5,400 full time, part time and temporary employees. Approximately 12% of our
employees were represented by labor unions. Collective bargaining agreements between us and these labor unions expire at various dates ranging from November 2012 to April 2016. We consider our relationship with our employees generally to be
satisfactory. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate a satisfactory renewal of these collective bargaining agreements or that our employee relations will
remain stable. Because we maintain a relatively small inventory of finished goods, any work stoppage could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide products to our customers.  Our business is dependent on the availability of certain components and raw materials from suppliers.  Our business is affected by the price and availability of the raw materials and component parts that we use to manufacture our components. Our business, therefore, could be adversely impacted by factors
affecting our 
  12 


Table of Contents

suppliers (such as the destruction of our suppliers’ facilities or their distribution infrastructure, a work stoppage or strike by our suppliers’ employees or the failure of our
suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality), or by increased costs of such raw materials or components if we were unable to pass along such price increases to our customers. Because we maintain a relatively small inventory of raw
materials and component parts, our business could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain these raw materials and components from our suppliers in the quantities we require or on favorable terms. Although we believe in most cases that we
could identify alternative suppliers, or alternative raw materials or component parts, the lengthy and expensive FAA and OEM certification processes associated with aerospace products could prevent efficient replacement of a supplier, raw material
or component part.  Our facilities are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other natural
disaster could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to curtail or cease operations.  A
number of our manufacturing facilities are located in the greater Los Angeles area, an area known for earthquakes, and are thus vulnerable to damage. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including power loss, fire,
explosions, floods, communications failures, terrorist attacks and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities could be impaired.  We have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect.  Mergers and acquisitions have resulted in significant increases in identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. Identifiable intangible assets, which primarily include trademarks, trade names, trade
secrets, license agreements and technology, were approximately $1,123.6 million at September 30, 2012, representing approximately 21% of our total assets. Goodwill recognized in accounting for the mergers and acquisitions was approximately
$3,035.5 million at September 30, 2012, representing approximately 56% of our total assets. We may never realize the full value of our identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, and to the extent we were to determine that our identifiable
intangible assets or our goodwill were impaired within the meaning of applicable accounting standards, we would be required to write-off the amount of any impairment.  We face significant competition.  We operate in a highly competitive
global industry and compete against a number of companies. Competitors in our product lines are both U.S. and foreign companies and range in size from divisions of large public corporations to small privately held entities. We believe that our
ability to compete depends on high product performance, consistent high quality, short lead-time and timely delivery, competitive pricing, superior customer service and support and continued certification under customer quality requirements and
assurance programs. We may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive.  We could be adversely affected if one of
our components causes an aircraft to crash.  Our operations expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or
death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that we have designed, manufactured or serviced. While we maintain liability insurance to protect us from future products liability claims, in the event of product liability claims our
insurers may attempt to deny coverage or any coverage we have may not be adequate. We also may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. Any liability not covered by insurance or for which third party
indemnification is not available could result in significant liability to us.  In addition, a crash caused by one of our
components could damage our reputation for quality products. We believe our customers consider safety and reliability as key criteria in selecting a provider of aircraft components. If a crash were to be caused by one of our components, or if we
were to otherwise fail to maintain a satisfactory record of safety and reliability, our ability to retain and attract customers may be materially adversely affected. 
  13 


Table of Contents
Our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value.
 There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to
the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. You may not be able to sell your shares at or above the purchase price due to fluctuations
in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects, including possible changes due to the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry and other factors such as fluctuations in OEM and aftermarket
ordering, which could cause short-term swings in profit margins, or unrelated to our operating performance, including market conditions affecting the stock market generally or the stocks of aerospace companies more specifically. 
Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our share price. 
We may sell additional shares of common stock into the public markets or issue convertible debt securities to raise capital in the
future. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public markets or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that
these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities to raise capital at a time and price that we deem appropriate.  Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain certain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. 
Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition
involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 149,600,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock. Without
stockholder approval, the Board of Directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. With these rights, holders of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to
acquire us. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered Board of Directors, whereby directors serve for three-year terms, with approximately one-third of the directors coming up for re-election each
year. Having a staggered board will make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our Board of Directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of us that is not favored by our Board of Directors.
Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the voting power of our issued and outstanding capital stock, voting together as a single class, is required for the
alteration, amendment or repeal of certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, including the provisions authorizing a staggered board, and certain provisions of our amended and restated bylaws, including the
provisions relating to our stockholders’ ability to call special meetings, notice provisions for stockholder business to be conducted at an annual meeting, requests for stockholder lists and corporate records, nomination and removal of
directors, and filling of vacancies on our Board of Directors.  We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of
Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an “interested stockholder,” we may not enter into a “business combination” with that person for three years without special
approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. For purposes of Section 203, “interested stockholder” means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our
outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in Section 203. 
We do not pay regular quarterly or annual cash dividends on our stock.  On October 15, 2012 the Company’s Board of Directors authorized and declared a special cash dividend of $12.85 on each outstanding share of common stock and cash dividend equivalent payments
under certain of its 
  14 


Table of Contents

stock option plans. The special cash dividend amounting to approximately $663.5 million was paid in November 2012 and Dividend Equivalent Payments amounting to approximately $36.0 million will be
paid prior to December 31, 2012. The Company declared and paid a special cash dividend of $7.65 on each outstanding share of common stock in October 2009.  Notwithstanding the special cash dividends paid in October 2009 and November 2012, we do not anticipate declaring or paying regular quarterly or annual cash dividends on our common stock or any other
equity security in the foreseeable future. The amounts that may be available to us to pay cash dividends are restricted under our debt and other agreements. Any payment of cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be at the discretion of
our Board of Directors and will depend on our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Therefore, you should
not rely on quarterly or annual dividend income from shares of our common stock.   


ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 
None. 
  15 


Table of Contents


ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES 
TransDigm’s owned properties as of September 30, 2012 are as follows: 
 








 Location
  
SquareFootage
 

 Liberty, SC
  
 
219,000
  

 Waco, TX
  
 
218,800
  

 Bridport, United Kingdom
  
 
193,200
  

 Phoenix, AZ
  
 
138,700
  

 Los Angeles, CA
  
 
131,000
  

 Kent, OH
  
 
120,000
  

 Pinellas Park, FL
  
 
110,000
  

 Addison, IL
  
 
83,300
  

 Seattle, WA
  
 
78,300
  

 Placentia, CA
  
 
75,000
  

 Painesville, OH
  
 
63,900
  

 Wichita, KS
  
 
57,000
  

 South Euclid, OH
  
 
50,000
  

 Avenel, NJ
  
 
48,500
  

 Herstal, Belgium
  
 
45,700
  

 Branford, CT
  
 
45,300
  

 Valencia, CA
  
 
38,000
  

 Rancho Cucamonga, CA
  
 
32,700
  

 Melaka, Malaysia
  
 
24,800
  

 Deerfield Beach, FL
  
 
20,000
  
 The properties listed above, except Bridport, Phoenix, Kent, Pinellas Park, Herstal, Branford, Valencia
and Melaka are subject to mortgage liens under our senior secured credit facility. The Seattle property is currently vacant and under contract to sell.  TransDigm’s leased properties as of September 30, 2012 are as follows:   








 Location
  
SquareFootage
 

 Dayton, NV
  
 
144,000
  

 Nittambuwa, Sri Lanka
  
 
113,000
  

 Everett, WA
  
 
111,000
  

 Fullerton, CA
  
 
100,000
  

 Anaheim, CA
  
 
97,000
  

 Collegeville, PA
  
 
90,000
  

 Kunshan, China
  
 
75,300
  

 Camarillo, CA
  
 
70,000
  

 Matamoros, Mexico
  
 
60,500
  

 Elkart, IN
  
 
51,500
  

 Tempe, AZ
  
 
40,200
  

 Chongqing, China
  
 
37,700
  

 Northridge, CA
  
 
35,000
  

 Simi Valley, CA
  
 
33,400
  

 London, United Kingdom
  
 
27,400
  

 Nogales, Mexico
  
 
27,000
  

 Gardena, CA
  
 
25,000
  

 Erie, PA
  
 
19,200
  

 Bellevue, WA
  
 
18,000
  
  16 


Table of Contents








 Location
  
SquareFootage
 

 Cleveland, OH
  
 
15,200
  

 Cleveland, OH
  
 
13,100
  

 Wichita, KS
  
 
10,000
  

 Bookham, United Kingdom
  
 
9,900
  

 Placentia, CA
  
 
8,400
  

 Pasadena, CA
  
 
5,300
  

 Borella, Sri Lanka
  
 
4,900
  

 Paris, France
  
 
2,100
  

 Wichita, KS
  
 
1,700
  

 Singapore
  
 
1,700
  

 Kunshan, China
  
 
1,300
  
 TransDigm also leases certain of its other non-material facilities. Management believes that our
machinery, plants and offices are in satisfactory operating condition and that it will have sufficient capacity to meet foreseeable future needs without incurring significant additional capital expenditures. 
 


ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  During
the ordinary course of business, TransDigm is from time to time threatened with, or may become a party to, legal actions and other proceedings related to its businesses, products or operations. While TransDigm is currently involved in some legal
proceedings, management believes the results of these proceedings will not have a material effect on its financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 
  17 


Table of Contents
PART II 
 


ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
Market Information  Our
common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, under the ticker symbol “TDG.” The following chart sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices of the common stock on the NYSE. 
 












 Quarterly Stock Prices
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 Fiscal 2011
  



  




 For Quarter ended January 1, 2011
  
$
72.93
  
  
$
60.89
  

 For Quarter ended April 2, 2011
  
 
85.38
  
  
 
72.46
  

 For Quarter ended July 2, 2011
  
 
94.08
  
  
 
76.82
  

 For Quarter ended September 30, 2011
  
 
95.04
  
  
 
73.76
  





 Fiscal 2012
  



  




 For Quarter ended December 31, 2011
  
 
102.73
  
  
 
74.30
  

 For Quarter ended March 31, 2012
  
 
121.48
  
  
 
91.97
  

 For Quarter ended June 30, 2012
  
 
134.43
  
  
 
111.56
  

 For Quarter ended September 30, 2012
  
 
146.72
  
  
 
117.77
  
 Holders   On October 31, 2012, there were 29 stockholders of record of our common stock. We estimate that there were approximately 55,228 beneficial stockholders as of October 31, 2012, which includes an
estimated amount of stockholders who have their shares held in their accounts by banks and brokers.  Dividends 
In October 2009 TD Group’s Board of Directors declared a special cash dividend of $7.65 on each outstanding share of common stock.
Also, in October 2012 TD Group’s Board of Directors declared a special cash dividend of $12.85 on each outstanding share of common stock.  We do not anticipate declaring or paying regular quarterly or annual cash dividends on our common stock in the near future. Any payment of cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be at the
discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. TD
Group is a holding company and conducts all of its operations through direct and indirect subsidiaries. Unless TD Group receives dividends, distributions, advances, transfers of funds or other payments from our subsidiaries, TD Group will be unable
to pay any dividends on our common stock in the future. The ability of any subsidiaries to take any of the foregoing actions is limited by the terms of our debt documents and may be limited by future debt or other agreements that we may enter into.
 Performance Graph  Set forth below is a line graph comparing the cumulative total return of a hypothetical investment in the shares of common stock of TD Group with the cumulative total return of a hypothetical investment
in each of the S&P Midcap 400 Index and the S&P MidCap 400 S&P Aerospace & Defense Index based on the respective market prices of each such investment on the dates shown below, assuming an initial investment of $100 on
September 30, 2007. 
  18 


Table of Contents
The following performance graph and related information shall not be deemed “soliciting
material” nor to be “filed” with the SEC, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filings under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent
we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing.    

  




























  
  
9/07
 
  
9/08
 
  
9/09
 
  
9/10
 
  
9/11
 
  
9/12
 

 TransDigm Group Incorporated
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
74.89
  
  
 
108.97
  
  
 
159.11
  
  
 
209.42
  
  
 
363.79
  

 S&P Midcap 400
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
83.32
  
  
 
80.73
  
  
 
95.08
  
  
 
93.87
  
  
 
120.65
  

 S&P MidCap 400 S&P Aerospace & Defense
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
61.91
  
  
 
61.22
  
  
 
79.22
  
  
 
79.31
  
  
 
98.32
  
 Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer or Affiliated Purchaser 
On August 22, 2011 we announced a program permitting us to repurchase a portion of our outstanding shares not to exceed $100 million
in the aggregate. During the year ended September 30, 2012, the Company repurchased 11,300 shares of its common stock at a gross cost of approximately $0.8 million at a weighted-average price per share of $74.87 per share. The program replaces
the repurchase program announced on October 23, 2008, under which the Company previously repurchased 494,100 shares of its common stock at a gross cost of approximately $15.2 million at a weighted-average price per share of $30.85. 
  19 


Table of Contents
Equity Compensation Plan Information 
 
















 Plan category
  
Number of Securitiesto Be Issued uponExercise ofOutstanding Options,Warrants
and Rights(a)
 
  
Weighted-AverageExercise Price ofOutstanding Options,Warrants and
Rights(b)
 
  
Number of SecuritiesRemaining Available forFuture Issuance UnderEquity
CompensationPlans (excludingsecurities reflected incolumn (a))(c)
 

 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders(1)
  
 
5,778,317
  
  
$
48.49
  
  
 
3,220,445
  

 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders(2)
  
 
16,096
  
  
$
6.68
  
  
 
N/A
  

 Total
  
 
5,794,413
  
  



  
 
3,220,445
  
  


(1)
Includes information related to the 2003 stock option plan and the 2006 stock incentive plan, each as described below. 


(2)
Options issued outside of the 2003 stock option plan and the 2006 stock incentive plan.  2003 Stock Option Plan  In connection with the acquisition of the Company
by Warburg Pincus in 2003, TD Group adopted a stock option plan for the benefit of our employees. The stock option plan has been amended and restated on several occasions, most recently effective as of July 18, 2008 and we refer to such stock
option plan as it is currently in effect as the 2003 stock option plan.  Upon the closing of the acquisition of the Company by
Warburg Pincus, certain employees rolled over certain then-existing options to purchase shares of common stock of TransDigm Inc.’s former holding company with an aggregate intrinsic value of approximately $35.7 million into a combination
of options to purchase shares of common stock of TD Group, or rollover options, and interests in the two deferred compensation plans which have since been terminated. These employees were granted rollover options to purchase an aggregate of
3,870,152 shares of TD Group common stock, which gives effect to the 149.60 for 1.00 stock split that we effected on March 14, 2006 in connection with our initial public offering. All rollover options granted in connection with the closing of
the acquisition were fully vested on the date of grant. As of September 30, 2012, all rollover options were exercised. 
In addition to the shares of TD Group common stock reserved for issuance upon exercise of rollover options, under the terms of the 2003
stock option plan, an aggregate of 5,469,301 shares of TD Group common stock are reserved for issuance upon exercise of new management options (after giving effect to the stock split). As of September 30, 2012, there were new management options
to purchase 1,052,122 shares of TD Group common stock outstanding (after giving effect to the stock split). As of September 30, 2012, there were 77,829 shares available for issuance under options not yet granted. 
2006 Stock Incentive Plan 
Prior to the consummation of its initial public offering, TD Group adopted a new stock incentive plan, which was amended on
October 20, 2006, July 29, 2008 and March 3, 2011, designed to assist us in attracting, retaining, motivating and rewarding key employees, directors or consultants, and promoting the creation of long-term value for stockholders
of TD Group by closely aligning the interests of these individuals with those of our stockholders. The 2006 stock incentive plan permits TD Group to award our key employees, directors or consultants stock options, restricted stock and other
stock-based incentives. The total number of shares of TD Group common stock reserved for issuance or delivery under the 2006 stock incentive plan is 8,119,668, subject to adjustment in the event of any stock dividend or split, reorganization,
recapitalization, merger, share exchange 
  20 


Table of Contents

or any other similar corporate transaction or event. As of September 30, 2012, there were 22,944 shares of common stock issued and outstanding under the 2006 stock incentive plan that had
been issued to directors. In addition, options to purchase 4,954,108 shares had been issued thereunder, of which 4,726,195 were outstanding. As of September 30, 2012, there were 3,142,616 shares available for issuance under options not yet
granted.  Other Option Awards  In connection with the acquisition of the Company by Warburg Pincus, the Company issued 132,096 options to Michael Graff, a director of the Company. Because Mr. Graff was not an employee of the
Company and because participation in the 2003 Stock Option Plan was limited to employees, the options were issued outside of the 2003 Stock Option Plan. All of the options awarded to Mr. Graff are vested. As of September 30, 2012, 16,096
options remained outstanding and exercisable. 
  21 


Table of Contents


ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
The following table sets forth selected historical consolidated financial and other data of TD Group for the fiscal years ended
September 30, 2008 to 2012 which have been derived from TD Group’s audited consolidated financial statements.  Separate historical financial information of TransDigm Inc. is not presented since the
7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes and the 5 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes are guaranteed by TD Group and all direct and indirect domestic restricted subsidiaries of
TransDigm Inc. and since TD Group has no operations or significant assets separate from its investment in TransDigm Inc.  Acquisitions of businesses and product lines completed by TD Group during the last five fiscal years are as follows:   


 
•
 
 On May 7, 2008, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of CEF Industries, Inc. 
 


 
•
 
 On September 26, 2008, Champion Aerospace LLC, a subsidiary of TransDigm Inc., acquired certain product line assets from Unison Industries, LLC, a
GE Aviation business.   


 
•
 
 On December 16, 2008, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Aircraft Parts Corporation. The assets were later
transferred to other TransDigm businesses and Aircraft Parts Corporation has been dissolved.   


 
•
 
 On July 24, 2009, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Acme Aerospace, Inc. 
 


 
•
 
 On August 10, 2009, AeroControlex Group, Inc., a subsidiary of TransDigm Inc., acquired certain product line assets of Woodward HRT, Inc., a
subsidiary of Woodward Governor Company.   


 
•
 
 On December 2, 2009, Dukes Aerospace, Inc., a newly formed subsidiary of TransDigm Inc., acquired certain assets and liabilities from Dukes, Inc.
and GST Industries, Inc.   


 
•
 
 On September 3, 2010, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Semco Instruments, Inc. 
 


 
•
 
 On December 6, 2010, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of McKechnie Aerospace Holdings, Inc.
  


 
•
 
 On December 31, 2010, AeroControlex Group, Inc., a subsidiary of TransDigm Inc., acquired the actuation business of Telair International, Inc.
  


 
•
 
 On August 31, 2011, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding limited liability units of Schneller Holdings LLC.
  


 
•
 
 On December 9, 2011, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Harco Laboratories, Incorporated.
  


 
•
 
 On February 15, 2012, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of AmSafe Global Holdings, Inc. 
 


 
•
 
 On September 17, 2012, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding limited liability units of Aero-Instruments Co., LLC
 All of the acquisitions were accounted for using the acquisition method. The results of operations of the
acquired businesses and product lines are included in TD Group’s consolidated financial statements from the date of each of the acquisitions.  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  We present below certain financial information
based on our EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined. References to “EBITDA” mean earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and references to 
  22 


Table of Contents

“EBITDA As Defined” mean EBITDA plus, as applicable for each relevant period, certain adjustments as set forth in the reconciliations of net income to EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined and
the reconciliations of net cash provided by operating activities to EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined presented below.  Neither
EBITDA nor EBITDA As Defined is a measurement of financial performance under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). We present EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined because we believe they are useful
indicators for evaluating operating performance and liquidity.  Our management believes that EBITDA and
EBITDA As Defined are useful as indicators of liquidity because securities analysts, investors, rating agencies and others use EBITDA to evaluate a company’s ability to incur and service debt. In addition, EBITDA As Defined is useful to
investors because the revolving credit facility under our senior secured credit facility requires compliance, on a pro forma basis, with a financial covenant that measures the ratio of the amount of our secured indebtedness to the amount of our
Consolidated EBITDA defined in the same manner as we define EBITDA As Defined herein. This financial covenant is a material term of our senior secured credit facility as the failure to comply with such financial covenant could result in an event of
default in respect of the revolving credit facility (and such an event of default could, in turn, result in an event of default under the Indentures governing our
7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes and 5 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes).  In addition to the above, our management uses EBITDA As Defined to review and assess the performance of the management team in connection with employee incentive programs and to prepare its annual budget
and financial projections. Moreover, our management uses EBITDA As Defined to evaluate acquisitions.  Although we use EBITDA
and EBITDA As Defined as measures to assess the performance of our business and for the other purposes set forth above, the use of these non-GAAP financial measures as analytical tools has limitations, and you should not consider any of them in
isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of our results of operations as reported in accordance with GAAP. Some of these limitations are:   


 
•
 
 neither EBITDA nor EBITDA As Defined reflects the significant interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest payments, on our
indebtedness;   


 
•
 
 although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized will often have to be replaced in the future,
and neither EBITDA nor EBITDA As Defined reflects any cash requirements for such replacements;   


 
•
 
 the omission of the substantial amortization expense associated with our intangible assets further limits the usefulness of EBITDA and EBITDA As
Defined;   


 
•
 
 neither EBITDA nor EBITDA As Defined includes the payment of taxes, which is a necessary element of our operations; and 
 


 
•
 
 EBITDA As Defined excludes the cash expense we have incurred to integrate acquired businesses into our operations, which is a necessary element of
certain of our acquisitions.  Because of these limitations, EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined should not be
considered as measures of discretionary cash available to us to invest in the growth of our business. Management compensates for these limitations by not viewing EBITDA or EBITDA As Defined in isolation and specifically by using other GAAP measures,
such as net income, net sales and operating profit, to measure our operating performance. Neither EBITDA nor EBITDA As Defined is a measurement of financial performance under GAAP, and neither should be considered as an alternative to net income or
cash flow from operations determined in accordance with GAAP. Our calculation of EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined may not be comparable to the calculation of similarly titled measures reported by other companies. 
  23 


Table of Contents
The information presented below should be read together with “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere herein. 
 
























 
  
Fiscal Years Ended September 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2008
 

 
  
(in thousands, except per share amounts )
 

 Statement of Income Data:
  



  



  



  



  




 Net Sales
  
$
1,700,208
  
  
$
1,206,021
  
  
$
827,654
  
  
$
761,552
  
  
$
713,711
  

 Gross profit(1)
  
 
945,717
  
  
 
661,185
  
  
 
473,066
  
  
 
429,346
  
  
 
385,931
  

 Selling and administrative expenses
  
 
201,709
  
  
 
133,711
  
  
 
94,918
  
  
 
80,018
  
  
 
74,650
  

 Amortization of intangible assets
  
 
44,233
  
  
 
40,339
  
  
 
15,079
  
  
 
13,928
  
  
 
12,002
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from operations(1)
  
 
699,775
  
  
 
487,135
  
  
 
363,069
  
  
 
335,400
  
  
 
299,279
  

 Interest expense—net
  
 
211,906
  
  
 
185,256
  
  
 
112,234
  
  
 
84,398
  
  
 
92,677
  

 Refinancing costs
  
 
—  
  
  
 
72,454
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes
  
 
487,869
  
  
 
229,425
  
  
 
250,835
  
  
 
251,002
  
  
 
206,602
  

 Income tax provision
  
 
162,900
  
  
 
77,200
  
  
 
87,390
  
  
 
88,100
  
  
 
73,476
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
324,969
  
  
 
152,225
  
  
 
163,445
  
  
 
162,902
  
  
 
133,126
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax
  
 
—  
  
  
 
19,909
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
324,969
  
  
$
172,134
  
  
$
163,445
  
  
$
162,902
  
  
$
133,126
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income applicable to common stock
  
$
321,670
  
  
$
169,323
  
  
$
133,132
  
  
$
162,902
  
  
$
133,126
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Denominator for basic and diluted earnings per share under the two-class method:
  



  



  



  



  




 Weighted-average common shares outstanding
  
 
50,996
  
  
 
49,888
  
  
 
49,171
  
  
 
48,481
  
  
 
47,856
  

 Vested options deemed participating securities
  
 
2,886
  
  
 
3,445
  
  
 
3,752
  
  
 
4,058
  
  
 
4,242
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total shares for basic and diluted earnings per share
  
 
53,882
  
  
 
53,333
  
  
 
52,923
  
  
 
52,539
  
  
 
52,098
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net earnings per share:
  



  



  



  



  




 Net earnings per share from continuing operations—basic and diluted
  
 
5.97
  
  
$
2.80
  
  
$
2.52
  
  
$
3.10
  
  
$
2.56
  

 Net earnings per share from discontinued operations—basic and diluted
  
 
—  
  
  
 
0.37
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net earnings per share(2)
  
$
5.97
  
  
$
3.17
  
  
$
2.52
  
  
$
3.10
  
  
$
2.56
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Cash dividends paid per common share
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
7.65
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
























 
  
As of September 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2008
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Balance Sheet Data:
  



  



  



  



  




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
440,524
  
  
$
376,183
  
  
$
234,112
  
  
$
190,167
  
  
$
159,062
  

 Working capital
  
 
816,616
  
  
 
663,433
  
  
 
470,496
  
  
 
395,002
  
  
 
334,932
  

 Total assets
  
 
5,459,617
  
  
 
4,513,636
  
  
 
2,677,818
  
  
 
2,454,440
  
  
 
2,255,821
  

 Long-term debt, including current portion
  
 
3,619,125
  
  
 
3,138,375
  
  
 
1,771,646
  
  
 
1,356,761
  
  
 
1,357,230
  

 Stockholders’ equity
  
 
1,218,834
  
  
 
810,949
  
  
 
592,979
  
  
 
819,162
  
  
 
653,900
  
  24 


Table of Contents
























 
  
Fiscal Years Ended September 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Other Financial Data:
  



 



 



 



 




 Cash flows provided by (used in):
  



 



 



 



 




 Operating activities
  
$
413,885
  
 
$
260,386
  
 
$
197,304
  
 
$
197,112
  
 
$
189,635
  

 Investing activities
  
 
(876,292
) 
 
 
(1,397,028
) 
 
 
(176,559
) 
 
 
(168,388
) 
 
 
(165,044
) 

 Financing activities
  
 
527,186
  
 
 
1,278,521
  
 
 
23,200
  
 
 
2,381
  
 
 
28,525
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
68,227
  
 
 
60,460
  
 
 
30,165
  
 
 
27,521
  
 
 
25,254
  

 Capital expenditures
  
 
25,246
  
 
 
18,026
  
 
 
12,887
  
 
 
13,155
  
 
 
10,884
  

 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges(3)
  
 
3.3x
  
 
 
2.2x
  
 
 
3.2x
  
 
 
3.9x
  
 
 
3.2x
  








 Other Data:
  



 



 



 



 




 EBITDA(4)
  
$
768,002
  
 
$
475,141
  
 
$
393,234
  
 
$
362,921
  
 
$
324,533
  

 EBITDA As Defined(4)
  
$
809,019
  
 
$
589,874
  
 
$
411,609
  
 
$
374,690
  
 
$
333,077
  
  


(1)
Gross profit and income from operations include the effect of charges relating to purchase accounting adjustments to inventory associated with the acquisition of
various businesses and product lines for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008 of $12,882,000, $18,073,000, $4,794,000, $2,264,000, and $1,933,000, respectively. 


(2)
Net earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income applicable to common stock by the basic and diluted weighted average common shares outstanding.



(3)
For purposes of computing the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, earnings consist of earnings from continuing operations before income taxes plus fixed charges. Fixed
charges consist of interest expense, amortization of debt issuance costs and the portion (approximately 33%) of rental expense that management believes is representative of the interest component of rental expense. 


(4)
EBITDA represents earnings from continuing operations before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA As Defined represents EBITDA plus, as applicable for
each relevant period, certain adjustments as set forth in the reconciliation of net income to EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined and the reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined presented below. See
“Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for additional information and limitations regarding these non-GAAP financial measures. 
  25 


Table of Contents
The following table sets forth a reconciliation of net income to EBITDA and EBITDA As
Defined:   
























 
  
Fiscal Years Ended September 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2008
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Net income
  
$
324,969
  
 
$
172,134
  
 
$
163,445
  
  
$
162,902
  
  
$
133,126
  

 Less income from discontinued operations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
19,909
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
324,969
  
 
 
152,225
  
 
 
163,445
  
  
 
162,902
  
  
 
133,126
  

 Adjustments:
  



 



 



  



  




 Depreciation and amortization expense
  
 
68,227
  
 
 
60,460
  
 
 
30,165
  
  
 
27,521
  
  
 
25,254
  

 Interest expense, net
  
 
211,906
  
 
 
185,256
  
 
 
112,234
  
  
 
84,398
  
  
 
92,677
  

 Income tax provision
  
 
162,900
  
 
 
77,200
  
 
 
87,390
  
  
 
88,100
  
  
 
73,476
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 EBITDA, excluding discontinued operations
  
 
768,002
  
 
 
475,141
  
 
 
393,234
  
  
 
362,921
  
  
 
324,533
  

 Adjustments:
  



 



 



  



  




 Inventory purchase accounting adjustments(1)
  
 
12,882
  
 
 
18,073
  
 
 
4,794
  
  
 
2,264
  
  
 
1,933
  

 Acquisition integration costs(2)
  
 
7,896
  
 
 
11,821
  
 
 
4,171
  
  
 
3,426
  
  
 
393
  

 Acquisition transaction-related expenses(3)
  
 
5,880
  
 
 
2,817
  
 
 
2,717
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Non-cash compensation and deferred compensation costs(4)
  
 
22,151
  
 
 
12,568
  
 
 
6,693
  
  
 
6,079
  
  
 
6,218
  

 Acquisition earnout adjustments(5)
  
 
(5,000
) 
 
 
(3,000
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Other acquisition accounting adjustments
  
 
(2,792
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Refinancing costs(6)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
72,454
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 EBITDA As Defined
  
$
809,019
  
 
$
589,874
  
 
$
411,609
  
  
$
374,690
  
  
$
333,077
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Represents accounting adjustments to inventory associated with acquisitions of businesses and product lines that were charged to cost of sales when the inventory was
sold. 


(2)
Represents costs incurred to integrate acquired businesses and product lines into TD Group’s operations, facility relocation costs and other acquisition-related
costs. 


(3)
Represents, for periods after October 1, 2009, transaction-related costs comprising deal fees; legal, financial and tax due diligence expenses; and valuation costs
that are now required to be expensed as incurred. 


(4)
Represents the compensation expense recognized by TD Group under our stock option and deferred compensation plans. 


(5)
Represents the reversal of the earn-out liability related to the Dukes Aerospace acquisition based on lower growth projections relative to the required growth targets
of the four-year earn-out arrangement. 


(6)
 Represents costs incurred in connection with the refinancing in December 2010, including the premium paid to redeem our 7 3/4 % senior subordinated notes due 2014, the write off of debt issue costs and unamortized note premium and discount and settlement of the interest rate swap agreement and other expenses.

  26 


Table of Contents
The following table sets forth a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities
to EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined:   
























 
  
Fiscal Years Ended September 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
  
$
413,885
  
 
$
260,386
  
 
$
197,304
  
 
$
197,112
  
 
$
189,635
  

 Adjustments:
  



 



 



 



 




 Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from acquisitions of businesses
  
 
(11,749
) 
 
 
(30,874
) 
 
 
(4,971
) 
 
 
1,897
  
 
 
(35,544
) 

 Interest expense, net (1)
  
 
199,362
  
 
 
175,414
  
 
 
104,656
  
 
 
81,147
  
 
 
89,580
  

 Income tax provision—current
  
 
138,100
  
 
 
130,109
  
 
 
85,490
  
 
 
79,300
  
 
 
66,141
  

 Non-cash equity compensation(2)
  
 
(22,151
) 
 
 
(12,574
) 
 
 
(6,704
) 
 
 
(5,813
) 
 
 
(4,035
) 

 Excess tax benefit from exercise of stock options
  
 
50,555
  
 
 
23,411
  
 
 
17,459
  
 
 
9,278
  
 
 
18,756
  

 Refinancing costs(3)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(72,454
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 EBITDA
  
 
768,002
  
 
 
473,418
  
 
 
393,234
  
 
 
362,921
  
 
 
324,533
  

 Adjustments:
  



 



 



 



 




 Inventory purchase accounting adjustments(4)
  
 
12,882
  
 
 
21,828
  
 
 
4,794
  
 
 
2,264
  
 
 
1,933
  

 Acquisition integration costs(5)
  
 
7,896
  
 
 
11,821
  
 
 
4,171
  
 
 
3,426
  
 
 
393
  

 Acquisition transaction-related expenses(6)
  
 
5,880
  
 
 
2,817
  
 
 
2,717
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Non-cash compensation and deferred compensation costs(7)
  
 
22,151
  
 
 
12,568
  
 
 
6,693
  
 
 
6,079
  
 
 
6,218
  

 Acquisition earnout adjustments(8)
  
 
(5,000
) 
 
 
(3,000
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other acquisition accounting adjustments
  
 
(2,792
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Refinancing costs(3)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
72,454
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 EBITDA from discontinued operations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,032
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 EBITDA As Defined
  
$
809,019
  
 
$
589,874
  
 
$
411,609
  
 
$
374,690
  
 
$
333,077
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Represents interest expense excluding the amortization of debt issue costs and note premium and discount. 


(2)
Represents the compensation expense recognized by TD Group under its stock plans. 


(3)
 Represents costs incurred in connection with the refinancing in December 2010, including the premium paid to redeem our 7 3/4% senior subordinated notes due 2014, the write off of debt issue costs and unamortized note premium and discount and settlement of the interest rate swap agreement and other expenses.



(4)
Represents accounting adjustments to inventory associated with acquisitions of businesses and product lines that were charged to cost of sales when the inventory was
sold. 


(5)
Represents costs incurred to integrate acquired businesses and product lines into TD Group’s operations, facility relocation costs and other acquisition-related
costs. 


(6)
Represents, for periods after October 1, 2009, transaction-related costs comprising deal fees; legal, financial and tax due diligence expenses; and valuation costs
that are now required to be expensed as incurred. 


(7)
Represents the compensation expense recognized by TD Group under our stock option and our deferred compensation plans. 


(8)
Represents the reversal of the earn-out liability related to the Dukes Aerospace acquisition based on lower growth projections relative to the required growth targets
of the four-year earn-out arrangement. 
  27 


Table of Contents


ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with “Selected Financial
Data” and TD Group’s consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report. The following discussion may contain predictions, estimates and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks
and uncertainties, including those discussed under the heading entitled “Risk Factors” included elsewhere in this report. These risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from any future performance suggested below.
 Overview 
We believe we are a leading global designer, producer and supplier of highly engineered aircraft components for use on nearly all
commercial and military aircraft in service today. Our business is well diversified due to the broad range of products we offer to our customers. Some of our more significant product offerings, substantially all of which are ultimately provided to
end-users in the aerospace industry, include mechanical/electro-mechanical actuators and controls, ignition systems and engine technology, specialized pumps and valves, power conditioning devices, specialized AC/DC electric motors and generators,
NiCad batteries and chargers, engineered latching and locking devices, rods and locking devices, engineered connectors and elastomers, cockpit security components and systems, specialized cockpit displays, aircraft audio systems, specialized
lavatory components, seatbelts and safety restraints, engineered interior surfaces and lighting and control technology. Each of these product offerings is composed of many individual products that are typically customized to meet the needs of a
particular aircraft platform or customer.  Long-term Sustainable Growth 
For fiscal year 2012, we generated net sales of $1,700.2 million, gross profit of $945.7 million or 55.6% of sales, and net income of
$325.0 million. We believe we have achieved steady, long-term growth in sales and improvements in operating performance since our formation in 1993 due to our competitive strengths and through execution of our value-driven operating strategy. More
specifically, focusing our businesses on our value-driven operating strategy of obtaining profitable new business, carefully controlling the cost structure and pricing our highly engineered value-added products to fairly reflect the value we provide
and the resources required to do so has historically resulted in improvements in gross profit and income from operations over the long term.  Our selective acquisition strategy has also contributed to the growth of our business. The integration of certain acquisitions into our existing businesses combined with implementing our proven operating
strategy has historically resulted in improvements of the financial performance of the acquired business.  Our key competitive
strengths and the elements of our business strategy are set forth in more detail below.  We believe our key competitive
strengths include:  Large and Growing Installed Product Base with Aftermarket Revenue Stream. We provide
components to a large and growing installed base of aircraft to which we supply aftermarket products. We estimate that our products are installed on approximately 70,000 commercial transport, regional transport, military and general aviation fixed
wing turbine aircraft and rotary wing aircraft.  Diversified Revenue Base. We believe that our diversified
revenue base reduces our dependence on any particular product, platform or market channel and has been a significant factor in maintaining our financial performance. Our products are installed on almost all of the major commercial aircraft platforms
now in production. We expect to continue to develop new products for military and commercial applications. 
  28 


Table of Contents
Significant Barriers to Entry. We believe that the niche nature of our
markets, the industry’s stringent regulatory and certification requirements, the large number of products that we sell and the investments necessary to develop and certify products create barriers to entry for potential competitors. 
Our business strategy is made up of two key elements: (1) a value-driven operating strategy focused around our three core value
drivers and (2) a selective acquisition strategy.  Value-Driven Operating Strategy. Our three core value
drivers are:   


 
•
 
 Obtaining Profitable New Business. We attempt to obtain profitable new business by using our technical expertise, application skill and our
detailed knowledge of our customer base and the individual niche markets in which we operate. We have regularly been successful in identifying and developing both aftermarket and OEM products to drive our growth. 
 


 
•
 
 Improving Our Cost Structure. We are committed to maintaining and continuously improving our lean cost structure through detailed attention to
the cost of each of the products that we offer and our organizational structure, with a focus on reducing the cost of each.   


 
•
 
 Providing Highly Engineered Value-Added Products to Customers. We focus on the engineering, manufacturing and marketing of a broad range of
highly engineered niche products that we believe provide value to our customers. We believe we have been consistently successful in communicating to our customers the value of our products. This has generally enabled us to price our products to
fairly reflect the value we provide and the resources required to do so.  Selective Acquisition
Strategy. We selectively pursue the acquisition of proprietary aerospace component businesses when we see an opportunity to create value through the application of our three core value-driven operating strategies. The aerospace industry, in
particular, remains highly fragmented, with many of the companies in the industry being small private businesses or small non-core operations of larger businesses. We have significant experience among our management team in executing acquisitions
and integrating acquired businesses into our company and culture. As of the date of this report, we have successfully acquired and integrated 39 businesses and/or product lines since our formation in 1993. Many of these acquisitions have been
integrated into an existing TransDigm production facility, which enables a higher production capacity utilization, which in turn improves gross profit levels due to the ability to spread the fixed manufacturing overhead costs over higher production
volume.  Certain Acquisitions and Divestitures  Aero-Instruments Co., LLC  On September 17, 2012, TransDigm
Inc. acquired all of the outstanding equity interests in Aero-Instruments Co., LLC (“Aero-Instruments”), for approximately $34.7 million in cash, subject to adjustments based on the level of working capital as of the closing date of the
acquisition. Aero-Instruments designs and manufactures highly engineered air data sensors including pitot probes, pitot-static probes, static pressure ports, angle of attack, temperature sensors and flight test equipment for use primarily in the
business jet and helicopter markets. These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction. The Company is in the process of obtaining information to value certain tangible and intangible assets of Aero-Instruments, and therefore
the consolidated financial statements at September 30, 2012 reflect a preliminary purchase price allocation for the business. 
AmSafe Global Holdings, Inc. Acquisition  On February 15, 2012, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding stock of AmSafe Global Holdings, Inc. (“AmSafe”), for approximately $749.7 million in cash, which includes a purchase
price adjustment of $0.5 million paid in the third quarter of fiscal 2012. AmSafe is a leading supplier of innovative, highly engineered and proprietary safety and restraint equipment used primarily in the global aerospace industry. These products
fit well 
  29 


Table of Contents

with TransDigm’s overall business direction. The distribution business acquired as part of AmSafe was sold on August 16, 2012 for approximately $17.7 million in cash, subject to
adjustments based on the level of working capital as of the closing date of the sale. The Company is in the process of obtaining information to value certain tangible and intangible assets of AmSafe, and therefore the consolidated financial
statements at September 30, 2012 reflect a preliminary purchase price allocation for the business.  Harco Laboratories Acquisition
 On December 9, 2011, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding stock of Harco Laboratories, Incorporated
(“Harco”), for approximately $83.3 million in cash, which includes a purchase price adjustment of $0.4 million paid in the second quarter of fiscal 2012. Harco designs and manufactures highly engineered thermocouples, sensors, engine cable
assemblies and related products for commercial aircraft. These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction. The Company is in the process of obtaining information to value certain tangible and intangible assets of Harco, and
therefore the consolidated financial statements at September 30, 2012 reflect a preliminary purchase price allocation for the business. 
Schneller Holdings Acquisition  On August 31, 2011, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding equity interests in Schneller Holdings LLC (“Schneller”) for approximately $288.6 million in cash, which includes a
purchase price adjustment of $1.0 million paid in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Schneller designs and manufactures proprietary, highly engineered laminates, thermoplastics, and non-textile flooring for use primarily on side walls,
lavatories, galleys, bulkheads and cabin floors for commercial aircraft. These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction.  Talley Actuation Acquisition  On December 31, 2010,
AeroControlex Group, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of TransDigm Inc., acquired the actuation business of Telair International Inc. (“Talley Actuation”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Teleflex Incorporated, for approximately $93.6 million
in cash, which includes a purchase price adjustment of $0.3 million received in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. Talley Actuation manufactures proprietary, highly engineered electro-mechanical products and other components for commercial and
military aircraft. These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction.  McKechnie Aerospace Holdings, Inc.
Acquisition  On December 6, 2010, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding stock of McKechnie Aerospace
Holdings Inc. (“McKechnie Aerospace”), for approximately $1.27 billion in cash, which includes a purchase price adjustment of $0.3 million paid in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. McKechnie Aerospace, through its subsidiaries, is a
leading global designer, producer and supplier of aerospace components, assemblies and subsystems for commercial aircraft, regional/business jets, military fixed wing and rotorcraft. Some of the businesses acquired as part of McKechnie Aerospace
have since been divested (see below). The remaining products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction.  Semco
Instruments Acquisition  On September 3, 2010, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of
Semco Instruments, Inc. (“Semco”) for approximately $73.6 million in cash, which includes a purchase price adjustment of $3.0 million paid in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. Semco is a designer and manufacturer of proprietary,
highly engineered components for all major turbo-prop, turbo-fan, and turbo-shaft engines, which are primarily used on helicopters, business jets and selected regional airplanes. These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business
direction. 
  30 


Table of Contents
Dukes Aerospace Acquisition 
On December 2, 2009, Dukes Aerospace, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of TransDigm Inc., acquired substantially all of the
aerospace-related assets of Dukes, Inc. and GST Industries, Inc. (collectively “Dukes Aerospace”) for approximately $95.5 million in cash, which includes a purchase price adjustment of $0.2 million received in the third quarter of fiscal
2011. Dukes Aerospace is a supplier of proprietary, highly engineered components primarily to the business jet, regional jet, and military aerospace markets, along with commercial and military helicopter markets. The products are comprised primarily
of highly engineered valves and certain pumps, solenoids and related components. These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction.  Aero Quality Sales Divestiture  On April 7, 2011, the Company
completed the divestiture of Aero Quality Sales (“AQS”) to Satair A/S for approximately $31.8 million in cash, which includes a $1.8 million working capital adjustment received in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. AQS, which was acquired
as part of the McKechnie Aerospace acquisition, is a distributor and service center of aircraft batteries and battery support equipment. The Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, W. Nicholas Howley was a director of Satair A/S from
2006 through October 2011. Mr. Howley disclosed his relationship to Satair A/S to the Company’s board of directors and abstained from the related vote.  Fastener Business Divestiture  On March 9, 2011, the Company
completed the divestiture of its fastener business for approximately $239.6 million in cash. This business, which was acquired as part of the McKechnie Aerospace acquisition, is made up of Valley-Todeco, Inc. and Linread Ltd. The business
designs and manufactures fasteners, fastening systems and bearings for commercial, military and general aviation aircraft.  Recent
Development  Agreement to Acquire Goodrich Pump & Engine Control Systems 
On October 25, 2012, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire the assets of the Goodrich Pump & Engine
Control Systems business (“GPECS”) for approximately $236 million in cash. The acquisition, which is subject to approval by the U.S. Department of Justice and the European Commission, is expected to close late in the current calendar year
or early in 2013. GPECS manufactures proprietary, highly engineered aerospace fuel systems for the business jet, helicopter, military and commercial marketplace. 
  31 


Table of Contents
EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined  The following table sets forth a reconciliation of net income to EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined:   












 
  
Fiscal Years EndedSeptember 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Net income
  
$
324,969
  
 
$
172,134
  

 Less income from discontinued operations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
19,909
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
324,969
  
 
 
152,225
  

 Adjustments:
  



 




 Depreciation and amortization expense
  
 
68,227
  
 
 
60,460
  

 Interest expense, net
  
 
211,906
  
 
 
185,256
  

 Income tax provision
  
 
162,900
  
 
 
77,200
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 EBITDA, excluding discontinued operations(1)
  
 
768,002
  
 
 
475,141
  

 Adjustments:
  



 




 Inventory purchase accounting adjustments(2)
  
 
12,882
  
 
 
18,073
  

 Acquisition integration costs(3)
  
 
7,896
  
 
 
11,821
  

 Acquisition transaction-related expenses(4)
  
 
5,880
  
 
 
2,817
  

 Non-cash compensation costs(5)
  
 
22,151
  
 
 
12,568
  

 Acquisition earn-out adjustments(6)
  
 
(5,000
) 
 
 
(3,000
) 

 Other acquisition accounting adjustments
  
 
(2,792
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Refinancing costs(7)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
72,454
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 EBITDA As Defined(1)
  
$
809,019
  
 
$
589,874
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
EBITDA represents earnings from continuing operations before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA As Defined represents EBITDA plus, as applicable for
each relevant period, certain adjustments as set forth in the reconciliation of net income to EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for additional information and limitations regarding these non-GAAP financial
measures. 


(2)
Represents accounting adjustments to inventory associated with acquisitions of businesses and product lines that were charged to cost of sales when the inventory was
sold. 


(3)
Represents costs incurred to integrate acquired businesses and product lines into TD Group’s operations, facility relocation costs and other acquisition-related
costs. 


(4)
Represents transaction-related costs comprising deal fees; legal, financial and tax due diligence expenses; and valuation costs that are required to be expensed as
incurred. 


(5)
Represents the compensation expense recognized by TD Group under our stock option plans. 


(6)
Represents the reversal of the earn-out liability related to the Dukes Aerospace acquisition based on lower growth projections relative to the required growth targets
of the four-year earn-out arrangement. 


(7)
 Represents costs incurred in connection with the refinancing in December 2010, including the premium paid to redeem our 7 3/4% senior subordinated notes due 2014, the write off of debt issue costs and unamortized note premium and discount and settlement of the interest rate swap agreement and other expenses.

  32 


Table of Contents
The following table sets forth a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities
to EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined:   












 
  
Fiscal Years EndedSeptember 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
  
$
413,885
  
 
$
260,386
  

 Adjustments:
  



 




 Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from acquisitions of businesses
  
 
(11,749
) 
 
 
(30,874
) 

 Interest expense, net(1)
  
 
199,362
  
 
 
175,414
  

 Income tax provision—current
  
 
138,100
  
 
 
130,109
  

 Non-cash equity compensation(2)
  
 
(22,151
) 
 
 
(12,574
) 

 Excess tax benefit from exercise of stock options
  
 
50,555
  
 
 
23,411
  

 Refinancing costs(3)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(72,454
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 EBITDA(4)
  
 
768,002
  
 
 
473,418
  

 Adjustments:
  



 




 Inventory purchase accounting adjustments(5)
  
 
12,882
  
 
 
21,828
  

 Acquisition integration costs(6)
  
 
7,896
  
 
 
11,821
  

 Acquisition transaction-related expenses(7)
  
 
5,880
  
 
 
2,817
  

 Stock option expense(8)
  
 
22,151
  
 
 
12,568
  

 Acquisition earnout adjustments(9)
  
 
(5,000
) 
 
 
(3,000
) 

 Other acquisition accounting adjustments
  
 
(2,792
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Refinancing costs(3)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
72,454
  

 EBITDA from discontinued operations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,032
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 EBITDA As Defined(4)
  
$
809,019
  
 
$
589,874
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Represents interest expense excluding the amortization of debt issue costs and note premium and discount. 


(2)
Represents the compensation expense recognized by TD Group under its stock plans. 


(3)
 Represents costs incurred in connection with the refinancing in December 2010, including the premium paid to redeem our 7 3/4% senior subordinated notes due 2014, the write off of debt issue costs and unamortized note premium and discount and settlement of the interest rate swap agreement and other expenses.
d amortization. EBITDA As Defined represents EBITDA plus, as applicable for each relevant period, certain adjustments as set forth in the reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined. See
“Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for additional information and limitations regarding these non-GAAP financial measures. 


(5)
Represents accounting adjustments to inventory associated with acquisitions of businesses and product lines that were charged to cost of sales when the inventory was
sold. 


(6)
Represents costs incurred to integrate acquired businesses and product lines into TD Group’s operations, facility relocation costs and other acquisition-related
costs. 


(7)
Represents transaction-related costs comprising deal fees; legal, financial and tax due diligence expenses; and valuation costs that are required to be expensed as
incurred. 


(8)
Represents the compensation expense recognized by TD Group under our stock option plans. 


(9)
Represents the reversal of the earn-out liability related to the Dukes Aerospace acquisition based on lower growth projections relative to the required growth targets
of the four-year earn-out arrangement.  Trend Information 
We predominantly serve customers in the commercial, regional, business jet and general aviation aftermarket, which accounts for
approximately 42% of total sales; the commercial aerospace OEM market, comprising large commercial transport manufacturers and regional and business jet manufacturers, which accounts for approximately 29% of total sales; and the defense market,
which accounts for approximately 23% of total sales. Non-aerospace sales comprise approximately 6% of our total sales. 
  33 


Table of Contents
The commercial aerospace industry, including the aftermarket and OEM market, is impacted by
the health of the global economy and geo-political events around the world. The commercial aerospace industry had shown strength with increases in revenue passenger miles, or RPMs, between 2003 and 2008, as well as increases in OEM production and
backlog. However, in 2009, the global economic downturn negatively impacted the commercial aerospace industry causing RPMs to decline slightly. This market sector began to rebound in 2010 and positive growth has continued thru 2012 with increases in
RPMs, as well as the growth in the large commercial OEM sector (aircraft with 100 or more seats) with order announcements by The Boeing Company and Airbus S.A.S. leading to planned increases in production. The 2013 leading indicators and industry
consensus suggest a modest continuation of current trends in the commercial transport market sector supported by continued modest RPM growth and increases in production at the OEM level. 
The defense aerospace market is dependent on government budget constraints, the timing of orders and the extent of global conflicts. It
is not necessarily affected by general economic conditions that affect the commercial aerospace industry.  Our presence in
both the commercial aerospace and military sectors of the aerospace industry may mitigate the impact on our business of any specific industry risk. We service a diversified customer base in the commercial and military aerospace industry, and we
provide components to a diverse installed base of aircraft, which mitigates our exposure to any individual airframe platform. At times, declines in sales in one channel have been offset by increased sales in another. However, due to differences
between the profitability of our products sold to OEM and aftermarket customers, variation in product mix can cause variation in gross margin.  There are many short-term factors (including inventory corrections, unannounced changes in order patterns, strikes and mergers and acquisitions) that can cause short-term disruptions in our quarterly
shipment patterns as compared to previous quarters and the same periods in prior years. As such, it can be difficult to determine longer-term trends in our business based on quarterly comparisons. To normalize for short-term fluctuations, we tend to
look at our performance over several quarters or years of activity rather than discrete short-term periods.  There are also
fluctuations in OEM and aftermarket ordering and delivery requests from quarter-to-quarter, as well as variations in product mix from quarter-to-quarter, that may cause positive or negative variations in gross profit margins since commercial
aftermarket sales have historically produced a higher gross margin than sales to commercial OEMs. Again, in many instances these are timing events between quarters and must be balanced with macro aerospace industry indicators. 
Commercial Aftermarket  The key growth factors in the commercial aftermarket include worldwide RPMs and the size and activity level of the worldwide fleet of aircraft. After a decline in RPMs in 2009, worldwide RPMs returned to
growth between 2010 and 2012 and current industry consensus indicates that positive RPM growth will continue in 2013.  Commercial OEM
Market  Conditions in the commercial transport market sector continued to improve during 2012. Our commercial transport
OEM shipments and revenues generally run ahead of the Boeing and Airbus airframe delivery schedules. As a result and consistent with prior years, our fiscal 2013 shipments will be a function of, among other things, the estimated 2013 and 2014
commercial airframe production rates. We are now experiencing increased sales in the large commercial OEM sector (aircraft with 100 or more seats) driven by an increase in production by The Boeing Company and Airbus S.A.S tied to previous order
announcements. Industry consensus indicates this production increase will continue in 2013 and 2014.  The business jet OEM
market significantly declined between 2008 and 2010, impacted by the slowdown in economic growth, corporate profits, commodity prices and stock market returns across the world. However, the 
  34 


Table of Contents

business jet OEM market started to recover in 2011, continued this recovery in 2012 and is expected to continue to show modest growth in 2013. 
Defense  Our
military business fluctuates from year to year, and is dependent, to a degree, on government budget constraints, the timing of orders and the extent of global conflicts. In recent years, defense spending has reached historic highs, due in part to
the military engagements in Afghanistan and Iraq and the war on terrorism. We anticipate that military related sales of our types of products could start to decline modestly in future years over the current high levels. 
Critical Accounting Policies  Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with GAAP, which often requires the judgment of management in the selection and application of certain accounting principles and
methods. Management believes that the quality and reasonableness of our most critical policies enable the fair presentation of our financial position and results of operations. However, investors are cautioned that the sensitivity of financial
statements to these methods, assumptions and estimates could create materially different results under different conditions or using different assumptions.  We have identified the following as the most critical accounting policies upon which our financial status depends. These critical policies were determined by considering accounting policies that involve
the most complex or subjective decisions or assessments. Our most critical accounting policies are as follows:  Revenue
Recognition and Related Allowances: Revenue is recognized from the sale of products when title and risk of loss passes to the customer, which is generally at the time of shipment. Substantially all sales are made pursuant to firm, fixed-price
purchase orders received from customers. Collectability of amounts recorded as revenue is reasonably assured at the time of sale. Provisions for returns, uncollectible accounts and the cost of repairs under contract warranty provisions are provided
for in the same period as the related revenues are recorded and are principally based on historical results modified, as appropriate, by the most current information available. We have a history of making reasonably dependable estimates of such
allowances; however, due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, it is possible that actual results may vary from the estimates and the differences could be material. 
Management estimates the allowance for doubtful accounts based on the aging of the accounts receivable and customer creditworthiness. The
allowance also incorporates a provision for the estimated impact of disputes with customers. Management’s estimate of the allowance amounts that are necessary includes amounts for specifically identified credit losses and estimated credit
losses based on historical information. The determination of the amount of the allowance for doubtful accounts is subject to significant levels of judgment and estimation by management. Depending on the resolution of potential credit and other
collection issues, or if the financial condition of any of the Company’s customers were to deteriorate and their ability to make required payments were to become impaired, increases in these allowances may be required. Historically, changes in
estimates in the allowance for doubtful accounts have not been significant.  The Company provides limited warranties in
connection with the sale of its products. The warranty period for products sold, which varies among the Company’s operations, is typically less than two years but can be in the range from 90 days to six years. In addition, certain contracts
with distributors contain right of return provisions. The Company accrues for estimated returns and warranty claims based on knowledge of product performance issues and based on excess inventories provided by its customers and industry sources. The
Company also provides a general amount based on historical trends. To the extent total warranty claims differ from estimates, adjustments may be necessary. Historically, actual product returns and warranty claims have not differed materially from
the estimates originally established. 
  35 


Table of Contents
Inventories: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost of
inventories is determined by the average cost and the first-in, first-out (FIFO) methods for all locations except CEF Industries, LLC, which determines the cost of inventories using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method. Because the Company sells
products that are installed on airframes that can be in-service for 30 or more years, it must keep a supply of such products on hand while the airframes are in use. Where management estimated that the current market value was below cost or
determined that future demand was lower than current inventory levels, based on historical experience, current and projected market demand, current and projected volume trends and other relevant current and projected factors associated with the
current economic conditions, a reduction in inventory cost to estimated net realizable value was made by recording a provision included in cost of sales. Although management believes that the Company’s estimates of excess and obsolete inventory
are reasonable, actual results may differ materially from the estimates and additional provisions may be required in the future. In addition, in accordance with industry practice, all inventories are classified as current assets as all inventories
are available and necessary to support current sales, even though a portion of the inventories may not be sold within one year. Historically, changes in estimates in the net realizable value of inventories have not been significant. 
Intangible Assets: Mergers and acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method and have resulted in significant
amounts of identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. Fair value adjustments to the Company’s assets and liabilities are recognized and the results of operations of the acquired business are included in our consolidated financial statements
from the effective date of the merger or acquisition. We generally use third-party appraisals to assist us in determining the estimated fair value of the intangible assets.  Intangible assets other than goodwill are recognized if the benefit of the intangible asset is obtained through contractual or other legal rights, or if the intangible asset can be sold, transferred,
licensed or exchanged, regardless of the Company’s intent to do so. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are recorded at their estimated fair value on the date of acquisition and are reviewed at least annually for impairment based on
cash flow projections and fair value estimates.  GAAP requires that the annual, and any interim, impairment assessment be
performed at the reporting unit level. The reporting unit level is the operating subsidiary level for the Company. Substantially all goodwill was determined and recognized for each operating subsidiary pursuant to the accounting for the merger or
acquisition as of the date of each transaction, and therefore the allocation of goodwill among reporting units was immaterial for purposes of the impairment assessment. With respect to acquisitions integrated into an existing operating subsidiary,
any related goodwill is combined with goodwill of the operating subsidiary.  At the time of goodwill impairment testing,
management determines the estimated fair value through the use of a discounted cash flow valuation model incorporating discount rates commensurate with the risks involved for each reporting unit. If the calculated estimated fair value is less than
the current carrying value, impairment of goodwill of the reporting unit may exist. The use of a discounted cash flow valuation model to determine estimated fair value is common practice in impairment testing. The key assumptions used in the
discounted cash flow valuation model for impairment testing includes discount rates, growth rates, cash flow projections and terminal value rates. Discount rates are set by using the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (“WACC”) methodology.
The WACC methodology considers market and industry data as well as Company specific risk factors for each reporting unit in determining the appropriate discount rates to be used. The discount rate utilized for each reporting unit is indicative of
the return an investor would expect to receive for investing in such a business.  Operational management, considering industry
and company-specific historical and projected data, develops growth rates, sales projections and cash flow projections for each reporting unit. Terminal value rate determination follows common methodology of capturing the present value of perpetual
cash flow estimates beyond the last projected period assuming a constant WACC and low long-term growth rates. As an indicator that each reporting unit has been valued appropriately through the use of the discounted cash flow valuation model, the
aggregate of all reporting units estimated fair value is reconciled to the total market capitalization of the Company. 
  36 


Table of Contents
The Company had 22 reporting units with goodwill as of the first day of the fourth quarter
of fiscal 2012, the date of the last annual impairment test. The estimated fair values of each of the reporting units was substantially in excess of their respective carrying values (by more than 20 percent), and therefore no goodwill impairment was
recorded. The Company performed a sensitivity analysis on the discount rate, which is a significant assumption in the calculation of fair values. With a one percentage point increase in the discount rate, the reporting units would continue to have
fair values in excess of their respective carrying values.  Management tests indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment
at the asset level, as determined by appropriate asset valuation at the time of acquisition. The impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets consists of a comparison between the estimated fair values and carrying values. If the carrying
amounts of intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives exceed their estimated fair values, an impairment loss will be recognized in an amount equal to the difference. Management utilizes the royalty savings valuation method to determine the
estimated fair value for each indefinite-lived intangible asset. In this method, management estimates the royalty savings arising from the ownership of the intangible asset. The key assumptions used in estimating the royalty savings for impairment
testing include discount rates, royalty rates, growth rates, sales projections and terminal value rates. Discount rates used are similar to the rates developed by the WACC methodology considering any differences in company-specific risk factors
between reporting units and the indefinite-lived intangible assets. Royalty rates are established by management with the advice of valuation experts and periodically substantiated by valuation experts. Operational management, considering industry
and company-specific historical and projected data, develops growth rates and sales projections for each significant intangible asset. Terminal value rate determination follows common methodology of capturing the present value of perpetual sales
estimates beyond the last projected period assuming a constant WACC and low long-term growth rates.  The discounted cash flow
and royalty savings valuation methodologies require management to make certain assumptions based upon information available at the time the valuations are performed. Actual results could differ from these assumptions. Management believes the
assumptions used are reflective of what a market participant would have used in calculating fair value considering the current economic conditions.  Stock Options: The Company accounts for the cost of its stock options in accordance with GAAP, which requires the measurement of compensation expense under the stock option plan to be based on the
estimated fair value of the awards under the plan on the grant dates and amortizes the expense over the vesting periods of the options. The Company estimates the fair value of all share-based payments using the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing
model which requires management to make certain assumptions. Management continuously reviews the following assumptions: risk-free interest rates, expected life of options, expected volatility of stock and expected dividend yield of stock. An
increase or decrease in the assumptions or economic events outside management’s control could have an impact on the Company’s results of operations.  Environmental Matters: The Company is involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of its currently and formerly owned sites and at third-party sites. The Company
accrues for environmental-related activities for which commitments or clean-up plans have been developed and for which costs can be reasonably estimated based on industry standards and professional judgment. All accrued amounts were recorded on an
undiscounted basis. Environmental-related expenses include costs of investigation and remediation and fees paid to outside engineering, actuarial, consulting and law firms. Due to uncertainties surrounding environmental investigations and
remediation activities, the Company’s ultimate liability may result in costs that are significantly higher than currently accrued.  Income Taxes: The Company estimates income taxes in each jurisdiction in which it operates. This involves estimating taxable earnings, specific taxable and deductible items, the likelihood of
generating sufficient future taxable income to utilize deferred tax assets and possible exposures related to future tax audits. To the extent these estimates change, adjustments to deferred and accrued income taxes are made in the period in which
the changes occur. Historically, such adjustments have not been significant. 
  37 


Table of Contents
Results of Operations  The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain operating data of the Company, including presentation of the amounts as a percentage of net sales (amounts in thousands): 
 




























 
 
Fiscal Years Ended September 30,
 

 
 
2012
 
 
2012 % ofSales
 
 
2011
 
 
2011 % ofSales
 
 
2010
 
 
2010 % ofSales
 

 Net sales
 
$
1,700,208
  
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,206,021
  
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
827,654
  
 
 
100.0
% 

 Cost of sales
 
 
754,491
  
 
 
44.4
  
 
 
544,836
  
 
 
45.2
  
 
 
354,588
  
 
 
42.8
  

 Selling and administrative expenses
 
 
201,709
  
 
 
11.8
  
 
 
133,711
  
 
 
11.1
  
 
 
94,918
  
 
 
11.5
  

 Amortization of intangible assets
 
 
44,233
  
 
 
2.6
  
 
 
40,339
  
 
 
3.3
  
 
 
15,079
  
 
 
1.8
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from operations
 
 
699,775
  
 
 
41.2
  
 
 
487,135
  
 
 
40.4
  
 
 
363,069
  
 
 
43.9
  

 Interest expense, net
 
 
211,906
  
 
 
12.5
  
 
 
185,256
  
 
 
15.4
  
 
 
112,234
  
 
 
13.6
  

 Refinancing costs
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
72,454
  
 
 
6.0
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Income tax provision
 
 
162,900
  
 
 
9.6
  
 
 
77,200
  
 
 
6.4
  
 
 
87,390
  
 
 
10.6
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations
 
 
324,969
  
 
 
19.1
  
 
 
152,225
  
 
 
12.6
  
 
 
163,445
  
 
 
19.7
% 

 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
19,909
  
 
 
1.7
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
 
$
324,969
  
 
 
19.1
% 
 
$
172,134
  
 
 
14.3
% 
 
$
163,445
  
 
 
19.7
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 compared with fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 
Net Sales. Net organic and acquisition sales and the related dollar and percentage changes for the fiscal years ended
September 30, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (amounts in millions):   




















 
  
Fiscal Years Ended
 
  
 
 
  
 % Change
Total Sales
 

 
  
September 30, 2012
 
  
September 30, 2011
 
  
Change
 
  

 Organic sales
  
$
1,348.3
  
  
$
1,206.0
  
  
$
142.3
  
  
 
11.8
% 

 Acquisition sales
  
 
351.9
  
  
 
_
  
  
 
351.9
  
  
 
29.2
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
1,700.2
  
  
$
1,206.0
  
  
$
494.2
  
  
 
41.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Acquisition sales represent sales of acquired businesses for the period up to one year subsequent to
their acquisition dates. The amount of acquisition sales shown in the table above resulted from the acquisitions of McKechnie Aerospace, Talley Actuation and Schneller in fiscal 2011 and Harco, AmSafe and Aero-Instruments in fiscal 2012. 
The organic sales growth was primarily due to an increase of $79.1 million, or a 23.6% increase in commercial OEM sales, an increase of
$29.9 million, or an 6.2% increase in commercial aftermarket sales, and an increase of $30.5 million, or a 8.9% increase in defense sales, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 compared to the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011.
 Commercial OEM sales for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 were favorably impacted by the robust commercial
transport OEM production cycle and retroactive contract pricing adjustments (approximately $13 million). 
  38 


Table of Contents
Cost of Sales and Gross Profit. Cost of sales increased by $209.7 million, or 38.5%,
to $754.5 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 compared to $544.8 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. Cost of sales and the related percentage of total sales for the fiscal years ended September 30,
2012 and 2011 were as follows (amounts in millions):   




















 
  
Fiscal Years Ended
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
September 30, 2012
 
 
September 30, 2011
 
 
Change
 
 
% Change
 

 Cost of sales—excluding acquisition-related costs below
  
$
734.9
  
 
$
518.4
  
 
$
216.5
  
 
 
41.8
% 

 % of total sales
  
 
43.2
% 
 
 
43.0
% 
 



 




 Inventory purchase accounting adjustments
  
 
12.9
  
 
 
18.1
  
 
 
(5.2
) 
 
 
(28.7
)% 

 % of total sales
  
 
0.8
% 
 
 
1.5
% 
 



 




 Acquisition integration costs
  
 
6.7
  
 
 
8.3
  
 
 
(1.6
) 
 
 
(19.3
)% 

 % of total sales
  
 
0.4
% 
 
 
0.7
% 
 



 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total cost of sales
  
$
754.5
  
 
$
544.8
  
 
$
209.7
  
 
 
38.5
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 % of total sales
  
 
44.4
% 
 
 
45.2
% 
 



 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 




 Gross profit
  
$
945.7
  
 
$
661.2
  
 
$
284.5
  
 
 
43.0
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Gross profit percentage
  
 
55.6
% 
 
 
54.8
% 
 



 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 



 The increase in the dollar amount of cost of sales during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012
was primarily due to increased volume associated with organic sales growth and the sales from acquisitions partially offset by lower acquisition-related costs as shown in the table above. 
Gross profit as a percentage of sales increased by 0.8 percentage points to 55.6% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 from
54.8% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. The dollar amount of gross profit increased by $284.5 million, or 43.0%, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 compared to the comparable period last year due to the following
items:   


 
•
 
 Gross profit on the sales from the acquisitions indicated above (excluding acquisition-related costs) was approximately $180 million for the
fiscal year ended September 30, 2012, which represented gross profit of approximately 51% of the acquisition sales.   


 
•
 
 Impact of OEM retroactive contract pricing adjustments of approximately $13 million. 
 


 
•
 
 Impact of lower inventory purchase accounting adjustments and acquisition integration costs charged to cost of sales of approximately $7 million.
  


 
•
 
 Organic sales growth described above, application of our three core value-driven operating strategies (obtaining profitable new business, continually
improving our cost structure, and providing highly engineered value-added products to customers), and positive leverage on our fixed overhead costs spread over a higher production volume, partially offset by unfavorable OEM versus aftermarket sales
mix, resulted in a net increase in gross profit of approximately $85 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012.  Selling and Administrative Expenses. Selling and administrative expenses increased by $68.0 million to $201.7 million, or 11.8% of sales, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 from
$133.7 million, or 11.1% of 
  39 


Table of Contents

sales, for the comparable period last year. Selling and administrative expenses and the related percentage of total sales for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 were as
follows (amounts in millions):   




















 
  
Fiscal Years Ended
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
September 30, 2012
 
 
September 30, 2011
 
 
Change
 
 
% Change
 

 Selling and administrative expenses—excluding costs below
  
$
    183.6
  
 
$
    119.7
  
 
$
    63.9
  
 
 
53.4
% 

 % of total sales
  
 
10.7
% 
 
 
9.9
% 
 



 




 Stock compensation expense
  
 
18.8
  
 
 
10.7
  
 
 
8.1
  
 
 
75.7
% 

 % of total sales
  
 
1.1
% 
 
 
0.9
% 
 



 




 Acquisition earn-out adjustments
  
 
(5.0
) 
 
 
(3.0
) 
 
 
(2.0
) 
 
 
66.7
% 

 % of total sales
  
 
(0.3
)% 
 
 
(0.2
)% 
 



 




 Other acquisition accounting adjustments
  
 
(2.8
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2.8
) 
 
 
—  
  

 % of total sales
  
 
(0.2
)% 
 
 
0.0
% 
 



 




 Acquisition related expenses
  
 
7.1
  
 
 
6.3
  
 
 
0.8
  
 
 
12.7
% 

 % of total sales
  
 
0.5
% 
 
 
0.5
% 
 



 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total selling and administrative expenses
  
$
201.7
  
 
$
133.7
  
 
$
68.0
  
 
 
50.9
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 % of total sales
  
 
11.8
% 
 
 
11.1
% 
 



 



 The increase in the dollar amount of selling and administrative expenses during the fiscal year ended
September 30, 2012 is primarily due to higher selling and administrative expenses relating to recent acquisitions of approximately $56 million, which was approximately 16% of the acquisition sales. The increase in stock compensation expense is
primarily due to an increased level of employees that participate in the Company’s stock compensation plans as a result of acquisitions and also due to higher grant date fair values for our stock options. 
Amortization of Intangibles. Amortization of intangibles increased to $44.2 million for the fiscal year ended September 30,
2012 from $40.3 million for the comparable period last year. The net increase of $3.9 million was primarily due to amortization expense related to the additional identifiable intangible assets recognized in connection with acquisitions during the
last twelve months.  Refinancing Costs. Refinancing costs were recorded as a result of the
refinancing of TransDigm’s entire debt structure in December 2010. The charge of $72.5 million consisted of the premium of $41.9 million paid to redeem our
7  3/4% senior subordinated notes, the write-off of debt issue costs and unamortized note premium and discount of $25.7 million, and the settlement of the interest rate swap agreement and other expenses of
$4.9 million.  Interest Expense-net. Interest expense-net includes interest on outstanding borrowings,
amortization of debt issue costs and revolving credit facility fees offset by interest income. Interest expense increased $26.6 million, or 14.4%, to $211.9 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 from $185.3 for the comparable
period last year. The net increase in interest expense-net was primarily due to an increase in the weighted average level of outstanding borrowings, which was approximately $3.44 billion for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 and
approximately $2.90 billion for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 slightly offset by a decrease in the weighted average interest rate during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 of 6.2% compared to the weighted average interest
rate during the comparable prior period of 6.4%. The increase in borrowings was due to the debt refinancing transactions and the acquisition financing related to McKechnie Aerospace which occurred in December 2010 and the additional term loan
facility under the Amendment to our New Senior Secured Credit Facility related to the AmSafe acquisition which occurred in February 2012.  Income Taxes. Income tax expense as a percentage of income before income taxes was approximately 33.4% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 compared to 33.6% for the fiscal year ended
September 30, 2011. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to non-recurring adjustments in estimated deferred state 
  40 


Table of Contents

obligations and the settlement of an IRS audit for the September 30, 2009 and 2010 year ends offset by the additional tax gain from the sale of the AmSafe distribution business. 
Income from Continuing Operations. Income from continuing operations increased by $172.8 million, or 113.5%, to $325.0 million for
the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 from $152.2 million for the comparable period last year. Income from continuing operations increased due to the factors described above. 
Income from Discontinued Operations. Income from discontinued operations includes results of operations through the dates of sale
of the fastener business and AQS and the after-tax net gain on sales of $19.9 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011.  Net Income. Net income increased $152.9 million, or 88.8%, to $325.0 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 compared to net income of $172.1 million for the fiscal year ended
September 30, 2011, primarily as a result of the factors referred to above.  Earnings per Share. The basic and
diluted earnings per share were $5.97 for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 and $3.17 per share for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. Net income for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 of $325.0 million was
decreased by an allocation of dividends to participating securities of $3.3 million resulting in net income available to common shareholders of $321.7 million. The fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 comprises basic and diluted earnings per
share from continuing operations of $2.80 and basic and diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations of $0.37. Net income for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 of $172.1 million was decreased by an allocation of dividends to
participating securities of $2.8 million resulting in net income available to shareholders of $169.3 million. The increase in earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.80 per share to $5.97 per share is due to the increase in income from
continuing operations of $172.8 million, which is a result of the factors referred to above.  Fiscal year ended September 30, 2011
compared with fiscal year ended September 30, 2010  Net Sales. Net organic and acquisition sales and the
related dollar and percentage changes for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (amounts in millions):   




















 
  
Fiscal Years Ended
 
  
 
 
  
% ChangeTotal 
Sales
 

 
  
September 30, 2011
 
  
September 30, 2010
 
  
Change
 
  

 Organic sales
  
$
        929.8
  
  
$
        827.7
  
  
$
        102.1
  
  
 
12.3
% 

 Acquisition sales
  
 
276.2
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
276.2
  
  
 
33.4
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
1,206.0
  
  
$
827.7
  
  
$
378.3
  
  
 
45.7
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Acquisition sales represent sales of acquired businesses for the period up to one year subsequent to
their acquisition dates. The amount of acquisition sales shown in the table above resulted from the acquisitions of Dukes Aerospace and Semco Instruments in fiscal 2010 and McKechnie Aerospace, Talley Actuation and Schneller in fiscal 2011.
 The organic sales growth was primarily due to an increase of $22.2 million, or a 12.0% increase in commercial OEM sales, an
increase of $73.7 million, or a 22.1% increase in commercial aftermarket sales resulting from improving market demand for commercial aftermarket products. Defense sales increased by $1.6 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011
compared to the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010.  Cost of Sales and Gross Profit. Cost of sales increased by
$190.2 million, or 53.7%, to $544.8 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 compared to $354.6 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010. 
  41 


Table of Contents

Cost of sales and the related percentage of total sales for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (amounts in millions): 
 




















 
  
Fiscal Years Ended
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
September 30, 2011
 
 
September 30, 2010
 
 
Change
 
  
% Change
 

 Cost of sales—excluding acquisition-related costs below
  
$
        518.4
  
 
$
        345.6
  
 
$
        172.8
  
  
 
50.0
% 

 % of total sales
  
 
43.0
% 
 
 
41.7
% 
 



  




 Inventory purchase accounting adjustments
  
 
18.1
  
 
 
4.8
  
 
 
13.3
  
  
 
277.1
% 

 % of total sales
  
 
1.5
% 
 
 
0.6
% 
 



  




 Acquisition integration costs
  
 
8.3
  
 
 
4.2
  
 
 
4.1
  
  
 
97.6
% 

 % of total sales
  
 
0.7
% 
 
 
0.5
% 
 



  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  




 Total cost of sales
  
$
544.8
  
 
$
354.6
  
 
$
190.2
  
  
 
53.7
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  




 % of total sales
  
 
45.2
% 
 
 
42.8
% 
 



  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



  




 Gross profit
  
$
 661.2
  
 
$
 473.1
  
 
$
 188.1
  
  
 
39.8
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  




 Gross profit percentage
  
 
54.8
% 
 
 
57.2
% 
 



  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



  



 The increase in the dollar amount of cost of sales during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011
was primarily due to increased volume associated with organic sales growth and the sales from acquisitions and higher acquisition-related costs as shown in the table above.  Gross profit as a percentage of sales decreased by 2.4 percentage points to 54.8% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 from 57.2% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010. The dollar
amount of gross profit increased by $188.1 million, or 39.8%, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 compared to the comparable period last year due to the following items: 
 


 
•
 
 Gross profit on the sales from the acquisitions indicated above (excluding acquisition-related costs) was approximately $135 million for the
fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, which represented gross profit of approximately 49% of the acquisition sales.   


 
•
 
 Organic sales growth described above, application of our three core value-driven operating strategies (obtaining profitable new business, continually
improving our cost structure, and providing highly engineered value-added products to customers), favorable aftermarket versus OEM product mix and positive leverage on our fixed overhead costs spread over a higher production volume resulted in a net
increase in gross profit of approximately $70 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011.   


 
•
 
 The gross profit increase described above was partially offset by the impact of higher inventory purchase accounting adjustments and acquisition
integration costs charged to cost of sales of approximately $17 million. 
  42 


Table of Contents
Selling and Administrative Expenses. Selling and administrative expenses increased by
$38.8 million to $133.7 million, or 11.1% of sales, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 from $94.9 million, or 11.5% of sales, for the comparable period last year. Selling and administrative expenses and the related percentage of total
sales for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (amounts in millions):   




















 
  
Fiscal Years Ended
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
September 30,2011
 
 
September 30,2010
 
 
Change
 
 
%Change
 

 Selling and administrative expenses—excluding costs below
  
$
119.7
  
 
$
86.5
  
 
$
33.2
  
 
 
38.4
% 

 % of total sales
  
 
9.9
% 
 
 
10.5
% 
 



 




 Stock compensation expense
  
 
10.7
  
 
 
5.7
  
 
 
5.0
  
 
 
87.7
% 

 % of total sales
  
 
0.9
% 
 
 
0.7
% 
 



 




 Acquisition earn-out adjustment
  
 
(3.0
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(3.0
) 
 
 
—  
  

 % of total sales
  
 
-0.2
% 
 
 
0.0
% 
 



 




 Acquisition related expenses
  
 
6.3
  
 
 
2.7
  
 
 
3.6
  
 
 
133.3
% 

 % of total sales
  
 
0.5
% 
 
 
0.3
% 
 



 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total selling and administrative expenses
  
$
133.7
  
 
$
94.9
  
 
$
38.8
  
 
 
40.9
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 % of total sales
  
 
11.1
% 
 
 
11.5
% 
 



 



 The increase in the dollar amount of selling and administrative expenses during the fiscal year ended
September 30, 2011 is primarily due to higher selling and administrative expenses relating to recent acquisitions of approximately $28 million, which was approximately 10% of the acquisition sales. The increase in stock compensation expense is
primarily due to an increased level of employees that participate in the Company’s stock compensation plans as a result of acquisitions and also due to higher grant date fair values for our stock options. 
Amortization of Intangibles. Amortization of intangibles increased to $40.3 million for the fiscal year ended September 30,
2011 from $15.1 million for the comparable period last year. The net increase of $25.2 million was primarily due to amortization expense related to the additional identifiable intangible assets recognized in connection with acquisitions during the
last twelve months.  Refinancing Costs. Refinancing costs were recorded as a result of the
refinancing of TransDigm’s entire debt structure in December 2010. The charge of $72.5 million consisted of the premium of $41.9 million paid to redeem our
7  3/4% senior subordinated notes, the write-off of debt issue costs and unamortized note premium and discount of $25.7 million, and the settlement of the interest rate swap agreement and other expenses of $4.9
million.  Interest Expense-net. Interest expense-net includes interest on outstanding borrowings, amortization
of debt issue costs and revolving credit facility fees offset by interest income. Interest expense increased $73.0 million, or 65.1%, to $185.3 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 from $112.2 for the comparable period last
year. The net increase in interest expense-net was primarily due to an increase in the weighted average level of outstanding borrowings, which was approximately $2.90 billion for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 and approximately $1.78
billion for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010. The weighted average interest rate during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 was approximately 6.4%. The increase in borrowings was due to the debt refinancing transactions and
the acquisition financing related to McKechnie Aerospace which occurred in December 2010.  Income Taxes. Income tax
expense as a percentage of income before income taxes was approximately 33.6% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 compared to 34.8% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010. The decrease in the effective tax rate for the
fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 was primarily due to non-recurring adjustments in estimated deferred state obligations and an increase in research and development tax credits. 
  43 


Table of Contents
Income from Continuing Operations. Income from continuing operations decreased by
$11.2 million, or 6.9%, to $152.2 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 from $163.4 million for the comparable period last year. Income from continuing operations decreased due to the factors described above. 
Income from Discontinued Operations. Income from discontinued operations includes results of operations through the dates of sale
of the fastener business and AQS and the after-tax net gain on sales of $19.9 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011.  Net Income. Net income increased $8.7 million, or 5.3%, to $172.1 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 compared to net income of $163.4 million for the fiscal year ended
September 30, 2010, primarily as a result of the factors referred to above.  Earnings per Share. The basic and
diluted earnings per share were $3.17 for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 and $2.52 per share for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010. The fiscal year ended September 30, 2011comprises basic and diluted earnings per
share from continuing operations of $2.80 and basic and diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations of $0.37. Net income for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 of $172.1 million was decreased by an allocation of dividends to
participating securities of $2.8 million resulting in net income available to shareholders of $169.3 million. Net income for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010 of $163.4 million was decreased by an allocation of dividends to participating
securities of $30.3 million resulting in net income available to common shareholders of $133.1 million. The increase in earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.52 per share to $2.80 per share is due to the increase in net income
available to shareholders of $36.2 million, which is a result of the factors referred to above.  Backlog 
As of September 30, 2012, the Company estimated its sales order backlog at $833 million compared to an estimated sales order backlog
of $737 million as of September 30, 2011. The increase in backlog is primarily due to the acquisitions of Aero-Instruments, Harco and AmSafe discussed above, totaling approximately $62 million and an increase in orders across existing OEM
product lines and to a lesser extent the aftermarket. The majority of the purchase orders outstanding as of September 30, 2012 are scheduled for delivery within the next twelve months. Purchase orders may be subject to cancellation or deferral
by the customer prior to shipment. The level of unfilled purchase orders at any given date during the year will be materially affected by the timing of the Company’s receipt of purchase orders and the speed with which those orders are filled.
Accordingly, the Company’s backlog as of September 30, 2012 may not necessarily represent the actual amount of shipments or sales for any future period.  Foreign Operations  Although we manufacture a significant portion of our
products in the United States, we manufacture some products in Belgium, China, Malaysia, Mexico, Sri Lanka and the United Kingdom. We sell our products in the United States as well as in foreign countries. Although the majority of sales of our
products are made to customers including distributors located in the United States, our products are ultimately sold to and used by customers, including airlines and other end users of aircraft, throughout the world. A number of risks inherent in
international operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including currency fluctuations, difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations, general economic and political uncertainties and potential
for social unrest in countries in which we operate, limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies, restrictions on the repatriation of funds, change in trade policies, tariff regulation, difficulties in obtaining export and import
licenses and the risk of government financed competition.  Our direct sales to foreign customers were approximately $508.8
million, $305.5 million, and $170.6 million for fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Sales to foreign customers are subject to numerous additional risks, including the impact of foreign government regulations, political uncertainties
and differences in 
  44 


Table of Contents

business practices. There can be no assurance that foreign governments will not adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on the business or
market opportunities of the Company within such governments’ countries. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the political, cultural and economic climate outside the United States will be favorable to our operations and growth strategy.
 Inflation 
Many of the Company’s raw materials and operating expenses are sensitive to the effects of inflation, which could result in changing
operating costs. The effects of inflation on the Company’s businesses during the fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010 were not significant. 
Liquidity and Capital Resources  We have historically maintained a capital structure comprising a mix of equity and debt financing. We vary our leverage both to optimize our equity return and to pursue acquisitions. We expect to meet our
current debt obligations as they come due through internally generated funds from current levels of operations and/or through refinancing in the debt or equity markets prior to the maturity dates of our debt. 
We continually evaluate our debt facilities to assess whether they most efficiently and effectively meet the current and future needs of
our business. The Company evaluates from time to time the appropriateness of its current leverage, taking into consideration the Company’s debt holders, equity holders, credit ratings, acquisition opportunities and other factors. The
Company’s debt leverage ratio, which is computed as total debt divided by EBITDA As Defined for the applicable twelve-month period, has varied widely during the Company’s history, ranging from approximately 3.5 to 6.5. Our debt leverage
ratio for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 was approximately 4.5.  The Company regularly engages in discussions
with respect to potential acquisitions and investments. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to consummate an agreement with respect to any future acquisition. The Company’s acquisition strategy may require
substantial capital, and no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to raise any necessary funds on acceptable terms or at all. If the Company incurs additional debt to finance acquisitions, total interest expense will increase.
 If the Company has excess cash, it may consider methods by which it can provide cash to its debt or equity holders through a
dividend, prepayment of indebtedness, repurchase of stock, repurchase of debt or other means. Whether the Company undertakes additional stock repurchases or other aforementioned activities will depend on prevailing market conditions, the
Company’s liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. In addition, the Company may issue additional debt if prevailing market conditions are favorable to doing so. 
The Company’s ability to make scheduled interest payments on, or to refinance, the Company’s indebtedness, or to fund
non-acquisition related capital expenditures and research and development efforts, will depend on the Company’s ability to generate cash in the future. This is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and
other factors that are beyond its control. Based on its current levels of operations and absent any disruptive events, management believes that internally generated funds and borrowings available under our revolving loan facility should provide
sufficient resources to finance its operations, non-acquisition related capital expenditures, research and development efforts and long-term indebtedness obligations through at least fiscal 2013. There can be no assurance, however, that the
Company’s business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to the Company under the senior secured credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable it to pay its indebtedness or to fund
its other liquidity needs. The Company may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness on or before maturity. Also, to the extent the Company accelerates its growth plans, consummates acquisitions or has lower than anticipated sales or
increases in expenses, the Company may also need to raise additional capital. In particular, 
  45 


Table of Contents

increased working capital needs occur whenever the Company consummates acquisitions or experiences strong incremental demand. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to raise
additional capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all.  The Company has not, at this time, determined to change the
nature of its debt facilities. However, in the future, the Company may increase its borrowings in connection with acquisitions, if cash flow from operations becomes insufficient to fund current operations or for other short-term cash needs or for
stock repurchases or dividends. Our future leverage will also be impacted by the then current conditions of the credit markets. 
Operating Activities. The Company generated $413.9 million of cash from operating activities during fiscal 2012 compared to $260.4
million during fiscal 2011. The net increase of $153.5 million was due primarily to an increase in income from operations partially offset by higher interest payments due the Company’s current debt structure and higher income tax payments.
 The Company generated $260.4 million of cash from operating activities during fiscal 2011 compared to $197.3 million during
fiscal 2010. The net increase of $63.1 million was due primarily due to an increase in income from operations offset by higher interest payments and associated resfinancing costs in connection with the Company’s debt refinancing transactions
during fiscal 2011.  Investing Activities. Cash used in investing activities was $876.3 million during fiscal 2012
consisting primarily of the acquisition of AmSafe, Harco and Aero-Instruments for a total of $868.7 million and capital expenditures of $25.2 million offset by the cash proceeds on the sale of the distribution business of $17.7 million. 
Cash used in investing activities was $1,397.0 million during fiscal 2011, consisting primarily of the acquisitions of McKechnie
Aerospace, Talley Actuation and Schneller Holdings for a total of $1,650.4 million and capital expenditures of $18.0 million offset by the cash proceeds on the sale of the fastener business and AQS of $271.4 million. 
Net cash used in investing activities was $176.6 million during fiscal 2010 consisting primarily of the acquisitions of Dukes Aerospace
and Semco for a total of $166.6 million and capital expenditures of $12.9 million. Net cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2010 also includes cash proceeds of $2.9 million from the sale of real estate no longer utilized. 
Financing Activities. Cash provided by financing activities during fiscal 2012 was $527.2 million, which comprised $484.3 million
of additional net proceeds from the Amendment under our New Senior Secured Credit Facility and $66.3 million of cash for tax benefits related to share-based payment arrangements and from the exercise of stock options offset by $19.3 million
repayment on our New Senior Secured Credit Facility, $3.3 million of dividend equivalent payments and $0.8 million of treasury stock purchased.  Cash provided by financing activities during fiscal 2011 was $1,278.5 million, which comprised $1,260.3 million of net proceeds from the refinancing of our entire debt structure and $32.6 million of
cash for tax benefits related to share-based payment arrangements and from the exercise of stock options offset by $11.6 million repayment on our New Senior Secured Credit Facility and $2.8 million of dividends and dividend equivalent payments.
 Net cash provided by financing activities during fiscal 2010 was $23.2 million, which comprised $404.2 million of net
proceeds from the issuance of the 7¾% Senior Subordinated Notes in October 2009 and $23.8 million of cash for tax benefits related to share-based payment arrangements and from the exercise of stock options offset by $404.9 million of
dividends and dividend equivalent payments.  Description of New Senior Secured Credit Facility and Indentures 
In December 2010, TransDigm entered into a senior secured credit facility, which consisted of a $1.55 billion term loan facility and
a $245 million revolving credit facility (collectively, the “Existing Senior 
  46 


Table of Contents

Secured Credit Facility”). The proceeds of the term loan were used to pay the purchase price of and related transaction expenses associated with the acquisition of McKechnie Aerospace and
repay a portion of the amounts outstanding under the previous senior secured credit facility.  On February 14, 2011,
TransDigm Inc. entered into a new senior secured credit facility which provides for $1.55 billion term loan facility (the “New Senior Secured Credit Facility”), which was fully drawn on February 14, 2011. The New Senior Secured Credit
Facility replaced the term loan under the Existing Senior Secured Credit Facility and modified certain terms of the original agreement including extending the maturity date of the term loan and modifying the interest rate provisions. 
On March 25, 2011, TransDigm entered into Amendment No. 1 (the “Amendment”) to the Existing Senior Secured Credit
Facility. The Amendment provides for a modification to certain terms of the permitted indebtedness covenant contained in the Existing Senior Secured Credit Facility to modify the requirements for incurring certain additional senior indebtedness.
 On February 15, 2012, TransDigm entered into Amendment No. 1 and an Incremental Term Loan Assumption Agreement to
the New Senior Secured Credit Facility. The amendment provides for an additional term loan facility in the aggregate principal amount of $500 million. The additional term loan facility was fully drawn on February 15, 2012. The proceeds of the
additional term loan facility were used to pay a portion of the purchase price of and related transaction expenses associated with the acquisition of AmSafe.  On February 15, 2012 TransDigm also entered into an Incremental Revolving Credit Assumption Agreement (the “Assumption Agreement”) to the Existing Senior Secured Credit Facility, as
amended. The Assumption Agreement provides for additional revolving commitments to TransDigm in an aggregate principal amount of $65 million, which results in a total revolving credit amount of $310 million. No borrowings, other than the issuance of
certain letters of credit discussed below, were outstanding under the Existing Senior Secured Credit Facility as of September 30, 2012.  Under the Existing Senior Secured Credit Facility, the revolving credit facility matures in December 2015. At September 30, 2012, the Company had $7.1 million letters of credit outstanding and $302.9
of borrowings available under the Existing Senior Secured Credit Facility.  Under the New Senior Secured Credit Facility, the
term loans mature in February 2017. The term loans under the New Senior Secured Credit Facility require quarterly principal payments totaling $5.1 million.  On October 9, 2012, the Company amended the secured credit facility to provide for an additional term loan facility in the aggregate principal amount of $150 million. The additional term loan
facility was fully drawn on October 15, 2012.  The interest rates per annum applicable to the term loans under the New
Senior Secured Credit Facility will be, at TransDigm’s option, equal to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted LIBO rate for one, two, three or six-month (or to the extent agreed to by each relevant lender, nine or twelve-month) interest
periods chosen by TransDigm, in each case plus an applicable margin percentage. The applicable interest rate on the term loan at September 30, 2012 was 4.0%.  On June 27, 2011, the Company entered into three forward-starting interest rate swap agreements beginning December 31, 2012 to hedge the variable interest rates on the New Senior Secured Credit
Facility for a fixed rate based on an aggregate notional amount of $353 million through June 30, 2015. These forward-starting interest rate swap agreements will effectively convert the variable interest rate on the aggregate notional amount of
the New Senior Secured Credit Facility to a fixed rate of 5.17% over the term of the interest rate swap agreements.  All of
the indebtedness outstanding under the credit facilities is guaranteed by TD Group and all of TransDigm’s current and future domestic restricted subsidiaries (other than immaterial subsidiaries), and is

  47 


Table of Contents

secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of the existing and future property and assets, including inventory, equipment, general intangibles, intellectual property,
investment property and other personal property (but excluding leasehold interests and certain other assets) of TransDigm and all of TransDigm’s existing and future domestic restricted subsidiaries (other than immaterial subsidiaries), and a
first priority pledge of the capital stock of TransDigm and its domestic subsidiaries and 65% of the voting capital stock of certain of TransDigm’s foreign subsidiaries.  The credit facilities contain certain covenants that limit the ability of TD Group, TransDigm and TransDigm’s restricted subsidiaries to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional
indebtedness or issue preferred stock, pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase capital stock or redeem or repurchase subordinated debt, make investments, sell assets, enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from
restricted subsidiaries to TransDigm, incur or suffer to exist liens securing indebtedness, consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of their assets, and engage in transactions with affiliates. At September 30, 2012, TransDigm
was in compliance with all of the covenants contained in the credit facilities.  The term loan under the New Senior Secured
Credit Facility requires mandatory prepayments of principal based on certain percentages of Excess Cash Flow (as therein defined), commencing 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, commencing with the fiscal year ending September 30, 2012,
subject to certain exceptions. At September 30, 2012, TransDigm was not required to make a prepayment based upon the Excess Cash Flow provision. In addition, subject to certain exceptions (including, with respect to asset sales, the
reinvestment in productive assets), TransDigm will be required to prepay the loans outstanding under the term loan facility at 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, with the net cash proceeds of certain asset sales
and issuance or incurrence of certain indebtedness, to the extent not reinvested.  In December 2010,
TransDigm issued $1.6 billion in aggregate principal amount of its 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018 (the “2018 Notes”) at an issue price of 100% of the principal amount. The
2018 Notes represent unsecured obligations of TransDigm Inc. ranking subordinate to TransDigm Inc.’s senior debt, as defined in the Indenture governing the 2018 Notes. Such notes do not require principal payments prior to their maturity in
December 2018. Interest under the 2018 Notes is payable semi-annually.  TransDigm utilized a
portion of the proceeds from the 2018 Notes to repurchase its 7 3/4% senior subordinated notes due 2014. 
In October 2012, the Company also issued $550 million in aggregate principal amount of its 5 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2020 at an issue price of 100% of the principal amount. 
Certain Restrictive Covenants in Our Debt Documents  The credit facilities and the Indentures contain restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the payment of dividends, transactions with affiliates,
asset sales, acquisitions, mergers and consolidations, liens and encumbrances, and prepayments of other indebtedness. A breach of any of the covenants or an inability to comply with the required leverage ratio could result in a default under the
credit facilities or the Indentures. If any such default occurs, the lenders under the credit facilities and the holders of the 2018 Notes may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable
thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. The lenders under the credit facilities also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. In addition, following an event of default under
the credit facilities, the lenders thereunder will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which includes our available cash, and they will also have the right to prevent us from making debt service
payments on the 2018 Notes. 
  48 


Table of Contents
Stock Repurchase Program  On August 22, 2011, the Board of Directors authorized a common share repurchase program, which was announced on August 23, 2011. Under the terms of the program, the Company may purchase up to a
maximum aggregate value of $100 million of its shares of common stock. For the year ended September 30, 2012, the Company repurchased 11,300 shares of its common stock at a gross cost of approximately $0.8 million at a weighted-average price
per share of $74.87 per share. The program replaces the repurchase program announced on October 23, 2008, under which the Company previously repurchased 494,100 shares of its common stock at a gross cost of approximately $15.2 million at a
weighted-average price per share of $30.85.  Contractual Obligations 
The following is a summary of contractual cash obligations as of September 30, 2012 (in millions): 
 
































 
 
2013
 
 
2014
 
  
2015
 
  
2016
 
  
2017
 
  
2018 andthereafter
 
  
Total
 

 New Senior Secured Credit Facility(1)
 
$
20.5
  
 
$
20.5
  
  
$
20.5
  
  
$
20.5
  
  
$
1,937.1
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
2,019.1
  

 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,600.0
  
  
 
1,600.0
  

 Scheduled Interest Payments(2)
 
 
207.6
  
 
 
207.8
  
  
 
205.9
  
  
 
202.0
  
  
 
153.0
  
  
 
139.5
  
  
 
1,115.8
  

 Operating Leases
 
 
7.7
  
 
 
7.4
  
  
 
5.7
  
  
 
5.1
  
  
 
3.7
  
  
 
20.4
  
  
 
50.0
  

 Purchase Obligations
 
 
28.1
  
 
 
1.4
  
  
 
0.9
  
  
 
0.7
  
  
 
0.7
  
  
 
0.7
  
  
 
32.5
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Contractual Cash Obligations
 
$
263.9
  
 
$
237.1
  
  
$
233.0
  
  
$
228.3
  
  
$
2,094.5
  
  
$
1,760.6
  
  
$
4,817.4
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
The new senior secured credit facility will mature in February 2017 and requires quarterly principal payments totaling $5.1 million. 


(2)
Assumes that the variable interest rate on our borrowings under our new senior secured credit facility remains constant at 4.0%. In addition, interest payments include
the impact of the 5.17% interest rate fixed through our forward-starting swap agreements from December 31, 2012 through June 30, 2015 on an aggregate notional amount of $353 million. 
In addition to the contractual obligations set forth above, the Company incurs capital expenditures for the purpose of maintaining and
replacing existing equipment and facilities and, from time to time, for facility expansion. Capital expenditures totaled approximately $25.2 million, $18.0 million, and $12.9 million during fiscal 2012, 2011, and fiscal 2010, respectively. The
Company expects its capital expenditures in fiscal 2013 to be between $35 million and $40 million and such expenditures are projected to increase moderately thereafter.  New Accounting Standards  New Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted 
In June 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued authoritative accounting guidance included in
Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 220, “Comprehensive Income”. This guidance eliminates the option to report other comprehensive income and its components in the statement of changes in equity. Companies can
elect to present items of net income and other comprehensive income in one continuous statement or in two separate, but consecutive, statements. The Company is currently evaluating which method it will utilize to present items of net income and
other comprehensive income. This presentation guidance is effective for the Company on October 1, 2012.  In
September 2011, the FASB issued authoritative accounting guidance included in ASC Topic 350, “Intangibles—Goodwill and Other”. This guidance amends the requirements for goodwill impairment testing. The Company has the
option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less

  49 


Table of Contents

than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, the Company determines it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than
its carrying amount, then performing the two-step impairment test is unnecessary. This guidance is effective for the Company for its annual goodwill impairment testing for the year ending September 30, 2013. The Company does not expect this
guidance to have a significant impact on the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.  In July 2012, the FASB issued authoritative guidance included in ASC Topic 350, “Intangibles—Goodwill and Other.” This guidance permits an entity to first assess qualitative factors
to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test described in FASB ASC Topic 350,
“Intangibles—Goodwill and Other”. This guidance is effective for the Company for its annual impairment testing for the year ending September 30, 2013. The Company does not expect this guidance to have a significant impact
on the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.  Additional Disclosure Required by Indentures
 Separate financial statements of TransDigm Inc. are not presented since TD Group has no operations or
significant assets separate from its investment in TransDigm Inc. and since the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes and the
5 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes are guaranteed by TD Group and all direct and indirect domestic restricted subsidiaries of TransDigm Inc. TransDigm Inc.’s immaterial wholly owned foreign subsidiaries are
not obligated to guarantee the
7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes and the 5 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes. 
 


ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  Our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates. Our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate and floating-rate long-term debt. At
September 30, 2012, we had borrowings under our New Senior Secured Credit Facility of $2.02 billion that were subject to interest rate risk. Borrowings under our New Senior Secured Credit Facility bear interest, at our option, at a rate equal
to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted LIBO rate for a one-, two-, three- or six-month (or to the extent available to each lender, nine- or twelve-month) interest period chosen by us, in each case, plus an applicable margin percentage.
Accordingly, the Company’s cash flows and earnings will be exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes resulting from variable rate borrowings under our New Senior Secured Credit Facility. The effect of a hypothetical one percentage
point increase in interest rates would increase the annual interest costs under our New Senior Secured Credit Facility by approximately $20.2 million based on the amount of outstanding borrowings at September 30, 2012. The weighted average
interest rate on the $2.02 billion of borrowings under our New Senior Secured Credit Facility on September 30, 2012 was 4.0%.  At September 30, 2012, three forward-starting interest rate swap agreements were in place to swap variable rates on the New Senior Secured Credit Facility for a fixed rate based on an aggregate
notional amount of $353 million. Beginning December 31, 2012, these interest rate swap agreements will effectively convert the variable interest rate on the aggregate notional amount of the new senior secured credit facility to a fixed rate of
5.17% through June 30, 2015.  The fair value of the $2.02 billion aggregate principal amount of
borrowings under our New Senior Secured Credit Facility is exposed to the market risk of interest rates. The estimated fair value of such term loan approximated $2.04 billion at September 30, 2012 based upon information provided to the Company
from its agent under the credit facility. The fair value of the $1.60 billion aggregate principal amount of our 7 3/4% senior subordinated notes due 2018 is exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes. The estimated
fair value of such notes approximated $1.70 billion at September 30, 2012 based upon quoted market rates. 
  50 


Table of Contents


ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  The information required by this Item is contained on pages F-1 through F-40 of this Report.   


ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
None.   


ITEM
9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  As of September 30, 2012, TD Group carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of TD Group’s management, including its Chief Executive Officer (Principal
Executive Officer) and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of TD Group’s disclosure controls and procedures. Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer concluded that TD Group’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by TD Group in the reports it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported, within the time periods specified by the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to TD Group’s management, including its Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, TD Group’s management recognized that any controls and procedures,
no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in designing and evaluating the controls and procedures.
 Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
The management of TD Group is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined
in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Using criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework, TransDigm’s management assessed the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2012. Based on our assessment, management concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September 30, 2012.
 On February 15, 2012, we completed our acquisition of AmSafe. AmSafe’s results of operations are included in our
consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. As permitted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, we have elected to exclude AmSafe from our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of
September 30, 2012. Total assets and net sales of AmSafe represent 14% and 10%, respectively, of our total assets and net sales as reported in our consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2012. 
The Company’s independent auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have issued an audit report on the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting of the Company as of September 30, 2012. This report is included herein.  Changes in Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting  On February 15, 2012, we acquired AmSafe. AmSafe operated under its own set of systems and
internal controls and we are currently maintaining those systems and much of that control environment until we are able to incorporate AmSafe’s processes into our own systems and control environment. We currently expect to complete the
incorporation of AmSafe’s operations into our systems and control environment in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. There were no other changes to our internal controls over financial reporting that could have a material effect on our financial
reporting during fiscal 2012. 
  51 


Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of 
TranDigm Group Incorporated  We
have audited TransDigm Group Incorporated’s internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). TransDigm Group Incorporated’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
 We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  A
company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  As indicated in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, management’s assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting excluded AmSafe, which was acquired during the year ended September 30, 2012. AmSafe represented approximately 10% of net sales for the year ended September 30, 2012 and 14% of total assets at September 30, 2012.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of TransDigm Group Incorporated also did not include an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of AmSafe. 
In our opinion, TransDigm Group Incorporated maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
of September 30, 2012, based on the COSO criteria.  
  52 


Table of Contents
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of TransDigm Group Incorporated as of September 30, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended September 30, 2012 of TransDigm Group Incorporated and our report dated November 16, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP  Cleveland, Ohio  November 16, 2012 
  53 


Table of Contents


ITEM 9B.
OTHER INFORMATION  None.
 PART III   


ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  Directors and Executive Officers  Information regarding TD Group’s
directors is set forth under the caption “Proposal One: Election of Directors” in our Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herein by reference. The following table sets forth certain information concerning TD Group’s executive
officers:   










 Name
  
Age
 
  
 Position

 W. Nicholas Howley
  
 
60
  
  
Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors

 Robert S. Henderson
  
 
55
  
  
Executive Vice President

 Bernt G. Iversen II
  
 
55
  
  
Executive Vice President—Mergers and Acquisitions

 Raymond F. Laubenthal
  
 
51
  
  
President and Chief Operating Officer

 John Leary
  
 
65
  
  
Executive Vice President

 Peter Palmer
  
 
48
  
  
Executive Vice President

 Gregory Rufus
  
 
56
  
  
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary

 James Skulina
  
 
53
  
  
Executive Vice President
 Mr. Howley was named Chairman of the Board of Directors of TD Group in July 2003. He has served as
Chief Executive Officer of TD Group since December 2005 and of TransDigm Inc. since December 2001. Mr. Howley was President of TD Group from July 2003 until December 2005. Mr. Howley served as Chief Operating Officer of
TransDigm Inc. from December 1998 through December 2001 and served as President of TransDigm Inc. from December 1998 through September 2005. Mr. Howley was a director of Polypore International Inc., a NYSE-listed
manufacturer of polymer-based membranes used in separation and filtration processes through October 2012. Mr. Howley was a director of Satair A/S, a Danish public company that is an aerospace distributor, including a distributor of the
Company’s products through October 2011.  Mr. Henderson was appointed Executive Vice President of TD Group in
December 2005 and Executive Vice President of TransDigm Inc. in October 2005. He was President of the AdelWiggins Group, an operating division of TransDigm Inc., from August 1999 to April 2008. 
Mr. Iversen was appointed Executive Vice President—Mergers & Acquisitions and Business Development of TD Group and
TransDigm Inc. in May 2012. Prior to that he served as Executive Vice President of TD Group and TransDigm Inc. since December 6, 2010. Prior to that, he was President of Champion Aerospace LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of TransDigm Inc., from
June 2006.  Mr. Laubenthal was appointed President and Chief Operating Officer of TD Group in December 2005,
President and Chief Operating Officer of TransDigm Inc. in October 2005 and was President of AeroControlex Group, then operated as a division of TransDigm Inc., from November 1998 through September 2005. 
Mr. Leary was appointed Executive Vice President of TD Group and TransDigm Inc. in May 2012. Prior to that he served as President of
Hartwell Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of TransDigm Inc., from October 2011 to May 2012, and as President of Adams Rite Aerospace, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of TransDigm Inc., from June 1999 to September 2011. 
  54 


Table of Contents
Mr. Palmer was appointed Executive Vice President in February 2012. Prior to that,
Mr. Palmer served as President of AdelWiggins Group, a division of TransDigm Inc., from April 2010 to February 2012, and as President of CEF Industries, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of TransDigm Inc., from June 2008 to March 2010. 
Mr. Rufus was named Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary of TD Group in December 2005. He served as
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of TD Group from July 2003 until December 2005. Mr. Rufus was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of TransDigm Inc. on October 1, 2005 and had been Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of TransDigm Inc. since August 2000.  Mr. Skulina was appointed Executive
Vice President in January 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Skulina served as President of the Aero Fluid Products division of AeroControlex Group, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of TransDigm Inc., from September 2009 to December 2012, and as
Controller of TransDigm Inc., from August 2007 to August 2009.  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance
 The information regarding compliance with Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is set forth under the
caption entitled “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in our Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herein by reference.  Code of Ethics  We have adopted a Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics, which applies to all of our directors, officers, and employees and a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers which includes additional ethical obligations for our senior financial management (which includes our chief
executive officer, chief financial officer, president, division presidents, controllers, treasurer, and chief internal auditor). Please refer to the information set forth under the caption “Corporate Governance—Codes of Ethics &
Whistleblower Policy” in our Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herein by reference. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers is available on our website at www.transdigm.com. Any
person may receive a copy without charge by writing to us at TransDigm Group Incorporated, 1301 East 9th Street, Suite 3000, Cleveland, Ohio 44114. We intend to disclose on our website any amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to directors and
executive officers and that is required to be disclosed pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Nominations of
Directors  The procedure by which stockholders may recommend nominees to our Board of Directors is set forth under the
caption “Corporate Governance-Board Committees—Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee” in our Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herein by reference.  Audit Committee  The information regarding the audit committee of our Board
of Directors and audit committee financial experts is set forth under the caption “Corporate Governance-Board Committees—Audit Committee” in our Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herein by reference. 
 


ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
The information required by this item is set forth under the captions “Executive Compensation”, “Compensation of
Directors”, “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” and “Compensation Committee Report” in our Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herein by reference. 
  55 


Table of Contents


ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
The information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is set forth under the caption “Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” in our Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herein by reference.   


ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS  The information required by this item is set forth under the captions entitled “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,” “Compensation of Directors,” and “Independence of
Directors” in our Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herein by reference.   


ITEM 14.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  The information required by this item is set forth under the caption “Principal Accounting Fees and Services” in our Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herein by reference. 
PART IV   


ITEM 15.
EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
(a) Documents Filed with Report  (a)
(1) Financial Statements   






 
  
 Page




 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
F-1




 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2012 and 2011.
  
F-2




 Consolidated Statements of Income for Fiscal Years Ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and
2010.
  
F-3




 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity for Fiscal Years Ended September 
30, 2012, 2011 and 2010.
  
F-4




 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for Fiscal Years Ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and
2010.
  
F-5




 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
pages F-6 to F-39




 (a) (2) Financial Statement Schedules
  





 Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the Fiscal Years Ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and
2010.
  
F-40

  56 


Table of Contents
a) (3) Exhibits 
 








 Exhibit No.
  
 Description
  
 Filed Herewith or Incorporated by Reference
From

2.1
  
Stock Purchase Agreement dated September 25, 2010 among McKechnie Holdings LLC, TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed September 28, 2010 (File No. 001-32833)





2.2
  
Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among AmSafe Global Holdings, Inc., AGH Acquisition Inc., TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated dated January 20,
2012.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed January 23, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.1
  
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, filed March 14, 2006, of TransDigm Group Incorporated
  
Incorporated by reference to Amendment No. 3 to Form S-1 filed March 13, 2006 (File No. 333-130483)





3.2
  
Amended and Restated Bylaws of TransDigm Group Incorporated
  
Incorporated by reference to Form S-1 filed June 8, 2011 (File No. 333-174781)





3.3
  
Certificate of Incorporation, filed July 2, 1993, of NovaDigm Acquisition, Inc. (now known as TransDigm Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Holding Company’s Form S-4 filed January 29, 1999 (File No. 333-71397)





3.4
  
Certificate of Amendment, filed July 22, 1993, of the Certificate of Incorporation of NovaDigm Acquisition, Inc. (now known as TransDigm Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Holding Company’s Form S-4 filed January 29, 1999 (File No. 333-71397)





3.5
  
Bylaws of NovaDigm Acquisition, Inc. (now known as TransDigm Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Holding Company’s Form S-4 filed January 29, 1999 (File No. 333-71397)





3.6
  
Certificate of Incorporation, filed March 28, 1994, of MPT Acquisition Corp. (now known as MarathonNorco Aerospace, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Holding Company’s Form S-4 filed January 29, 1999 (File No. 333-71397)





3.7
  
Certificate of Amendment, filed May 18, 1994, of the Certificate of Incorporation of MPT Acquisition Corp. (now known as MarathonNorco Aerospace, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Holding Company’s Form S-4 filed January 29, 1999 (File No. 333-71397)





3.8
  
Certificate of Amendment, filed May 24, 1994, of the Certificate of Incorporation of MPT Acquisition Corp. (now known as MarathonNorco Aerospace, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Holding Company’s Form S-4 filed January 29, 1999 (File No. 333-71397)





3.9
  
Certificate of Amendment, filed August 28, 2003, of the Certificate of Incorporation of Marathon Power Technology Company (now known as MarathonNorco Aerospace, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form 10-K filed November 28, 2006 (File No. 001-32833)





3.10
  
Bylaws of MPT Acquisition Corp. (now known as MarathonNorco Aerospace, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Holding Company’s Form S-4 filed January 29, 1999 (File No.
333-71397)
  57 


Table of Contents








 Exhibit No.
  
 Description
  
 Filed Herewith or Incorporated by Reference
From

3.11
  
Articles of Incorporation, filed July 30, 1986, of ARP Acquisition Corporation (now known as Adams Rite Aerospace, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Holding Company’s Form S-4 filed January 29, 1999 (File No. 333-71397)





3.12
  
Certificate of Amendment, filed September 12, 1986, of the Articles of Incorporation of ARP Acquisition Corporation (now known as Adams Rite Aerospace, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Holding Company’s Form S-4 filed January 29, 1999 (File No. 333-71397)





3.13
  
Certificate of Amendment, filed January 27, 1992, of the Articles of Incorporation of Adams Rite Products, Inc. (now known as Adams Rite Aerospace, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Holding Company’s Form S-4 filed January 29, 1999 (File No. 333-71397)





3.14
  
Certificate of Amendment, filed December 31, 1992, of the Articles of Incorporation of Adams Rite Products, Inc. (now known as Adams Rite Aerospace, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Holding Company’s Form S-4 filed January 29, 1999 (File No. 333-71397)





3.15
  
Certificate of Amendment, filed August 11, 1997, of the Articles of Incorporation of Adams Rite Sabre International, Inc. (now known as Adams Rite Aerospace, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Holding Company’s Form S-4 filed January 29, 1999 (File No. 333-71397)





3.16
  
Amended and Restated Bylaws of Adams Rite Aerospace, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Holding Company’s Form S-4 filed January 29, 1999 (File No. 333-71397)





3.17
  
Certificate of Formation, effective June 30, 2007, of Champion Aerospace LLC
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed July 6, 2007 (File No. 333-144366)





3.18
  
Limited Liability Company Agreement of Champion Aerospace LLC
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed July 6, 2007 (File No. 333-144366)





3.19
  
Certificate of Formation, effective June 29, 2007, of Avionic Instruments LLC
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form 10-K filed November 21, 2007 (File No. 001-32833)





3.20
  
Limited Liability Company Agreement of Avionic Instruments LLC
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed July 6, 2007 (File No.333-144366)





3.21
  
Certificate of Incorporation, filed December 22, 2004, of Skurka Aerospace Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed October 11, 2006 (File No. 333-137937)





3.22
  
Bylaws of Skurka Aerospace Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed October 11, 2006 (File No. 333-137937)





3.23
  
Certificate of Conversion, effective June 30, 2007, converting CDA InterCorp into CDA InterCorp LLC
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed July 6, 2007 (File No.
333-144366)
  58 


Table of Contents








 Exhibit No.
  
 Description
  
 Filed Herewith or Incorporated by Reference
From

3.24
  
Operating Agreement of CDA InterCorp LLC
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed July 6, 2007 (File No. 333-144366)





3.25
  
Certificate of Incorporation, filed March 7, 2003, of Wings Holdings, Inc. (now known as Aviation Technologies, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed July 6, 2007 (File No. 333-144366)





3.26
  
Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation, filed May 12, 2003, of Wings Holdings, Inc. (now known as Aviation Technologies, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed July 6, 2007 (File No. 333-144366)





3.27
  
Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation, filed July 17, 2003, of Wings Holdings, Inc. (now known as Aviation Technologies, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed July 6, 2007 (File No. 333-144366)





3.28
  
Bylaws of Wings Holdings, Inc. (now known as Aviation Technologies, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed July 6, 2007 (File No. 333-144366)





3.29
  
Articles of Incorporation, filed October 3, 1963, of Avtech Corporation (now known as AvtechTyee, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed July 6, 2007 (File No. 333-144366)





3.30
  
Articles of Amendment of Articles of Incorporation, filed March 30, 1984, of Avtech Corporation (now known as AvtechTyee, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed July 6, 2007 (File No. 333-144366)





3.31
  
Articles of Amendment of Articles of Incorporation, filed April 17, 1989, of Avtech Corporation (now known as AvtechTyee, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed July 6, 2007 (File No. 333-144366)





3.32
  
Articles of Amendment of Articles of Incorporation, filed July 17, 1998, of Avtech Corporation (now known as AvtechTyee, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed July 6, 2007 (File No. 333-144366)





3.33
  
Articles of Amendment of Articles of Incorporation, filed May 20, 2003, of Avtech Corporation (now known as Avtech Tyee, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4, filed July 6, 2007 (File No. 333-144366)





3.34
  
Articles of Amendment of Articles of Incorporation, filed May 2, 2012, of AvtechTyee, Inc.
  
Filed herewith





3.35
  
Bylaws of Avtech Corporation (now known as AvtechTyee, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed July 6, 2007 (File No. 333-144366)





3.36
  
Certificate of Formation, effective June 30, 2007, of Transicoil LLC
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed July 6, 2007 (File No. 333-144366)





3.37
  
Limited Liability Company Agreement of Transicoil LLC
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed July 6, 2007 (File No.
333-144366)
  59 


Table of Contents








 Exhibit No.
  
 Description
  
 Filed Herewith or Incorporated by Reference
From

3.38
  
Certificate of Incorporation, filed May 17, 2006, of Bruce Industries Acquisition Corp. (now known as Malaysian Aerospace Services, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed July 6, 2007 (File No. 333-144366)





3.39
  
Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation, filed January 19, 2007, of Bruce Industries Acquisition Corp. (now known as Malaysian Aerospace Services, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed July 6, 2007 (File No. 333-144366)





3.40
  
Bylaws of Bruce Industries Acquisition Corp. (now known as Malaysian Aerospace Services, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed July 6, 2007 (File No. 333-144366)





3.41
  
Certificate of Incorporation, filed June 18, 2007, of AeroControlex Group, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed July 6, 2007 (File No. 333-144366)





3.42
  
Bylaws of AeroControlex Group, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed July 6, 2007 (File No. 333-144366)





3.43
  
Certificate of Incorporation filed August 6, 2007, of Bruce Aerospace, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K filed November 21, 2007 (File No. 001-32833)





3.44
  
Bylaws of Bruce Aerospace, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K filed November 21, 2007 (File No. 001-32833)





3.45
  
Articles of Incorporation, filed February 6, 2006 of Bruce Industries, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K filed November 21, 2007 (File No. 001-32833)





3.46
  
Bylaws of Bruce Industries, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K filed November 21, 2007 (File No. 001-32833)





3.47
  
Certificate of Formation, filed September 30, 2010, of CEF Industries, LLC
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K filed November 15, 2010 (File No. 001-32833)





3.48
  
Limited Liability Company Agreement of CEF Industries, LLC
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K filed November 15, 2010 (File No. 001-32833)





3.49
  
Certificate of Incorporation, filed July 10, 2009, of Acme Aerospace Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed August 25, 2009 (File No. 001-32833)





3.50
  
Bylaws of Acme Aerospace Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed August 25, 2009 (File No. 001-32833)





3.51
  
Certificate of Incorporation, filed November 20, 2009, of Dukes Aerospace, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed December 3, 2009 (File No. 001-32833)





3.52
  
Bylaws of Dukes Aerospace, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed December 3, 2009 (File No. 001-32833)





3.53
  
Certificate of Incorporation of Semco Instruments, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed September 7, 2010 (File No. 001-32833)





3.54
  
Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation, filed October 17, 2012, of Semco Instruments, Inc.
  
Filed herewith
  60 


Table of Contents








 Exhibit No.
  
 Description
  
 Filed Herewith or Incorporated by Reference
From

3.55
  
Amended and Restated Bylaws of Semco Instruments, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed September 7, 2010 (File No. 001-32833)





3.56
  
Certificate of Incorporation, filed April 25, 2007, of McKechnie Aerospace Holdings, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





3.57
  
Bylaws of McKechnie Aerospace Holdings, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





3.58
  
Certificate of Incorporation, filed April 13, 2007, of McKechnie Aerospace DE, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





3.59
  
Bylaws of McKechnie Aerospace DE, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





3.60
  
Certificate of Formation, filed May 11, 2005, of Melrose US 3 LLC (now known as McKechnie Aerospace US LLC)
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





3.61
  
Certificate of Amendment, filed May 11, 2007, to Certificate of Formation of Melrose US 3 LLC (now known as McKechnie Aerospace US LLC)
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





3.62
  
Limited Liability Company Agreement of McKechnie Aerospace US LLC
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





3.63
  
Certificate of Incorporation, filed December 11, 1998, of McKechnie US Holdings Inc. (now known as McKechnie Aerospace Investments, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





3.64
  
Certificate of Amendment, filed May 11, 2007, to the Certificate of Incorporation of McKechnie Investments, Inc. (now known as McKechnie Aerospace Investments, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





3.65
  
Amended and Restated Bylaws of McKechnie Aerospace Investments, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





3.66
  
Certificate of Formation, filed February 29, 2000, of Western Sky Industries, LLC
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





3.67
  
Second Amended and Restated Limited Liability Agreement of Western Sky Industries, LLC
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





3.68
  
Articles of Incorporation, filed May 10, 1957, of Hartwell Aviation Supply Company (now known as Hartwell Corporation)
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





3.69
  
Certificate of Amendment, filed June 9, 1960, of Articles of Incorporation of Hartwell Aviation Supply Company (now known as Hartwell Corporation)
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





3.70
  
Certification of Amendment, filed October 23, 1987, of Articles of Incorporation of Hartwell Corporation
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)
  61 


Table of Contents








 Exhibit No.
  
 Description
  
 Filed Herewith or Incorporated by Reference
From

3.71
  
Certificate of Amendment, filed April 9, 1997, of Articles of Incorporation of Hartwell Corporation
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





3.72
  
Bylaws of Hartwell Corporation
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





3.73
  
Articles of Incorporation, filed August 6, 1999, of Texas Rotronics, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





3.74
  
Bylaws of Texas Rotronics, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





3.75
  
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, filed October 4, 2011, of Harco Laboratories, Incorporated
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2012





3.76
  
Amended and Restated By-Laws of Harco Laboratories, Incorporated
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2012





3.77
  
Limited Liability Company Certificate of Formation, filed May 30, 2007, of Schneller LLC
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2012





3.78
  
Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement, dated August 31, 2011, of Schneller LLC
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2012





3.79
  
Limited Liability Company Certificate of Formation, filed May 30, 2007
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2012





3.80
  
Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement, dated August 31, 2011, of Schneller Holdings LLC
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2012





3.81
  
Articles of Incorporation, filed December 22, 2004, of Schneller International Sales Corp.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2012





3.82
  
Code of Regulations of Schneller International Sales Corp.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2012





3.83
  
Certificate of Incorporation, filed May 8, 1985, of Am-Safe, Inc. (now known as AmSafe, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.84
  
Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation, filed May 19, 2005, of Am-Safe, Inc. (now known as AmSafe, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.85
  
By-Laws of Am-Safe, Inc. (now known as AmSafe, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.86
  
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, filed January 20, 2012, of AmSafe Industries, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.87
  
Second Amended and Restated By-Laws of AmSafe Industries, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)
  62 


Table of Contents








 Exhibit No.
  
 Description
  
 Filed Herewith or Incorporated by Reference
From

3.88
  
Certificate of Incorporation, filed July 2, 2004, of Bridport Holdings, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.89
  
Amended and Restated By-Laws of Bridport Holdings, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.90
  
Certificate of Incorporation, filed September 10, 2007, of AP Global Acquisition Corp.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.91
  
Amended and Restated By-Laws of AP Global Acquisition Corp.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.92
  
Certificate of Incorporation, filed September 10, 2007, of AP Global Holdings, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.93
  
Amended and Restated By-Laws of AP Global Holdings, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.94
  
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, filed July 23, 2001, of Londavia Inc. (now known as AmSafe Bridport, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.95
  
Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation, filed February 12, 2007, of AmSafe Bridport, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.96
  
By-Laws of Londavia Inc. (now known as AmSafe Bridport, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.97
  
Certificate of Incorporation, filed September 16, 1994, of Am-Safe Commercial Products, Inc. (now known as AmSafe Commercial Products, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.98
  
Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation, filed May 19, 2005, of AmSafe Commercial Products, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.99
  
By Laws of Am-Safe Commercial Products, Inc. (now known as AmSafe Commercial Products, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.100
  
Certificate of Incorporation, filed September 2, 2008, of AmSafe—C Safe, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.101
  
By-Laws of AmSafe—C Safe, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.102
  
Certificate of Incorporation, filed May 9, 2000, of Erie Acquisition Corp. (now known as Bridport Erie Aviation, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.103
  
Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation, filed May 30, 2000, of Erie Acquisition Corp. (now known as Bridport Erie Aviation, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)
  63 


Table of Contents








 Exhibit No.
  
 Description
  
 Filed Herewith or Incorporated by Reference
From

3.104
  
Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation, filed June 19, 2000, of Bridport Erie Aviation, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.105
  
Amended and Restated By-Laws of Erie Acquisition Corp. (now known as Bridport Erie Aviation, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.106
  
Articles of Incorporation, filed February 6, 1998, of Air Carrier Acquisition Corp. (now known as Bridport-Air Carrier, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.107
  
Articles of Amendment, filed February 23, 1998, of Air Carrier Acquisition Corp. (now known as Bridport-Air Carrier, Inc.)
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.108
  
Articles of Amendment, filed December 14, 1999, of Bridport-Air Carrier, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.109
  
Amended and Restated By-Laws of Bridport-Air Carrier, Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





3.110
  
Articles of Organization of Aerospace Ventures, LLC (now known as Aero-Instruments Co., LLC) filed July 12, 2001
  
Filed herewith





3.111
  
Certificate of Amendment to Articles of Organization of Aerospace Ventures, LLC (now known as Aero-Instruments Co., LLC) dated August 9, 2001
  
Filed herewith





3.112
  
Second Amended and Restated Operating Agreement of Aero-Instruments Co., LLC
  
Filed herewith





4.1
  
Form of Stock Certificate
  
Incorporated by reference to Amendment No. 3 to Form S-1 filed March 13, 2006 (File No. 333-130483)





4.2
  
Indenture, dated as of December 14, 2010, among TransDigm Inc., TransDigm Group Incorporated, the Guarantors named therein and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as
trustee incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed September 23, 2011
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed December 15, 2010 (File No. 001-32833)





4.3
  
First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 22, 2011, among TransDigm Inc., TransDigm Group Incorporated, the Guarantors named therein and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A., as Trustee
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed September 23, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





4.4
  
Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 9, 2011, among TransDigm Inc., TransDigm Group Incorporated, the guarantors listed on the signature pages thereto and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed December 12, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)
  64 


Table of Contents








 Exhibit No.
  
 Description
  
 Filed Herewith or Incorporated by Reference
From

4.5
  
Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 15, 2012, among TransDigm Inc., TransDigm Group Incorporated, the guarantors listed on the signature pages thereto and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed February 21, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





4.6
  
Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 14, 2012, among TransDigm Inc., TransDigm Group Incorporated, the guarantors listed on the signature pages thereto and The Bank
of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed September 17, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





4.7
  
Indenture, dated as of October 15, 2012, among TransDigm Inc., as issuer, TransDigm Group Incorporated, as a guarantor, the subsidiary guarantors party thereto and The Bank of New
York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, relating to TransDigm Inc.’s 5 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2020.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed October 15, 2012





4.8
  
Form 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K filed November 18, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





4.9
  
Form of 5 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2020.
  
Included in Exhibit 4.7





4.10
  
Form of Notation of Guarantee of 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K filed November 18, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





4.11
  
Form of Notation of Guarantee of 5 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2020
  
Included in Exhibit 4.7





4.12
  
Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of October 15, 2012, among TransDigm Inc., as issuer, TransDigm Group Incorporated, as a guarantor, the subsidiary guarantors party thereto
and UBS Securities LLC and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC as representatives for the initial purchasers listed therein.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed October 15, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





10.1
  
Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated February 24, 2011, between TransDigm Group Incorporated and W. Nicholas Howley*
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed February 25, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





10.2
  
Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated October 24, 2012, between TransDigm Group Incorporated and W. Nicholas Howley*
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed October 25, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





10.3
  
Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated February 24, 2011, between TransDigm Group Incorporated and Raymond Laubenthal*
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8’K filed February 25, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)
  65 


Table of Contents








 Exhibit No.
  
 Description
  
 Filed Herewith or Incorporated by Reference
From

10.4
  
Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated February 24, 2011, between TransDigm Group Incorporated and Gregory Rufus*
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed February 25, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





10.5
  
Employment Agreement, dated February 24, 2011, between TransDigm Group Incorporated and Robert Henderson*
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed February 25, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





10.6
  
First Amendment to Employment Agreement, dated April 20, 2012, between Robert Henderson and TransDigm Group Incorporated*
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed April 24, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





10.7
  
Employment Agreement, Dated February 24, 2011, between TransDigm Group Incorporated and Bernt Iversen*
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed February 25, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





10.8
  
First Amendment to Employment Agreement, dated April 20, 2012, between Bernt Iversen and TransDigm Group Incorporated*
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed April 24, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





10.9
  
Employment Agreement, dated April 20, 2012, between James Skulina and TransDigm Group Incorporated*
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed April 24, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





10.10
  
Employment Agreement, dated April 20, 2012, between Peter Palmer and TransDigm Group Incorporated*
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed April 24, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





10.11
  
Form of Amendment to Employment Agreement between each of Raymond Laubenthal, Gregory Rufus, Robert Henderson, Bernt Iverson, Peter Palmer and James Skulina, and TransDigm Group
Incorporated*
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed October 25, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





10.12
  
Employment Agreement, dated July 30, 2012, between John Leary and TransDigm Group Incorporated
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed July 31, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





10.13
  
TransDigm Group Incorporated Fourth Amended and Restated 2003 Stock Option Plan*
  
Incorporated by reference to Amendment No. 1 to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed November 7, 2006 (File No. 333-137937)





10.14
  
Amendment No. 1 to TransDigm Group Incorporated Fourth Amended and Restated 2003 Stock Option Plan*
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K filed November 21, 2007 (File No. 001-32833)





10.15
  
Amendment No. 2 to TransDigm Group Incorporated Fourth Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan*
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed August 7, 2008 (File No. 001-32833)





10.16
  
Amendment No. 3 to TransDigm Group Incorporated Fourth Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan*
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed April 28, 2009 (File No. 001-32833)
  66 


Table of Contents








 Exhibit No.
  
 Description
  
 Filed Herewith or Incorporated by Reference
From

10.17
  
Form of Management Option Agreement, between TD Holding Corporation and the applicable executive regarding the time vested options granted to such executive under the 2003 Stock
Option Plan (pre-IPO)*
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Holding Company’s Form S-4, filed August 29, 2003 (File No. 333-10834006)





10.18
  
Form of Management Option Agreement, between TD Holding Corporation and the applicable executive regarding the performance vested options granted to such executive under the 2003
Stock Option Plan (pre-IPO)*
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Holding Company’s Form S-4, filed August 29, 2003 (File No. 333-10834006)





10.19
  
Form of Management Option Agreement, between TransDigm Group Incorporated and the applicable executive regarding the time vested options granted to such executive under the Fourth
Amended and Restated 2003 Stock Option Plan (post-IPO)*
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K filed November 28, 2006 (File No. 001-32833)





10.20
  
Form of Management Option Agreement, between TransDigm Group Incorporated and the applicable executive regarding the performance vested options granted to such executive under the
Fourth Amended and Restated 2003 Stock Option Plan (post-IPO)*
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K filed November 28, 2006 (File No. 001-32833)





10.21
  
TransDigm Group Incorporated 2006 Stock Incentive Plan*
  
Incorporated by reference to Amendment No. 3 to Form S-1 filed March 13, 2006 (File No. 333-130483)





10.22
  
Amendment No. 1, dated October 20, 2006, to the TransDigm Group Incorporated 2006 Stock Incentive Plan*
  
Incorporated by reference to Amendment No. 1 to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Group Incorporated’s Form S-4 filed November 7, 2006 (File No. 333-137937)





10.23
  
Second Amendment to TransDigm Group Incorporated 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, dated April 25, 2008*
  
Incorporated by reference to Schedule 14A filed June 6, 2008 (File No. 001-32833)





10.24
  
Form of Option Agreement under 2008 stock incentive program under TransDigm Group Incorporated 2006 Stock Incentive Plan*
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed November 21, 2008 (File No. 333-130483)





10.25
  
Form of Amendment to Stock Option Agreement made in January 2011 to options under 2008 stock incentive program
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed January 18, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





10.26
  
Form of Option Agreement under 2008 stock incentive program, incorporating amendments made in January 2011 (in the form of options granted in fiscal 2011)*
  
Incorporate by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 28, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





10.27
  
Text of Option Amendments made in February 2011 (to options under 2003 Stock Option Plan and under 2008 stock incentive program)*
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed February 25, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)
  67 


Table of Contents








 Exhibit No.
  
 Description
  
 Filed Herewith or Incorporated by Reference
From

10.28
  
Form of Option Agreement under 2008 stock incentive program (in the form of options granted in fiscal 2011 for extension options)*
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed March 7, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





10.29
  
Text of Option Amendments made in April 2011 (to options under 2008 stock incentive program for optionees who received extension options)*
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed May 3, 2011 (File No. 001-82833)





10.30
  
Form of Option Agreement under the 2008 stock incentive program (in the form of options granted in fiscal 2012)*
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed February 8, 2012





10.31
  
Third Amended and Restated TransDigm Group Incorporated 2003 Stock Option Plan Dividend Equivalent Plan*
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed October 6, 2009 (File No. 001-32833)





10.32
  
Second Amended and Restated TransDigm Group Incorporated 2006 Stock Incentive Plan Dividend Equivalent Plan*
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed October 6, 2009 (File No. 001-32833)





10.33
  
Amended and Restated TransDigm Inc. Executive Retirement Savings Plan*
  
Incorporated by reference to TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Holding Company’s Form 8-K filed December 22, 2005 (File No. 333-10834006)





10.34
  
Credit Agreement, dated as of December 6, 2010, among TransDigm Inc., TransDigm Group Incorporated, the subsidiaries of TransDigm Inc. from time to time party thereto, the financial
institutions from time to time party thereto, as lenders, Credit Suisse AG, as administrative agent and collateral agent, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and UBS Securities LLC, as joint lead arrangers, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, UBS
Securities LLC, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and Barclays Capital, as joint bookrunners, UBS Securities LLC, as syndication agent, and Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd. And PNC Capital Markets, LLC as co-documentation agents
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed December 9, 2010 (File No. 001-32833)
  68 


Table of Contents








 Exhibit No.
  
 Description
  
 Filed Herewith or Incorporated by Reference
From

10.35
  
Amendment No. 1, dated as of March 25, 2011, to Credit Agreement dated as of December 6, 2010, among TransDigm Inc., TransDigm Group Incorporated, the subsidiaries of TransDigm Inc.
from time to time party thereto, as lenders, Credit Suisse AG, as administrative agent and collateral agent, Credit Suisse securities (USA) LLC and UBS Securities LLC, as joint lead arrangers, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, UBS Securities LLC,
Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and Barclays Capital, as joint bookrunners, UBS Securities LLC, as syndication agent, and Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd. And PNC Capital market LLC, as co-documentation agents
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed March 28, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





10.36
  
Incremental Revolving Credit Assumption Agreement, dated as of February 15, 2012, relating to the Credit Agreement, dated as of December 6 , 2010 (as amended by Amendment No. 1
dated as of March 25, 2011), among TransDigm Inc., TransDigm Group Incorporated, the subsidiaries of TransDigm Inc. from time to time party thereto, the lenders party thereto, as lenders, and Credit Suisse AG, as administrative agent and collateral
agent.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed February 21, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





10.37
  
Amendment No. 2, dated as of October 9, 2012, relating to the Credit Agreement, dated as of December 6, 2010 (as amended by Amendment No. 1, dated as of March 25,
2011), among TransDigm Inc., TransDigm Group Incorporated, the subsidiaries of TransDigm Inc. from time to time party thereto, the lenders party thereto, as lenders, and Credit Suisse AG, as administrative agent and collateral agent.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed October 15, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





10.38
  
Joinder Agreement dated as of December 6, 2010, among McKechnie Aerospace Holdings, Inc., McKechnie Aerospace DE, Inc., McKechnie Aerospace US LLC, McKechnie Aerospace
Investments, Inc., Valley-Todeco, Inc., Hartwell Corporation, Western Sky Industries, LLC, Texas Rotronics, Inc. and Credit Suisse AG, as agent
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed December 9, 2010 (File No. 001-32833)





10.39
  
Form of Joinder Agreement, dated as of September 22, 2011, between Schneller Holdings LLC, Schneller LLC, Schneller International Sales Corp. and Credit Suisse, as agent
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K filed November 18, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)
  69 


Table of Contents








 Exhibit No.
  
 Description
  
 Filed Herewith or Incorporated by Reference
From

10.40
  
Joinder Agreement, dated as of December 9, 2011, between Harco Laboratories, Incorporated and Credit Suisse AG, as agent, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of December 6, 2010, as
amended.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed December 12, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





10.41
  
Joinder Agreement, dated as of February 15, 2012, among AmSafe Global Holdings, Inc, AP Global Holdings, Inc., AP Global Acquisition Corp., AmSafe Industries, Inc., Bridport
Holdings, Inc., AmSafe, Inc., AmSafe Aviation, Inc., AmSafe Bridport, Inc., AmSafe Commercial Products, Inc., Bridport-Air Carrier, Inc., Bridport Erie Aviation, Inc., AmSafe—C Safe, Inc. and Credit Suisse AG, as agent, to the Credit Agreement,
dated as of December 6, 2010, as amended.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed February 21, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





10.42
  
Joinder Agreement, dated as of September 14, 2012, between Aero-Instruments Co., LLC and Credit Suisse AG, as agent, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of December 6, 2010, as
amended.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed September 17, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





10.43
  
Credit Agreement, dated as of February 14, 2011, amount TransDigm Inc., TransDigm Group Incorporated, the subsidiaries of TransDigm Inc. from time to time party thereto, the
financial institutions party thereto, as lenders, Credit Suisse AG, as administrative agent and collateral agent, and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, as sole lead arrange and sole bookrunner
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed February 15, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





10.44
  
Amendment No. 1 and Incremental Term Loan Assumption Agreement, dated as of February 15, 2012, relating to Credit Agreement, dated as of February 14, 2011, among TransDigm Inc.,
TransDigm Group Incorporated, the subsidiaries of TransDigm Inc. from time to time party thereto, the lenders party thereto, as lenders, and Credit Suisse AG, as administrative agent and collateral agent, with Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, UBS
Securities LLC and RBC Capital Markets, as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, and UBS Securities LLC, as syndication agent.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed February 21, 2012(File No. 001-32833)
  70 


Table of Contents








 Exhibit No.
  
 Description
  
 Filed Herewith or Incorporated by Reference
From

10.45
  
Amendment No. 2 and Incremental Term Loan Assumption Agreement, dated as of October 9, 2012, relating to Credit Agreement, dated as of February 14, 2011 (as amended by
Amendment No. 1 and Incremental Term Loan Assumption Agreement, dated as of February 15, 2012), among TransDigm Inc., TransDigm Group Incorporated, the subsidiaries of TransDigm Inc. from time to time party thereto, the lenders party thereto,
as lenders, and Credit Suisse AG, as administrative agent and collateral agent, with Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, UBS Securities LLC and RBC Capital Markets, as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, and UBS Securities LLC, as
syndication agent.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed October 15, 2012 (File No. 001-32833





10.46
  
Guarantee and Collateral Agreement, dated as of June 23, 2006, as amended and restated as of December 6, 2010, as further amended and restated as of February 14, 2011, among
TransDigm Inc., TransDigm Group Incorporated, the subsidiaries of TransDigm Inc. named therein and Credit Suisse AG as administrative agent and collateral agent
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed February 15, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





10.47
  
Form of Joinder Agreement, dated as of September 22, 2011, between Schneller Holdings LLC, Schneller LLC, Schneller International Sales Corp. and Credit Suisse, as agent
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K filed November 18, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





10.48
  
Joinder Agreement, dated as of December 9, 2011, between Harco Laboratories, Incorporated and Credit Suisse AG, as agent, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of February 14,
2011
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed December 12, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





10.49
  
Joinder Agreement, dated as of February 15, 2012, among AmSafe Global Holdings, Inc, AP Global Holdings, Inc., AP Global Acquisition Corp., AmSafe Industries, Inc., Bridport
Holdings, Inc., AmSafe, Inc., AmSafe Aviation, Inc., AmSafe Bridport, Inc., AmSafe Commercial Products, Inc., Bridport-Air Carrier, Inc., Bridport Erie Aviation, Inc., AmSafe—C Safe, Inc. and Credit Suisse AG, as agent, to the Credit Agreement,
dated as of February 14, 2011, as amended.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed February 21, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





10.50
  
Joinder Agreement, dated as of September 14, 2012, between Aero-Instruments Co., LLC and Credit Suisse AG, as agent, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of February 14, 2011, as
amended.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed September 17, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)
  71 


Table of Contents








 Exhibit No.
  
 Description
  
 Filed Herewith or Incorporated by Reference
From

10.51
  
Supplement No. 1 dated as of September 22, 2011, to the Guarantee and Collateral Agreement, as amended and restated as of February 14, 2011, among Schneller Holdings LLC, Schneller
LLC, Schneller International Sales Corp., and Credit Suisse AG, as agent
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed March 28, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





10.52
  
Supplement No. 2. dated as of December 9, 2011, between Harco Laboratories, Incorporated and Credit Suisse AG, as agent
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed December 9, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





10.53
  
Supplement No. 3. dated as of February 15, 2012, among AmSafe Global Holdings, Inc, AP Global Holdings, Inc., AP Global Acquisition Corp., AmSafe Industries, Inc., Bridport
Holdings, Inc., AmSafe, Inc., AmSafe Aviation, Inc., AmSafe Bridport, Inc., AmSafe Commercial Products, Inc., Bridport-Air Carrier, Inc., Bridport Erie Aviation, Inc., AmSafe—C Safe, Inc. and Credit Suisse AG, as agent.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed February 21, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





10.54
  
Supplement No. 4. dated as of September 14, 2012, between Aero-Instruments Co., LLC and Credit Suisse AG, as agent.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed February 21, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





10.55
  
Commitment Letter dated January 20, 2012 among Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Credit Suisse AG, UBS Securities LLC, UBS Loan Finance LLC and TransDigm Group
Incorporated.
  
Incorporated by reference to 10-Q filed May 9, 2012 (File No. 001-32833)





10.56
  
Stock Purchase Agreement, dated January 28, 2011, among TransDigm Inc., McKechnie Aerospace (Europe) Ltd., McKechnie Aerospace Investments, Inc., and Alcoa Global Fasteners,
Inc.
  
Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed February 1, 2011 (File No. 001-32833)





12.1
  
Statement of Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
  
Filed herewith





21.1
  
Subsidiaries of TransDigm Group Incorporated
  
Filed herewith





23.1
  
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
Filed herewith





31.1
  
Certification by Principal Executive Officer of TransDigm Group Incorporated pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
  
Filed herewith





31.2
  
Certification by Principal Financial Officer of TransDigm Group Incorporated pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
  
Filed herewith
  72 


Table of Contents








 Exhibit No.
  
 Description
  
 Filed Herewith or Incorporated by Reference
From

32.1
  
Certification by Principal Executive Officer of TransDigm Group Incorporated pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002
  
Filed herewith





32.2
  
Certification by Principal Financial Officer of TransDigm Group Incorporated pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002
  
Filed herewith





101
  
Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements formatted in XBRL.
  
Filed herewith
  


*
Indicates management contract or compensatory plan contract or arrangement. 
  73 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized on November 16, 2012.   






TRANSDIGM GROUP INCORPORATED




By:
 
/s/    Gregory Rufus        

Name:
 
Gregory Rufus

Title:
 
 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer and Secretary
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and as of the dates indicated.   








 Signature
  
 Title
 
 Date





 /s/    W. Nicholas
Howley         W. Nicholas Howley
  
 Chairman of Board of Directors and
Chief Executive Officer (Principal
Executive Officer)
 
November 16, 2012





 /s/    Gregory
Rufus         Gregory Rufus
  
 Executive Vice President, Chief
Financial Officer and Secretary
(Principal Financial and
Accounting Officer)
 
November 16, 2012





 /s/    William
Dries         William Dries
  
 Director
 
November 16, 2012





 /s/    Mervin
Dunn         Mervin Dunn
  
 Director
 
November 16, 2012





 /s/    Michael
Graff         Michael Graff
  
 Director
 
November 16, 2012





 /s/    Sean P.
Hennessy         Sean P. Hennessy
  
 Director
 
November 16, 2012





 /s/    Douglas
Peacock         Douglas Peacock
  
 Director
 
November 16, 2012





 /s/    Robert J.
Small         Robert J. Small
  
 Director
 
November 16, 2012





 /s/    John
Staer         John Staer
  
 Director
 
November 16, 2012

  74 


Table of Contents
TRANSDIGM GROUP INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES 
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K:  FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2012  ITEM 8 AND ITEM 15(a) (1)
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
INDEX   






 
  
 Page




 Financial Statements:
  





 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
F-1




 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2012 and 2011.
  
F-2




 Consolidated Statements of Income for Fiscal Years Ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and
2010.
  
F-3




 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity for Fiscal Years Ended September 
30, 2012, 2011 and 2010.
  
F-4




 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for Fiscal Years Ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and
2010.
  
F-5




 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for Fiscal Years Ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and
2010.
  
F-6 – F-39




 Supplementary Data:
  





 Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the Fiscal Years Ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and
2010.
  
F-40

  75 


Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 The Board of Directors and Shareholders of  TransDigm Group Incorporated  We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of TransDigm Group Incorporated as of September 30, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 30,
2012. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  In our opinion, the
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of TransDigm Group Incorporated at September, 30, 2012 and 2011, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2012, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.  We also
have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), TransDigm Group Incorporated’s internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2012, based on criteria
established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated November 16, 2012, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP  Cleveland, Ohio  November 16, 2012 
  F-1



Table of Contents
TRANSDIGM GROUP INCORPORATED 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 2012 AND 2011  (Amounts in thousands, except share amounts)   












 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 

 ASSETS
  



 




 CURRENT ASSETS:
  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
440,524
  
 
$
376,183
  

 Trade accounts receivable—Net
  
 
235,783
  
 
 
189,293
  

 Inventories—Net
  
 
320,503
  
 
 
265,317
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
29,134
  
 
 
30,844
  

 Prepaid expenses and other
  
 
24,587
  
 
 
8,655
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
1,050,531
  
 
 
870,292
  

 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT—Net
  
 
172,737
  
 
 
150,800
  

 GOODWILL
  
 
3,035,502
  
 
 
2,595,747
  

 TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES
  
 
467,614
  
 
 
344,942
  

 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS—Net
  
 
655,996
  
 
 
483,424
  

 DEBT ISSUE COSTS—Net
  
 
62,190
  
 
 
59,007
  

 OTHER
  
 
15,047
  
 
 
9,424
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL ASSETS
  
$
5,459,617
  
 
$
4,513,636
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  



 




 CURRENT LIABILITIES:
  



 




 Current portion of long-term debt
  
$
20,500
  
 
$
15,500
  

 Accounts payable
  
 
74,178
  
 
 
62,110
  

 Accrued liabilities
  
 
139,237
  
 
 
129,249
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
233,915
  
 
 
206,859
  

 LONG-TERM DEBT
  
 
3,598,625
  
 
 
3,122,875
  

 DEFERRED INCOME TAXES
  
 
356,896
  
 
 
310,451
  

 OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
  
 
51,347
  
 
 
62,502
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
4,240,783
  
 
 
3,702,687
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY:
  



 




 Common stock—$.01 par value; authorized 224,400,000 shares; issued 52,157,225 and 50,829,276 at September 30, 2012 and
2011, respectively
  
 
521
  
 
 
508
  

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
553,223
  
 
 
464,700
  

 Retained earnings
  
 
689,229
  
 
 
364,260
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
  
 
(8,051
) 
 
 
(3,277
) 

 Treasury stock, at cost; 505,400 shares at September 30, 2012 and 494,100 shares at September 30, 2011
  
 
(16,088
) 
 
 
(15,242
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total stockholders’ equity
  
 
1,218,834
  
 
 
810,949
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  
$
5,459,617
  
 
$
4,513,636
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. 
  F-2



Table of Contents
TRANSDIGM GROUP INCORPORATED 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
(Amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) 
 
















 
  
Fiscal Years Ended September 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 NET SALES
  
$
1,700,208
  
  
$
1,206,021
  
  
$
827,654
  

 COST OF SALES
  
 
754,491
  
  
 
544,836
  
  
 
354,588
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 GROSS PROFIT
  
 
945,717
  
  
 
661,185
  
  
 
473,066
  

 SELLING AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
  
 
201,709
  
  
 
133,711
  
  
 
94,918
  

 AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS
  
 
44,233
  
  
 
40,339
  
  
 
15,079
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 INCOME FROM OPERATIONS
  
 
699,775
  
  
 
487,135
  
  
 
363,069
  

 INTEREST EXPENSE—Net
  
 
211,906
  
  
 
185,256
  
  
 
112,234
  

 REFINANCING COSTS
  
 
—  
  
  
 
72,454
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE INCOME TAXES
  
 
487,869
  
  
 
229,425
  
  
 
250,835
  

 INCOME TAX PROVISION
  
 
162,900
  
  
 
77,200
  
  
 
87,390
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
  
 
324,969
  
  
 
152,225
  
  
 
163,445
  

 INCOME FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, NET OF TAX
  
 
—  
  
  
 
19,909
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 NET INCOME
  
$
324,969
  
  
$
172,134
  
  
$
163,445
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 NET INCOME APPLICABLE TO COMMON STOCK
  
$
321,670
  
  
$
169,323
  
  
$
133,132
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net earnings per share—see Note 5:
  



  



  




 Net earnings per share from continuing operations—basic and diluted
  
$
5.97
  
  
$
2.80
  
  
$
2.52
  

 Net earnings per share from discontinued operations—basic and diluted
  
 
—  
  
  
 
0.37
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net earnings per share
  
$
5.97
  
  
$
3.17
  
  
$
2.52
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Cash dividends paid per common share
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
7.65
  

 Weighted-average shares outstanding:
  



  



  




 Basic and diluted
  
 
53,882
  
  
 
53,333
  
  
 
52,923
  

  See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. 
  F-3



Table of Contents
TRANSDIGM GROUP INCORPORATED 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share amounts) 
 




































 
 
Common Stock
 
 
AdditionalPaid-InCapital
 
 
RetainedEarnings
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome/(Loss)
 
 
Treasury Stock
 
 
Total
 

 
 
NumberofShares
 
 
CommonStock
 
 
 
 
 
NumberofShares
 
 
Value
 
 

 BALANCE—October 1, 2009
 
 
49,448,028
  
 
$
494
  
 
$
388,772
  
 
$
450,647
  
 
$
(5,509
) 
 
 
(494,100
) 
 
$
(15,242
) 
 
$
819,162
  

 Dividends paid
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(404,868
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(404,868
) 

 Unvested dividend equivalent payments
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(17,098
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(17,098
) 

 Compensation expense recognized for employee stock options
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,693
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,693
  

 Excess tax benefits related to share-based payment arrangements
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
17,459
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
17,459
  

 Exercise of employee stock options
 
 
477,776
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
6,356
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,361
  

 Restricted stock compensation
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
11
  

 Common stock issued
 
 
2,437
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
105
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
105
  

 Comprehensive income (loss):
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
163,445
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
163,445
  

 Interest rate swap, net of tax
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,467
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,467
  

 Other comprehensive loss
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(758
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(758
) 


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
165,154
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 BALANCE—September 30, 2010
 
 
49,928,241
  
 
 
499
  
 
 
419,396
  
 
 
192,126
  
 
 
(3,800
) 
 
 
(494,100
) 
 
 
(15,242
) 
 
 
592,979
  

 Compensation expense recognized for employee stock options
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
12,568
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
12,568
  

 Excess tax benefits related to share-based payment arrangements
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
23,411
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
23,411
  

 Exercise of employee stock options
 
 
899,395
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
9,199
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,208
  

 Restricted stock compensation
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6
  

 Common stock issued
 
 
1,640
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
120
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
120
  

 Comprehensive income (loss):
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
172,134
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
172,134
  

 Interest rate swaps, net of tax
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,077
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,077
) 

 Foreign currency translation adjustments
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,498
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,498
  

 Other comprehensive income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
102
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
102
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
172,657
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 BALANCE—September 30, 2011
 
 
50,829,276
  
 
 
508
  
 
 
464,700
  
 
 
364,260
  
 
 
(3,277
) 
 
 
(494,100
) 
 
 
(15,242
) 
 
 
810,949
  

 Compensation expense recognized for employee stock options
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
22,151
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
22,151
  

 Excess tax benefits related to share-based payment arrangements
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
50,555
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
50,555
  

 Exercise of employee stock options
 
 
1,327,029
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
15,697
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
15,710
  

 Treasury stock purchased
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(11,300
) 
 
 
(846
) 
 
 
(846
) 

 Common stock issued
 
 
920
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
120
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
120
  

 Comprehensive income (loss):
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
324,969
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
324,969
  

 Interest rate swaps, net of tax
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,635
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,635
) 

 Foreign currency translation adjustments
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,315
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,315
) 

 Other comprehensive loss
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(824
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(824
) 


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
320,195
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 BALANCE—September 30, 2012
 
 
52,157,225
  
 
$
521
  
 
$
553,223
  
 
$
689,229
  
 
$
(8,051
) 
 
 
(505,400
) 
 
$
(16,088
) 
 
$
1,218,834
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. 
  F-4



Table of Contents
TRANSDIGM GROUP INCORPORATED 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
(Amounts in thousands)   
















 
  
Fiscal Years Ended September 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
  



 



 




 Net income
  
$
 324,969
  
 
$
 172,134
  
 
$
 163,445
  

 Net income from discontinued operations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(19,909
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
  



 



 




 Depreciation
  
 
23,692
  
 
 
20,092
  
 
 
15,086
  

 Amortization of intangible assets
  
 
44,535
  
 
 
40,368
  
 
 
15,079
  

 Amortization of debt issue costs
  
 
12,544
  
 
 
9,842
  
 
 
7,578
  

 Refinancing costs
  
 
—  
  
 
 
72,454
  
 
 
—  
  

 Non-cash equity compensation
  
 
22,151
  
 
 
12,574
  
 
 
6,704
  

 Excess tax benefits related to share-based payment arrangements
  
 
(50,555
) 
 
 
(23,411
) 
 
 
(17,459
) 

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
24,800
  
 
 
8,888
  
 
 
1,900
  

 Changes in assets/liabilities, net of effects from acquisitions of businesses:
  



 



 




 Trade accounts receivable
  
 
(1,957
) 
 
 
(14,993
) 
 
 
(17,721
) 

 Inventories
  
 
(416
) 
 
 
(9,661
) 
 
 
2,893
  

 Income taxes receivable/payable
  
 
34,097
  
 
 
(22,259
) 
 
 
13,094
  

 Other assets
  
 
(10,564
) 
 
 
(2,692
) 
 
 
513
  

 Accounts payable
  
 
(3,620
) 
 
 
4,484
  
 
 
4,933
  

 Accrued and other liabilities
  
 
(5,791
) 
 
 
12,475
  
 
 
1,259
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
 
413,885
  
 
 
260,386
  
 
 
197,304
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
  



 



 




 Capital expenditures
  
 
(25,246
) 
 
 
(18,026
) 
 
 
(12,887
) 

 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired
  
 
(868,696
) 
 
 
(1,650,363
) 
 
 
(166,557
) 

 Cash proceeds from sales of discontinued operations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
271,361
  
 
 
—  
  

 Cash proceeds from sale of business
  
 
17,650
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Cash proceeds from sale of real estate
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,885
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
  
 
(876,292
) 
 
 
(1,397,028
) 
 
 
(176,559
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
  



 



 




 Excess tax benefits related to share-based payment arrangements
  
 
50,555
  
 
 
23,411
  
 
 
17,459
  

 Proceeds from exercise of stock options
  
 
15,710
  
 
 
9,208
  
 
 
6,361
  

 Dividends paid
  
 
(3,299
) 
 
 
(2,811
) 
 
 
(404,868
) 

 Treasury stock purchased
  
 
(846
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Proceeds from new senior secured credit facility—net
  
 
484,316
  
 
 
1,500,048
  
 
 
—  
  

 Repayment on new senior secured credit facility
  
 
(19,250
) 
 
 
(11,625
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Proceeds from senior subordinated notes due 2018—net
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,582,184
  
 
 
—  
  

 Proceeds from senior subordinated notes due 2014—net
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
404,248
  

 Repurchase of senior subordinated notes due 2014
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,041,894
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Repayment of existing senior secured credit facility
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(780,000
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by financing activities
  
 
527,186
  
 
 
1,278,521
  
 
 
23,200
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES ON CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
  
 
(438
) 
 
 
192
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 NET INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
  
 
64,341
  
 
 
142,071
  
 
 
43,945
  






 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF PERIOD
  
 
376,183
  
 
 
234,112
  
 
 
190,167
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF PERIOD
  
$
 440,524
  
 
$
 376,183
  
 
$
 234,112
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION:
  



 



 




 Cash paid during the period for interest
  
$
 197,787
  
 
$
 155,849
  
 
$
 97,713
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash paid during the period for income taxes
  
$
 103,938
  
 
$
 88,367
  
 
$
 72,498
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. 
  F-5



Table of Contents
TRANSDIGM GROUP INCORPORATED 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 


1.
DESCRIPTION OF THE BUSINESS 
Description of the Business—TransDigm Group Incorporated (“TD Group”), through its
wholly-owned subsidiary, TransDigm Inc., is a leading global designer, producer and supplier of highly engineered aircraft components for use on nearly all commercial and military aircraft in service today. TransDigm Inc. along with TransDigm
Inc.’s direct and indirect wholly-owned operating subsidiaries (collectively, with TD Group, the “Company” or “TransDigm”), offers a broad range of proprietary aerospace components. TD Group has no significant assets or
operations other than its 100% ownership of TransDigm Inc. TD Group’s common stock is listed on The New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, under the trading symbol “TDG.” 
Major product offerings, substantially all of which are ultimately provided to end-users in the aerospace industry, include
mechanical/electro-mechanical actuators and controls, ignition systems and engine technology, specialized pumps and valves, power conditioning devices, specialized AC/DC electric motors and generators, NiCad batteries and chargers, engineered
latching and locking devices, rods and locking devices, engineered connectors and elastomers, cockpit security components and systems, specialized cockpit displays, aircraft audio systems, specialized lavatory components, seatbelts and safety
restraints, engineered interior surfaces and lighting and control technology.  Separate Financial
Statements—Separate financial statements of TransDigm Inc. are not presented because TransDigm Inc.’s 7 3/4% senior subordinated notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by TD
Group and all existing 100% owned domestic subsidiaries of TransDigm Inc. and because TD Group has no significant operations or assets separate from its investment in TransDigm Inc. 
Reclassifications—Certain reclassifications of prior year amounts have been made to the Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows to conform to current year classification to reflect the effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents relating to our foreign operations.   


2.
ACQUISITIONS 
Aero-Instruments Co., LLC—On September 17, 2012, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding
equity interests in Aero-Instruments Co., LLC (“Aero-Instruments”), for approximately $34.7 million in cash, subject to adjustments based on the level of working capital as of the closing date of the acquisition. Aero-Instruments designs
and manufactures highly engineered air data sensors including pitot probes, pitot-static probes, static pressure ports, angle of attack, temperature sensors and flight test equipment for use primarily in the business jet and helicopter markets.
These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction. The Company expects that the approximately $15 million of goodwill recognized for the acquisition will be deductible for tax purposes. 
AmSafe Global Holdings, Inc.—On February 15, 2012, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding stock of AmSafe
Global Holdings, Inc. (“AmSafe”), for approximately $749.7 million in cash, which includes a purchase price adjustment of $0.5 million paid in the third quarter of fiscal 2012. AmSafe is a leading supplier of innovative, highly engineered
and proprietary safety and restraint equipment used primarily in the global aerospace industry. These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction. The distribution business acquired as part of AmSafe was sold on
August 16, 2012 for approximately $17.7 million in cash, subject to adjustments based on the level of working capital as of the closing date of the sale.  The Company financed the acquisition through a combination of new senior bank debt of $500 million and cash. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  F-6



Table of Contents
The total purchase price was allocated to the underlying assets acquired and liabilities
assumed based upon management’s estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. To the extent the purchase price exceeded the estimated fair value of the net identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired, such excess was allocated to
goodwill. The following table summarizes the purchase price allocation of the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the transaction date (in thousands). 
 








 Assets acquired:
  




 Current assets, excluding cash acquired
  
$
127,600
  

 Property, plant and equipment
  
 
20,794
  

 Intangible assets
  
 
270,500
  

 Goodwill
  
 
403,025
  

 Other
  
 
4,239
  


  
  
  
 

 Total assets acquired
  
$
826,158
  


  
  
  
 

 Liabilities assumed:
  




 Current liabilities
  
$
24,152
  

 Deferred income taxes—long term
  
 
49,343
  

 Other noncurrent liabilities
  
 
2,932
  


  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities assumed
  
$
76,427
  


  
  
  
 

 Net assets acquired
  
$
749,731
  


  
  
  
 
 The Company expects that of the $403 million of goodwill recognized for the acquisition approximately
$77 million will be deductible for tax purposes.  Harco Laboratories, Incorporated—On December 9,
2011, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding stock of Harco Laboratories, Incorporated (“Harco”), for approximately $83.3 million in cash, which includes a purchase price adjustment of $0.4 million paid in the second quarter of
fiscal 2012. Harco designs and manufactures highly engineered thermocouples, sensors, engine cable assemblies and related products for commercial aircraft. These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction. The Company expects
that the approximately $56 million of goodwill recognized for the acquisition will not be deductible for tax purposes. 
Schneller Holdings—On August 31, 2011, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding equity interests in
Schneller Holdings LLC (“Schneller”) for approximately $288.6 million in cash, which includes a purchase price adjustment of $1.0 million paid in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Schneller designs and manufactures proprietary, highly
engineered laminates, thermoplastics, and non-textile flooring for use primarily on side walls, lavatories, galleys, bulkheads and cabin floors for commercial aircraft. These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction. The
Company expects that the approximately $168 million of goodwill recognized for the acquisition will be deductible for tax purposes.  Talley Actuation—On December 31, 2010, AeroControlex Group, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of TransDigm Inc., acquired the actuation business of Telair International Inc.
(“Talley Actuation”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Teleflex Incorporated, for approximately $93.6 million in cash, which includes a purchase price adjustment of $0.3 million received in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. Talley Actuation
manufactures proprietary, highly engineered electro-mechanical products and other components for commercial and military aircraft. These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction. The Company expects that the approximately
$70 million of goodwill recognized for the acquisition will be deductible for tax purposes.  McKechnie Aerospace
Holdings, Inc.—On December 6, 2010, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding stock of McKechnie Aerospace Holdings Inc. (“McKechnie Aerospace”), for approximately

  F-7



Table of Contents

$1.27 billion in cash, which includes a purchase price adjustment of $0.3 million paid in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. McKechnie Aerospace, through its subsidiaries, is a leading global
designer, producer and supplier of aerospace components, assemblies and subsystems for commercial aircraft, regional/business jets, military fixed wing and rotorcraft. Some of the businesses acquired as part of McKechnie Aerospace have been
divested. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The remaining products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction.  The Company financed the McKechnie Aerospace acquisition, repaid borrowings under the previous senior secured credit facility and redeemed outstanding 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 through a combination of the offering of $1.60 billion of 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018 and new term loan borrowings of $1.55 billion due
2017. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  The total purchase price was allocated to the
underlying assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon management’s estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. To the extent the purchase price exceeded the estimated fair value of the net identifiable tangible and intangible
assets acquired, such excess was allocated to goodwill.  The following table summarizes the purchase price allocation of the
estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the transaction date (in thousands).   








 Assets acquired:
  




 Current assets, excluding cash acquired
  
$
109,289
  

 Property, plant and equipment
  
 
48,901
  

 Intangible assets
  
 
433,000
  

 Goodwill
  
 
864,934
  


  
  
  
 

 Total assets acquired
  
$
1,456,124
  


  
  
  
 

 Liabilities assumed:
  




 Current liabilities
  
$
40,004
  

 Deferred income taxes—long term
  
 
118,591
  

 Other noncurrent liabilities
  
 
31,837
  


  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities assumed
  
$
190,432
  


  
  
  
 

 Net assets acquired
  
$
1,265,692
  


  
  
  
 
 The Company expects that the approximately $865 million of goodwill recognized for the acquisition will
not be deductible for tax purposes.  The results of operations of McKechnie Aerospace are included in the Company’s
consolidated financial statements from the date of the transaction. The Company recorded net sales of $212.2 million from the date of acquisition through September 30, 2011. It is impracticable to determine a meaningful measure of the earnings
of the acquired business from the date of acquisition through September 30, 2011 because certain McKechnie Aerospace plant facilities have been integrated into other TransDigm operations. Had the McKechnie acquisition and related financing
transactions occurred at the beginning of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010, 
  F-8



Table of Contents

unaudited pro forma consolidated results for the year ended September 30, 2011 would have been as follows (in thousands, except per share data): 
 












 
  
Fiscal Years EndedSeptember 30,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Net sales
  
$
1,247,386
  
  
$
1,033,059
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income applicable to common stock from continuing operations
  
$
217,575
  
  
$
44,614
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net earnings per share from continuing operations:
  



  




 Basic and diluted
  
$
4.08
  
  
$
0.84
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The unaudited pro forma consolidated results are based on the Company’s historical financial
statements and those of McKechnie Aerospace and do not necessarily indicate the results of operations that would have resulted had the acquisition actually been completed at the beginning of the applicable period presented. The pro forma financial
information assumes that the companies were combined as of October 1, 2009. The pro forma results for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010 reflect the business combination accounting effects from the acquisition including amortization
charges from the acquired intangible assets, inventory purchase accounting adjustments charged to cost of sales as the inventory is sold, increase in interest expense associated with debt incurred to fund the acquisition, refinancing costs
associated with the refinancing of the Company’s entire debt structure and acquisition-related transaction costs. The unaudited pro forma consolidated results do not give effect to the synergies of the acquisition and are not indicative of the
results of operations in future periods.  Semco Instruments—On September 3, 2010, TransDigm Inc.
completed the acquisition of Semco Instruments, Inc. (“Semco Instruments”) for approximately $73.6 million in cash, which includes a purchase price adjustment of $3.0 million paid in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. Semco Instruments
manufactures proprietary, highly engineered components for major turbo-prop, turbo-fan, and turbo-shaft engines, which are primarily used on helicopters, business jets and selected regional airplanes. These products fit well with TransDigm’s
overall business direction. The Company expects that the approximately $41 million of goodwill recognized for the acquisition will not be deductible for tax purposes.  Dukes Aerospace—On December 2, 2009, Dukes Aerospace, Inc., a newly formed, wholly owned subsidiary of TransDigm Inc., acquired substantially all of the aerospace related assets
and certain liabilities from Dukes, Inc. and GST Industries, Inc. (collectively “Dukes Aerospace”) for approximately $95.5 million in cash, which includes a purchase price adjustment of $0.2 million received in the third quarter of fiscal
2011. In addition, the agreement provides for potential earn-out payments up to a total of $60 million over four years based on the achievement of certain growth targets. The initial purchase price allocation included a fair value liability of $8.0
million recorded for the potential earn-out payments. During the third quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company reversed $3.0 million of the earn-out liability based on lower growth projections relative to the required growth targets for the last three
years of the four-year earn-out arrangement. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, the Company reversed the remaining $5.0 million of the earn-out liability based on the lower growth projections relative to the required growth targets. The
reversal of earn-out liability is included in selling and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of income for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. The Dukes Aerospace business supplies proprietary, highly engineered
components primarily to the business jet, regional jet, and military aerospace markets, along with commercial and military helicopter markets. The products are comprised primarily of highly engineered valves and certain pumps, solenoids and related
components. These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction. The Company expects that the approximately $64 million of goodwill recognized for the acquisition will be deductible for tax purposes. 
The Company accounted for the acquisitions of Aero-Instruments, AmSafe, Harco, McKechnie Aerospace, Schneller, Talley Actuation, Semco
Instruments and Dukes Aerospace, (collectively, the “Acquisitions”) using 
  F-9



Table of Contents

the acquisition method and included the results of operations of the Acquisitions in its consolidated financial statements from the effective date of each acquisition. The Company is in the
process of obtaining a third-party valuation of certain tangible and intangible assets of Aero-Instruments, AmSafe and Harco, therefore, the values attributed to those acquired assets in the consolidated financial statements are subject to
adjustment. Pro forma net sales and results of operations for the acquisitions of Aero-Instruments, AmSafe, Harco, Schneller, Talley Actuation, Semco Instruments and Dukes Aerospace had they occurred at the beginning of the applicable fiscal year
ended September 30, 2012 or 2011, are not significant and, accordingly, are not provided.  The Acquisitions strengthen
and expand the Company’s position to design, produce and supply highly-engineered proprietary aerospace components in niche markets with significant aftermarket content and provide opportunities to create value through the application of our
three core value-driven operating strategies (obtaining profitable new business, improving our cost structure, and providing highly engineered value-added products to customers). The purchase price paid for each acquisition reflects the current
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) and cash flows, as well as, the future EBITDA and cash flows expected to be generated by the business, which are driven in most cases by the recurring aftermarket consumption
over the life of a particular aircraft, estimated to be approximately 30 years. 
3.    SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
Basis of Presentation and Consolidation—The accompanying consolidated financial statements were
prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”) and include the accounts of TD Group and subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
 Revenue Recognition and Related Allowances—Revenue is recognized from the sale of products when title and
risk of loss passes to the customer, which is generally at the time of shipment. Substantially all sales are made pursuant to firm, fixed-price purchase orders received from customers. Provisions for estimated returns, uncollectible accounts and the
cost of repairs under contract warranty provisions are provided for in the same period as the related revenues are recorded and are principally based on historical results modified, as appropriate, by the most current information available. Due to
uncertainties in the estimation process, it is possible that actual results may vary from the estimates.  Shipping and
Handling Costs—Shipping and handling costs are included in cost of sales in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Research and Development Costs—The Company expenses research and development costs as incurred and classifies such
amounts in selling and administrative expenses. The expense recognized for research and development costs for the years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was approximately $27.9 million, $19.3 million, and $13.9 million, respectively.
 Cash Equivalents—The Company considers all highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or
less when purchased to be cash equivalents.  Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts—The Company reserves for
amounts determined to be uncollectible based on specific identification of losses and estimated losses based on historical experience. The allowance also incorporates a provision for the estimated impact of disputes with customers. The determination
of the amount of the allowance for doubtful accounts is subject to significant levels of judgment and estimation by management. If circumstances change or economic conditions deteriorate or improve, the allowance for doubtful accounts could increase
or decrease.  Inventories—Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost of inventories is
determined by the average cost and the first-in, first-out (FIFO) methods for all locations except CEF Industries, Inc. which 
  F-10



Table of Contents

determines the cost of inventories using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method. Approximately 6% of the inventory was valued under the LIFO method at September 30, 2012. Provision for
potentially obsolete or slow-moving inventory is made based on management’s analysis of inventory levels and future sales forecasts. In accordance with industry practice, all inventories are classified as current assets even though a portion of
the inventories may not be sold within one year.  Property, Plant and Equipment—Property, plant and
equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives: land improvements from 10 to 20 years, buildings and improvements from 5 to 30 years, machinery and equipment from 2 to
10 years and furniture and fixtures from 3 to 10 years.  Property, plant and equipment is assessed for potential impairment
whenever indicators of impairment are present by determining whether the carrying value of the property can be recovered through projected, undiscounted cash flows from future operations over the property’s remaining estimated useful life. Any
impairment recognized is the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the asset.  Debt Issue Costs,
Premiums and Discounts—The cost of obtaining financing as well as premiums and discounts are amortized using the effective interest method over the terms of the respective obligations/securities. 
Intangible Assets—Intangible assets consist of identifiable intangibles acquired or recognized in accounting for the
acquisitions (trademarks, trade names, technology, order backlog and a license agreement) and goodwill. Goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives (trademarks and trade names) are subject to annual impairment testing.
Management determines fair value using a discounted future cash flow analysis or other accepted valuation techniques. The Company performs an annual impairment test for goodwill and other intangible assets as of the first day of the fourth fiscal
quarter of each year, or more frequently, if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce fair value below current value.  A two-step impairment test is used to identify potential goodwill impairment. The first step of the goodwill impairment test, used to identify potential impairment, compares the fair value of a reporting
unit (as defined) with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill is not considered impaired, and the second step of the goodwill impairment test is unnecessary. The second
step measures the amount of impairment, if any, by comparing the carrying value of the goodwill associated with a reporting unit to the implied fair value of the goodwill derived from the estimated overall fair value of the reporting unit and the
individual fair values of the other assets and liabilities of the reporting unit.  GAAP requires that the annual, and any
interim, impairment assessment be performed at the reporting unit level. The reporting unit level is the operating subsidiary level for the Company. Substantially all goodwill was determined and recognized for each operating subsidiary pursuant to
the accounting for the merger or acquisition as of the date of each transaction, and therefore the allocation of goodwill among reporting units was immaterial for purposes of the impairment assessment. With respect to acquisitions integrated into an
existing operating subsidiary, any related goodwill is combined with goodwill of the operating subsidiary.  The impairment
test for indefinite lived intangible assets consists of a comparison between their fair values and carrying values. If the carrying amounts of intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives exceed their fair values, an impairment loss will be
recognized in an amount equal to the sum of any such excesses.  The Company assesses the recoverability of its amortizable
intangible assets only when indicators of impairment are present by determining whether the amortization over their remaining lives can be recovered through projected, undiscounted cash flows from future operations. Amortization of amortizable
intangible assets is computed using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives: technology from 20 to 22 years, order backlog over one year, and a license agreement over 20 years. 
  F-11



Table of Contents
Stock Option Plans—The Company records stock-based compensation measured
using the fair value method of accounting. Compensation expense is recorded over the vesting periods of the options. 
Income Taxes—The Company accounts for income taxes using an asset and liability approach. Deferred taxes are recorded
for the difference between the book and tax basis of various assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance is provided when it is more likely than not that some or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. 
Contingencies—During the ordinary course of business, the Company is from time to time threatened with, or may become
a party to, legal actions and other proceedings. While the Company is currently involved in certain legal proceedings, it believes the results of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of
operations, or cash flows. The Company believes that its potential exposure to such legal actions is adequately covered by its aviation product and general liability insurance. 
Estimates—The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.  Comprehensive Income
(Loss)—The term “comprehensive income (loss)” represents the change in stockholders’ equity from transactions and other events and circumstances resulting from non-stockholder sources. The Company’s accumulated other
comprehensive income or loss, consisting principally of fair value adjustments to its interest rate swap agreements (net of tax), cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments and pension liability adjustments (net of tax), is reported
separately in the accompanying consolidated statements of changes in stockholders’ equity. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  Segment Reporting—Management evaluates the Company as one reporting segment in the aerospace industry. The Company is engaged in the design, manufacture and sale of highly engineered
aircraft components used in aerospace and defense applications through its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Substantially all of the Company’s operations are located within the United States. 
Earnings per Share—Earnings per share information is determined using the two-class method, which includes the
weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period and other securities that participate in dividends (“participating securities”). Our vested stock options are considered “participating securities” because
they include non-forfeitable rights to dividends. In applying the two-class method, earnings are allocated to both common stock shares and participating securities based on their respective weighted-average shares outstanding for the period. Diluted
earnings per share information may include the additional effect of other securities, if dilutive, in which case the dilutive effect of such securities is calculated using the treasury stock method. 
 


4.
RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 
In June 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued authoritative accounting guidance
included in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 220, “Comprehensive Income.” This guidance eliminates the option to report other comprehensive income and its components in the statement of changes in equity.
Companies can elect to present items of net income and other comprehensive income in one continuous statement or in two separate, but consecutive, statements. The Company is currently evaluating which method it will utilize to present items of net
income and other comprehensive income. This presentation guidance is effective for the Company on October 1, 2012.  In
September 2011, the FASB issued authoritative accounting guidance included in ASC Topic 350, “Intangibles—Goodwill and Other”. This guidance amends the requirements for goodwill impairment testing. The Company has the
option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or 
  F-12



Table of Contents

circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or
circumstances, the Company determines it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, then performing the two-step impairment test is unnecessary. This guidance is effective for the Company for
its annual goodwill impairment testing for the year ending September 30, 2013. The Company does not expect this guidance to have a significant impact on the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
 In July 2012, the FASB issued authoritative guidance included in ASC Topic 350, “Intangibles—Goodwill and
Other.” This guidance permits an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, as a basis for determining whether it is
necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test described in FASB ASC Topic 350, “Intangibles—Goodwill and Other”. This guidance is effective for the Company for its annual impairment testing for the year ending
September 30, 2013. The Company does not expect this guidance to have a significant impact on the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 
 


5.
EARNINGS PER SHARE (TWO-CLASS METHOD) 
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share (in thousands, except per share
data):   
















 
  
Fiscal Years Ended September 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 


  



 



 
 
`
  

 Numerator for earnings per share:
  



 



 




 Net income from continuing operations
  
$
324,969
  
 
$
152,225
  
 
$
163,445
  

 Less dividends paid on participating securities
  
 
(3,299
) 
 
 
(2,811
) 
 
 
(30,313
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
321,670
  
 
 
149,414
  
 
 
133,132
  

 Net income from discontinued operations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
19,909
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income applicable to common stock—basic and diluted
  
$
321,670
  
 
$
169,323
  
 
$
133,132
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Denominator for basic and diluted earnings per share under the two-class method:
  



 



 




 Weighted average common shares outstanding
  
 
50,996
  
 
 
49,888
  
 
 
49,171
  

 Vested options deemed participating securities
  
 
2,886
  
 
 
3,445
  
 
 
3,752
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total shares for basic and diluted earnings per share
  
 
53,882
  
 
 
53,333
  
 
 
52,923
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net earnings per share from continuing operations—basic and diluted
  
$
5.97
  
 
$
2.80
  
 
$
2.52
  

 Net earnings per share from discontinued operations—basic and diluted
  
 
—
  
 
 
0.37
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net earnings per share
  
$
5.97
  
 
$
3.17
  
 
$
2.52
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


6.
SALES AND TRADE ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 
Sales—The Company’s sales and receivables are concentrated in the aerospace industry.
TransDigm’s customers include: distributors of aerospace components; commercial airlines, large commercial transport and regional and business aircraft OEMs; various armed forces of the United States and friendly foreign governments; defense
OEMs; system suppliers; and various other industrial customers. 
  F-13



Table of Contents
One customer accounted for approximately 13%, 14% and 14% of the Company’s net sales
for the years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Export sales to customers, primarily in Western Europe, Canada and Asia, were $508.8 million during fiscal 2012, $305.5 million during fiscal 2011 and $170.6 million during
fiscal 2010.  Information concerning the Company’s net sales by its major product offerings is as follows for the periods
indicated below (in thousands):   
















 
  
Years Ended September 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Ignition systems, engine sensors, harnesses and related components
  
$
199,972
  
  
$
153,919
  
  
$
111,834
  

 Engineered latching and locking devices
  
 
196,064
  
  
 
150,111
  
  
 
33,746
  

 Mechanical/electro-mechanical actuators and controls
  
 
176,448
  
  
 
168,530
  
  
 
124,574
  

 Rods and locking devices
  
 
129,221
  
  
 
99,556
  
  
 
31,438
  

 Specialized valves
  
 
118,368
  
  
 
102,664
  
  
 
95,946
  

 AC/DC electric motors and generators
  
 
101,173
  
  
 
84,213
  
  
 
57,410
  

 Engineered decorative laminates
  
 
97,906
  
  
 
7,253
  
  
 
—  
  

 Specialized pumps
  
 
87,062
  
  
 
72,116
  
  
 
66,893
  

 Safety restraints
  
 
77,145
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Engineered connectors
  
 
75,360
  
  
 
57,803
  
  
 
43,945
  

 Power conditioning devices
  
 
67,187
  
  
 
58,683
  
  
 
57,917
  

 Power, lighting and control
  
 
65,329
  
  
 
55,327
  
  
 
44,849
  

 NiCad batteries/chargers
  
 
57,907
  
  
 
57,757
  
  
 
45,583
  

 Audio systems
  
 
46,259
  
  
 
44,614
  
  
 
36,870
  

 Lavatory hardware
  
 
46,190
  
  
 
38,280
  
  
 
27,753
  

 Other
  
 
158,617
  
  
 
55,195
  
  
 
48,896
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
1,700,208
  
  
$
1,206,021
  
  
$
827,654
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Trade Accounts Receivable—Trade accounts receivable consist of the following at
September 30 (in thousands):   












 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 

 Trade accounts receivable—gross
  
$
240,743
  
 
$
192,166
  

 Allowance for uncollectible accounts
  
 
(4,960
) 
 
 
(2,873
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Trade accounts receivable—net
  
$
235,783
  
 
$
189,293
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 At September 30, 2012, approximately 9% of the Company’s trade accounts receivable was due from
one customer. In addition, approximately 35% of the Company’s trade accounts receivable was due from entities that principally operate outside of the United States. Credit is extended based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial
condition and collateral is generally not required. 
  F-14



Table of Contents


7.
INVENTORIES 
Inventories consist of the following at September 30 (in thousands): 
 












 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 

 Raw materials and purchased component parts
  
$
203,809
  
 
$
160,402
  

 Work-in-progress
  
 
102,645
  
 
 
85,612
  

 Finished Goods
  
 
48,395
  
 
 
43,192
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
354,849
  
 
 
289,206
  

 Reserves for excess and obsolete inventory and LIFO
  
 
(34,346
) 
 
 
(23,889
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Inventories—net
  
$
320,503
  
 
$
265,317
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


8.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 
Property, plant and equipment consist of the following at September 30 (in thousands): 
 












 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 

 Land and improvements
  
$
39,685
  
 
$
40,912
  

 Buildings and improvements
  
 
78,631
  
 
 
58,692
  

 Machinery, equipment and other
  
 
167,435
  
 
 
137,124
  

 Construction in progress
  
 
10,171
  
 
 
8,250
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
295,922
  
 
 
244,978
  

 Accumulated depreciation
  
 
(123,185
) 
 
 
(94,178
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property, plant and equipment—net
  
$
172,737
  
 
$
150,800
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


9.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
Intangible assets subject to amortization consist of the following at September 30 (in thousands): 
 




























 
  
2012
 
  
2011
 

 
  
Gross CarryingAmount
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
  
Net
 
  
Gross CarryingAmount
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
  
Net
 

 Technology
  
$
723,231
  
  
$
105,995
  
  
$
617,236
  
  
$
546,726
  
  
$
75,426
  
  
$
471,300
  

 Order backlog
  
 
5,910
  
  
 
3,965
  
  
 
1,945
  
  
 
24,799
  
  
 
17,895
  
  
 
6,904
  

 Other
  
 
43,343
  
  
 
6,528
  
  
 
36,815
  
  
 
10,973
  
  
 
5,753
  
  
 
5,220
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
772,484
  
  
$
116,488
  
  
$
655,996
  
  
$
582,498
  
  
$
99,074
  
  
$
483,424
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Information regarding the amortization expense of amortizable intangible assets is detailed below (in
thousands):  Aggregate Amortization Expense:   








 Years ended September 30,
  
 
 

 2012
  
$
44,535
  

 2011
  
 
40,368
  

 2010
  
 
15,079
  

  F-15



Table of Contents
Estimated Amortization Expense: 
 








 Years ending September 30,
  
 
 

 2013
  
$
38,099
  

 2014
  
 
36,156
  

 2015
  
 
36,156
  

 2016
  
 
36,156
  

 2017
  
 
36,156
  
 Intangible assets acquired during the year ended September 30, 2012 were as follows (in thousands):
  












 
  
Cost
 
  
AmortizationPeriod
 

 Intangible assets not subject to amortization:
  



  




 Goodwill
  
$
473,895
  
  




 Trademarks and trade names
  
 
121,510
  
  





  
  
  
 
  





  
 
595,405
  
  





  
  
  
 
  




 Intangible assets subject to amortization:
  



  




 Technology
  
 
175,750
  
  
 
20 years
  

 Order backlog
  
 
5,910
  
  
 
1 year
  

 Other
  
 
4,800
  
  
 
15 years
  


  
  
  
 
  





  
 
186,460
  
  
 
19.3 years
  


  
  
  
 
  




 Total
  
$
781,865
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2011 and
2012 were as follows (in thousands):   








 Balance at September 30, 2010
  
$
1,571,664
  

 Goodwill acquired during the year (Note 2)
  
 
1,129,145
  

 Divestitures (Note 21)
  
 
(103,880
) 

 Other
  
 
(1,182
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at September 30, 2011
  
 
2,595,747
  

 Goodwill acquired during the year (Note 2)
  
 
473,895
  

 Purchase price allocation adjustments
  
 
(26,109
) 

 Other
  
 
(8,031
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at September 30, 2012
  
$
3,035,502
  


  
  
  
 
  


10.
ACCRUED LIABILITIES 
Accrued liabilities consist of the following at September 30 (in thousands): 
 












 
  
2012
 
  
2011
 

 Compensation and related benefits
  
$
39,446
  
  
$
24,824
  

 Interest
  
 
39,003
  
  
 
37,065
  

 Interest rate swap agreements
  
 
9,800
  
  
 
—  
  

 Product warranties
  
 
8,604
  
  
 
8,722
  

 Income taxes payable
  
 
—  
  
  
 
8,937
  

 Other
  
 
42,384
  
  
 
49,701
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
139,237
  
  
$
129,249
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-16



Table of Contents


11.
DEBT 
The Company’s long-term debt consists of the following at September 30 (in thousands): 
 












 
  
2012
 
  
2011
 

 Term loans
  
$
2,019,125
  
  
$
1,538,375
  

 Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018
  
 
1,600,000
  
  
 
1,600,000
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
3,619,125
  
  
 
3,138,375
  

 Less current portion
  
 
20,500
  
  
 
15,500
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Long-term debt
  
$
3,598,625
  
  
$
3,122,875
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan—In December 2010, TD
Group’s wholly owned subsidiary, TransDigm Inc., entered into a senior secured credit facility, which consisted of a $1.55 billion term loan facility and a $245 million revolving credit facility (collectively, the “Existing Senior Secured
Credit Facility”). The proceeds of the term loan were used to pay the purchase price of and related transaction expenses associated with the acquisition of McKechnie Aerospace and repay a portion of the amounts outstanding under the previous
senior secured credit facility. The remaining amount of the previous senior secured credit facility was repaid from a portion of the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018 (the “2018 Notes”) proceeds.
 On February 14, 2011, TransDigm Inc. entered into a new senior secured credit facility which provides for a $1.55
billion term loan facility (the “New Senior Secured Credit Facility”), which was fully drawn on February 14, 2011. The New Senior Secured Credit Facility replaced the term loan under the Existing Senior Secured Credit Facility and
modified certain terms of the original agreement including extending the maturity date of the term loan and modifying the interest rate provisions.  On March 25, 2011, TransDigm entered into Amendment No. 1 (the “Amendment”) to the Existing Senior Secured Credit Facility. The Amendment provides for a modification to certain terms
of the permitted indebtedness covenant contained in the Existing Senior Secured Credit Facility to modify the requirements for incurring certain additional senior indebtedness. 
On February 15, 2012, TransDigm entered into Amendment No. 1 and an Incremental Term Loan Assumption Agreement to the New
Senior Secured Credit Facility. The amendment provides for an additional term loan facility in the aggregate principal amount of $500 million. The additional term loan facility was fully drawn on February 15, 2012. The proceeds of the
additional term loan facility were used to pay a portion of the purchase price of and related transaction expenses associated with the acquisition of AmSafe.  On February 15, 2012 TransDigm also entered into an Incremental Revolving Credit Assumption Agreement (the “Assumption Agreement”) to the Existing Senior Secured Credit Facility, as
amended. The Assumption Agreement provides for additional revolving commitments to TransDigm in an aggregate principal amount of $65 million, which results in a total revolving credit amount of $310 million. 
At September 30, 2012, the Company had $7.1 million letters of credit outstanding and $302.9 million of borrowings available under
the Existing Senior Secured Credit Facility, as amended. Under the Existing Senior Secured Credit Facility, the revolving credit facility matures in December 2015.  Under the New Senior Secured Credit Facility, the term loan matures in February 2017. The term loans under the New Senior Secured Credit Facility require quarterly principal payments totaling $5.1
million.  The interest rates per annum applicable to the term loans under the New Senior Secured Credit Facility will be, at
TransDigm’s option, equal to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted LIBO rate for one, two, three or six-month (or to the extent agreed to by each relevant lender, nine or twelve-month) interest periods chosen by

  F-17



Table of Contents

TransDigm, in each case plus an applicable margin percentage. The adjusted LIBO rate is subject to a floor of 1%. At September 30, 2012, the applicable interest rate on the term loans was
4.0%.  On June 27, 2011, the Company entered into three forward-starting interest rate swap agreements beginning
December 31, 2012 to hedge the variable interest rates on the New Senior Secured Credit Facility for a fixed rate based on an aggregate notional amount of $353 million through June 30, 2015. These forward-starting interest rate swap
agreements will effectively convert the variable interest rate on the aggregate notional amount of the New Senior Secured Credit Facility to a fixed rate of 5.17% over the term of the interest rate swap agreements. 
Under the terms of the New Senior Secured Credit Facility, the Company is required to pay the administrative agent certain fees. In
addition, under the Existing Senior Secured Credit Facility, on the last day of each calendar quarter the Company is required to pay a commitment fee equal to the applicable rate per annum in effect from time to time of any unused commitments under
the revolving credit line and certain other fees in respect of letters of credit that may be outstanding thereunder from time to time.  All of the indebtedness outstanding under the credit facilities is guaranteed by TD Group and all of TransDigm’s current and future domestic restricted subsidiaries (other than immaterial
subsidiaries), and is secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of the existing and future property and assets, including inventory, equipment, general intangibles, intellectual property, investment property and other
personal property (but excluding leasehold interests and certain other assets) of TransDigm and all of TransDigm’s existing and future domestic restricted subsidiaries (other than immaterial subsidiaries), and a first priority pledge of the
capital stock of TransDigm and its domestic subsidiaries and 65% of the voting capital stock of certain of TransDigm’s foreign subsidiaries.  The credit facilities contain certain covenants that limit the ability of TD Group, TransDigm and TransDigm’s restricted subsidiaries to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional
indebtedness or issue preferred stock, pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase capital stock or redeem or repurchase subordinated debt, make investments, sell assets, enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from
restricted subsidiaries to TransDigm, incur or suffer to exist liens securing indebtedness, consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of their assets, and engage in transactions with affiliates. At September 30, 2012, TransDigm
was in compliance with all of the covenants contained in the credit facilities.  The term loan under the New Senior Secured
Credit Facility requires mandatory prepayments of principal based on certain percentages of Excess Cash Flow (as therein defined), commencing 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, that began with the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012,
subject to certain exceptions. At September 30, 2012, TransDigm was not required to make a prepayment based upon the Excess Cash Flow provision. In addition, subject to certain exceptions (including, with respect to asset sales, the reinvestment in
productive assets), TransDigm will be required to prepay the loans outstanding under the term loan facility at 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, with the net cash proceeds of certain asset sales and issuance or
incurrence of certain indebtedness, to the extent not reinvested.  Senior Subordinated Notes—In December
2010, TransDigm issued $1.6 billion in aggregate principal amount of its 2018 Notes at an issue price of 100% of the principal amount. The 2018 Notes represent unsecured obligations of TransDigm Inc. ranking subordinate to TransDigm Inc.’s
senior debt, as defined in the indenture governing the 2018 Notes. Interest under the 2018 Notes is payable semi-annually. 
Prior to December 15, 2013, TransDigm is permitted to redeem specified percentages of the 2018 Notes from the proceeds of equity
offerings at a redemption price of 107.75%, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The 2018 Notes are redeemable by TransDigm, in whole or in part, at specified redemption prices, which decline from 103.875% to 100% over the remaining term of the 2018
Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. If a change in control of the Company occurs, the holders of the 2018 Notes will have the right to demand that TransDigm 
  F-18



Table of Contents

redeem the 2018 Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the 2018 Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest. The 2018 Notes contain many of the same restrictive covenants
included in the New Senior Secured Credit Facility. TransDigm is in compliance with all of the covenants contained in the 2018 Notes.  TransDigm utilized a portion of the proceeds from the 2018 Notes to purchase its 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 (the “2014 Notes”). 
The Company recorded refinancing costs of $72.5 million during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 representing charges
resulting from the refinancing of TransDigm’s entire debt structure. The charge for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 consisted of the premium of $41.9 million paid to redeem the 2014 Notes, the write-off of debt issue costs and
unamortized note premium and discount of $25.7 million, and the settlement of the interest rate swap agreement and other expenses of $4.9 million.  At September 30, 2012, future maturities of long-term debt are as follows (in thousands):   








 Years ended September 30,
  
 
 

 2013
  
$
20,500
  

 2014
  
 
20,500
  

 2015
  
 
20,500
  

 2016
  
 
20,500
  

 2017
  
 
1,937,125
  

 Thereafter
  
 
1,600,000
  


  
  
  
 


  
$
3,619,125
  


  
  
  
 
 Special Cash Dividend Payment—In October 2009, TransDigm made a special cash dividend
to its stockholders of $7.65 per share and cash dividend equivalents payments (“Dividend Equivalent Payments”) to holders of options to purchase its common stock from the net proceeds of the $425 million Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014
issued in October 2009. After the payment of debt issue fees and expenses, the net proceeds amounted to approximately $404.5 million. The special cash dividend and Dividend Equivalent Payments of $404.9 million were paid in the first quarter of
fiscal 2010, Dividend Equivalent Payments of $2.8 million were paid in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 and $3.3 million were paid in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. The $425 million of 2014 Notes were included in the tender offer made in
conjunction with the 2018 Notes issuance.   


12.
RETIREMENT PLANS 
Defined Contribution Plans—The Company sponsors certain defined contribution employee savings
plans that cover substantially all of the Company’s non-union employees. Under certain plans, the Company contributes a percentage of employee compensation and matches a portion of employee contributions. The cost recognized for such
contributions for the years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was approximately $4.9 million, $3.5 million and $2.6 million, respectively.  Defined Benefit Pension Plans—The Company has four non-contributory defined benefit pension plans. The Company’s funding policy is to contribute actuarially determined
amounts allowable under Internal Revenue Service regulations for the qualified plans. The Company uses a September 30th measurement date for its defined benefit pension plans. 
The Company has three qualified, non-contributory defined benefit pension plans, which together cover certain union employees. One plan
covers certain employees of a business acquired during the year ended September 30, 2012. The plans provide benefits of stated amounts for each year of service. The plan assets as of September 30, 2012 and 2011 were approximately $60.1
million and $6.7 million, respectively. The Company’s accumulated benefit obligation for these defined benefit pension plans at September 30, 2012 and 2011 was 
  F-19



Table of Contents

$62.9 million and $9.7 million, respectively. The total liability recognized at September 30, 2012 and 2011 was $4.7 million and $3.0 million, respectively. The net periodic pension cost
recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended September 30, 2012, 2011, and 2010 was $0.6 million, $0.4 million, and $0.3 million, respectively.  The Company has a non-qualified, non-contributory defined benefit pension plan, which covers certain retired employees of a business acquired during the year ended September 30, 2011. The plan is
unfunded and provides defined benefits based on the final average salary of the employees as defined in the plan. The projected benefit obligation for this defined benefit pension plan and the total liability recognized in the Consolidated Balance
Sheet at September 30, 2012 and 2011 was approximately $9.5 million and $8.8 million, respectively. The net periodic pension cost recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income relating to this plan was $0.4 million for the year ended
September 30, 2012 and less than $0.1 million for the year ended September 30, 2011.   


13.
INCOME TAXES 
The Company’s income tax provision on income from continuing operations consists of the following for the periods
shown below (in thousands):   
















 
  
Fiscal Years Ended September 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Current
  



  



  




 Federal
  
$
122,884
  
  
$
50,105
  
  
$
78,591
  

 State
  
 
12,855
  
  
 
7,109
  
  
 
6,899
  

 Foreign
  
 
2,361
  
  
 
1,310
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
138,100
  
  
 
58,524
  
  
 
85,490
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Deferred
  
 
24,800
  
  
 
18,676
  
  
 
1,900
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
162,900
  
  
$
77,200
  
  
$
87,390
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The differences between the income tax provision on income from continuing operations at the federal
statutory income tax rate and the tax provision shown in the accompanying consolidated statements of income for the periods shown below are as follows (in thousands):   
















 
  
Fiscal Years Ended September 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Tax at statutory rate of 35%
  
$
170,754
  
 
$
80,299
  
 
$
87,792
  

 State and local income taxes, net of federal benefit
  
 
5,221
  
 
 
3,576
  
 
 
4,298
  

 Domestic manufacturing deduction
  
 
(9,126
) 
 
 
(2,772
) 
 
 
(3,981
) 

 Research and development credits
  
 
(288
) 
 
 
(2,303
) 
 
 
(300
) 

 Other—net
  
 
(3,661
) 
 
 
(1,600
) 
 
 
(419
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income tax provision
  
$
162,900
  
 
$
77,200
  
 
$
87,390
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-20



Table of Contents
The components of the deferred taxes consist of the following at September 30 (in
thousands):   












 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  



 




 Employee benefits, compensation and other accrued obligations
  
$
31,711
  
 
$
16,059
  

 Net operating losses
  
 
14,637
  
 
 
16,500
  

 Inventory
  
 
12,330
  
 
 
10,715
  

 Tax credits
  
 
9,347
  
 
 
—  
  

 Environmental
  
 
6,975
  
 
 
7,412
  

 Interest rate swaps
  
 
3,652
  
 
 
2,087
  

 Product warranties
  
 
3,560
  
 
 
3,534
  

 Other accrued liabilities
  
 
—  
  
 
 
4,692
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
82,212
  
 
 
60,999
  

 Less: Valuation allowance
  
 
(16,150
) 
 
 
(15,874
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax assets
  
 
66,062
  
 
 
45,125
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



 




 Intangible assets
  
 
361,226
  
 
 
302,273
  

 Property, plant and equipment
  
 
23,119
  
 
 
22,459
  

 Unremitted foreign earnings
  
 
3,714
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other
  
 
5,765
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax liabilities
  
 
393,824
  
 
 
324,732
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net deferred tax liabilities
  
$
327,762
  
 
$
279,607
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 At September 30, 2012, the Company had federal and United Kingdom net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $19.3 million and state net operating loss carryforwards that generate a tax benefit of approximately $13.3 million that expire in various years from 2013 to 2031. A valuation allowance has been established equal to the amount of the
net operating losses that the Company believes will not be utilized. The Company had foreign tax credit carryforwards which generate a tax benefit of approximately $7.0 million that expire from 2018 to 2021. A valuation allowance has been
established equal to the amount of the foreign tax credits that the Company believes will not be utilized.  The Company and
its subsidiaries file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various state and local jurisdictions as well as foreign jurisdictions located in Belgium, China, France, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore, Sri Lanka and the United Kingdom. The
Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal examinations for years before fiscal 2011. AmSafe is subject to U.S. federal examinations for the 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 years. In addition, the Company is subject to state income tax examinations for
fiscal years 2009 and 2010.  The cumulative amount of the Company’s foreign undistributed net earnings for which no
deferred taxes have been provided is approximately $6.9 million at September 30, 2012. The Company has no plans to repatriate such earnings in the foreseeable future. It is not practical to determine the deferred tax liability on these
earnings.  A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows (in thousands):
  












 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 

 Balance at beginning of period
  
$
7,568
  
 
$
1,832
  

 Additions based on tax positions related to the current year
  
 
1,008
  
 
 
129
  

 Reductions for tax positions of prior years
  
 
(3,190
) 
 
 
(760
) 

 Acquisitions
  
 
1,546
  
 
 
6,367
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at end of period
  
$
6,932
  
 
$
7,568
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-21



Table of Contents
Unrecognized tax benefits at September 30, 2012 and 2011, the recognition of which
would have an effect on the effective tax rate for each fiscal year, amounted to $6.3 million and $7.0 million, respectively. The Company classifies all income tax related interest and penalties as income tax expense, which were not significant for
the years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010. As of September 30, 2012 and 2011, the Company accrued $0.9 million and $1.2 million, respectively, for the potential payment of interest and penalties. The Company anticipates no
significant changes to its total unrecognized tax benefits through fiscal 2013.   


14.
ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES 
Our operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and
regulations that govern, among other things, discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the generation, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the remediation of contamination and the health and safety of our
employees. Environmental laws and regulations may require that the Company investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present operations. Certain facilities and third-party sites
utilized by subsidiaries of the Company have been identified as potentially responsible parties under the federal Superfund laws and comparable state laws. The Company is currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a number of sites
under applicable laws.  Estimates of the Company’s environmental liabilities are based on current facts, laws,
regulations and technology. These estimates take into consideration the Company’s prior experience and professional judgment of the Company’s environmental specialists. Estimates of the Company’s environmental liabilities are further
subject to uncertainties regarding the nature and extent of site contamination, the range of remediation alternatives available, evolving remediation standards, imprecise engineering evaluations and cost estimates, the extent of corrective actions
that may be required and the number and financial condition of other potentially responsible parties, as well as the extent of their responsibility for the remediation.  Accordingly, as investigation and remediation proceed, it is likely that adjustments in the Company’s accruals will be necessary to reflect new information. The amounts of any such adjustments could
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or cash flows in a given period. Based on currently available information, however, the Company does not believe that future environmental costs in excess of those accrued
with respect to sites for which the Company has been identified as a potentially responsible party are likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. 
Environmental liabilities are recorded when the liability is probable and the costs are reasonably estimable, which generally is not
later than at completion of a feasibility study or when the Company has recommended a remedy or has committed to an appropriate plan of action. The liabilities are reviewed periodically and, as investigation and remediation proceed, adjustments are
made as necessary. Liabilities for losses from environmental remediation obligations do not consider the effects of inflation and anticipated expenditures are not discounted to their present value. The liabilities are not reduced by possible
recoveries from insurance carriers or other third parties, but do reflect anticipated allocations among potentially responsible parties at federal Superfund sites or similar state-managed sites, third party indemnity obligations, and an assessment
of the likelihood that such parties will fulfill their obligations at such sites.  The Company’s consolidated balance
sheet includes the following for environmental remediation obligations at September 30 (in thousands):   












 
  
2012
 
  
2011
 

 Accrued liabilities
  
$
1,000
  
  
$
1,000
  

 Other non-current liabilities
  
 
18,092
  
  
 
18,888
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
19,092
  
  
$
19,888
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-22



Table of Contents


15.
CAPITAL STOCK 
Capital Stock—Authorized capital stock of TD Group consists of 224,400,000 shares of $.01 par value
common stock and 149,600,000 shares of $.01 par value preferred stock. The total number of shares of common stock outstanding at September 30, 2012 and 2011 was 52,157,225 and 50,829,276, respectively. There were no shares of preferred stock
outstanding at September 30, 2012 and 2011. The terms of the preferred stock have not been established.  On
August 22, 2011, the Board of Directors authorized a common share repurchase program, which was announced on August 23, 2011. Under the terms of the program, the Company may purchase up to a maximum aggregate value of $100 million of its
shares of common stock. For the year ended September 30, 2012, the Company repurchased 11,300 shares of its common stock at a gross cost of approximately $0.8 million at a weighted-average price per share of $74.87 per share. The program
replaces the repurchase program announced on October 23, 2008, under which the Company previously repurchased 494,100 share of its common stock at a gross cost of approximately $15.2 million at a weighted-average price per share of $30.85.
  


16.
STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION 
The Company’s stock compensation plans are designed to assist the Company in attracting, retaining, motivating and
rewarding key employees, directors or consultants, and promoting the creation of long-term value for stockholders by closely aligning the interests of these individuals with those of the Company’s stockholders. The Company’s stock
compensation plans provide for the granting of stock options, restricted stock and other stock-based incentives.  The
following table shows the expense recognized by the Company for stock-based compensation (in thousands):   
















 
  
Fiscal Years Ended September 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Stock option compensation expense:
  



  



  




 Performance vested stock options
  
$
22,151
  
  
$
12,568
  
  
$
6,693
  

 Restricted stock award amortization
  
 
—  
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
11
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
22,151
  
  
$
12,574
  
  
$
6,704
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The weighted-average grant date fair value of options granted during the fiscal years ended
September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $43.23, $33.51 and $18.83, respectively.  Compensation expense is recognized based
upon probability assessments of awards that are expected to vest in future periods. Such probability assessments are subject to revision and, therefore, unrecognized compensation expense is subject to future changes in estimate. As of
September 30, 2012, there was approximately $15.6 million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested awards expected to vest, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of three years. 
  F-23



Table of Contents
The fair value of the Company’s employee stock options was estimated at the date of
grant using a Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions for all options granted during the fiscal years ended:   










 
  
Fiscal Years Ended September 30,

 
  
2012
  
2011
  
2010

 Risk-free interest rate
  
1.10% to 1.50%
  
1.67% to 2.53%
  
2.45% to 2.96%

 Expected life of options
  
6 years
  
6 years
  
6 years

 Expected dividend yield of stock
  
—  
  
—  
  
—  

 Expected volatility of stock
  
40%
  
40%
  
40%
 The risk-free interest rate is based upon the Treasury bond rates as of the grant date. The average
expected life of stock-based awards is based on vesting schedules and contractual terms. Expected volatility of stock was calculated using a rate based upon the historical volatility of publicly traded companies in the Company’s peer group in
the aerospace industry. This was used because TD Group’s common stock has only been publicly traded since March 2006. Notwithstanding the special cash dividend paid in October 2009, the Company historically has not paid regular cash dividends
and does not anticipate paying regular cash dividends in future periods; thus, no dividend rate assumption is used.  The total
fair value of options vested during fiscal years ended September 30, 2012, 2011, and 2010 was $11.4 million, $7.8 million and $4.6 million, respectively.  2006 Stock Incentive Plan  In conjunction with the consummation of
the initial public offering, a 2006 stock incentive plan was adopted by TD Group. In July 2008 and March 2011, the plan was amended to increase the number of shares available for issuance thereunder. TD Group has reserved 8,119,668 shares of its
common stock for issuance to key employees, directors or consultants under the plan. Awards under the plan may be in the form of options, restricted stock or other stock-based awards. Options granted under the plan will expire no later than the
tenth anniversary of the applicable date of grant of the options, and will have an exercise price of not less than the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. Restricted stock granted under the plan vests over three years.
 All outstanding options under the 2006 stock incentive plan will accelerate and become fully vested if the closing price of
the Company’s common stock exceeds $160 per share for options granted prior to October 1, 2011 or $170 per share for options granted in fiscal 2012, in each case on any 60 trading days during any consecutive 12-month period. 
During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012, 920 shares of common stock were issued with a weighted-average grant date fair
value of $125.48.  Performance Vested Stock Options—All of the options granted through September 30, 2012
under the 2006 stock incentive plan have been pursuant to an equity incentive program adopted by the Company in 2008. Under the 2008 equity incentive program, all of the options granted will vest based on the Company’s achievement of
established operating performance goals. The following table summarizes the activity, pricing and other 
  F-24



Table of Contents

information for the Company’s performance vested stock-based award activity during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012: 
 




















 
  
Number ofOptions
 
 
Weighted-AverageExercise Price PerOption
 
  
Weighted-AverageRemainingContractual Term
 
  
AggregateIntrinsic Value
 

 Outstanding at September 30, 2011
  
 
4,636,085
  
 
$
47.80
  
  



  




 Granted
  
 
711,725
  
 
 
107.21
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
(166,505
) 
 
 
32.52
  
  



  




 Forfeited
  
 
(455,110
) 
 
 
58.69
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Outstanding at September 30, 2012
  
 
4,726,195
  
 
$
56.24
  
  
 
7.4 years
  
  
$
404,704,078
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Expected to vest
  
 
1,728,021
  
 
$
51.12
  
  
 
7.2 years
  
  
$
156,811,187
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Exercisable at September 30, 2012
  
 
1,732,475
  
 
$
37.17
  
  
 
6.6 years
  
  
$
181,390,133
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 At September 30, 2012, 3,142,616 remaining shares were available for award under TD Group’s
2006 stock incentive plan.  2003 Stock Option Plan 
Certain executives and key employees of the Company were granted stock options under TD Group’s 2003 stock option plan. Upon the
closing of the acquisition of the Company by Warburg Pincus in 2003, certain employees rolled over certain then-existing options to purchase shares of common stock of TransDigm Holdings. These employees were granted rollover options to purchase an
aggregate of 3,870,152 shares of common stock of TD Group (after giving effect to the 149.60 for 1.00 stock split effected on March 14, 2006). All rollover options granted were fully vested on the date of grant. In addition to shares of common
stock reserved for issuance upon the exercise of rollover options, an aggregate of 5,469,301 shares of TD Group’s common stock were reserved for issuance upon the exercise of new management options. In general, approximately 20% of all new
management options vested based on employment service or a change in control. These time vested options had a graded vesting schedule of up to four years. Approximately 80% of all new management options vested (i) based upon the satisfaction of
specified performance criteria, which is annual and cumulative EBITDA As Defined targets through 2008, or (ii) upon the occurrence of a change in control if the Investor Group (defined as Warburg Pincus and the other initial investors in TD
Group) received a minimum specified rate of return. Unless terminated earlier, the options expire ten years from the date of grant. All of the outstanding performance options were vested as of September 30, 2012. 
TD Group has reserved a total of 9,339,453 shares of its common stock for issuance to the Company’s employees under the plan,
9,261,624 of which had been issued as of September 30, 2012.  Time Vested Stock Options—The following
table summarizes activity, pricing and other information for the Company’s time vested stock-based award activity during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012: 
 




















 
  
Number ofOptions
 
 
Weighted-AverageExercise Price PerOption
 
  
Weighted-AverageRemainingContractual Term
 
  
AggregateIntrinsic Value
 

 Outstanding at September 30, 2011
  
 
575,025
  
 
$
10.33
  
  



  




 Granted
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
(237,550
) 
 
 
8.44
  
  



  




 Forfeited
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Outstanding at September 30, 2012
  
 
337,475
  
 
$
11.66
  
  
 
1.8 years
  
  
$
43,942,620
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Exercisable at September 30, 2012
  
 
337,475
  
 
$
11.66
  
  
 
1.8 years
  
  
$
43,942,620
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-25



Table of Contents
Performance Vested Stock Options—The following table summarizes the
activity, pricing and other information for the Company’s performance vested stock-based award activity during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012:   




















 
  
Number ofOptions
 
 
Weighted-AverageExercise Price PerOption
 
  
Weighted-AverageRemainingContractual Term
 
  
AggregateIntrinsic Value
 

 Outstanding at September 30, 2011
  
 
1,521,185
  
 
$
11.87
  
  



  




 Granted
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
(806,538
) 
 
 
9.49
  
  



  




 Forfeited
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Outstanding at September 30, 2012
  
 
714,647
  
 
$
14.56
  
  
 
2.6 years
  
  
$
90,981,710
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Exercisable at September 30, 2012
  
 
714,647
  
 
$
14.56
  
  
 
2.6 years
  
  
$
90,981,710
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Rollover Option Awards—The following table summarizes the activity, pricing and other
information for the Company’s rollover option award activity during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012:   












 
  
Number ofOptions
 
 
Weighted-AverageExercise Price PerOption
 

 Outstanding at September 30, 2011
  
 
84,436
  
 
$
3.47
  

 Granted
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Exercised
  
 
(84,436
) 
 
 
3.47
  

 Forfeited
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Outstanding at September 30, 2012
  
 
—  
  
 
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Exercisable at Septmeber 30, 2012
  
 
—  
  
 
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The total intrinsic value of time, performance and rollover options exercised during the fiscal years
ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $137.5 million, $63.0 million and $19.0 million, respectively.  Options
Not Pursuant to a Shareholder Approved Plan  In addition to the stock options issued under the 2003 stock option plan
and 2006 stock incentive plan, two members of the Company’s Board of Directors were also granted stock options of TD Group. Of the 134,040 options issued under these agreements, 16,096 remain outstanding with an exercise price of $6.68. All of
such options were vested as of September 30, 2012.  Dividend Equivalent Plans 
Pursuant to the Third Amended and Restated TransDigm Group Incorporated 2003 Stock Option Plan Dividend Equivalent Plan and the Second
Amended and Restated TransDigm Group Incorporated 2006 Stock Incentive Plan Dividend Equivalent Plan, all of the options granted under the 2003 stock option plan and the 2006 stock incentive plan are entitled to certain dividend equivalent payments
in the event of the declaration of a dividend by the Company. Options granted outside the plans to directors are also entitled to comparable dividend equivalents. The Company declared a special dividend of $7.65 per share in October 2009. See Note
11. As a result, holders of outstanding vested options received dividend equivalents of approximately $36.4 million in the aggregate. In addition, to the extent unvested options outstanding on the dividend declaration date vest, such options will be
entitled to receive a dividend equivalent payment in the amount of $7.65 per share at the time of vesting. 
  F-26



Table of Contents


17.
LEASES 
TransDigm leases certain manufacturing facilities, equipment and vehicles with rental payments required through January
2051. Rental expense during the years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $7.9 million, $5.9 million and $4.2 million, respectively.  Future minimum rental commitments at September 30, 2012 under operating leases having initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms exceeding one year are $7.7 million in fiscal 2013, $7.4 million
in fiscal 2014, $5.7 million in fiscal 2015, $5.1 million in fiscal 2016, $3.7 million in fiscal 2017, and $20.4 million thereafter.   


18.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 
The following tables present our assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and are
categorized using the fair value hierarchy. The fair value hierarchy has three levels based on the reliability of the inputs used to determine fair value. Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or
liabilities. Level 2 inputs are quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, and inputs (other than quoted prices) that are
observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. A financial asset or liability’s classification within the hierarchy is determined based on the lowest
level input that is significant to the fair value measurement.  The following summarizes the carrying amounts and fair values
of financial instruments as of September 30 (in thousands):   
























 
  
Level
 
  
September 30, 2012
 
  
September 30, 2011
 

 
  
  
CarryingAmount
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
CarryingAmount
 
  
Fair Value
 

 Assets:
  



  



  



  



  




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
 
1
  
  
$
440,524
  
  
$
440,524
  
  
$
376,183
  
  
$
376,183
  

 Liabilities:
  



  



  



  



  




 Interest rate swap agreements(1)
  
 
2
  
  
 
9,800
  
  
 
9,800
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Interest rate swap agreements(2)
  
 
2
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
5,600
  
  
 
5,600
  

 Long-term debt:
  



  



  



  



  




 Term loans
  
 
2
  
  
 
2,019,125
  
  
 
2,037,000
  
  
 
1,538,375
  
  
 
1,496,000
  

 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018
  
 
1
  
  
 
1,600,000
  
  
 
1,696,000
  
  
 
1,600,000
  
  
 
1,616,000
  
  


(1)
Included in Accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 


(2)
Included in Other non-current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
Interest rate swap agreements were measured at fair value using quoted market prices for the swap interest rate
indexes over the term of the swap discounted to present value versus the fixed rate of the contract. The estimated fair value of the Company’s term loans was based on information provided by the agent under the Company’s New Senior Secured
Credit Facility. The estimated fair values of the Company’s 7 3/4% senior subordinated notes due 2018 were based upon quoted market prices. 
  F-27



Table of Contents


19.
DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES 
The Company is exposed to, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates in the normal course of
business. The Company’s risk management program is designed to manage the exposure and volatility arising from these risks, and utilizes derivative financial instruments to offset a portion of these risks. The Company uses derivative financial
instruments only to the extent necessary to hedge identified business risks, and does not enter into such transactions for trading purposes. The Company generally does not require collateral or other security with counterparties to these financial
instruments and is therefore subject to credit risk in the event of nonperformance; however, the Company monitors credit risk and currently does not anticipate nonperformance by other parties. 
Interest rate swap agreements are used to manage interest rate risk associated with floating-rate borrowings under our New Senior Secured
Credit Facility. The interest rate swap agreements utilized by the Company effectively modify the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk by converting a portion of the Company’s floating-rate debt to a fixed rate basis through the
expiration date of the interest rate swap agreements, thereby reducing the impact of interest rate changes on future interest expense. These agreements involve the receipt of floating rate amounts in exchange for fixed rate interest payments over
the term of the agreements without an exchange of the underlying principal amount. These derivative instruments qualify as effective cash flow hedges under GAAP. For these hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss from the financial
instruments is initially reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders’ equity and subsequently reclassified into earnings in the same line as the hedged item in the same period or periods during which
the hedged item affects earnings.  At September 30, 2012, three forward-starting interest rate swap agreements were in
place to swap variable rates on the New Senior Secured Credit Facility for a fixed rate based on an aggregate notional amount of $353 million. Beginning December 31, 2012, these interest rate swap agreements will effectively convert the
variable interest rate on the aggregate notional amount of the New Senior Secured Credit Facility to a fixed rate of 5.17% (2.17% plus the 3% margin percentage) through June 30, 2015. 
 


20.
ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) 
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) consists of the following at September 30 (in thousands):
  












 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 

 Interest rate swap agreements,net of taxes of $3.7 million for 2012 and $2.1 million for 2011
  
$
(6,135
) 
 
$
(3,500
) 

 Cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments
  
 
480
  
 
 
1,795
  

 Pension liability adjustments,net of taxes of $1.8 million for 2012 and $1.0 million for 2011
  
 
(2,396
) 
 
 
(1,572
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
(8,051
) 
 
$
(3,277
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


21.
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 
On March 9, 2011, the Company completed the divestiture of its fastener business for approximately
$239.6 million in cash. The Company recorded a gain on sale of the fastener business of approximately $23.6 million, net of tax of $56.5 million. This business, which was acquired as part of the McKechnie Aerospace acquisition, is made up of
Valley-Todeco, Inc. and Linread Ltd. The business designs and manufactures fasteners, fastening systems and bearings for commercial, military and general aviation aircraft.  On April 7, 2011, the Company completed the divestiture of Aero Quality Sales (“AQS”) to Satair A/S for approximately $31.8 million in cash, which includes a $1.8 million working capital
adjustment received in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. The Company recorded a loss on the sale of AQS of approximately $1.6 million, net 
  F-28



Table of Contents

of tax of $6.2 million. AQS, which was acquired as part of the McKechnie Aerospace acquisition, is a distributor and service center of aircraft batteries and battery support equipment. The
Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, W. Nicholas Howley, was a director of Satair A/S from 2006 through October 2011.  The sales of the fastener business and AQS have been accounted for as discontinued operations and accordingly the consolidated statements of income have classified the operating results to reflect
discontinued operations presentation. The following is the summarized operating results for the fastener business and AQS for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 (in thousands). 
 








 
  
Fiscal Year EndedSeptember 30, 2011
 

 Net sales
  
$
24,058
  


  
  
  
 

 Loss from discontinued operations before income taxes
  
$
(2,917
) 

 Income tax benefit
  
 
794
  


  
  
  
 

 Loss from discontinued operations
  
 
(2,123
) 

 Net gain on sales of discontinued operations, net of tax
  
 
22,032
  


  
  
  
 

 Income from discontinued operations
  
$
19,909
  


  
  
  
 
  


22.
QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) 
 




















 
  
First QuarterEndedDecember 31, 2011
 
 
Second QuarterEndedMarch 31, 2012
 
  
Third QuarterEndedJune 30, 2012
 
 
Fourth QuarterEndedSeptember 30, 2012
 

 
  
(in thousands, except per share amounts)
 

 Year Ended September 30, 2012
  



 



  



 




 Net sales
  
$
352,473
  
 
$
423,469
  
  
$
461,660
  
 
$
462,606
  

 Gross profit
  
 
199,555
  
 
 
236,040
  
  
 
253,302
  
 
 
256,820
  

 Net income
  
 
65,105
  
 
 
81,552
  
  
 
90,446
  
 
 
87,866
  

 Net earnings per share—basic and diluted
  
$
1.15
  
 
$
1.51
  
  
$
1.68
  
 
$
1.63
  







 
  
First QuarterEndedJanuary 1, 2011
 
 
Second QuarterEndedApril 2, 2011
 
  
Third QuarterEndedJuly 2, 2011
 
 
Fourth QuarterEndedSeptember 30, 2011
 

 
  
(in thousands, except per share amounts)
 

 Year Ended September 30, 2011:
  



 



  



 




 Net sales
  
$
233,552
  
 
$
304,307
  
  
$
325,209
  
 
$
342,953
  

 Gross profit
  
 
127,146
  
 
 
157,874
  
  
 
183,149
  
 
 
193,016
  

 Net income (loss) from continuing operations
  
$
(7,153
) 
 
$
36,697
  
  
$
58,368
  
 
$
64,313
  

 Net income (loss) from discontinued operations
  
 
(205
) 
 
 
19,120
  
  
 
(2,088
) 
 
 
3,082
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
(7,358
) 
 
$
55,817
  
  
$
56,280
  
 
$
67,395
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations—basic and diluted
  
$
(0.19
) 
 
$
0.69
  
  
$
1.10
  
 
$
1.20
  

 Net earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations—basic and diluted
  
 
—  
  
 
 
0.35
  
  
 
(0.04
) 
 
 
0.06
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net earnings (loss) per share—basic and diluted
  
$
(0.19
) 
 
$
1.04
  
  
$
1.06
  
 
$
1.26
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-29



Table of Contents


23.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 
Amendment No. 2 to Revolving Credit Facility—In accordance with the terms of the credit
agreement dated December 6, 2010, as amended by the Amendment No.1, dated as of March 25, 2012, TransDigm Inc. entered into Amendment No. 2 to the Existing Senior Secured Credit Facility on October 9, 2012. Amendment No. 2
to the Existing Senior Secured Credit Facility provides for a modification to the restricted payment covenant to permit a special dividend in an amount not to exceed $850 million and a modification to the financial covenant ratios in its New Senior
Secured Credit Facility.  Amendment No. 2 to Term Loan Credit Facility—In accordance with the
terms of the credit agreement, dated as of February 14, 2011, as amended by Amendment No. 1 and Incremental Term Loan Assumption Agreement, dated as of February 15, 2012, TransDigm Inc. entered into Amendment No. 2 and
Incremental Term Loan Assumption Agreement to the New Senior Secured Credit Facility (the “Term Loan Credit Facility Amendment”) on October 9, 2012. The Term Loan Credit Facility Amendment provides for an additional term loan facility
in the aggregate principal amount of $150 million. The additional term loan facility was fully drawn on October 15, 2012. 
The terms and conditions that apply to the additional term loan facility are substantially the same as the terms and conditions that
apply to the existing term loans under the New Senior Secured Credit Facility. In addition, the Term Loan Credit Facility Amendment provides for a modification to the incremental term loan facility by excluding the incremental term facility from the
calculation of the availability thereunder and a modification to the restricted payment covenant to permit a special dividend in an amount not to exceed $850 million. 
Issuance of Senior Subordinated Notes—On October 15, 2012 TransDigm issued $550
million in aggregate principal amount of its 5 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2020 (the “2020 Notes”) at an issue price of 100% of the principal amount. The
2020 Notes bear interest at the rate of
5 1/2% per annum, which accrues from October 15, 2012 and is payable semiannually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 of each year, commencing on April 15, 2013. The 2020 Notes mature on
October 15, 2020, unless earlier redeemed or repurchased, and are subject to the terms and conditions as defined in the indenture governing the 2020 notes.  The 2020 Notes are subordinated to all of TransDigm’s existing and future senior debt, rank equally with all of its existing and future senior subordinated debt and rank senior to all of its future
debt that is expressly subordinated to the 2020 Notes. The 2020 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated unsecured basis by TD Group and its wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries named in the indenture. The guarantees of the 2020 Notes are
subordinated to all of the guarantors’ existing and future senior debt, rank equally with all of their existing and future senior subordinated debt and rank senior to all of their future debt that is expressly subordinated to the guarantees of
the 2020 Notes. The 2020 Notes are structurally subordinated to all of the liabilities of TD Group’s non-guarantor subsidiaries.  Special Cash Dividend—On October 15, 2012 the Company’s board of directors authorized and declared a special cash dividend of $12.85 on each outstanding share of common stock
and cash dividend equivalent payments under certain of its stock option plans. The special cash dividend amounting to approximately $663.5 million was paid in November 2012 and Dividend Equivalent Payments amounting to approximately
$36.0 million will be paid prior to December 31, 2012.  Agreement to Acquire Goodrich Pump & Engine
Control Systems—On October 25, 2012, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire the assets of the Goodrich Pump & Engine Control Systems business (“GPECS”) for approximately $236 million in cash.
The acquisition, which is subject to approval by the U.S. Department of Justice and the European Commission, is expected to close late in the current calendar year or early in 2013. GPECS manufactures proprietary, highly engineered aerospace fuel
systems for the business jet, helicopter, military and commercial marketplace. 
  F-30



Table of Contents


24.
SUPPLEMENTAL GUARANTOR INFORMATION 
TransDigm’s
7 3/4% senior subordinated notes due 2018 (the “2018 Notes”) (see Note 11) are jointly and severally guaranteed, on a senior subordinated basis, by TD Group and TransDigm Inc.’s 100% Domestic
Restricted Subsidiaries, as defined in the Indenture. The following supplemental condensed consolidating financial information presents, in separate columns, the balance sheets of the Company as of September 30, 2012 and September 30, 2011
and its statements of income and cash flows for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 for (i) TransDigm Group on a parent only basis with its investment in subsidiaries recorded under the equity method,
(ii) TransDigm Inc. including its directly owned operations and non-operating entities, (iii) the Subsidiary Guarantors on a combined basis, (iv) Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries after December 14, 2010 and (v) the Company on a
consolidated basis. 
  F-31



Table of Contents
TRANSDIGM GROUP INCORPORATED 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET  AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 2012   




























 
 
TransDigmGroup
 
 
TransDigmInc.
 
 
SubsidiaryGuarantors
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
TotalConsolidated
 

 ASSETS
 



 



 



 



 



 




 CURRENT ASSETS:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
20,100
  
 
$
406,891
  
 
$
4,494
  
 
$
9,039
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
440,524
  

 Trade accounts receivable—Net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
12,261
  
 
 
207,537
  
 
 
17,486
  
 
 
(1,501
) 
 
 
235,783
  

 Inventories—Net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
23,410
  
 
 
272,180
  
 
 
25,397
  
 
 
(484
) 
 
 
320,503
  

 Deferred income taxes
 
 
—  
  
 
 
29,134
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
29,134
  

 Prepaid expenses and other
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,585
  
 
 
12,626
  
 
 
2,376
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
24,587
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
 
 
20,100
  
 
 
481,281
  
 
 
496,837
  
 
 
54,298
  
 
 
(1,985
) 
 
 
1,050,531
  

 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES AND INTERCOMPANY BALANCES
 
 
1,198,734
  
 
 
4,720,602
  
 
 
2,055,938
  
 
 
43,745
  
 
 
(8,019,019
) 
 
 
—  
  

 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT—Net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
15,685
  
 
 
144,177
  
 
 
12,875
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
172,737
  

 GOODWILL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
85,680
  
 
 
2,872,483
  
 
 
77,339
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,035,502
  

 TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES
 
 
—  
  
 
 
19,377
  
 
 
416,490
  
 
 
31,747
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
467,614
  

 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS—Net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
8,151
  
 
 
614,225
  
 
 
33,620
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
655,996
  

 DEBT ISSUE COSTS—Net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
62,190
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
62,190
  

 OTHER
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,750
  
 
 
(27,249
) 
 
 
39,546
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
15,047
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL ASSETS
 
$
1,218,834
  
 
$
5,395,716
  
 
$
6,572,901
  
 
$
293,170
  
 
$
(8,021,004
) 
 
$
5,459,617
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
 



 



 



 



 



 




 CURRENT LIABILITIES:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Current portion of long-term debt
 
$
—  
  
 
$
20,500
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
20,500
  

 Accounts payable
 
 
—  
  
 
 
10,068
  
 
 
54,054
  
 
 
11,553
  
 
 
(1,497
) 
 
 
74,178
  

 Accrued liabilities
 
 
—  
  
 
 
68,808
  
 
 
64,250
  
 
 
6,179
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
139,237
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
 
 
—  
  
 
 
99,376
  
 
 
118,304
  
 
 
17,732
  
 
 
(1,497
) 
 
 
233,915
  

 LONG-TERM DEBT
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,598,625
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,598,625
  

 DEFERRED INCOME TAXES
 
 
—  
  
 
 
356,896
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
356,896
  

 OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
 
 
—  
  
 
 
24,083
  
 
 
26,480
  
 
 
784
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
51,347
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,078,980
  
 
 
144,784
  
 
 
18,516
  
 
 
(1,497
) 
 
 
4,240,783
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
 
 
1,218,834
  
 
 
1,316,736
  
 
 
6,428,117
  
 
 
274,654
  
 
 
(8,019,507
) 
 
 
1,218,834
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
 
$
1,218,834
  
 
$
5,395,716
  
 
$
6,572,901
  
 
$
293,170
  
 
$
(8,021,004
) 
 
$
5,459,617
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-32



Table of Contents
TRANSDIGM GROUP INCORPORATED 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET  AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 2011  (Amounts in Thousands) 
 




























 
 
TransDigmGroup
 
 
TransDigmInc.
 
 
SubsidiaryGuarantors
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
TotalConsolidated
 

 ASSETS
 



 



 



 



 



 




 CURRENT ASSETS:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
5,695
  
 
$
360,074
  
 
$
2,115
  
 
$
8,299
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
376,183
  

 Trade accounts receivable— Net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
11,183
  
 
 
170,420
  
 
 
8,484
  
 
 
(794
) 
 
 
189,293
  

 Inventories—Net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
23,311
  
 
 
233,726
  
 
 
8,264
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
265,317
  

 Deferred income taxes
 
 
—  
  
 
 
23,248
  
 
 
7,596
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
30,844
  

 Prepaid expenses and other
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,571
  
 
 
5,451
  
 
 
633
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
8,655
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
 
 
5,695
  
 
 
420,387
  
 
 
419,308
  
 
 
25,680
  
 
 
(778
) 
 
 
870,292
  

 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES AND INTERCOMPANY BALANCES
 
 
805,254
  
 
 
3,746,531
  
 
 
1,557,736
  
 
 
(8,494
) 
 
 
(6,101,027
) 
 
 
—  
  

 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT—Net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
15,903
  
 
 
129,566
  
 
 
5,331
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
150,800
  

 GOODWILL
 
 
—  
  
 
 
81,736
  
 
 
2,478,780
  
 
 
35,231
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,595,747
  

 TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES
 
 
—  
  
 
 
19,376
  
 
 
313,280
  
 
 
12,286
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
344,942
  

 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS—Net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
8,760
  
 
 
459,615
  
 
 
15,049
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
483,424
  

 DEBT ISSUE COSTS—Net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
59,007
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
59,007
  

 OTHER
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,415
  
 
 
7,010
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,424
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL ASSETS
 
$
810,949
  
 
$
4,354,115
  
 
$
5,365,295
  
 
$
85,082
  
 
$
(6,101,805
) 
 
$
4,513,636
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
 



 



 



 



 



 




 CURRENT LIABILITIES:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Current portion of long-term debt
 
$
 —  
  
 
$
 15,500
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
 —  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
 15,500
  

 Accounts payable
 
 
—  
  
 
 
8,071
  
 
 
49,944
  
 
 
4,889
  
 
 
(794
) 
 
 
62,110
  

 Accrued liabilities
 
 
—  
  
 
 
58,086
  
 
 
68,333
  
 
 
2,830
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
129,249
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
 
 
—  
  
 
 
81,657
  
 
 
118,277
  
 
 
7,719
  
 
 
(794
) 
 
 
206,859
  

 LONG-TERM DEBT
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,122,875
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,122,875
  

 DEFERRED INCOME TAXES
 
 
—  
  
 
 
199,610
  
 
 
110,841
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
310,451
  

 OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
 
 
—  
  
 
 
26,717
  
 
 
35,785
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
62,502
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,430,859
  
 
 
264,903
  
 
 
7,719
  
 
 
(794
) 
 
 
3,702,687
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
 
 
810,949
  
 
 
923,256
  
 
 
5,100,392
  
 
 
77,363
  
 
 
(6,101,011
) 
 
 
810,949
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
 
$
810,949
  
 
$
4,354,115
  
 
$
5,365,295
  
 
$
85,082
  
 
$
(6,101,805
) 
 
$
4,513,636
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-33



Table of Contents
TRANSDIGM GROUP INCORPORATED 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF INCOME  FOR THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2012  (Amounts in Thousands)
  




























 
 
TransDigmGroup
 
 
TransDigmInc.
 
 
SubsidiaryGuarantors
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
TotalConsolidated
 

 NET SALES
 
$
—  
  
 
$
103,694
  
 
$
1,508,067
  
 
$
102,299
  
 
$
(13,852
) 
 
$
1,700,208
  

 COST OF SALES
 
 
—  
  
 
 
64,394
  
 
 
622,056
  
 
 
81,390
  
 
 
(13,349
) 
 
 
754,491
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 GROSS PROFIT
 
 
—  
  
 
 
39,300
  
 
 
886,011
  
 
 
20,909
  
 
 
(503
) 
 
 
945,717
  

 SELLING AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
 
 
—  
  
 
 
61,214
  
 
 
125,261
  
 
 
15,234
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
201,709
  

 AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
 
—  
  
 
 
624
  
 
 
41,937
  
 
 
1,672
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
44,233
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCOME (LOSS) FROM OPERATIONS
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(22,538
) 
 
 
718,813
  
 
 
4,003
  
 
 
(503
) 
 
 
699,775
  

 INTEREST EXPENSE—Net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
208,384
  
 
 
2,268
  
 
 
1,254
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
211,906
  

 EQUITY IN INCOME OF SUBSIDIARIES
 
 
(324,969
) 
 
 
(465,683
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
790,652
  
 
 
—  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES
 
 
324,969
  
 
 
234,761
  
 
 
716,545
  
 
 
2,749
  
 
 
(791,155
) 
 
 
487,869
  

 INCOME TAX PROVISION (BENEFIT)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(90,208
) 
 
 
251,514
  
 
 
1,594
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
162,900
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCOME
 
$
324,969
  
 
$
324,969
  
 
$
465,031
  
 
$
1,155
  
 
$
(791,155
) 
 
$
324,969
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-34



Table of Contents
TRANSDIGM GROUP INCORPORATED 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF INCOME  FOR THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2011  (Amounts in Thousands)
  




























 
 
TransDigmGroup
 
 
TransDigmInc.
 
 
SubsidiaryGuarantors
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
TotalConsolidated
 

 NET SALES
 
$
—  
  
 
$
81,944
  
 
$
1,097,662
  
 
$
31,649
  
 
$
(5,234
) 
 
$
1,206,021
  

 COST OF SALES
 
 
—  
  
 
 
46,438
  
 
 
479,536
  
 
 
24,334
  
 
 
(5,472
) 
 
 
544,836
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 GROSS PROFIT
 
 
—  
  
 
 
35,506
  
 
 
618,126
  
 
 
7,315
  
 
 
238
  
 
 
661,185
  

 SELLING AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
 
 
—  
  
 
 
44,754
  
 
 
85,796
  
 
 
3,172
  
 
 
(11
) 
 
 
133,711
  

 AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
 
—  
  
 
 
624
  
 
 
37,900
  
 
 
1,815
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
40,339
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCOME (LOSS) FROM OPERATIONS
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(9,872
) 
 
 
494,430
  
 
 
2,328
  
 
 
249
  
 
 
487,135
  

 INTEREST EXPENSE—Net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
183,175
  
 
 
777
  
 
 
1,304
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
185,256
  

 REFINANCING COSTS
 
 
—  
  
 
 
72,454
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
72,454
  

 EQUITY IN INCOME OF SUBSIDIARIES
 
 
(172,134
) 
 
 
(345,158
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
517,292
  
 
 
—  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE INCOME TAXES
 
 
172,134
  
 
 
79,657
  
 
 
493,653
  
 
 
1,024
  
 
 
(517,043
) 
 
 
229,425
  

 INCOME TAX PROVISION (BENEFIT)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(92,477
) 
 
 
167,822
  
 
 
1,855
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
77,200
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCOME (LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
 
 
172,134
  
 
 
172,134
  
 
 
325,831
  
 
 
(831
) 
 
 
(517,043
) 
 
 
152,225
  

 INCOME FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, NET OF TAX
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,883
  
 
 
15,026
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
19,909
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCOME
 
$
172,134
  
 
$
172,134
  
 
$
330,714
  
 
$
14,195
  
 
$
(517,043
) 
 
$
172,134
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-35



Table of Contents
TRANSDIGM GROUP INCORPORATED 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF INCOME  FOR THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2010  (Amounts in Thousands)
  
























 
  
TransDigmGroup
 
 
TransDigmInc.
 
 
SubsidiaryGuarantors
 
  
Eliminations
 
 
TotalConsolidated
 

 NET SALES
  
$
—  
  
 
$
64,990
  
 
$
766,068
  
  
$
(3,404
) 
 
$
827,654
  

 COST OF SALES
  
 
—  
  
 
 
36,398
  
 
 
320,288
  
  
 
(2,098
) 
 
 
354,588
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 GROSS PROFIT
  
 
—  
  
 
 
28,592
  
 
 
445,780
  
  
 
(1,306
) 
 
 
473,066
  

 SELLING AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
  
 
—  
  
 
 
31,130
  
 
 
65,088
  
  
 
(1,300
) 
 
 
94,918
  

 AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS
  
 
—  
  
 
 
624
  
 
 
14,455
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
15,079
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCOME (LOSS) FROM OPERATIONS
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(3,162
) 
 
 
366,237
  
  
 
(6
) 
 
 
363,069
  

 INTEREST EXPENSE—Net
  
 
—  
  
 
 
110,127
  
 
 
2,107
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
112,234
  

 EQUITY IN INCOME OF SUBSIDIARIES
  
 
(163,445
) 
 
 
(237,334
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
400,779
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES
  
 
163,445
  
 
 
124,045
  
 
 
364,130
  
  
 
(400,785
) 
 
 
250,835
  

 INCOME TAX PROVISION (BENEFIT)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(39,400
) 
 
 
126,790
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
87,390
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCOME
  
$
163,445
  
 
$
163,445
  
 
$
237,340
  
  
$
(400,785
) 
 
$
163,445
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-36



Table of Contents
TRANSDIGM GROUP INCORPORATED 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS  FOR THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2012  (Amounts in Thousands)
  




























 
 
TransDigmGroup
 
 
TransDigmInc.
 
 
SubsidiaryGuarantors
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
TotalConsolidated
 

 NET CASH PROVIDED BY (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES
 
$
—  
  
 
$
(119,491
) 
 
$
523,759
  
 
$
9,466
  
 
$
151
  
 
$
413,885
  

 INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Capital expenditures
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,865
) 
 
 
(22,259
) 
 
 
(1,122
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(25,246
) 

 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(868,696
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(868,696
) 

 Cash proceeds from sale of business
 
 
—  
  
 
 
17,650
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
17,650
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(852,911
) 
 
 
(22,259
) 
 
 
(1,122
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(876,292
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Intercompany activities
 
 
(47,715
) 
 
 
554,153
  
 
 
(499,121
) 
 
 
(7,166
) 
 
 
(151
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Excess tax benefits related to share-based payment arrangements
 
 
50,555
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
50,555
  

 Proceeds from exercise of stock options
 
 
15,710
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
15,710
  

 Dividends paid
 
 
(3,299
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(3,299
) 

 Treasury stock purchased
 
 
(846
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(846
) 

 Proceeds from new senior secured credit facility—net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
484,316
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
484,316
  

 Repayment on new senior secured credit facility
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(19,250
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(19,250
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
 
 
14,405
  
 
 
1,019,219
  
 
 
(499,121
) 
 
 
(7,166
) 
 
 
(151
) 
 
 
527,186
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES ON CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(438
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(438
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
 
14,405
  
 
 
46,817
  
 
 
2,379
  
 
 
740
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
64,341
  

 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF PERIOD
 
 
5,695
  
 
 
360,074
  
 
 
2,115
  
 
 
8,299
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
376,183
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF PERIOD
 
$
20,100
  
 
$
406,891
  
 
$
4,494
  
 
$
9,039
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
440,524
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-37



Table of Contents
TRANSDIGM GROUP INCORPORATED 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS  FOR THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2011  (Amounts in Thousands)
  




























 
 
TransDigmGroup
 
 
TransDigmInc.
 
 
SubsidiaryGuarantors
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
TotalConsolidated
 

 NET CASH PROVIDED BY (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES
 
$
—  
  
 
$
(164,846
) 
 
$
409,483
  
 
$
14,102
  
 
$
1,647
  
 
$
260,386
  

 INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Capital expenditures
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,639
) 
 
 
(15,140
) 
 
 
(247
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(18,026
) 

 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,650,363
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,650,363
) 

 Cash proceeds from sales of discontinued operations
 
 
—  
  
 
 
271,361
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
271,361
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,381,641
) 
 
 
(15,140
) 
 
 
(247
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,397,028
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Intercompany activities
 
 
(28,997
) 
 
 
431,648
  
 
 
(395,256
) 
 
 
(5,748
) 
 
 
(1,647
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Excess tax benefits related to share-based payment arrangements
 
 
23,411
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
23,411
  

 Proceeds from exercise of stock options
 
 
9,208
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,208
  

 Dividends paid
 
 
(2,811
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,811
) 

 Proceeds from new senior secured credit facility—net
 



 
 
1,500,048
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,500,048
  

 Repayment on new senior secured credit facility
 



 
 
(11,625
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(11,625
) 

 Proceeds from senior subordinated notes due 2018—net
 



 
 
1,582,184
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,582,184
  

 Repurchase of senior subordinated notes due 2014—net
 



 
 
(1,041,894
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,041,894
) 

 Repayment of existing senior secured credit facility
 



 
 
(780,000
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(780,000
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
 
 
811
  
 
 
1,680,361
  
 
 
(395,256
) 
 
 
(5,748
) 
 
 
(1,647
) 
 
 
1,278,521
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES ON CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
192
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
192
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
 
811
  
 
 
133,874
  
 
 
(913
) 
 
 
8,299
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
142,071
  

 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF PERIOD
 
 
4,884
  
 
 
226,200
  
 
 
3,028
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
234,112
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF PERIOD
 
$
5,695
  
 
$
360,074
  
 
$
2,115
  
 
$
8,299
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
376,183
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-38



Table of Contents
TRANSDIGM GROUP INCORPORATED 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS  FOR THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2010  (Amounts in Thousands)
  
























 
 
TransDigmGroup
 
 
TransDigmInc.
 
 
SubsidiaryGuarantors
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
TotalConsolidated
 

 NET CASH PROVIDED BY (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES
 
$
—  
  
 
$
(53,873
) 
 
$
251,175
  
 
$
2
  
 
$
197,304
  

 INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
 



 



 



 



 




 Capital expenditures
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,875
) 
 
 
(11,012
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(12,887
) 

 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(166,557
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(166,557
) 

 Cash proceeds from sale of real estate
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,885
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,885
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(168,432
) 
 
 
(8,127
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(176,559
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
 



 



 



 



 




 Intercompany activities
 
 
370,544
  
 
 
(129,373
) 
 
 
(241,169
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Excess tax benefits related to share-based payment arrangements
 
 
17,459
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
17,459
  

 Proceeds from exercise of stock options
 
 
6,361
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,361
  

 Dividends paid
 
 
(404,868
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(404,868
) 

 Proceeds from senior subordinated notes-net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
404,248
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
404,248
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
 
 
(10,504
) 
 
 
274,875
  
 
 
(241,169
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
23,200
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
 
(10,504
) 
 
 
52,570
  
 
 
1,879
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
43,945
  

 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF PERIOD
 
 
15,388
  
 
 
173,630
  
 
 
1,149
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
190,167
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF PERIOD
 
$
4,884
  
 
$
226,200
  
 
$
3,028
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
234,112
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 ***** 
  F-39



Table of Contents
TRANSDIGM GROUP INCORPORATED 
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS  FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2012, 2011, AND 2010  (Amounts in
Thousands)   
























Column A
 
Column B
 
 
Column C
 
 
Column D
 
 
Column E
 

 Description
 
Balance atBeginning ofPeriod
 
 
Additions
 
 
Deductions fromReserve(1)
 
 
Balance atEnd ofPeriod
 

 
 
Charged to Costsand Expenses
 
 
Acquisitions
 
 
 

 Year Ended September 30, 2012
 



 



 



 



 




 Allowance for doubtful accounts
 
$
2,873
  
 
$
1,555
  
 
$
1,066
  
 
$
(534
) 
 
$
4,960
  

 Reserve for excess and obsolete inventory
 
 
25,623
  
 
 
11,839
  
 
 
4,933
  
 
 
(6,314
) 
 
 
36,081
  

 Year Ended September 30, 2011
 



 



 



 



 




 Allowance for doubtful accounts
 
 
2,270
  
 
 
570
  
 
 
599
  
 
 
(566
) 
 
 
2,873
  

 Reserve for excess and obsolete inventory
 
 
18,251
  
 
 
8,361
  
 
 
415
  
 
 
(1,404
) 
 
 
25,623
  

 Year Ended September 30, 2010
 



 



 



 



 




 Allowance for doubtful accounts
 
 
2,448
  
 
 
(156
) 
 
 
678
  
 
 
(700
) 
 
 
2,270
  

 Reserve for excess and obsolete inventory
 
 
17,018
  
 
 
22
  
 
 
1,882
  
 
 
(671
) 
 
 
18,251
  
  


(1)
The amounts in this column represent charge-offs net of recoveries. 
  F-40



Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX  TO FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2012   






 EXHIBITNO.
  
 DESCRIPTION

3.34
  
Articles of Amendment of Articles of Incorporation, filed May 2, 2012, of AvtechTyee, Inc.




3.54
  
Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation, filed October 17, 2012, of Semco Instruments, Inc.




3.110
  
Articles of Organization of Aerospace Ventures, LLC (now known as Aero-Instruments Co., LLC) filed July 12, 2001




3.111
  
Certificate of Amendment to Articles of Organization of Aerospace Ventures, LLC (now known as Aero-Instruments Co., LLC) dated August 9, 2001




3.112
  
Second Amended and Restated Operating Agreement of Aero-Instruments Co., LLC




12.1
  
Statement of Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges




21.1
  
Subsidiaries of TransDigm Group Incorporated




23.1
  
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm




31.1
  
Certification by Principal Executive Officer of TransDigm Group Incorporated pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant
to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




31.2
  
Certification by Principal Financial Officer of TransDigm Group Incorporated pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant
to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




32.1
  
Certification by Principal Executive Officer of TransDigm Group Incorporated pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.




32.2
  
Certification by Principal Financial Officer of TransDigm Group Incorporated pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.




101
  
Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements formatted in XBRL.




