
10-K
1
d276115d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549   
  Form 10-K
    
 


x
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011  or   


¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the Transition Period from              to
              Commission File No. 001-32260
    
Westlake Chemical Corporation  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   
   






Delaware
 
76-0346924

 (State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
 
 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 2801 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 600 
Houston, Texas 77056  (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)  (713)
960-9111  (Registrant’s telephone number, including area code) 
   
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
 






 Title of each class
 
 Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, $0.01 par value
 
New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
   
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes  ¨    No  x 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange
Act.    Yes  ¨    No  x 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes  x    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes  x    No  ¨  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  x 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See
definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act:   











 Large accelerated filer  x
  
Accelerated filer  ¨
  
Non-accelerated filer  ¨
  
Smaller reporting company  ¨


  

  
 (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
  

 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).    Yes  ¨    No  x 
The aggregate market value of the registrant’s voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant on June 30, 2011, the end
of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, based on a closing price on June 30, 2011 of $51.90 on the New York Stock Exchange was approximately $1.0 billion. 
There were 66,535,075 shares of the registrant’s common stock outstanding as of February 17, 2012. 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:  Certain information required by Part II and Part III of this Form 10-K is incorporated by reference from the registrant’s definitive Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A with
respect to the registrant’s 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 24, 2012.   
   


Table of Contents
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 










 
  
 
  
Page
 


  
PART I
  








Item
  

  




1)
  
Business
  
 
1
  

1A)
  
Risk Factors
  
 
9
  

1B)
  
Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
20
  

2)
  
Properties
  
 
21
  

3)
  
Legal Proceedings
  
 
22
  

4)
  
Mine Safety Disclosure
  
 
22
  


  
Executive Officers of the Registrant
  
 
22
  






  
PART II
  








5)
  
 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

  
 
25
  

6)
  
Selected Financial and Operational Data
  
 
27
  

7)
  
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  
 
30
  

7A)
  
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
  
 
45
  

8)
  
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
47
  

9)
  
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
 
93
  

9A)
  
Controls and Procedures
  
 
93
  

9B)
  
Other Information
  
 
93
  






  
PART III
  








10)
  
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
94
  

11)
  
 Executive Compensation
  
 
94
  

12)
  
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters
  
 
94
  

13)
  
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
94
  

14)
  
Principal Accountant Fees and Services
  
 
94
  






  
PART IV
  








15)
  
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 
  
 
95
  



Table of Contents
INDUSTRY AND MARKET DATA 
Industry and market data used throughout this Form 10-K were obtained through internal company research, surveys and studies conducted by
unrelated third parties and industry and general publications, including information from IHS Chemical and Chemical Data, Inc. We have not independently verified market and industry data from external sources. While we believe internal company
estimates are reliable and market definitions are appropriate, neither such estimates nor these definitions have been verified by any independent sources.  PRODUCTION CAPACITY  Unless we state otherwise, annual production capacity
estimates used throughout this Form 10-K represent rated capacity of the facilities at December 31, 2011. We calculated rated capacity by estimating the number of days in a typical year that a production unit of a plant is expected to operate,
after allowing for downtime for regular maintenance, and multiplying that number by an amount equal to the unit’s optimal daily output based on the design feedstock mix. Because the rated capacity of a production unit is an estimated amount,
actual production volumes may be more or less than the rated capacity.  NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES 
The body of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States is commonly referred to as “GAAP.” For this purpose, a
non-GAAP financial measure is generally defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) as one that purports to measure historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows, but excludes or includes
amounts that would not be so adjusted in the most comparable GAAP measures. In this report, we disclose so-called non-GAAP financial measures, primarily EBITDA. EBITDA is calculated as net income before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation
and amortization. The non-GAAP financial measures described in this Form 10-K are not substitutes for the GAAP measures of earnings and cash flow.  EBITDA is included in this Form 10-K because our management considers it an important supplemental measure of our performance and believes that it is frequently used by securities analysts, investors and
other interested parties in the evaluation of companies in our industry, some of which present EBITDA when reporting their results. We regularly evaluate our performance as compared to other companies in our industry that have different financing
and capital structures and/or tax rates by using EBITDA. In addition, we utilize EBITDA in evaluating acquisition targets. Management also believes that EBITDA is a useful tool for measuring our ability to meet our future debt service, capital
expenditures and working capital requirements, and EBITDA is commonly used by us and our investors to measure our ability to service indebtedness. EBITDA is not a substitute for the GAAP measures of earnings or of cash flow and is not necessarily a
measure of our ability to fund our cash needs. In addition, it should be noted that companies calculate EBITDA differently and, therefore, EBITDA as presented for us may not be comparable to EBITDA reported by other companies. EBITDA has material
limitations as a performance measure because it excludes interest expense, depreciation and amortization, and income taxes. 
  i 


Table of Contents
PART I 
 


Item 1.
Business  General 
We are a vertically integrated manufacturer and marketer of basic chemicals, vinyls, polymers and fabricated building products. Our
products include some of the most widely used chemicals in the world, which are fundamental to many diverse consumer and industrial markets, including flexible and rigid packaging, automotive products, coatings, residential and commercial
construction as well as other durable and non-durable goods. We operate in two principal business segments, Olefins and Vinyls, and we are an integrated producer of vinyls with substantial downstream integration into polyvinyl chloride, or PVC,
building products.  We began operations in 1986 after our first polyethylene plant, an Olefins segment business, near Lake
Charles, Louisiana was acquired from Occidental Petroleum Corporation. We began our vinyls operations in 1990 with the acquisition of a vinyl chloride monomer, or VCM, plant in Calvert City, Kentucky from the Goodrich Corporation. In 1992, we
commenced our Vinyls segment building products operations after acquiring three PVC pipe plants. Since 1986, we have grown rapidly into an integrated producer of petrochemicals, polymers and building products. We achieved this by acquiring existing
plants or constructing new plants (including our joint venture in China) and completing numerous capacity or production line expansions.  We benefit from highly integrated production facilities that allow us to process raw materials into higher value-added chemicals and building products. As of February 17, 2012, we had 11.8 billion
pounds per year of aggregate production capacity at 13 manufacturing sites in North America. We also have a 59% interest in a joint venture in China that operates a vinyls facility.  Olefins Business  Products 
Olefins are the basic building blocks used to create a wide variety of petrochemical products. We manufacture ethylene, polyethylene,
styrene, and associated co-products at our manufacturing facility in Lake Charles and polyethylene at our Longview, Texas facility. We have two ethylene plants, two polyethylene plants and one styrene monomer plant at our Lake Charles complex. We
have three polyethylene plants and a specialty polyethylene wax plant at our Longview facility. The following table illustrates our production capacities at February 17, 2012 by principal product and the primary end uses of these materials:
  








 Product
 
 Annual Capacity
  
 End Uses

 
 
(Millions of pounds)
  
 





 Ethylene
 
2,500
  
Polyethylene, ethylene dichloride, or EDC, styrene, ethylene oxide/ethylene glycol





 Low-Density Polyethylene, or LDPE
 
1,500
  
High clarity packaging, shrink films, laundry and dry cleaning bags, ice bags, frozen foods packaging, bakery bags, coated paper board, cup stock, paper folding cartons, lids,
closures and general purpose molding





 Linear Low-Density Polyethylene, or LLDPE
 
980
  
Heavy-duty films and bags, general purpose liners





 Styrene
 
570
  
Disposables, packaging material, appliances, paints and coatings, resins and building materials

  1 


Table of Contents
Ethylene. Ethylene is the world’s most widely used petrochemical in terms of
volume. It is the key building block used to produce a large number of higher value-added chemicals including polyethylene, EDC, VCM and styrene. We have the capacity to produce 2.5 billion pounds of ethylene per year at our Lake Charles complex and
the capability to consume all of our production internally to produce polyethylene and styrene monomer in our Olefins business and to produce VCM and EDC in our Vinyls business. We also produce ethylene in our Vinyls segment at our Calvert City
facility, all of which is used internally in the production of VCM. In addition, we produce ethylene co-products including chemical grade propylene, crude butadiene, pyrolysis gasoline and hydrogen. We sell our entire output of these co-products to
external customers. In April 2011, we announced an expansion program to increase the ethane-based ethylene capacity of both of the ethylene units at our Lake Charles complex. We currently expect to complete the expansion of one of the two
ethylene units by late 2012. The first cracker expansion is expected to increase ethylene capacity by approximately 230 – 240 million pounds annually, while also increasing feedstock flexibility. The additional capacity from this
expansion is expected to provide ethylene for existing internal uses and may also be sold in the merchant market. In addition, we are currently evaluating expansion plans to increase the ethane-based ethylene capacity of the second ethylene unit at
our Lake Charles complex.  Polyethylene. Polyethylene, the world’s most widely consumed polymer, is used in the
manufacture of a wide variety of film, coatings and molded product applications primarily used in packaging. Polyethylene is generally classified as either LDPE, LLDPE or HDPE. The density correlates to the relative stiffness of the products. The
difference between LDPE and LLDPE is molecular, and products produced from LLDPE are stronger than products produced from LDPE. LDPE is used in end products such as bread bags, dry cleaning bags, food wraps and milk carton and snack package
coatings. LLDPE is used for higher film strength applications such as stretch film and heavy duty sacks. HDPE is used to manufacture products such as grocery, merchandise and trash bags, plastic containers, plastic closures and pipe. 
We are the largest producer of LDPE in North America based on capacity and, in 2011, our annual capacity of 1.5 billion pounds was
available in numerous formulations to meet the needs of our diverse customer base. We also have the capacity to produce 980 million pounds of LLDPE per year in various different formulations. Our Lake Charles facility has the capability to
produce High-Density Polyethylene, or HDPE. We produce LDPE and LLDPE at Lake Charles and Longview. We sell polyethylene to external customers as a final product in pellet form. 
Styrene. Styrene is used to produce derivatives such as polystyrene, acrylonitrile butadiene styrene, unsaturated polyester and
synthetic rubber. These derivatives are used in a number of applications including consumer disposables, food packaging, housewares, paints and coatings, building materials, tires and toys. We produce styrene at our Lake Charles plant, where we have
the capacity to produce 570 million pounds of styrene per year, all of which is sold to external customers.  Feedstocks
 We are highly integrated along our olefins product chain. We produce most of the ethylene required to produce our
polyethylene, VCM and styrene. Ethylene can be produced from either petroleum liquid feedstocks, such as naphtha, condensates and gas oils, or from natural gas liquid feedstocks, such as ethane, propane and butane. One of our ethylene plants uses
ethane as its feedstock and the other can use ethane, ethane/propane mix, propane, butane and naphtha. We receive feedstock at our Lake Charles facility through several pipelines from a variety of suppliers in Texas and Louisiana. We also own a
200-mile ethylene pipeline that runs from Mont Belvieu, Texas to our Longview facility. In addition, we own a 50% interest in a 104-mile natural gas liquids pipeline from Mont Belvieu to our Lake Charles complex. 
In addition to our internally supplied ethylene, we also acquire ethylene from third parties in order to supply a portion of our ethylene
requirements. We acquire butene and hexene to manufacture polyethylene and benzene to manufacture styrene. We receive butene and hexene at the Lake Charles complex and hexene at the Longview 
  2 


Table of Contents

complex via rail car from several suppliers. We receive benzene via barges, ships and pipeline pursuant to short-term arrangements. We purchase butene and hexene pursuant to multi-year contracts,
some of which are renewable for an additional term subject to either party to the contract notifying the other party that it does not wish to renew the contract.  Marketing, Sales and Distribution  We use the majority of our Lake
Charles ethylene production in our polyethylene, styrene and VCM operations. We sell the remainder to external customers. In addition, we sell our ethylene co-products to external customers. Our primary ethylene co-products are chemical grade
propylene, crude butadiene, pyrolysis gasoline and hydrogen. The majority of sales in our Olefins business are made under long-term agreements.  We typically ship our ethylene and propylene via a pipeline system that connects our plants to numerous customers. Our hydrogen is sold via pipeline to a single customer. We also have storage agreements
and exchange agreements that allow us access to customers who are not directly connected to the pipeline system. We transport our polyethylene, styrene, crude butadiene and pyrolysis gasoline by rail or truck. Additionally, styrene can be
transported by barge or ship.  We have an internal sales force that sells directly to our customers. Our polyethylene customers
are some of the nation’s largest producers of film and flexible packaging. In 2011, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of net sales for the Olefins segment.  Competition  The markets in which our Olefins business operates are
highly competitive. We compete on the basis of price, customer service, product deliverability, quality, consistency and performance. Our competitors in the ethylene, polyethylene and styrene markets are typically some of the world’s largest
chemical companies, including Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LP, The Dow Chemical Company, ExxonMobil Chemical Company, INEOS (successor to BP Chemicals Ltd.), LyondellBasell Industries and NOVA Chemicals Corporation, a subsidiary of The
International Petroleum Investment Company of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi.  Vinyls Business 
Products 
Principal products in our integrated Vinyls segment include PVC, VCM, EDC, chlorine, caustic soda and ethylene. We also manufacture and
sell building products fabricated from PVC, including pipe, fence and deck, and window and door components. We manage our integrated Vinyls production chain, from the basic chemicals to finished building products, to maximize product margins and
capacity utilization. Our primary manufacturing facilities are located in our Calvert City and Geismar, Louisiana complexes. Our Calvert City facility includes an ethylene plant, a chlor-alkali plant, a VCM plant, a PVC plant and a large diameter
PVC pipe plant. Our Geismar facility includes an EDC plant, a VCM plant and a PVC plant. As of February 17, 2012, we operated and owned 10 building product facilities and owned a 59% interest in a joint venture in China that produces PVC resin,
building products and PVC film and sheet. 
  3 


Table of Contents
The following table illustrates our production capacities at February 17, 2012 by
principal product and the end uses of these products:   










 Product (1)
  
Annual Capacity (2)

 
  
 End Uses

 
  
(Millions of pounds)
 
  
 

 PVC
  
 
1,700
  
  
Construction materials including pipe, siding, profiles for windows and doors, film and sheet for packaging and other consumer applications





 VCM
  
 
1,850
  
  
PVC





 Chlorine
  
 
550
  
  
VCM, organic/inorganic chemicals, bleach





 Caustic Soda
  
 
605
  
  
Pulp and paper, organic/inorganic chemicals, neutralization, alumina





 Ethylene
  
 
450
  
  
VCM





 Building Products
  
 
1,072
  
  
Pipe: water and sewer, plumbing, irrigation, conduit; window and door components; fence and deck components
  


(1)
EDC, a VCM intermediate product, is not included in the table.   


(2)
Annual capacity excludes total capacity of 145 million pounds of PVC film and sheet, 300 million pounds of PVC resin and 33 million pounds of building
products from the joint venture in China (in which we have a 59% interest).  PVC. PVC, the world’s
third most widely used plastic, is an attractive alternative to traditional materials such as glass, metal, wood, concrete and other plastic materials because of its versatility, durability and cost-competitiveness. PVC is produced from VCM, which
is, in turn, made from chlorine and ethylene. PVC compounds are made by combining PVC resin with various additives in order to make either rigid and impact-resistant or soft and flexible compounds. The various compounds are then fabricated into
end-products through extrusion, calendering, injection-molding or blow-molding. Flexible PVC compounds are used for wire and cable insulation, automotive interior and exterior trims and packaging. Rigid extrusion PVC compounds are commonly used in
window frames, vertical blinds and construction products, including pipe and siding. Injection-molding PVC compounds are used in specialty products such as computer housings and keyboards, appliance parts and bottles. We have the capacity to produce
1.1 billion pounds of PVC per year at our Calvert City facility and 600 million pounds per year at our Geismar facility. We have the capacity to use a majority of our PVC internally in the production of our building products. The remainder
of our PVC is sold to downstream fabricators and the export market.  VCM. VCM is used to produce PVC, solvents and
PVC-related products. We use ethylene and chlorine to produce VCM. We have the capacity to produce 1.3 billion pounds of VCM per year at our Calvert City facility and 550 million pounds per year at our Geismar facility. The majority of our
VCM is used internally in our PVC operations.  Chlorine and Caustic Soda. We combine salt and electricity to produce
chlorine and caustic soda, commonly referred to as chlor-alkali, at our Calvert City facility. We use our chlorine production in our VCM plants. We currently have the capacity to supply approximately 50% of our chlorine requirements internally. We
purchase the remaining amount at market prices. Our caustic soda is sold to external customers who use it for, among other things, the production of pulp and paper, organic and inorganic chemicals and alumina. In August 2010, we announced that
we intend to proceed with the previously announced construction of a new chlor-alkali plant to be located at our vinyls manufacturing complex in Geismar. The new chlor-alkali unit is designed to produce up to 350,000 ECUs annually upon completion,
bringing our total ECU capacity to 
  4 


Table of Contents

625,000 per year. The new plant will improve the vertical integration of our vinyls business from chlorine downstream into VCM and PVC and increase caustic soda sales. The project is
currently targeted for start-up in the second half of 2013.  Ethylene. We use all of the ethylene produced at Calvert
City internally to produce VCM, and Calvert City has the capacity to produce approximately 50% of the ethylene required for our total VCM production. We obtain the remainder of the ethylene we need for our Vinyls business from our Olefins business.
In December 2011, we announced plans to perform a major modification of the ethylene production facility at our Calvert City complex. The modification is expected to reduce costs and improve operating efficiency and energy consumption. We
currently expect the modification to be completed by mid-2013. In addition, we are currently evaluating conversion from propane to ethane feedstock for our ethylene production facility at Calvert City in order to capitalize on available low cost
ethane and other “light” feedstock being developed in North America.  Building Products. Products made from
PVC are used in construction materials ranging from water and sewer systems to home and commercial applications for fence, deck, window and door systems. We manufacture and market water, sewer, irrigation and conduit pipe products under the
“North American Pipe” brand. We also manufacture and market PVC fence, decking, windows and door profiles under the “Westech Building Products” brand. All of our building products are sold to external customers. All of the PVC we
require for our building products is produced internally. In June 2011, we closed our Springfield, Kentucky PVC pipe facility, with an annual capacity of 90 million pounds. The combined capacity of our 10 building products plants is 1.1
billion pounds per year.  China Joint Venture. We own a 59% interest in Suzhou Huasu Plastics Co. Ltd., a joint venture
based near Shanghai, China. Our joint venture partners are a local Chinese chemical company and a subsidiary of INEOS. In 1995, this joint venture constructed and began operating a PVC film plant that has a current annual capacity of
145 million pounds of PVC film. In 1999, the joint venture constructed and began operating a PVC resin plant that has an annual capacity of 300 million pounds of PVC resin. In 2008, the joint venture began producing building products with
an annual capacity of 33 million pounds of product.  Feedstocks 
We are highly integrated along our vinyls production chain. We produce most of the ethylene, all of the VCM and PVC and approximately 50%
of our chlorine requirements used in our Vinyls business. The remainder of our chlorine requirements is purchased at market prices. Ethylene produced at our Calvert City facility utilizes propane feedstock. We purchase the salt required for our
chlor-alkali plant pursuant to a long-term contract. We purchase electricity for our Calvert City facility production from the Tennessee Valley Authority under a long-term contract. 
We are an integrated producer of vinyls with substantial downstream integration into building products. Our Calvert City and Geismar
facilities supply all the PVC required for our building products plants. The remaining feedstocks for building products include pigments, fillers and stabilizers, which we purchase under short-term contracts based on prevailing market prices.
 Marketing, Sales and Distribution  We are the second largest manufacturer of PVC pipe by volume in the United States. We sell a majority of our PVC pipe through a combination of manufacturer’s representatives and our internal sales
force to distributors who serve the wholesale PVC pipe market. We use a regional sales approach that allows us to provide focused customer service and to meet the specified needs of individual customers. We use an internal sales force to market and
sell our fence, window and door profiles. We have the capacity to use a majority of our PVC internally in the production of our building products. The remainder of our PVC is sold to downstream fabricators and the export market. 
 
  5 


Table of Contents
We sell substantially all of our caustic soda production to external customers,
concentrating on customers in Calvert City’s geographical area to minimize transportation costs. In 2011, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of net sales for the Vinyls segment. 
Competition 
Competition in the vinyls market is based on price, product availability, product performance and customer service. We compete in the
vinyls market with other producers including Formosa Plastics Corporation, Georgia Gulf Corporation, Oxy Chem, LP and Shintech, Inc.  Competition in the building products market is based on price, on-time delivery, product quality, customer service and product consistency. We compete in the building products market with other producers
and fabricators including Diamond Plastics Corporation and JM Eagle. We are the second largest manufacturer of PVC pipe by volume in the United States. We are also one of the largest manufacturers of PVC fence components by volume in the United
States.  Environmental and Other Regulation  As is common in our industry, obtaining, producing and distributing many of our products involves the use, storage, transportation and disposal of large quantities of toxic and hazardous materials, and
our manufacturing operations require the generation and disposal of large quantities of hazardous wastes. We are subject to extensive, evolving and increasingly stringent federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, which address,
among other things, the following:   


 
•
 
 emissions to the air;   


 
•
 
 discharges to land or to surface and subsurface waters; 
 


 
•
 
 other releases into the environment;   


 
•
 
 remediation of contaminated sites;   


 
•
 
 generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials; and 
 


 
•
 
 maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace.  We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that can impose civil and criminal sanctions and that may require us to mitigate the effects of contamination caused by the release or disposal of
hazardous substances into the environment. An owner or operator of property may be held strictly liable for remediating contamination without regard to whether that person caused the contamination, and without regard to whether the practices that
resulted in the contamination were legal at the time they occurred. Because several of our production sites have a history of industrial use, it is impossible to predict precisely what effect these legal requirements will have on us. 
Contract Disputes with Goodrich and PolyOne. In connection with the 1990 and 1997 acquisitions of the Goodrich Corporation
(“Goodrich”) chemical manufacturing complex in Calvert City, Goodrich agreed to indemnify us for any liabilities related to preexisting contamination at the complex. For our part, we agreed to indemnify Goodrich for post-closing
contamination caused by our operations. The soil and groundwater at the complex, which does not include our nearby PVC facility, had been extensively contaminated under Goodrich’s operations. In 1993, Goodrich spun off the predecessor of
PolyOne Corporation (“PolyOne”), and that predecessor assumed Goodrich’s indemnification obligations relating to preexisting contamination.  In 2003, litigation arose among us, Goodrich and PolyOne with respect to the allocation of the cost of remediating contamination at the site. The parties settled this litigation in December 2007, and the
case was dismissed. In the settlement the parties agreed that, among other things: (1) PolyOne would pay 100% of the costs (with specified exceptions), net of recoveries or credits from third parties, incurred with respect to environmental
issues at the Calvert City site from August 1, 2007 forward; (2) either we or PolyOne might, from 
  6 


Table of Contents

time to time in the future (but not more than once every five years), institute an arbitration proceeding to adjust that percentage; and (3) we and PolyOne would negotiate a new
environmental remediation utilities and services agreement to cover our provision to or on behalf of PolyOne of certain environmental remediation services at the site. The current environmental remediation activities at the Calvert City complex do
not have a specified termination date but are expected to last for the foreseeable future. The costs incurred by PolyOne to provide the environmental remediation services were $3.3 million and $3.0 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. On
March 17, 2010, we received notice of PolyOne’s intention to commence an arbitration proceeding under the settlement agreement. In this proceeding, PolyOne seeks to readjust the percentage allocation of costs and to recover approximately
$1.4 million from us in reimbursement of previously paid remediation costs. The arbitration is currently stayed. 
Administrative Proceedings. There are several administrative proceedings in Kentucky involving us, Goodrich and PolyOne related to
the same manufacturing complex in Calvert City. In 2003, the Kentucky Environmental and Public Protection Cabinet (the “Cabinet”) re-issued Goodrich’s Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) permit which requires
Goodrich to remediate contamination at the Calvert City manufacturing complex. Both Goodrich and PolyOne challenged various terms of the permit in an attempt to shift Goodrich’s clean-up obligations under the permit to us. We intervened in the
proceedings. The Cabinet has suspended all corrective action under the RCRA permit in deference to a remedial investigation and feasibility study (“RIFS”) being conducted pursuant to an Administrative Settlement Agreement
(“AOC”), which became effective on December 9, 2009. See “Change in Regulatory Regime” below. The proceedings have been postponed. Periodic status conferences will be held to evaluate whether additional proceedings will be
required. On September 19, 2011, we filed a motion to dismiss the remaining proceedings, which was denied on December 29, 2011.  Change in Regulatory Regime. In May 2009, the Cabinet sent a letter to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) requesting the EPA’s assistance in addressing contamination at
the Calvert City site under the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”). In its response to the Cabinet also in May 2009, the EPA stated that it concurred with the Cabinet’s request and
would incorporate work previously conducted under the Cabinet’s RCRA authority into the EPA’s cleanup efforts under CERCLA. Since 1983, the EPA has been addressing contamination at an abandoned landfill adjacent to our plant which had been
operated by Goodrich and which was being remediated pursuant to CERCLA. During the past two years, the EPA has directed Goodrich and PolyOne to conduct additional investigation activities at the landfill and at our plant. In June 2009, the EPA
notified us that we may have potential liability under section 107(a) of CERCLA at our plant site. Liability under section 107(a) of CERCLA is strict and joint and several. The EPA also identified Goodrich and PolyOne, among others, as potentially
responsible parties at the plant site. We negotiated, in conjunction with the other potentially responsible parties, the AOC and an order to conduct the RIFS. The parties submitted and received EPA approval for a RIFS work plan to implement the AOC.
The parties are currently conducting the RIFS.  Monetary Relief. Except as noted above, with respect to the settlement
of the contract litigation among us, Goodrich and PolyOne, none of the court, the Cabinet nor the EPA has established any allocation of the costs of remediation among the various parties that are involved in the judicial and administrative
proceedings discussed above. At this time, we are not able to estimate the loss or reasonable possible loss, if any, on our financial statements that could result from the resolution of these proceedings. Any cash expenditures that we might incur in
the future with respect to the remediation of contamination at the complex would likely be spread out over an extended period. As a result, we believe it is unlikely that any remediation costs allocable to us will be material in terms of
expenditures made in any individual reporting period.  EPA Audit of Ethylene Units in Lake Charles. During 2007, the EPA
conducted an audit of our ethylene units in Lake Charles, with a focus on leak detection and repair, or LDAR. In January 2008, the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, notified us that the EPA had referred the matter to the DOJ to bring a civil case
against us alleging violations of various environmental laws and regulations. The DOJ informed us that it would seek monetary penalties and require us to implement an “enhanced LDAR” program for the ethylene units. The EPA has proposed a
settlement and provided a draft consent decree, which would require our Lake Charles facilities to 
  7 


Table of Contents

undertake an enhanced LDAR program and would require payment of a civil penalty. We are engaged in negotiations with the EPA. We have recorded an accrual for a probable loss related to monetary
penalties. Although the ultimate amount of liability is not ascertainable, we believe that the resolution of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
General. It is our policy to comply with all environmental, health and safety requirements and to provide safe and environmentally
sound workplaces for our employees. In some cases, compliance can be achieved only by incurring capital expenditures, and we are faced with instances of noncompliance from time to time. In 2011, we made capital expenditures of $6.1 million related
to environmental compliance. We estimate that we will make capital expenditures of $6.0 million in 2012 and $7.0 million in 2013, respectively, related to environmental compliance. A significant percentage of the 2012 and 2013 estimated amounts are
related to equipment replacement and upgrades. We anticipate that stringent environmental regulations will continue to be imposed on us and the industry in general. Although we cannot predict with certainty future expenditures, management believes
that our current spending trends will continue.  It is difficult to estimate the future costs of environmental protection and
remediation because of many uncertainties, including uncertainties about the status of laws, regulations and information related to individual locations and sites and our ability to rely on third parties to carry out such remediation. Subject to the
foregoing, but taking into consideration our experience regarding environmental matters of a similar nature and facts currently known, and except for the outcome of pending litigation and regulatory proceedings, which we cannot predict, but which
could have a material adverse effect on us, we believe that capital expenditures and remedial actions to comply with existing laws governing environmental protection will not have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.
 Employees 
As of December 31, 2011, we had 1,811 employees in the following areas: 
 








 Category
  
Number
 

 Olefins segment
  
 
697
  

 Vinyls segment
  
 
991
  

 Corporate
  
 
123
  
 Approximately 12% of our employees are represented by labor unions and all of these employees are working
under collective bargaining agreements. The collective bargaining agreements expire in 2014. There have been no strikes or lockouts, and we have not experienced any work stoppages throughout our history. We believe that our relationship with the
local union officials and bargaining committees is open and positive.  Technology 
Historically, our technology strategy has been to selectively acquire licenses for and to improve upon third-party proprietary technology.
Our selection process incorporates many factors, including the cost of the technology, our customers’ requirements, raw material and energy consumption rates, product quality, capital costs, maintenance requirements and reliability. We own a
patent portfolio of intellectual property developed by a focused research and process technology development group. We also evaluate and access third-party technology for our Olefins businesses. After acquiring a technology, we devote considerable
effort to effectively employ the technology and further its development, with a view towards continuous improvement of our competitive position.  We license technology from a number of third-party providers as follows:   


 
•
 
 MW Kellogg technology and ABB Lummus Crest technology for our ethylene plants at Lake Charles; 
 


 
•
 
 Mobil/Badger technology for our styrene plant at Lake Charles; 
 


 
•
 
 Badger EBMax technology for our styrene plant at Lake Charles; 
 


 
•
 
 INEOS technology to produce LLDPE and HDPE at Lake Charles and Longview; 
  8 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Aspen Technology technology for our advanced process control software; 
 


 
•
 
 Asahi Chemical membrane technology for our chlor-alkali plant at Calvert City; and 
 


 
•
 
 Chlorine Engineers membrane technology for our chlor-alkali plant at Geismar. 
With the exception of Aspen Technology, Badger EBMax and Chlorine Engineers, all of the other licenses are perpetual and have been paid in
full.  We have also selectively granted licenses to our patented Energx® technology for LLDPE production and for proprietary LDPE reactor mixing technology. 
Segment and Geographic Information  Information regarding sales, income (loss) from operations and assets attributable to each of our industry segments, Olefins and Vinyls, and geographical information is presented in Note 19 to our
consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  Available Information 
Our Web site address is www.westlake.com. We make our Web site content available for information purposes only. It should not be relied
upon for investment purposes, nor is it incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. We make available on this Web site under “Investor Relations/SEC Filings,” free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form
10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports and proxy statements as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file those materials with, or furnish those materials to, the SEC. The SEC also maintains a Web site at
www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding SEC registrants, including us.  We intend
to satisfy the requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K to disclose any amendments to our Code of Ethics and any waiver from a provision of our Code of Ethics by posting such information on our Web site at www.westlake.com at “Investor
Relations/Corporate Governance.”   


Item 1A.
Risk Factors  Cyclicality in the
petrochemical industry has in the past, and may in the future, result in reduced operating margins or operating losses. 
Our historical operating results reflect the cyclical and volatile nature of the petrochemical industry. The industry is mature and
capital intensive. Margins in this industry are sensitive to supply and demand balances both domestically and internationally, which historically have been cyclical. The cycles are generally characterized by periods of tight supply, leading to high
operating rates and margins, followed by periods of oversupply primarily resulting from significant capacity additions, leading to reduced operating rates and lower margins.  Moreover, profitability in the petrochemical industry is affected by the worldwide level of demand along with vigorous price competition which may intensify due to, among other things, new domestic and
foreign industry capacity. In general, weak economic conditions either in the United States or in the world tend to reduce demand and put pressure on margins. It is not possible to predict accurately the supply and demand balances, market conditions
and other factors that will affect industry operating margins in the future.  Some olefins industry consultants predict that
significant increases in worldwide ethylene and ethylene derivative capacity, which have occurred over the past four years, primarily in the Middle East and Asia, may continue for the next several years. As a result, our Olefins segment operating
margins may be negatively impacted.  PVC industry operating rates have dropped from peak levels in the second half of 2006 to
much lower levels in 2011. In addition, weakness in the U.S. construction markets, which began in the third quarter of 2006, and the 
  9 


Table of Contents

subsequent budgetary constraints in municipal spending, have contributed to lower domestic demand for our vinyls products and negatively impacted our Vinyls segment. Looking forward, our Vinyls
segment operating rates and margins may continue to be negatively impacted by the slow recovery of U.S. construction markets and North American PVC capacity additions.  We sell commodity products in highly competitive markets and face significant competition and price pressure.  We sell our products in highly competitive markets. Due to the commodity nature of many of our products, competition in these markets is based primarily on price and to a lesser extent on performance,
product quality, product deliverability and customer service. As a result, we generally are not able to protect our market position for these products by product differentiation and may not be able to pass on cost increases to our customers.
Accordingly, increases in raw material and other costs may not necessarily correlate with changes in prices for these products, either in the direction of the price change or in magnitude. Specifically, timing differences in pricing between raw
material prices, which may change daily, and contract product prices, which in many cases are negotiated only monthly or less often, sometimes with an additional lag in effective dates for increases, have had and may continue to have a negative
effect on profitability. Significant volatility in raw material costs tends to place pressure on product margins as sales price increases could lag behind raw material cost increases. Conversely, when raw material costs decrease, customers could
seek relief in the form of lower sales prices.  Volatility in costs of raw materials and energy may result in increased operating
expenses and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow.  Significant variations in the costs and
availability of raw materials and energy may negatively affect our results of operations. These costs have risen significantly in the past due primarily to oil and natural gas cost increases. We purchase significant amounts of ethane and propane
feedstock, natural gas, ethylene, chlorine and salt to produce several basic chemicals. We also purchase significant amounts of electricity to supply the energy required in our production processes. The cost of these raw materials and energy, in the
aggregate, represents a substantial portion of our operating expenses. The prices of raw materials and energy generally follow price trends of, and vary with market conditions for, crude oil and natural gas, which are highly volatile and cyclical.
Our results of operations have been and could in the future be significantly affected by increases in these costs. Price increases increase our working capital needs and, accordingly, can adversely affect our liquidity and cash flow. In addition,
because we utilize the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) method of inventory accounting, during periods of falling raw material prices and declining sales prices, our results of operations for a particular reporting period could be negatively
impacted as the lower sales prices would be reflected in operating income more quickly than the corresponding drop in feedstock costs. We use derivative instruments in an attempt to reduce price volatility risk on some feedstock commodities. In the
future, we may decide not to hedge any of our raw material costs or any hedges we enter into may not have successful results. Also, our hedging activities involve credit risk associated with our hedging counterparties, and a deterioration in the
financial markets could adversely affect our hedging counterparties and their abilities to fulfill their obligations to us.  In
addition, higher natural gas prices could adversely affect the ability of many domestic chemical producers to compete internationally since U.S. producers are disproportionately reliant on natural gas and natural gas liquids as an energy source and
as a raw material. In addition to the impact that this has on our exports, reduced competitiveness of U.S. producers also has in the past increased the availability of chemicals in North America, as U.S. production that would otherwise have been
sold overseas was instead offered for sale domestically, resulting in excess supply and lower prices in North America. We could also face the threat of imported products from countries that have a cost advantage. 
External factors beyond our control can cause fluctuations in demand for our products and in our prices and margins, which may negatively affect
our results of operations and cash flow.  External factors beyond our control can cause volatility in raw material
prices, demand for our products, product prices and volumes and deterioration in operating margins. These factors can also magnify the impact of economic cycles on our business and results of operations. Examples of external factors include:
  


 
•
 
 general economic conditions; 
  10 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 the level of business activity in the industries that use our products; 
 


 
•
 
 competitor action;   


 
•
 
 technological innovations;   


 
•
 
 currency fluctuations;   


 
•
 
 international events and circumstances;   


 
•
 
 governmental regulation in the United States and abroad; 
 


 
•
 
 severe weather and natural disasters; and   


 
•
 
 credit worthiness of customers and vendors.  We believe that events in the Middle East have had a particular influence on demand, prices and margins in the past and may continue to do so in the future. In addition, a number of our products are
highly dependent on durable goods markets, such as housing and construction, which are themselves particularly cyclical. The significant weakening of the U.S. residential housing market during recent years has had an adverse effect on demand and
margins for our products. If the global economy worsens in general, or the U.S. residential housing market worsens in particular, demand for our products and our income and cash flow could be adversely affected to an even greater degree. 
We may reduce production at or idle a facility for an extended period of time or exit a business because of high raw material prices, an
oversupply of a particular product and/or a lack of demand for that particular product, which makes production uneconomical. Since 2007 we have closed a PVC window and door components plant and three PVC pipe plants. Temporary outages sometimes last
for several quarters or, in certain cases, longer and cause us to incur costs, including the expenses of maintaining and restarting these facilities. Factors such as increases in raw material costs or lower demand in the future may cause us to
further reduce operating rates, idle facilities or exit uncompetitive businesses.  Hostilities in the Middle East and/or the
occurrence or threat of occurrence of terrorist attacks such as those against the United States on September 11, 2001 could adversely affect the economies of the United States and other developed countries. A lower level of economic activity
could result in a decline in demand for our products, which could adversely affect our net sales and margins and limit our future growth prospects. In addition, these risks have increased in the past, and may continue to increase in the future.
Volatility in prices for crude oil and natural gas could also result in increased feedstock costs. In addition, these risks could cause increased instability in the financial and insurance markets and could adversely affect our ability to access
capital and to obtain insurance coverage that we consider adequate or is otherwise required by our contracts with third parties.  The
global economic downturn has had and may continue to have a negative impact on our business and financial condition. 
The global economic downturn has had, and may continue to have, an impact on our business and our financial condition. Our ability to
access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access such markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. In addition, the availability
of additional financing at cost effective interest rates cannot be assured. The economic downturn could have an impact on the lenders under our revolving credit facility or on our customers and suppliers, causing them to fail to meet their
obligations to us. Additionally, the economic downturn resulted in reduced demand for our products, which had a negative impact on our revenues and profits. Further, reduced levels of accounts receivables and inventory may affect our credit facility
borrowing base. Our credit facility allows us to borrow up to (1) 85% of the net amount of eligible accounts receivable, plus (2) the lesser of (a) 70% of the value of the lower of cost or market of eligible inventory, or (b) 85%
of the appraised net orderly liquidation value of all eligible inventory, plus (3) 100% of cash held in an account with the agent under the credit facility and subject to a control agreement with the agent, minus (4) such reserves as the
agent may establish. 
  11 


Table of Contents
Our inability to compete successfully may reduce our operating profits. 
The petrochemical industry is highly competitive. Historically, there have been a number of mergers, acquisitions, spin-offs and joint
ventures in the industry. This restructuring activity has resulted in fewer but more competitive producers, many of which are larger than we are and have greater financial resources than we do. Among our competitors are some of the world’s
largest chemical companies and chemical industry joint ventures. Competition within the petrochemical industry and in the manufacturing of building products is affected by a variety of factors, including: 
 


 
•
 
 product price;   


 
•
 
 technical support and customer service;   


 
•
 
 quality;   


 
•
 
 reliability of raw material and utility supply;   


 
•
 
 availability of potential substitute materials; and   


 
•
 
 product performance.  Changes in the competitive environment could have a material adverse effect on our business and our operations. These changes could include: 
 


 
•
 
 the emergence of new domestic and international competitors; 
 


 
•
 
 the rate of capacity additions by competitors;   


 
•
 
 changes in customer base due to mergers;   


 
•
 
 the intensification of price competition in our markets; 
 


 
•
 
 the introduction of new or substitute products by competitors; 
 


 
•
 
 the technological innovations of competitors; and   


 
•
 
 the adoption of new environmental laws and regulatory requirements.  Our production facilities process some volatile and hazardous materials that subject us to operating risks that could adversely affect our operating results. 
We have four major manufacturing facilities: our olefins complex in Lake Charles, our polyethylene complex in Longview, our vinyls complex
in Calvert City and our vinyls facility in Geismar. Our operations are subject to the usual hazards associated with commodity chemical and plastics manufacturing and the related use, storage, transportation and disposal of feedstocks, products and
wastes, including:   


 
•
 
 pipeline leaks and ruptures;   


 
•
 
 explosions;   


 
•
 
 fires;   


 
•
 
 severe weather and natural disasters;   


 
•
 
 mechanical failure;   


 
•
 
 unscheduled downtime;   


 
•
 
 labor difficulties;   


 
•
 
 transportation interruptions;   


 
•
 
 chemical spills;   


 
•
 
 discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases; 
 


 
•
 
 storage tank leaks;   


 
•
 
 other environmental risks; and   


 
•
 
 terrorist attacks. 
  12 


Table of Contents
According to some experts, global climate change could result in heightened hurricane
activity in the Gulf of Mexico. If this materializes, severe weather and natural disaster hazards could pose an even greater risk for our facilities, particularly those in Louisiana. 
All these hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, catastrophic damage to or destruction of property and equipment and
environmental damage, and may result in a suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. We could become subject to environmental claims brought by governmental entities or third parties. A loss or shutdown over an
extended period of operations at any one of our four major operating facilities would have a material adverse effect on us. We maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance that we believe is in accordance with customary industry
practices, but we cannot be fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our business, including losses resulting from war risks or terrorist acts. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies
can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material
adverse effect on our financial position.  Our operations and assets are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and
regulations.  We use large quantities of hazardous substances and generate large quantities of hazardous wastes in our
manufacturing operations. Due to the large quantities of hazardous substances and wastes, our industry is highly regulated and monitored by various environmental regulatory authorities. As such, we are subject to extensive federal, state and local
laws and regulations pertaining to pollution and protection of the environment, health and safety, which govern, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges onto land or waters, the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace, the
remediation of contaminated sites, and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials. Some of these laws and regulations are subject to varying and conflicting interpretations. Many of these laws and
regulations provide for substantial fines and potential criminal sanctions for violations and require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and/or reduce the likelihood or impact
of hazardous substance releases, whether permitted or not. For example, all four of our petrochemical facilities, in Lake Charles, Longview, Calvert City and Geismar, may require improvements to comply with certain changes in process safety
management requirements.  On February 14, 2012, the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) finalized maximum
achievable control technology (“MACT”) standards for major sources and generally available control technology (“GACT”) standards for area sources of PVC production. The rule sets emission limits and work practice standards for
total organic air toxics and for three specific air toxics: vinyl chloride, chlorinated di-benzo dioxins and furans (“CD/DF”), and hydrogen chloride and includes requirements to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the
emission standards. We are currently evaluating the effect these new standards could have on our business. This rule or other new or proposed rules may result in an increase in regulations, which could increase our costs or reduce our production,
which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flow. In addition, we cannot accurately predict future developments, such as increasingly strict environmental and safety laws or regulations,
and inspection and enforcement policies, as well as resulting higher compliance costs, which might affect the handling, manufacture, use, emission, disposal or remediation of products, other materials or hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and we
cannot predict with certainty the extent of our future liabilities and costs under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These liabilities and costs may be material. 
Legislation to regulate emissions of greenhouse gases (“GHGs”) has been introduced in the U.S. Congress, and there has been a
wide-ranging policy debate, both in the U.S. and internationally, regarding the impact of these gases and possible means for their regulation. Some of the proposals would require industries to meet stringent new standards that would require
substantial reductions in carbon emissions. Those reductions could be costly and difficult to implement. In addition, efforts have been made and continue to be made in the international community toward the adoption of international treaties or
protocols that would address global 
  13 


Table of Contents

climate change issues, such as the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Durban in 2011. In the U.S., the EPA has adopted rules requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large
GHG emission sources, on an annual basis, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring after January 1, 2010, as well as from certain oil and natural gas production facilities, on an annual basis, beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011.
Further, following a finding by the EPA that certain GHGs represent an endangerment to human health, the EPA finalized a rule to address permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources under the Clean Air Act’s New Source Review Prevention
of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) and Title V programs. This final rule “tailors” the PSD and Title V programs to apply to certain stationary sources of GHG emissions in a multi-step process, with the largest sources first
subject to permitting. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to reduce those emissions according to “best available control technology” standards for GHGs that will be established by the
states or, in some instances, by the EPA on a case-by-case basis.  Legislation or regulation by the EPA, and any international
agreements to which the United States may become a party, that control or limit GHG emissions or otherwise seek to address climate change could adversely affect our energy supply and costs, the costs of raw materials derived from fossil fuels, our
general costs of production and the demand for our products. The cost of complying with any new law, regulation or treaty will depend on the details of the particular program.  We also may face liability for alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances at our facilities or to chemicals that we otherwise manufacture, handle
or own. Although these types of claims have not historically had a material impact on our operations, a significant increase in the success of these types of claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating
results or cash flow.  Environmental laws may have a significant effect on the nature and scope of, and responsibility for,
cleanup of contamination at our current and former operating facilities, the costs of transportation and storage of raw materials and finished products, the costs of reducing emissions and the costs of the storage and disposal of wastewater. In
addition, the federal CERCLA and similar state laws impose joint and several liability for the costs of remedial investigations and actions on the entities that generated waste, arranged for disposal of the wastes, transported to or selected the
disposal sites and the past and present owners and operators of such sites. All such potentially responsible parties (or any one of them, including us) may be required to bear all of such costs regardless of fault, legality of the original disposal
or ownership of the disposal site. In addition, CERCLA and similar state laws could impose liability for damages to natural resources caused by contamination.  Although we seek to take preventive action, our operations are inherently subject to accidental spills, discharges or other releases of hazardous substances that may make us liable to governmental
entities or private parties. This may involve contamination associated with our current and former facilities, facilities to which we sent wastes or by-products for treatment or disposal and other contamination. Accidental discharges may occur in
the future, future action may be taken in connection with past discharges, governmental agencies may assess damages or penalties against us in connection with any past or future contamination, or third parties may assert claims against us for
damages allegedly arising out of any past or future contamination. In addition, we may be liable for existing contamination related to certain of our facilities for which, in some cases, we believe third parties are liable in the event such third
parties fail to perform their obligations. For further discussion of such existing contamination, see Item 1, “Business—Environmental and Other Regulation.”  We may not be able to complete an acquisition of Georgia Gulf Corporation and, even if such a transaction is completed, we may not realize the benefits of such a transaction; we could have
difficulties in integrating the operations of Georgia Gulf; and an acquisition of Georgia Gulf could have other adverse consequences for us, including the use of a significant amount of our cash and the incurrence of additional debt.
 We submitted a proposal to Georgia Gulf Corporation (“Georgia Gulf”) to acquire all of its outstanding
shares for $30.00 per share in cash, or a total of approximately $1.1 billion, with the expectation that completing 
  14 


Table of Contents

such an acquisition would result in various benefits, including, among other things, synergies, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Georgia Gulf rejected our proposal on January 16,
2012 and adopted a stockholder rights plan. On February 1, 2012, we submitted a new proposal to Georgia Gulf, increasing our offer to $35.00 per share in cash, or a total of approximately $1.2 billion, with the possibility of offering our
common stock as part of the offer consideration. On that date, Georgia Gulf also publicly rejected our increased offer. We may not be able to complete such an acquisition on the terms in our proposal, or at all, and the failure to complete the
acquisition could have adverse consequences for us, including a decline in the market value of our common stock. Even if we do complete such an acquisition, we may not achieve the benefits we anticipated at the levels expected or at all. See
“We may pursue acquisitions, dispositions and joint ventures and other transactions that may impact our results of operations and financial condition.”  In addition, we could have difficulties or experience delays in connection with the integration of the operations of Georgia Gulf, if acquired. See “We may have difficulties integrating the
operations of acquired businesses.” Any unexpected difficulties or delays incurred in connection with the integration of such an acquisition could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 
Further, an acquisition of Georgia Gulf could require the use of a significant amount of our cash and the incurrence of additional debt,
which could have adverse consequences for us. See “Our level of debt could adversely affect our ability to operate our business” and “To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate
cash depends on many factors beyond our control.” Risks related to our indebtedness could impact us to an even greater degree if such an acquisition is completed.  Expansion and construction projects are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
 We have announced expansion and/or construction plans for our Lake Charles, Geismar and Calvert City complexes.
Expansion and construction projects may be subject to delays or cost overruns, including delays or cost overruns resulting from any one or more of the following:   


 
•
 
 unexpectedly long delivery times for, or shortages of, key equipment, parts or materials; 
 


 
•
 
 shortages of skilled labor and other personnel necessary to perform the work; 
 


 
•
 
 construction delays and performance issues;   


 
•
 
 failures or delays of third-party equipment vendors or service providers; 
 


 
•
 
 unforeseen increases in the cost of equipment, labor and raw materials; 
 


 
•
 
 work stoppages and other labor disputes;   


 
•
 
 unanticipated actual or purported change orders;   


 
•
 
 disputes with contractors and suppliers;   


 
•
 
 design and engineering problems;   


 
•
 
 latent damages or deterioration to equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions; 
 


 
•
 
 financial or other difficulties of our contractors and suppliers; 
 


 
•
 
 interference from adverse weather conditions; and   


 
•
 
 difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions. 
Significant cost overruns or delays could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, capital
expenditures for these projects could materially exceed our planned capital expenditures.  Our level of debt could adversely affect our
ability to operate our business.  As of December 31, 2011, we had total outstanding debt of $764.6 million, and
our debt represented approximately 30% of our total capitalization. Our annual interest expense for 2011 was $51.0 million. Our level 
  15 


Table of Contents

of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our existing or future debt agreements could have significant consequences on our business and future prospects, including the following: 
 


 
•
 
 a portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our debt and will not be available for other
purposes, including the payment of dividends;   


 
•
 
 we may not be able to obtain necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or
other purposes;   


 
•
 
 our less leveraged competitors could have a competitive advantage because they have greater flexibility to utilize their cash flow to improve their
operations;   


 
•
 
 we may be exposed to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because some of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which would result
in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates;   


 
•
 
 we could be vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business that would leave us less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities
and to react to changes in our business and in market or industry conditions; and   


 
•
 
 should we pursue additional expansions of existing assets or acquisition of third party assets, we may not be able to obtain additional liquidity at
cost effective interest rates.  To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability
to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.  Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our
indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and pay cash dividends will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are
beyond our control.  Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, currently anticipated cost savings and
operating improvements may not be realized on schedule and future borrowings may not be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to
refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. In addition, we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our credit facility and our senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 
Our credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from
capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some actions.  Our credit facility and the indenture governing our
senior notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to:   


 
•
 
 pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; 
 


 
•
 
 make investments and other restricted payments;   


 
•
 
 incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; 
 


 
•
 
 create liens;   


 
•
 
 permit dividend or other payment restrictions on our restricted subsidiaries; 
 


 
•
 
 sell all or substantially all of our assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies; 
 


 
•
 
 engage in transactions with affiliates; and   


 
•
 
 engage in sale-leaseback transactions.  These limitations are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions. However, the effectiveness of these restrictions in the indenture governing our senior notes is currently suspended
under the indenture because our senior notes are currently rated investment grade by at least two nationally recognized credit rating agencies. 
  16 


Table of Contents
Our credit facility also requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio or
maintain a specified amount of availability under the credit facility to avoid certain restrictions. These covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance future business opportunities. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a
default in respect of the related debt. If a default occurred, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the debt, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against any collateral securing that
debt. In addition, any acceleration of debt under our credit facility will constitute a default under some of our other debt, including the indenture governing our senior notes.  Regulations concerning the transportation of hazardous chemicals and the security of chemical manufacturing facilities could result in higher operating costs. 
Targets such as chemical manufacturing facilities may be at greater risk of terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. As
a result, the chemical industry responded to the issues surrounding the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 by starting initiatives relating to the security of chemicals industry facilities and the transportation of hazardous chemicals in
the United States. Simultaneously, local, state and federal governments began a regulatory process that led to new regulations impacting the security of chemical plant locations and the transportation of hazardous chemicals. Our business or our
customers’ businesses could be adversely affected because of the cost of complying with these regulations.  We may pursue
acquisitions, dispositions and joint ventures and other transactions that may impact our results of operations and financial condition.  We seek opportunities to maximize efficiency and create stockholder value through various transactions. These transactions may include various domestic and international business combinations, purchases
or sales of assets or contractual arrangements or joint ventures that are intended to result in the realization of synergies, the creation of efficiencies or the generation of cash to reduce debt. To the extent permitted under our credit facility,
the indenture governing our senior notes and other debt agreements, some of these transactions may be financed by additional borrowings by us. Although these transactions are expected to yield longer-term benefits if the expected efficiencies and
synergies of the transactions are realized, they could adversely affect our results of operations in the short term because of the costs associated with such transactions. Other transactions may advance future cash flows from some of our businesses,
thereby yielding increased short-term liquidity, but consequently resulting in lower cash flows from these operations over the longer term. These transactions may not yield the business benefits, synergies or financial benefits anticipated by
management.  We may have difficulties integrating the operations of acquired businesses. 
If we are unable to integrate or to successfully manage businesses that we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future, our
business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to realize the operating efficiencies, synergies, cost savings or other benefits expected from the acquisitions for a number of reasons,
including the following:   


 
•
 
 we may fail to integrate the businesses we acquire into a cohesive, efficient enterprise; 
 


 
•
 
 our resources, including management resources, are limited and may be strained if we engage in a significant number of acquisitions, and acquisitions
may divert our management’s attention from initiating or carrying out programs to save costs or enhance revenues; and   


 
•
 
 our failure to retain key employees and contracts of the businesses we acquire. 
The trading price of our common stock may negatively impact us.  Volatility in the capital and credit markets may cause downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability. The market value of our common stock is a factor in determining whether our goodwill is
impaired. If the market value of our common stock declines significantly, it may result in an impairment of goodwill. A decline in the market value of our common stock could also negatively impact us in other ways, including making it more difficult
for us to raise any equity capital. 
  17 


Table of Contents
Failure to adequately protect critical data and technology systems could materially affect our
operations.  Information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security could disrupt
our operations by causing delays or cancellation of customer orders, impede the manufacture or shipment of products or cause standard business processes to become ineffective, resulting in the unintentional disclosure of information or damage to our
reputation. While we have taken steps to address these concerns by implementing network security and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure, network disruption or data security breach will not have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flow.  Our property insurance has only partial coverage
for acts of terrorism and, in the event of terrorist attack, we could lose net sales and our facilities.  As a result
of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and other events, our insurance carriers created certain exclusions for losses from terrorism from our property insurance policies. While separate terrorism insurance coverage is available,
premiums for full coverage are very expensive, especially for chemical facilities, and the policies are subject to high deductibles. Available terrorism coverage typically excludes coverage for losses from acts of war and from acts of foreign
governments as well as nuclear, biological and chemical attacks. We have determined that it is not economically prudent to obtain full terrorism insurance, especially given the significant risks that are not covered by such insurance. Where feasible
we have secured some limited terrorism insurance coverage on our property where insurers have included it in their overall programs. In the event of a terrorist attack impacting one or more of our facilities, we could lose the net sales from the
facilities and the facilities themselves, and could become liable for any contamination or for personal or property damage due to exposure to hazardous materials caused by any catastrophic release that may result from a terrorist attack. 
We will be controlled by our principal stockholder and its affiliates as long as they own a majority of our common stock, and our other
stockholders will be unable to affect the outcome of stockholder voting during that time. Our interests may conflict with those of the principal stockholder and its affiliates, and we may not be able to resolve these conflicts on terms possible in
arms-length transactions.  As long as TTWF LP (the “principal stockholder”) and its affiliates (the
“principal stockholder affiliates”) own a majority of our outstanding common stock, they will be able to exert significant control over us, and our other stockholders, by themselves, will not be able to affect the outcome of any
stockholder vote. As a result, the principal stockholder, subject to any fiduciary duty owed to our minority stockholders under Delaware law, will be able to control all matters affecting us (some of which may present conflicts of interest),
including:   


 
•
 
 the composition of our board of directors and, through the board, any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the
appointment and removal of officers and the determination of compensation;   


 
•
 
 any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations or the acquisition or disposition of assets; 
 


 
•
 
 our financing decisions, capital raising activities and the payment of dividends; and 
 


 
•
 
 amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws. 
The principal stockholder will be permitted to transfer a controlling interest in us without being required to offer our other
stockholders the ability to participate or realize a premium for their shares of common stock. A sale of a controlling interest to a third party may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our business and results of operations
because the change in control may result in a change of management decisions and business policy. Because we have elected not to be subject to Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the principal stockholder may
find it easier to sell its controlling interest to a third party than if we had not so elected. 
  18 


Table of Contents
In addition to any conflicts of interest that arise in the foregoing areas, our interests
may conflict with those of the principal stockholder affiliates in a number of other areas, including:   


 
•
 
 business opportunities that may be presented to the principal stockholder affiliates and to our officers and directors associated with the principal
stockholder affiliates, and competition between the principal stockholder affiliates and us within the same lines of business;   


 
•
 
 the solicitation and hiring of employees from each other; and 
 


 
•
 
 agreements with the principal stockholder affiliates relating to corporate services that may be material to our business. 
We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts with the principal stockholder affiliates, and even if we do, the resolution may be
less favorable than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party, particularly if the conflicts are resolved while we are controlled by the principal stockholder affiliates. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the
principal stockholder affiliates have no duty to refrain from engaging in activities or lines of business similar to ours and that the principal stockholder affiliates will not be liable to us or our stockholders for failing to present specified
corporate opportunities to us.  Cautionary Statements about Forward Looking Statements 
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides safe harbor provisions for forward-looking information. Certain of the
statements contained in this Form 10-K are forward-looking statements. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this Form 10-K that address activities, events or developments that we expect, project, believe or
anticipate will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as “believes,” “intends,” “may,” “should,” “could,”
“anticipates,” “expected” or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategies or trends. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot give any assurances
that these expectations will prove to be correct. Forward-looking statements relate to matters such as:   


 
•
 
 future operating rates, margins, cash flow and demand for our products; 
 


 
•
 
 industry market outlook;   


 
•
 
 production capacities;   


 
•
 
 our ability to borrow additional funds under our credit facility; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to meet our liquidity needs;   


 
•
 
 our intended quarterly dividends;   


 
•
 
 future capacity additions and expansions in the industry; 
 


 
•
 
 our proposal to acquire Georgia Gulf;   


 
•
 
 impact of our acquisition of a 50% interest in the pipeline from Mont Belvieu to Lake Charles; 
 


 
•
 
 timing, funding and results of the planned new chlor-alkali plant in Geismar; 
 


 
•
 
 timing, funding and results of the planned ethane-based ethylene capacity expansion in Lake Charles; 
 


 
•
 
 timing, funding and results of the planned ethylene production facility upgrade in Calvert City; 
 


 
•
 
 our evaluation of the conversion from propane to ethane feedstock for our ethylene production at Calvert City; 
 


 
•
 
 health of our customer base;   


 
•
 
 pension plan funding requirements and investment policies; 
 


 
•
 
 compliance with present and future environmental regulations and costs associated with environmentally related penalties, capital expenditures,
remedial actions and proceedings, including any new laws, regulations or treaties that may come into force to limit or control carbon dioxide and other GHG emissions or to address other issues of climate change; 
 
  19 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards;   


 
•
 
 effects of pending legal proceedings; and   


 
•
 
 timing of and amount of capital expenditures.  We have based these statements on assumptions and analyses in light of our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors we believe
were appropriate in the circumstances when the statements were made. Forward-looking statements by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could significantly impact expected results, and actual future results could differ
materially from those described in such statements. While it is not possible to identify all factors, we continue to face many risks and uncertainties. Among the factors that could cause actual future results to differ materially are the risks and
uncertainties discussed under “Risk Factors” and those described from time to time in our other filings with the SEC including, but not limited to, the following: 
 


 
•
 
 general economic and business conditions;   


 
•
 
 the cyclical nature of the chemical industry;   


 
•
 
 the availability, cost and volatility of raw materials and energy; 
 


 
•
 
 uncertainties associated with the United States and worldwide economies, including those due to the global economic slowdown and political tensions in
the Middle East and elsewhere;   


 
•
 
 current and potential governmental regulatory actions in the United States and regulatory actions and political unrest in other countries;
  


 
•
 
 industry production capacity and operating rates;   


 
•
 
 the supply/demand balance for our products;   


 
•
 
 competitive products and pricing pressures;   


 
•
 
 instability in the credit and financial markets;   


 
•
 
 access to capital markets;   


 
•
 
 terrorist acts;   


 
•
 
 operating interruptions (including leaks, explosions, fires, weather-related incidents, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, labor difficulties,
transportation interruptions, spills and releases and other environmental risks);   


 
•
 
 changes in laws or regulations;   


 
•
 
 technological developments;   


 
•
 
 our ability to implement our business strategies; and 
 


 
•
 
 creditworthiness of our customers.  Many of such factors are beyond our ability to control or predict. Any of the factors, or a combination of these factors, could materially affect our future results of operations and the ultimate accuracy
of the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of our future performance, and our actual results and future developments may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Management
cautions against putting undue reliance on forward-looking statements or projecting any future results based on such statements or present or prior earnings levels. Every forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular
statement, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.   


Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments 
None. 
  20 


Table of Contents


Item 2.
Properties  Our
manufacturing facilities and principal products are set forth below. Except as noted, we own each of these facilities.   






 Location
  
 Principal Products

 Lake Charles, Louisiana
  
Ethylene, polyethylene, styrene

 Longview, Texas (1)
  
Polyethylene, polyethylene wax

 Calvert City, Kentucky (2)
  
PVC, VCM, chlorine, caustic soda, ethylene, PVC pipe

 Geismar, Louisiana
  
PVC, VCM and EDC

 Booneville, Mississippi
  
PVC pipe

 Greensboro, Georgia
  
PVC pipe

 Janesville, Wisconsin
  
PVC pipe

 Leola, Pennsylvania
  
PVC pipe

 Litchfield, Illinois
  
PVC pipe

 Wichita Falls, Texas
  
PVC pipe

 Yucca, Arizona
  
PVC pipe

 Evansville, Indiana
  
Fence and deck components

 Calgary, Alberta, Canada (3)
  
Window and door components
  


(1)
We lease the land on which our Longview facility is located.   


(2)
We lease a portion of our Calvert City facility.   


(3)
We lease our Calgary facility.  Olefins
 Our Lake Charles complex consists of three tracts on over 1,300 acres in Lake Charles, each within two miles of one
another. The complex includes two ethylene plants, two polyethylene plants and a styrene monomer plant. The combined capacity of our two ethylene plants is approximately 2.5 billion pounds per year. The capacity of our two polyethylene plants
is approximately 1.4 billion pounds per year and the capacity of our styrene plant is approximately 570 million pounds per year. Our newest polyethylene plant has two production units that use gas phase technology to manufacture both LLDPE
and HDPE. In April 2011, we announced an expansion program to increase the ethane-based ethylene capacity of both of the ethylene units at our Lake Charles complex. We currently expect to complete the expansion of one of the two ethylene units
by late 2012. The first cracker expansion is expected to increase ethylene capacity by approximately 230 – 240 million pounds annually, while also increasing feedstock flexibility. The additional capacity from this expansion is
expected to provide ethylene for existing internal uses and may also be sold in the merchant market. In addition, we are currently evaluating expansion plans to increase the ethane-based ethylene capacity of the second ethylene unit at our Lake
Charles complex.  Our Lake Charles complex includes a marine terminal that provides for worldwide shipping capabilities. The
complex also is located near rail transportation facilities, which allows for efficient delivery of raw materials and prompt shipment of our products to customers. In addition, the complex is connected by pipeline systems to our ethylene feedstock
sources in both Texas and Louisiana. Within the complex, our ethylene plants are connected by pipeline systems to our polyethylene and styrene plants.  Our Longview facility consists of three polyethylene plants, a specialty polyethylene wax plant, and a 200-mile ethylene pipeline that runs from Mont Belvieu to our Longview facility. The plants are
located inside a large Eastman Chemical Company (“Eastman”) facility where Eastman produces a number of other chemical products. We can access ethylene to support our polyethylene operations either by purchasing ethylene from Eastman at
the site or by transporting ethylene from our Lake Charles plant into the Gulf Coast grid and by transporting ethylene through our ethylene pipeline into our Longview facility. The technologies we use to produce polyethylene at Longview are similar
to the technologies that we employ at Lake Charles. The Longview facility has a total capacity of 1.1 billion pounds per year. 
  21 


Table of Contents
Vinyls  Our Calvert City complex is situated on 550 acres on the Tennessee River in Kentucky and includes an ethylene plant, a chlor-alkali plant, a VCM plant, a PVC plant and a large diameter PVC pipe plant. The
capacity of our Calvert City ethylene plant is 450 million pounds per year and the capacity of our chlor-alkali plant is 550 million pounds of chlorine and 605 million pounds of caustic soda per year. Our chlorine plant utilizes
efficient, state-of-the-art membrane technology. Our VCM plant has a capacity of 1.3 billion pounds per year and our Calvert City PVC plant has a capacity of 1.1 billion pounds per year. Our large diameter PVC pipe facility has a capacity
of approximately 77 million pounds per year.  Our vinyls facility in Geismar is situated on 184 acres on the Mississippi
River. The site includes a PVC plant with a capacity of 600 million pounds per year and a VCM plant with a capacity of 550 million pounds per year with related EDC capacity. In August 2010, we announced that we intend to proceed with
the previously announced construction of a new chlor-alkali plant to be located at our vinyls manufacturing complex in Geismar. The new chlor-alkali unit is designed to produce up to 350,000 ECUs annually upon completion, bringing our total ECU
capacity to 625,000 per year. The new plant will improve the vertical integration of our vinyls business from chlorine downstream into VCM and PVC, and increase caustic soda sales. The project is currently targeted for start-up in the second
half of 2013.  As of February 17, 2012, we operated 10 building products plants, consisting of eight PVC pipe plants, and
two profiles plants producing PVC fence, decking, windows and door profiles. The majority of our plants are strategically located near our Calvert City complex and serve customers throughout the middle United States. The combined capacity of our
building product plants is 1.1 billion pounds per year.  In June 2011, we closed our Springfield PVC pipe facility, with
an annual capacity of 90 million pounds.  We believe our current facilities and announced expansions are adequate to meet
the requirements of our present and foreseeable future operations.  Headquarters 
Our principal executive offices are located in Houston, Texas. Our office space is leased, at market rates, from an affiliate under a
lease that expires on December 31, 2014. See Note 15 to the audited consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K and “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in our proxy statement to be filed with
the SEC within 120 days of December 31, 2011 pursuant to Regulation 14A with respect to our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders (the “Proxy Statement”).   


Item 3.
Legal Proceedings  In
addition to the matters described under Item 1, “Business—Environmental and Other Regulation,” we are involved in various routine legal proceedings incidental to the conduct of our business. We do not believe that any of these
routine legal proceedings will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   


Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosure 
Not Applicable.  
Executive Officers of the Registrant  James Chao (age 64). Mr. Chao has been our Chairman of the
Board since July 2004 and became a director in June 2003. He previously served as our Vice Chairman of the Board since May 1996. Mr. Chao also has responsibility for the oversight of our Vinyls business. Mr. Chao has over 40 years of
global experience in the chemical industry. In November 2010, Mr. Chao resigned as the Executive Chairman of Titan Chemicals Corp. Bhd., a position he held since June 2003. Prior to June 2003, he served as Titan’s Managing
Director. He has served as a Special Assistant to the Chairman of China General Plastics Group and worked in various financial, 
  22 


Table of Contents

managerial and technical positions at Mattel Incorporated, Developmental Bank of Singapore, Singapore Gulf Plastics Pte. Ltd. and Gulf Oil Corporation. Mr. Chao, along with his brother
Albert Chao, assisted their father T.T. Chao in founding Westlake Chemical Corporation. Mr. Chao received his Bachelor of Science degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an M.B.A. from Columbia University. 
Albert Chao (age 62). Mr. Chao has been our President since May 1996 and a director since June 2003. Mr. Chao has
over 35 years of global experience in the chemical industry. In 1985, Mr. Chao assisted his father T.T. Chao and his brother James Chao in founding Westlake Chemical Corporation, where he served as Executive Vice President until he succeeded
James as President. He has held positions in the Controller’s Group of Mobil Oil Corporation, in the Technical Department of Hercules Incorporated, in the Plastics Group of Gulf Oil Corporation and has served as Assistant to the Chairman of
China General Plastics Group and Deputy Managing Director of a plastics fabrication business in Singapore. He was also previously a director of Titan Chemicals Corp. Bhd., a position he resigned from in November 2010. Mr. Chao received a
bachelor’s degree from Brandeis University and an M.B.A. from Columbia University. Mr. Chao is a trustee emeritus of Rice University.  M. Steven Bender (age 55). Mr. Bender has been our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since February 2008. In addition, Mr. Bender has served as our Treasurer since July
2011, a position he also held from February 2008 until December 2010. From February 2007 to February 2008, Mr. Bender served as our Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer and from June 2005 to February 2007, he served as our
Vice President and Treasurer. From June 2002 until June 2005, Mr. Bender served as Vice President and Treasurer of KBR, Inc., and from 1996 to 2002 he held the position of Assistant Treasurer for Halliburton Company. Prior to that, he held
various financial positions within that company. Additionally, he was employed by Texas Eastern Corporation for over a decade in a variety of increasingly responsible audit, finance and treasury positions. Mr. Bender received a Bachelor of
Business Administration from Texas A&M University and an M.B.A. from Southern Methodist University. Mr. Bender is also a Certified Public Accountant.  Robert F. Buesinger (age 55). Mr. Buesinger has been our Senior Vice President, Vinyls since joining us in April 2010. Prior to joining us, Mr. Buesinger served as the General
Manager and President of Chevron Phillips Chemical Company L.P.’s Performance Pipe Division from February 2010 to March 2010. From June 2008 to January 2010, Mr. Buesinger held the position of General Manager in the Alpha Olefins and Poly
Alpha Olefins business of Chevron Phillips Chemical Company L.P. From April 2005 to May 2008, he served as the President and Managing Director of Chevron Phillips Singapore Chemicals Pte. Ltd. and Asia Region General Manager for Chevron Phillips
Chemical Company L.P. Prior to that, he held various technical and sales management positions within that company. Mr. Buesinger holds a B.S. in Chemical Engineering from Tulane University. 
Donald M. Condon, Jr. (age 62). Mr. Condon has been our Senior Vice President, Olefins and Corporate Business Development
since July 2008. From July 2006 to July 2008, Mr. Condon was our Senior Vice President, Corporate Planning and Business Development. Prior to joining us, Mr. Condon served as the Managing Director of Titan Chemicals Corp. Bhd. from July
2003 to June 2006 and President & General Manager of Conoco Energy Ventures from 1998 until July 2003. He previously was employed by Conoco and Dupont in a variety of management and executive positions. In 2010, Mr. Condon was named a
non-executive director of The Manitowoc Company, Inc. He was also previously a director of Titan Chemicals Corp. Bhd., a position he resigned from in November 2010. Mr. Condon holds a B.B.A. from the University of Wisconsin. 
David R. Hansen (age 61). Mr. Hansen has been our Senior Vice President, Administration, since September 1999 and
served as Vice President, Human Resources from 1993 to 1999. From August 2003 until July 2004 he was also our Secretary. Prior to joining us in 1990, Mr. Hansen served as Director of Human Resources & Administration for Agrico Chemical
Company and held various human resources and administrative management positions within the Williams Companies. He has 30 years of administrative management experience in the oil, gas, energy, chemicals, pipeline, plastics and computer industries.
He received his Bachelor of Science degree in Social Science from the University of Utah and has completed extensive graduate work toward an M.S. in Human Resources Management. 
  23 


Table of Contents
Jeffrey L. Taylor (age 58). Mr. Taylor has been our Senior Vice
President, Polyethylene since April 2008. From January 2003 to April 2008, Mr. Taylor served as our Vice President, Polyethylene. Mr. Taylor joined us in March 2002 as Manager, Polyethylene Marketing. Mr. Taylor joined us after a
25-year career with Chevron Phillips Chemical Company where he served as the Vice President, Polyethylene, Americas from 2000 to 2001 and Marketing Manager—Polyethylene from 1999 to 2000. During his career, he has held a variety of sales,
marketing, operations and general management assignments. He is a graduate of the University of Delaware with a B.S. in Business Administration and a B.A. in Mathematics.  Andrew Kenner (age 47). Mr. Kenner has been our Vice President, Manufacturing since July 2008. Prior to joining us, Mr. Kenner served as Vice President and General Manager of Valero
Energy Corporation’s Delaware City Refinery from September 2005 to July 2008. From August 2004 to September 2005, Mr. Kenner held the position of Vice President and General Manager of Valero’s Houston Refinery and from August 2003 to
August 2004, he served as Operations Director for Valero’s Texas City Refinery. Mr. Kenner holds a B.S. in Aerospace Engineering from Texas A&M University and a M.S. in Chemical Engineering from the University of Texas at Austin.
 George J. Mangieri (age 61). Mr. Mangieri has been our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer since
February 2007. From April 2000 to February 2007, he was Vice President and Controller. Prior to joining us, Mr. Mangieri served as Vice President and Controller of Zurn Industries, Inc. from 1998 to 2000. He previously was employed as Vice
President and Controller for Imo Industries, Inc. in New Jersey, and spent over 10 years in public accounting with Ernst & Young LLP, where he served as Senior Manager. He received his Bachelor of Science degree from Monmouth College and is
a Certified Public Accountant.  Stephen Wallace (age 65). Mr. Wallace has been our Vice President and General
Counsel since December 2003 and our Secretary since July 2004. He began his legal career over 25 years ago at the law firm of Baker Botts L.L.P., which he left as a partner in 1993. He subsequently held senior corporate legal positions with
Transworld Oil U.S.A., Inc. (1993-1996; 2002-2003), Oman Oil Company Ltd. (1996-1997), and Enron Global Exploration & Production Inc. and its affiliates (1997-2002). Mr. Wallace holds a B.A. from Rice University and a Ph.D. from
Cornell University in linguistics, and received his J.D. from the University of Houston.
  24 


Table of Contents
PART II 
 


Item 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
Price Range of Common Stock  As of February 17, 2012, there were 54 holders of record of our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “WLK.” Set forth below are the high
and low closing prices for our common stock, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape for the periods indicated and the cash dividends declared in these periods. 
 
















 
  
High
 
  
Low
 
  
Cash DividendsDeclared
 

 Year Ended December 31, 2011
  



  



  




 4th Quarter
  
$
43.63
  
  
$
32.31
  
  
$
0.0738
  

 3rd Quarter
  
 
54.91
  
  
 
34.28
  
  
 
0.0738
  

 2nd Quarter
  
 
66.18
  
  
 
48.76
  
  
 
0.0635
  

 1st Quarter
  
 
56.20
  
  
 
38.55
  
  
 
0.0635
  






 Year Ended December 31, 2010
  



  



  




 4th Quarter
  
$
43.59
  
  
$
29.52
  
  
$
0.0635
  

 3rd Quarter
  
 
30.13
  
  
 
17.56
  
  
 
0.0635
  

 2nd Quarter
  
 
29.77
  
  
 
18.55
  
  
 
0.0575
  

 1st Quarter
  
 
25.79
  
  
 
19.66
  
  
 
0.0575
  
 Our credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes restrict our ability to pay dividends or
other distributions on our equity securities. However, the effectiveness of these restrictions in the indenture governing the senior notes is currently suspended because the senior notes are currently rated investment grade by at least two
nationally recognized credit rating agencies. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Debt” for additional information. 
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  The following table provides information on our purchase of equity securities during the quarter ended December 31, 2011: 
 




















 Period
  
Total Numberof SharesPurchased
 
  
Average PricePaid PerShare
 
  
Total Numberof SharesPurchased as Partof PubliclyAnnounced
Plansor Programs (1)
 
  
Maximum Number(or
ApproximateDollar Value) ofShares thatMay
Yet BePurchased Under thePlans or Programs (1)
 

 October 2011
  
 
15,162
  
  
$
32.98
  
  
 
15,162
  
  
$
97,482,000
  

 November 2011
  
 
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
$
97,482,000
  

 December 2011
  
 
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
$
97,482,000
  


  



  



  



  
  
  
 


  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  




 Total
  
 
15,162
  
  
$
32.98
  
  
 
15,162
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  



  


(1)
On August 22, 2011, we announced the authorization by our Board of Directors of a $100.0 million stock repurchase program. As of December 31, 2011, 69,816
shares of our common stock had been acquired at an aggregate purchase price of approximately $2.5 million. Transaction fees and commissions are not reported in the average price paid per share in the table above. Decisions regarding the amount and
the timing of purchases under the program will be influenced by our cash on hand, our cash flow from operations, general market conditions and other factors. The program may be discontinued by our Board of Directors at any time.

  25 


Table of Contents
Equity Compensation Plan Information 
Securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans are as follows: 
 
















 Plan Category
  
Number of securities to beissued upon exercise ofoutstanding
options,warrants and rights (a)
 
  
Weighted-averageexercise price ofoutstandingoptions,warrants and rights
 
  
Number of 
securitiesremaining available forfuture issuance underequity compensationplans (excludingsecurities reflected
incolumn (a))
 

 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders
  
 
1,133,147
  
  
$
23.26
  
  
 
3,437,573
  

 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
N/A
  


  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
1,133,147
  
  
$
23.26
  
  
 
3,437,573
  


  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
 Other information regarding our equity compensation plans is set forth in the section entitled
“Executive Compensation” in our Proxy Statement, which information is incorporated herein by reference. 
  26 


Table of Contents


Item 6.
 Selected Financial and Operational Data (1)    
























 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands, except per share and volume data)
 

 Statement of Operations Data:
  



 



 



 



 




 Net sales
  
$
3,619,848
  
 
$
3,171,787
  
 
$
2,325,723
  
 
$
3,692,353
  
 
$
3,192,178
  

 Gross profit
  
 
559,006
  
 
 
482,683
  
 
 
195,128
  
 
 
69,368
  
 
 
271,400
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
112,210
  
 
 
104,319
  
 
 
87,871
  
 
 
98,908
  
 
 
96,679
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from operations
  
 
446,796
  
 
 
378,364
  
 
 
107,257
  
 
 
(29,540
) 
 
 
174,721
  

 Interest expense
  
 
(50,992
) 
 
 
(39,875
) 
 
 
(34,957
) 
 
 
(33,957
) 
 
 
(18,422
) 

 Other income, net (2)
  
 
5,628
  
 
 
4,471
  
 
 
6,453
  
 
 
5,475
  
 
 
2,658
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income taxes
  
 
401,432
  
 
 
342,960
  
 
 
78,753
  
 
 
(58,022
) 
 
 
158,957
  

 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes
  
 
142,466
  
 
 
121,567
  
 
 
25,758
  
 
 
(28,479
) 
 
 
44,228
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
258,966
  
 
$
221,393
  
 
$
52,995
  
 
$
(29,543
) 
 
$
114,729
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (Loss) Per ShareInformation:(3)
  



 



 



 



 




 Basic
  
$
3.89
  
 
$
3.35
  
 
$
0.80
  
 
$
(0.45
) 
 
$
1.75
  

 Diluted
  
$
3.87
  
 
$
3.34
  
 
$
0.80
  
 
$
(0.45
) 
 
$
1.75
  

 Weighted average shares outstanding
  



 



 



 



 




 Basic
  
 
65,927,421
  
 
 
65,472,875
  
 
 
65,323,101
  
 
 
65,273,485
  
 
 
65,234,828
  

 Diluted
  
 
66,300,158
  
 
 
65,676,664
  
 
 
65,421,390
  
 
 
65,273,485
  
 
 
65,314,485
  

 Balance Sheet Data (end of period):
  



 



 



 



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
825,901
  
 
$
630,299
  
 
$
245,592
  
 
$
90,239
  
 
$
24,914
  

 Restricted cash
  
 
96,283
  
 
 
150,288
  
 
 
101,149
  
 
 
134,432
  
 
 
199,450
  

 Working capital (4)
  
 
1,391,561
  
 
 
1,152,382
  
 
 
701,812
  
 
 
586,701
  
 
 
650,923
  

 Total assets
  
 
3,266,821
  
 
 
2,954,144
  
 
 
2,446,356
  
 
 
2,286,989
  
 
 
2,569,335
  

 Total debt
  
 
764,563
  
 
 
764,482
  
 
 
515,400
  
 
 
510,319
  
 
 
511,414
  

 Stockholders’ equity
  
 
1,756,312
  
 
 
1,505,070
  
 
 
1,284,982
  
 
 
1,239,060
  
 
 
1,286,670
  

 Cash dividends declared per share
  
$
0.2746
  
 
$
0.2420
  
 
$
0.2200
  
 
$
0.2050
  
 
$
0.1800
  

 Other Operating Data:
  



 



 



 



 




 Cash flow from:
  



 



 



 



 




 Operating activities
  
$
362,296
  
 
$
283,284
  
 
$
235,522
  
 
$
186,089
  
 
$
62,166
  

 Investing activities
  
 
(202,785
) 
 
 
(80,275
) 
 
 
(103,186
) 
 
 
(171,952
) 
 
 
(124,805
) 

 Financing activities
  
 
36,091
  
 
 
181,698
  
 
 
23,017
  
 
 
51,188
  
 
 
34,907
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
131,397
  
 
 
128,732
  
 
 
123,199
  
 
 
111,926
  
 
 
103,514
  

 Capital expenditures
  
 
176,843
  
 
 
81,269
  
 
 
99,769
  
 
 
172,561
  
 
 
135,725
  

 EBITDA (5)
  
 
583,821
  
 
 
511,567
  
 
 
236,909
  
 
 
87,861
  
 
 
280,893
  

 External Sales Volume (millions of pounds):
  



 



 



 



 




 Olefins Segment
  



 



 



 



 




 Polyethylene
  
 
2,272
  
 
 
2,320
  
 
 
2,211
  
 
 
2,231
  
 
 
2,447
  

 Ethylene, styrene and other
  
 
753
  
 
 
938
  
 
 
741
  
 
 
971
  
 
 
948
  

 Vinyls Segment
  



 



 



 



 




 PVC, caustic soda and other
  
 
1,749
  
 
 
1,542
  
 
 
1,346
  
 
 
1,538
  
 
 
1,467
  

 Building products
  
 
403
  
 
 
593
  
 
 
613
  
 
 
627
  
 
 
756
  
  


(1)
The historical selected financial and operational data should be read together with Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations, and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data included in this annual report on Form 10-K.   


(2)
Other income, net is composed of interest income, insurance proceeds, equity income, management fee income and other gains and losses. 
  27 


Table of Contents


(3)
As a result of an accounting standards update on earnings per share regarding participating securities that became effective on January 1, 2009, the Company is
required to compute basic and diluted earnings per share under the two-class method. Accordingly, the weighted average shares for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 have been retrospectively adjusted and the (loss) earnings per share
calculation for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 have also been amended to reflect the new computation. The (loss) earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 have been adjusted, as necessary.
  


(4)
Working capital equals current assets less current liabilities.   


(5)
EBITDA (a non-GAAP financial measure) is calculated as net income before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. The body of accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States is commonly referred to as “GAAP.” For this purpose a non-GAAP financial measure is generally defined by the SEC as one that purports to measure historical and future financial
performance, financial position or cash flows, but excludes or includes amounts that would not be so adjusted in the most comparable GAAP measures. We have included EBITDA in this Form 10-K because our management considers it an important
supplemental measure of our performance and believes that it is frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of companies in our industry, some of which present EBITDA when reporting their results.
We regularly evaluate our performance as compared to other companies in our industry that have different financing and capital structures and/or tax rates by using EBITDA. EBITDA allows for meaningful company-to-company performance comparisons by
adjusting for factors such as interest expense, depreciation and amortization and taxes, which often vary from company to company. In addition, we utilize EBITDA in evaluating acquisition targets. Management also believes that EBITDA is a useful
tool for measuring our ability to meet our future debt service, capital expenditures and working capital requirements, and EBITDA is commonly used by us and our investors to measure our ability to service indebtedness. EBITDA is not a substitute for
the GAAP measures of earnings or of cash flow and is not necessarily a measure of our ability to fund our cash needs. In addition, it should be noted that companies calculate EBITDA differently and, therefore, EBITDA as presented in this Form 10-K
may not be comparable to EBITDA reported by other companies. EBITDA has material limitations as a performance measure because it excludes (1) interest expense, which is a necessary element of our costs and ability to generate revenues because
we have borrowed money to finance our operations, (2) depreciation, which is a necessary element of our costs and ability to generate revenues because we use capital assets and (3) income taxes, which is a necessary element of our
operations. We compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and using EBITDA only supplementally. The following table reconciles EBITDA to net income (loss) and to cash flow from operating activities.

  28 


Table of Contents
Reconciliation of EBITDA to Net Income (Loss) and 
to Cash Flow from Operating Activities   
























 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 EBITDA
  
$
583,821
  
 
$
511,567
  
 
$
236,909
  
 
$
87,861
  
 
$
280,893
  

 Less:
  



 



 



 



 




 (Provision for) benefit from income taxes
  
 
(142,466
) 
 
 
(121,567
) 
 
 
(25,758
) 
 
 
28,479
  
 
 
(44,228
) 

 Interest expense
  
 
(50,992
) 
 
 
(39,875
) 
 
 
(34,957
) 
 
 
(33,957
) 
 
 
(18,422
) 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
(131,397
) 
 
 
(128,732
) 
 
 
(123,199
) 
 
 
(111,926
) 
 
 
(103,514
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
 
258,966
  
 
 
221,393
  
 
 
52,995
  
 
 
(29,543
) 
 
 
114,729
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Changes in operating assets and liabilities
  
 
76,898
  
 
 
40,134
  
 
 
143,813
  
 
 
204,818
  
 
 
(59,830
) 

 Equity in income of joint ventures
  
 
(427
) 
 
 
(2,212
) 
 
 
(3,818
) 
 
 
(621
) 
 
 
(2,796
) 

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
14,114
  
 
 
14,153
  
 
 
31,207
  
 
 
(13,879
) 
 
 
5,286
  

 Impairment of long-lived assets
  
 
1,975
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Loss from disposition of fixed assets
  
 
1,375
  
 
 
581
  
 
 
2,711
  
 
 
4,900
  
 
 
724
  

 Gain on involuntary conversion of assets
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(455
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Amortization of debt issue costs
  
 
1,683
  
 
 
2,154
  
 
 
1,461
  
 
 
954
  
 
 
760
  

 Stock-based compensation expense
  
 
6,391
  
 
 
6,164
  
 
 
5,638
  
 
 
4,178
  
 
 
2,873
  

 Provision for doubtful accounts
  
 
1,321
  
 
 
917
  
 
 
1,970
  
 
 
15,282
  
 
 
420
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flow from operating activities
  
$
362,296
  
 
$
283,284
  
 
$
235,522
  
 
$
186,089
  
 
$
62,166
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  29 


Table of Contents


Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Overview  We are a vertically integrated manufacturer and marketer of
petrochemicals, polymers and fabricated building products. Our two principal business segments are Olefins and Vinyls. We use the majority of our internally-produced basic chemicals to produce higher value-added chemicals and building products.
 Consumption of the basic chemicals that we manufacture in the commodity portions of our olefins and vinyls processes has
increased significantly over the past 25 years. Our olefins and vinyls products are some of the most widely used chemicals in the world and are upgraded into a wide variety of higher value-added chemical products used in many end-markets.
Petrochemicals are typically manufactured in large volume by a number of different producers using widely available technologies. The petrochemical industry exhibits cyclical commodity characteristics, and margins are influenced by changes in the
balance between supply and demand and the resulting operating rates, the level of general economic activity and the price of raw materials. The cycle is generally characterized by periods of tight supply, leading to high operating rates and margins,
followed by a decline in operating rates and margins primarily as a result of significant capacity additions. Due to the significant size of new plants, capacity additions are built in large increments and typically require several years of demand
growth to be absorbed.  Beginning in 2009 and continuing through 2011, a cost advantage for natural gas-based ethylene
producers over naphtha-based ethylene producers allowed a strong export market and higher margins for North American chemical producers, including Westlake. Increased global demand for polyethylene in 2010 and 2011 resulted in increased sales
volumes and improved operating margins and cash flow for our Olefins segment. However, some olefins industry consultants predict that significant increases in worldwide ethylene and ethylene derivative capacity, which have occurred over the past
four years, primarily in the Middle East and Asia, may continue for the next several years. As a result, our Olefins segment operating margins may be negatively impacted.  Weakness in the U.S. construction markets, which began in the third quarter of 2006, and the subsequent budgetary constraints in municipal spending, have contributed to lower domestic demand for our
vinyls products. In addition, increases in feedstock costs, combined with the industry’s inability to sufficiently raise domestic prices for PVC resin and building products in order to offset cost increases, significantly impacted our Vinyls
segment’s operating results in 2010 and 2011. Since late 2010, the PVC industry has experienced an increase in PVC resin export demand, driven largely by more competitive ethylene and energy cost positions in North America. In addition, PVC
resin capacity in Japan was negatively impacted for a period following the tsunami in early 2011, which tightened global PVC resin availability. As a consequence, prices and margins for domestic PVC resin and building products improved in 2011.
Looking forward, our Vinyls segment operating rates and margins may continue to be negatively impacted by the slow recovery of U.S. construction markets and North American PVC capacity additions. 
While the economic environment continues to be challenging for our customers, we believe our customer base remains generally healthy. As
we continue to manage our business in this environment, including the slowdown in construction activity, we have taken steps designed to address the changes in demand and margins in our Vinyls segment and its resulting impact on our operations by
matching production with sales demand and continuing to operate our plants in an efficient manner. We continue to monitor our cost management programs and discretionary capital spending. The impact of the global economic environment has been
challenging to our business and, depending on the performance of the economy in 2012 and beyond, could have a negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
We purchase significant amounts of ethane and propane feedstock, natural gas, ethylene, chlorine and salt from external suppliers for use
in production of basic chemicals in the olefins and vinyls chains. We also purchase significant amounts of electricity to supply the energy required in our production processes. While we have agreements providing for the supply of ethane and propane
feedstocks, natural gas, ethylene, chlorine, salt and electricity, the contractual prices for these raw materials and energy vary with market conditions and may be highly volatile. Factors that have caused volatility in our raw material prices in
the past and which may do so in the future include:   


 
•
 
 shortages of raw materials due to increasing demand; 
  30 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 capacity constraints due to construction delays, strike action or involuntary shutdowns; 
 


 
•
 
 the general level of business and economic activity; and 
 


 
•
 
 the direct or indirect effect of governmental regulation.  Significant volatility in raw material costs tends to put pressure on product margins as sales price increases could lag behind raw material cost increases. Conversely, when raw material costs decrease,
customers may seek immediate relief in the form of lower sales prices. We currently use derivative instruments to reduce price volatility risk on feedstock commodities and lower overall costs. Normally, there is a pricing relationship between a
commodity that we process and the feedstock from which it is derived. When this pricing relationship deviates from historical norms, we have from time to time entered into derivative instruments and physical positions in an attempt to take advantage
of this relationship.  Our historical results have been significantly affected by our plant production capacity, our efficient
use of the capacity and our ability to increase our capacity. Since our inception, we have followed a disciplined growth strategy that focuses on plant acquisitions, new plant construction and internal expansion. We evaluate each expansion project
on the basis of its ability to produce sustained returns in excess of our cost of capital and its ability to improve efficiency or reduce operating costs.  As noted above in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” we are subject to extensive environmental regulations, which may impose significant additional costs on our operations in the future. Further,
current concern about GHG emissions and their possible effects on climate change has led to the enactment of regulations, and to proposed legislation and additional regulations that could affect us in the form of increased cost of feedstocks and
fuel, other increased costs of production and decreased demand for our products. While we do not expect any of these enactments or proposals to have a material adverse effect on us in the near term, we cannot predict the longer-term effect of any of
these regulations or proposals on our future financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  Recent Developments 
On January 13, 2012, we announced that we submitted a proposal to Georgia Gulf to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Georgia
Gulf for $30.00 per share in cash, or a total of approximately $1.1 billion. Our proposal was not subject to financing conditions. Georgia Gulf rejected our proposal on January 16, 2012 and adopted a stockholder rights plan. On February 1,
2012, we announced that we were increasing our offer to $35.00 per share in cash, or a total of approximately $1.2 billion, with the possibility of offering our common stock as part of the offer consideration. On that date, Georgia Gulf also
publicly rejected our increased offer. As of February 17, 2012, we held shares representing approximately 4.8% of the outstanding shares of common stock of Georgia Gulf.  In December 2011, we announced plans to perform a major modification of the ethylene production facility at our Calvert City complex. The modification is expected to reduce costs and improve
operating efficiency and energy consumption. We currently expect the modification to be completed by mid-2013. In addition, we are currently evaluating conversion from propane to ethane feedstock for our ethylene production facility at Calvert City
in order to capitalize on available low cost ethane and other “light” feedstock being developed in North America.  In
August 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program totaling $100.0 million. Purchases under this program may be made either through the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. Decisions regarding the amount
and the timing of purchases under the program will be influenced by our cash on hand, our cash flow from operations, general market conditions and other factors. The program may be discontinued by our Board of Directors at any time. 
In June 2011, as a result of excess capacity in the PVC pipe market and in an effort to reduce costs and optimize production
operations, we closed our Springfield PVC pipe facility. We recorded asset impairment, severance and other costs related to the pipe facility closure of $3.4 million. 
  31 


Table of Contents
In May 2011, we completed a planned major maintenance activity, or turnaround, at our
Calvert City facility. The ethylene, VCM and PVC units were shut down for a total of 16 days each to perform the planned major maintenance activities. The chlor-alkali unit was down for a shorter period. 
In April 2011, one of the ethylene units at our Lake Charles facility experienced an unscheduled shut down caused by a weather
related power supply failure from a third party power provider. We restarted the ethylene unit three days later but operated the unit at reduced capacity, until we returned it to normal operations in late May. In addition to the lost production
resulting from the outage, we incurred repair costs and unabsorbed fixed manufacturing costs which negatively impacted income from operations.  In April 2011, we announced an expansion program to increase the ethane-based ethylene capacity of both of the ethylene units at our Lake Charles complex. We currently expect to complete the
expansion of one of the two ethylene units by late 2012. The first cracker expansion is expected to increase ethylene capacity by approximately 230 – 240 million pounds annually, while also increasing feedstock flexibility. The
additional capacity from this expansion is expected to provide ethylene for existing internal uses and may also be sold in the merchant market. We expect this project will be funded with cash on hand, cash flow from operations, the net proceeds from
the revenue bonds of the Louisiana Local Government Environmental Facility and Development Authority (the “Authority”), a political subdivision of the State of Louisiana, and if necessary, our revolving credit facility and other external
financing. In addition, we are currently evaluating expansion plans to increase the ethane-based ethylene capacity of the second ethylene unit at our Lake Charles complex.  In August 2010, we announced that we intend to proceed with the previously announced construction of a new chlor-alkali plant to be located at our vinyls manufacturing complex in Geismar. In
December 2011, we announced that we were increasing the planned capacity of the chlor-alkali plant. The new chlor-alkali unit is designed to produce up to 350,000 ECUs annually upon completion, bringing our total ECU capacity to
625,000 per year. The new plant will improve the vertical integration of our vinyls business from chlorine downstream into VCM and PVC and increase caustic soda sales. The project is currently targeted for start-up in the second half of 2013.
We expect this project will be funded with cash on hand, cash flow from operations, the net proceeds from the revenue bonds of the Authority, and if necessary, our revolving credit facility and other external financing. 
  32 


Table of Contents
Results of Operations  Segment Data   
















 
  
        Year Ended
December 31,        
 

 
  
        2011        

 
 
        2010        

 
 
        2009        

 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Net external sales
  



 



 




 Olefins
  



 



 




 Polyethylene
  
$
1,772,144
  
 
$
1,656,203
  
 
$
1,210,706
  

 Ethylene, styrene and other
  
 
795,698
  
 
 
605,009
  
 
 
400,745
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total olefins
  
 
2,567,842
  
 
 
2,261,212
  
 
 
1,611,451
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Vinyls
  



 



 




 PVC, caustic soda and other
  
 
757,314
  
 
 
558,156
  
 
 
398,825
  

 Building products
  
 
294,692
  
 
 
352,419
  
 
 
315,447
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total vinyls
  
 
1,052,006
  
 
 
910,575
  
 
 
714,272
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
3,619,848
  
 
$
3,171,787
  
 
$
2,325,723
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from operations
  



 



 




 Olefins
  
$
459,266
  
 
$
460,027
  
 
$
177,101
  

 Vinyls
  
 
4,012
  
 
 
(62,429
) 
 
 
(57,445
) 

 Corporate and other
  
 
(16,482
) 
 
 
(19,234
) 
 
 
(12,399
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total income from operations
  
 
446,796
  
 
 
378,364
  
 
 
107,257
  

 Interest expense
  
 
(50,992
) 
 
 
(39,875
) 
 
 
(34,957
) 

 Other income, net
  
 
5,628
  
 
 
4,471
  
 
 
6,453
  

 Provision for income taxes
  
 
142,466
  
 
 
121,567
  
 
 
25,758
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
258,966
  
 
$
221,393
  
 
$
52,995
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings per diluted share
  
$
3.87
  
 
$
3.34
  
 
$
0.80
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  




















 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
 
Average SalesPrice
 
 
Volume
 
 
Average SalesPrice
 
 
Volume
 

 Product sales price and volume percentage change from prior year
 



 



 



 




 Olefins
 
 
+16.1
% 
 
 
-2.6
% 
 
 
+34.7
% 
 
 
+5.6
% 

 Vinyls
 
 
+19.2
% 
 
 
-3.7
% 
 
 
+18.7
% 
 
 
+8.8
% 

 Company average
 
 
+17.0
% 
 
 
-2.9
% 
 
 
+29.8
% 
 
 
+6.6
% 
  
















 
  
        Year Ended December 31,   
     
 

 
  
        2011        

 
  
        2010        

 
  
        2009        

 

 Average industry prices (1)
  



  



  




 Ethane (cents/lb)
  
 
25.8
  
  
 
20.2
  
  
 
16.2
  

 Propane (cents/lb)
  
 
34.6
  
  
 
27.6
  
  
 
19.9
  

 Ethylene (cents/lb) (2)
  
 
54.3
  
  
 
45.9
  
  
 
33.9
  

 Polyethylene (cents/lb) (3)
  
 
97.3
  
  
 
88.7
  
  
 
70.1
  

 Styrene (cents/lb) (4)
  
 
71.9
  
  
 
62.7
  
  
 
49.6
  

 Caustic ($/short ton) (5)
  
 
547.5
  
  
 
365.4
  
  
 
394.6
  

 Chlorine ($/short ton) (6)
  
 
330.2
  
  
 
322.9
  
  
 
288.1
  

 PVC (cents/lb) (7)
  
 
75.0
  
  
 
66.3
  
  
 
51.3
  
  


(1)
Industry pricing data was obtained through IHS Chemical. We have not independently verified the data. 
  33 


Table of Contents


(2)
Represents average North American contract prices of ethylene over the period as reported by IHS Chemical. 
 


(3)
Represents average North American contract prices of polyethylene low density film over the period as reported by IHS Chemical. 
 


(4)
Represents average North American contract prices of styrene over the period as reported by IHS Chemical. 
 


(5)
Represents average North American acquisition prices of caustic soda (diaphragm grade) over the period as reported by IHS Chemical. 
 


(6)
Represents average North American contract prices of chlorine (into chemicals) over the period as reported by IHS Chemical. 
 


(7)
Represents average North American contract prices of PVC over the period as reported by IHS Chemical. 
Summary  For the
year ended December 31, 2011, we had net income of $259.0 million, or $3.87 per diluted share, on net sales of $3,619.8 million. This represents an increase in net income of $37.6 million, or $0.53 per diluted share, from 2010 net income of
$221.4 million, or $3.34 per diluted share, on net sales of $3,171.8 million. Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased $448.0 million to $3,619.8 million compared to net sales for 2010 of $3,171.8 million, primarily due to
higher sales prices for all our major products and higher sales volume for PVC resin, partially offset by lower building products sales volume. Income from operations was $446.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $378.4
million for 2010. Income from operations benefited primarily from improved caustic margins, higher PVC resin and building products sales prices and higher PVC resin sales volume as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010, partially offset
by higher feedstock costs. The 2011 income from operations was negatively impacted by the lost production, lost sales and higher operating costs associated with four separate events: an unscheduled outage at one of our ethylene units in Lake
Charles, the turnaround of our Calvert City facility, a fire at a third-party storage facility in Mont Belvieu and the closure of our Springfield PVC pipe production facility. The 2010 results were negatively impacted by an unscheduled outage at one
of our ethylene units in Lake Charles caused by severe weather.  2011 Compared with 2010 
Net Sales. Net sales increased by $448.0 million, or 14.1%, to $3,619.8 million in 2011 from $3,171.8 million in 2010. This
increase was mainly driven by higher sales prices for all major products and higher sales volume for PVC resin, partially offset by lower building products and ethylene sales volume as compared to 2010. Average sales prices for 2011 increased by
17.0% as compared to 2010. Overall sales volume decreased by 2.9% in 2011 as compared to 2010, primarily caused by lower building products sales volume attributable to weakness in the U.S. construction markets. 
Gross Profit. Gross profit margin percentage improved slightly to 15.4% in 2011 from 15.2% in 2010. The improvement in gross profit
percentage was primarily due to improved Vinyls margins resulting from higher PVC resin, building products and caustic sales prices and higher PVC resin sales volume, mostly offset by higher feedstock costs, the unscheduled Lake Charles outage, the
Calvert City turnaround, the closure of our Springfield PVC pipe facility and the fire at a third-party storage facility in Mont Belvieu. Our raw material costs in both segments normally track industry prices, which experienced an increase of 27.7%
for ethane and 25.4% for propane in 2011 as compared to 2010. Average sales prices for 2011 increased by 17.0% as compared to 2010.  Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $7.9 million, or 7.6%, in 2011 as compared to 2010. The increase was mainly attributable to an
increase in payroll and related labor costs, including incentive compensation, partially offset by a decrease in legal and consulting fees.  Interest Expense. Interest expense increased by $11.1 million to $51.0 million in 2011 from $39.9 million in 2010, primarily due to higher average debt outstanding for 2011 as a result of the
issuance of our senior notes in July 2010 and December 2010. 
  34 


Table of Contents
Other Income, Net. Other income, net increased by $1.1 million to $5.6 million in
2011 from $4.5 million in 2010, mainly due to higher interest income earned from higher cash balances and higher equity in income from our joint ventures, partially offset by foreign exchange currency losses. 
Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was 35.5% in 2011 as compared to 35.4% in 2010. The effective income tax rate for 2011
was above the statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to state income taxes, offset by state tax credits and the domestic manufacturing deduction. The effective income tax rate for 2010 was above the statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to state
income taxes, offset by state tax credits and the domestic manufacturing deduction.  Olefins Segment 
Net Sales. Net sales increased by $306.6 million, or 13.6%, to $2,567.8 million in 2011 from $2,261.2 million in 2010. This
increase was primarily due an increase in sales prices for all major products, partially offset by lower ethylene and polyethylene sales volumes. Average sales prices for the Olefins segment increased by 16.1% in 2011 as compared to 2010, while
average sales volumes decreased by 2.6% in 2011 as compared to 2010.  Income from Operations. Income from operations was
$459.3 million in 2011 as compared to $460.0 million in 2010 as higher polyethylene and styrene sales prices were mostly offset by higher feedstock costs as compared to 2010. In addition, income from operations for 2011 was negatively impacted by
the unscheduled outage at one of our ethylene units in Lake Charles and the fire at a third-party storage facility at Mont Belvieu. Trading activity for 2011 resulted in a gain of $2.0 million as compared to a gain of $0.1 million for 2010. Results
for 2010 were negatively impacted by the unscheduled outage at one of our ethylene units in Lake Charles caused by severe weather. 
Vinyls Segment 
Net Sales. Net sales increased by $141.4 million, or 15.5%, to $1,052.0 million in 2011 from $910.6 million in 2010. This increase
was primarily driven by higher sales prices for all major products and an increase in sales volume for PVC resin, partially offset by lower building products sales volume as compared to 2010. Average sales prices for the Vinyls segment increased by
19.2% in 2011 as compared to 2010, while average sales volumes decreased by 3.7% in 2011 as compared to 2010, primarily caused by lower building products sales volume.  Income (Loss) from Operations. Income from operations improved by $66.4 million to $4.0 million in 2011 as compared to a loss from operations of $62.4 million in 2010. This change was primarily
attributable to improved caustic, PVC resin and building products margins and higher PVC resin sales volume as compared to 2010, partially offset by the negative impact of the turnaround at our Calvert City facility and the closure of our
Springfield PVC pipe facility. PVC resin sales volume benefited from a stronger export market in 2011. In addition, income from operations benefited from a change in the intersegment market pricing methodology used to account for intersegment sales
of ethylene. Additional information appears in Note 19 to the audited consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Overall, Vinyls margins remained under pressure in 2011 due to the continued weakness in the U.S.
construction markets and budgetary constraints in municipal spending.  2010 Compared with 2009 
Net Sales. Net sales increased by $846.1 million, or 36.4%, to $3,171.8 million in 2010 from $2,325.7 million in 2009. This
increase was primarily due to higher sales prices for all major products, except caustic, and higher sales volume for polyethylene and PVC resin. Average sales prices for 2010 increased by 29.8% as compared to 2009. Overall sales volume increased by
6.6% in 2010 as compared to 2009, mainly driven by increased demand for polyethylene, PVC resin and caustic soda. 
  35 


Table of Contents
Gross Profit. Gross profit margin percentage increased to 15.2% in 2010 from 8.4% in
2009. The improvement in gross profit percentage was primarily due to improved Olefins segment integrated product margins resulting from higher sales prices, higher polyethylene sales volumes and higher production rates for most of our major
products, partially offset by higher feedstock and energy costs. In addition, the 2010 gross profit percentage was impacted by the lost ethylene production, repair costs and unabsorbed fixed manufacturing costs incurred due to the Lake Charles
outage in the first quarter of 2010 and a negative change of $5.2 million in trading activity. Our raw material costs in both segments normally track industry prices, which experienced an increase of 24.7% for ethane and 38.7% for propane in 2010 as
compared to 2009. Average sales prices for 2010 increased by 29.8% as compared to 2009.  Selling, General and Administrative
Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $16.4 million, or 18.7%, in 2010 as compared to 2009. The increase was mainly attributable to an increase in payroll and related labor costs and higher legal and professional fees.
 Interest Expense. Interest expense increased by $4.9 million to $39.9 million in 2010 from $35.0 million in 2009,
primarily due to higher average debt outstanding for the period as a result of the issuance of our senior notes in July 2010 and December 2010.  Other Income, Net. Other income, net decreased by $2.0 million to $4.5 million in 2010 from $6.5 million in 2009 primarily due to lower equity in income from our joint venture in China. 
Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was 35.4% in 2010 as compared to 32.7% in 2009. The effective income tax rate for 2010
was above the statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to state income taxes, offset by state tax credits and the domestic manufacturing deduction. The effective income tax rate for 2009 was below the statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to state tax
credits, a lower foreign tax rate and a reduction of gross unrecognized tax benefits, partially offset by state income taxes.  Olefins
Segment  Net Sales. Net sales increased by $649.7 million, or 40.3%, to $2,261.2 million in 2010 from $1,611.5
million in 2009. This increase was primarily due to an increase in sales prices for all major products and higher polyethylene sales volume. Average sales prices for the Olefins segment increased by 34.7% in 2010 as compared to 2009, while average
sales volumes increased by 5.6% in 2010 as compared to 2009.  Income from Operations. Income from operations increased
by $282.9 million to $460.0 million in 2010 from $177.1 million in 2009. This increase was mainly attributable to improved Olefins segment integrated product margins due to higher sales prices, increased polyethylene sales volume and higher
operating rates. The increase was partially offset by higher feedstock costs and the unscheduled outage at one of our ethylene units in Lake Charles during the first quarter of 2010. In addition, trading activity for 2010 resulted in a gain of $0.1
million as compared to a gain of $5.3 million for 2009. Results for 2009 were negatively impacted by the turnaround at one of our ethylene units in Lake Charles.  Vinyls Segment  Net Sales. Net sales increased by $196.3
million, or 27.5%, to $910.6 million in 2010 from $714.3 million in 2009. This increase was primarily driven by higher sales prices for most of our major vinyls products and higher PVC resin sales volume. Average sales prices for the Vinyls segment
increased by 18.7% in 2010 as compared to 2009, while average sales volumes increased by 8.8% in 2010 as compared to 2009. 
Loss from Operations. The Vinyls segment incurred a loss from operations of $62.4 million in 2010 as compared to a loss from
operations of $57.4 million in 2009. Operating results for 2010 were negatively impacted by lower integrated PVC resin margins primarily attributable to higher feedstock and energy costs, which were only partially offset by higher product prices.
Vinyls margins remain under pressure due to the continued weakness in the U.S. construction markets, budgetary constraints in municipal spending and the industry’s inability to raise prices for PVC resin and other downstream building products
sufficiently in order to offset feedstock and energy cost increases. 
  36 


Table of Contents
Cash Flows  Operating Activities  Operating activities provided cash of $362.3
million in 2011 compared to $283.3 million in 2010. The $79.0 million increase in cash flows from operating activities was primarily due to an increase in income from operations and a decrease in working capital requirements, as compared to 2010,
partially offset by higher income taxes paid. Income from operations increased by $68.4 million in 2011 as compared to 2010 primarily as a result of improved caustic margins, higher PVC resin and PVC pipe sales prices and higher PVC resin sales
volume. Changes in components of working capital, which we define for purposes of this cash flow discussion as accounts receivable, net, inventories, prepaid expenses and other current assets, less accounts payable and accrued liabilities, used cash
of $44.4 million in 2011, compared to $85.8 million of cash used in 2010, a favorable change of $41.4 million. This change was primarily the result of an increase in inventory during the 2011 period that was smaller than the increase in inventory
during the 2010 period. Income taxes paid was $126.3 million in 2011 as compared to $108.2 million in 2010.  Operating
activities provided cash of $283.3 million in 2010 compared to $235.5 million in 2009. The $47.8 million increase in cash flows from operating activities was primarily due to an increase in income from operations and reduced turnaround spending,
mostly offset by an increase in cash used for working capital and income taxes paid. Income from operations increased by $271.1 million in 2010 as compared to 2009 primarily as a result of improved production rates for most of our major products and
higher Olefins segment integrated product margins. Changes in components of working capital used cash of $85.8 million in 2010, compared to $39.3 million of cash provided in 2009, a change of $125.1 million. This change was largely due to an
increase in accounts receivable and inventory primarily attributable to the increase in average product prices, sales volumes and feedstock costs as compared to 2009. Income taxes paid was $108.2 million in 2010 as compared to refunds received of
$40.7 million in 2009 and deferred turnaround costs were $0.4 million in 2010 as compared to $20.3 million in 2009.  Investing
Activities  Net cash used for investing activities during 2011 was $202.8 million as compared to net cash used of $80.3
million in 2010. Capital expenditures were $176.8 million in 2011 compared to $81.3 million in 2010. The higher capital expenditures in 2011 were largely attributable to capital expenditures incurred on the construction of the new chlor-alkali plant
at our Geismar facility, the expansion of the ethylene unit at our Lake Charles complex and expenditures related to other capital projects to improve production capacity or reduce costs at our various facilities. The remaining capital expenditures
in 2011 and capital expenditures in 2010 primarily related to maintenance, safety and environmental projects. We expect to incur capital expenditures related to environmental compliance of $6.0 million and $7.0 million in 2012 and 2013,
respectively. A significant percentage of the 2012 and 2013 estimated amounts are related to equipment replacement and upgrades to maintain environmental compliance. Purchases of equity securities, primarily comprised of shares of Georgia Gulf
common stock, and other investments totaled $30.3 million in 2011. As of February 17, 2012, we held shares representing approximately 4.8% of the outstanding shares of common stock of Georgia Gulf. 
Net cash used for investing activities during 2010 was $80.3 million as compared to net cash used of $103.2 million in 2009. Capital
expenditures were $81.3 million in 2010 compared to $99.8 million in 2009. The higher capital expenditures in 2009 were largely attributable to expenditures related to capital projects performed during the turnaround at one of our ethylene
facilities in Lake Charles and the completion of our PVC pipe facility and PVC resin plant expansion in Yucca, Arizona and Calvert City, respectively. Capital expenditures in 2010 and the remaining capital expenditures in 2009 primarily related to
maintenance, safety and environmental projects. Other investing activities in 2010 included a $10.2 million investment in our natural gas liquids pipeline joint venture and proceeds of $9.5 million for the settlement of derivative instruments.
 Financing Activities  Net cash provided by financing activities during 2011 was $36.1 million as compared to net cash provided of $181.7 million in 2010. The 2011 activity was primarily related to a $54.2 million draw-down of
our restricted 
  37 


Table of Contents

cash for use for eligible capital expenditures and proceeds of $5.3 million from the exercise of stock options. Net cash provided by financing activities was partially offset by the $18.3 million
payment of cash dividends, $2.5 million of repurchases of shares of our common stock and fees incurred in connection with the amendment and restatement of our revolving credit facility in 2011. The 2010 activity was primarily related to a $197.3
million draw-down of our restricted cash, partially offset by the payment of cash dividends and debt issuance costs associated with the issuance of our senior notes in July 2010 and December 2010. 
Net cash provided by financing activities during 2010 was $181.7 million as compared to net cash provided of $23.0 million in 2009. The
2010 activity was primarily related to a $197.3 million draw-down of our restricted cash for use for eligible capital expenditures, which included the reimbursement of eligible capital expenditures incurred in prior years. Cash provided by financing
activities was partially offset by the $16.0 million payment of cash dividends and $3.3 million of debt issuance costs associated with the issuance of our senior notes in July 2010 and December 2010. The 2009 activity was primarily related to a
$38.9 million draw-down of our restricted cash, partially offset by the payment of cash dividends as well as fees incurred in connection with the issuance by the Authority of $5.0 million of variable rate tax-exempt revenue bonds due August 1,
2029 (the “Initial Series 2009A Revenue Bonds”) in August 2009 under the Gulf Opportunity Zone Act of 2005 (the “GO Zone Act”) and the amendment of our revolving credit facility. 
Liquidity and Capital Resources 
Liquidity and Financing Arrangements  Our principal sources of liquidity are from cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, cash from operations, short-term borrowings under our revolving credit facility and our long-term financing. As we
continue to manage our business through the current economic environment, we have maintained our focus on cost control and various initiatives designed to preserve cash and liquidity. 
In December 2011, we announced plans to perform a major modification of the ethylene production facility at our Calvert City complex.
We currently expect the modification to be completed by mid-2013. This capital project is currently estimated to cost approximately $40.0 million and will be funded with cash on hand, cash flow from operations, and if necessary, our revolving credit
facility and other external financing.  In August 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program
totaling $100.0 million. As of December 31, 2011, we had repurchased 69,816 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $2.5 million under this program. Purchases under this program may be made either through the
open market or in privately negotiated transactions. Decisions regarding the amount and the timing of purchases under the program will be influenced by our cash on hand, our cash flow from operations, general market conditions and other factors. The
program may be discontinued by our Board of Directors at any time.  In April 2011, we announced an expansion program to
increase the ethane-based ethylene capacity of both of the ethylene units at our Lake Charles complex. We currently expect to complete the expansion of one of the two ethylene units by late 2012. This expansion is currently estimated to cost in the
range of $110.0 million to $145.0 million. The additional capacity from this expansion is expected to provide ethylene for existing internal uses and may also be sold in the merchant market. In August 2010, we announced that we intend to
proceed with the previously announced plans for the construction of a new chlor-alkali plant at our Geismar facility. The project is currently estimated to cost in the range of $370.0 million to $420.0 million and is targeted for start-up in the
second half of 2013. These projects will be funded with cash on hand, cash flow from operations, the net proceeds from certain of the revenue bonds of the Authority, which are currently held as restricted cash, and, if necessary, our revolving
credit facility and other external financing.  We believe that our sources of liquidity as described above will be adequate to
fund our normal operations and ongoing capital expenditures. Funding of any potential large expansions or any potential acquisitions, including our proposed acquisition of Georgia Gulf, if consummated, may depend on our ability to obtain additional
financing in the future. We may not be able to access additional liquidity at cost effective interest rates due to the volatility of the commercial credit markets. 
  38 


Table of Contents
Cash and Restricted Cash 
Total cash balances were $922.2 million at December 31, 2011, which included cash and cash equivalents of $825.9 million and
restricted cash of $96.3 million. The restricted cash is held by a trustee until such time as we request reimbursement of amounts used to expand, refurbish and maintain our facilities in Calcasieu and Ascension Parishes of Louisiana. In addition, we
have a revolving credit facility available to supplement cash if needed, as described under “Debt” below.  Debt
 As of December 31, 2011, our long-term debt, including current maturities, totaled $764.6
million, consisting of $250.0 million principal amount of 6 5/8% senior notes due 2016 (less the unamortized discount of $0.3 million), $100.0 million of 6 1/2% senior notes due 2029, $250.0 million of 6 3/4% senior notes due 2032, $89.0 million of 6 1/2% senior notes due 2035 (the “2035 GO Zone 6 1/2% Notes”) and $65.0 million of
6 1/2% senior notes due 2035 (the “2035
IKE Zone 6 1/2% Notes”) (collectively, the
“Senior Notes”) and a $10.9 million loan from the proceeds of tax-exempt waste disposal revenue bonds (supported by an $11.3 million letter of credit). The
6 1/2% senior notes due 2029, the 6 3/4% senior notes due 2032, the 2035 GO Zone 6 1/2% Notes and the 2035 IKE Zone 6 1/2% Notes evidence and secure our obligations to the Authority under
four loan agreements relating to the issuance of $100.0 million, $250.0 million, $89.0 million and $65.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Authority’s tax-exempt revenue bonds, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, debt
outstanding under the tax-exempt waste disposal revenue bonds bore interest at a variable rate. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all of the covenants with respect to our Senior Notes, our waste disposal revenue bonds and our
revolving credit facility.  Revolving Credit Facility
 In September 2011, we entered into a second amendment and restatement to our senior secured revolving credit
facility. The amendment and restatement, among other things, extended the scheduled maturity date of the facility, reduced the interest rate and facility fee payable under the facility and amended the covenants restricting our ability to make
distributions, acquisitions and investments.  We have a $400.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility. The facility
includes a provision permitting us to increase the size of the facility, up to four times, in increments of at least $25.0 million each (up to a maximum of $150.0 million) under certain circumstances if certain lenders agree to commit to such an
increase.  The facility allows us to borrow up to (1) 85% of the net amount of eligible accounts receivable, plus
(2) the lesser of (a) 70% of the value of the lower of cost or market of eligible inventory, or (b) 85% of the appraised net orderly liquidation value of all eligible inventory, plus (3) 100% of cash held in an account with the
agent under the credit facility and subject to a control agreement with the agent, minus (4) such reserves as the agent may establish. Advances on inventory are limited to $325.0 million. The facility includes a $400.0 million sub-limit for
letters of credit, and any outstanding letters of credit will be deducted from availability under the facility.  At
December 31, 2011, we had no borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Any borrowings under the facility will bear interest at either LIBOR plus a spread ranging from 1.75% to 2.25% or a base rate plus a spread ranging from
0.25% to 0.75%. The revolving credit facility also requires an unused commitment fee of 0.375% per annum. All interest rates under the facility are subject to monthly grid pricing adjustments based on prior month average daily loan
availability. The revolving credit facility matures on September 16, 2016. As of December 31, 2011, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $15.7 million and borrowing availability of $384.3 million under the revolving credit
facility.  Our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.0:1 for successive
30-day periods after any date on which the borrowing availability under the facility is less than the greater of (1) 12.5% of the commitments under the facility and (2) $50.0 million, until the borrowing availability exceeds the greater of
the amount in clause (1) and the amount in clause (2) for a 30-day period. 
  39 


Table of Contents
In order to make acquisitions or investments, our revolving credit facility provides that
(1) we must maintain a minimum borrowing availability of at least the greater of $100.0 million or 25% of the total bank commitments under our revolving credit facility or (2) we must maintain a minimum borrowing availability of at least
the greater of $70.0 million or 17.5% of the total bank commitments under our revolving credit facility and meet a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.0:1 under our revolving credit facility. However, we may make specified distributions up to
an aggregate of $25.0 million and specified acquisitions up to an aggregate of $25.0 million if either we maintain a minimum borrowing availability of at least the greater of $70.0 million or 17.5% of the total bank commitments under our revolving
credit facility or we meet the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.0:1 under our revolving credit facility. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we may make (1) investments up to $200.0 million in one or more joint ventures that own feedstock,
raw material and ethylene pipeline, storage and fractionating facilities and (2) additional investments up to $55.0 million in Suzhou Huasu Plastics Co., Ltd. The revolving credit facility contains other customary covenants and events of
default that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions, among other things, provide limitations on the occurrence of additional indebtedness and our ability to create liens, to engage in certain affiliate
transactions and to engage in sale-leaseback transactions.  GO Zone Bonds 
In December 2010, the Authority completed the offering of $89.0 million of 6 1/2% tax-exempt revenue bonds due November 1, 2035 under the
GO Zone Act. The bonds are subject to optional redemption by the Authority upon the direction of the Company at any time prior to November 1, 2020 for 100% of the principal plus accrued interest and a discounted “make whole”
payment of remaining unpaid principal and interest payments. On or after November 1, 2020, the bonds are subject to optional redemption by the Authority upon the direction of the Company for 100% of the principal plus accrued interest.
 In July 2010, the Authority completed the reoffering of $100.0 million of 6 1/2% tax-exempt revenue bonds due August 1, 2029 under the
GO Zone Act. The bonds are subject to optional redemption by the Authority upon the direction of the Company at any time prior to August 1, 2020 for 100% of the principal plus accrued interest and a discounted “make whole”
payment of remaining unpaid principal and interest payments. On or after August 1, 2020, the bonds are subject to optional redemption by the Authority upon the direction of the Company for 100% of the principal plus accrued interest.
 In December 2007, the Authority issued $250.0 million of 6 3/4% tax-exempt revenue bonds due November 1, 2032 under the
GO Zone Act. The bonds are subject to optional redemption by the Authority upon the direction of the Company at any time prior to November 1, 2017 for 100% of the principal plus accrued interest and a discounted “make whole”
payment of remaining unpaid principal and interest payments. On or after November 1, 2017, the bonds are subject to optional redemption by the Authority upon the direction of the Company for 100% of the principal plus accrued interest.
 Each series of the bonds is subject to redemption and the holders may require the bonds to be repurchased upon a change
of control or a change in or loss of the current tax status of the bonds. In addition, the bonds are subject to optional redemption by the Authority upon the direction of the Company if certain events have occurred in connection with the operation
of the projects for which the bond proceeds may be used, including if the Company has determined that the continued operation of any material portion of the projects would be impracticable, uneconomical or undesirable for any reason. 
In connection with each offering of the bonds, we entered into a loan agreement with the Authority pursuant to which
we agreed to pay all of the principal, premium, if any, and interest on the bonds and certain other amounts to the Authority. The net proceeds from the offerings were lent by the Authority to us. We intend to use the proceeds to expand, refurbish
and maintain certain of our facilities in the Louisiana Parishes of Calcasieu and Ascension. The bonds are unsecured and rank equally in right of payment with other existing and future unsecured senior indebtedness. All domestic restricted
subsidiaries that guarantee other debt of ours or of another guarantor of the Senior Notes in excess of $5.0 million are guarantors of the bonds. As of December 31, 2011, we had drawn $40.5 million of the proceeds from the 6 1/2% bonds due November 1, 2035, all the proceeds from

  40 


Table of Contents

the 6 1/2% senior notes due 2029 and $250.0 million of the proceeds from the 6 3/4% senior notes due 2032. The balance of the proceeds, plus interest income, remains with a bond trustee pursuant to the terms and provisions of the loan agreements, and is
classified on our consolidated balance sheet as a non-current asset, restricted cash, until such time as we request reimbursement of amounts used to expand, refurbish and maintain our facilities in Calcasieu and Ascension Parishes.
 IKE Zone Bonds  In December 2010, the Authority completed the offering of $65.0 million of
6 1/2% tax-exempt revenue bonds due November 1,
2035 under Section 704 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “IKE Zone Act”). The bonds are subject to optional redemption by the Authority upon the direction of the Company at any time prior to
November 1, 2020 for 100% of the principal plus accrued interest and a discounted “make whole” payment of remaining unpaid principal and interest payments. On or after November 1, 2020, the bonds are subject to optional
redemption by the Authority upon the direction of the Company for 100% of the principal plus accrued interest. The bonds are subject to redemption, repurchase by the holders upon a change of control or a change in or loss of the current tax status
of the bonds and optional redemption by the Authority under terms substantially similar to the terms for the GO Zone Bonds. In connection with the offering of the bonds, we entered into a loan agreement with the Authority pursuant to which we
agreed to pay all of the principal, premium, if any, and interest on the bonds and certain other amounts to the Authority. The net proceeds from the offering were lent by the Authority to us. We intend to use the proceeds to expand, refurbish and
maintain certain of our facilities in the Louisiana Parish of Calcasieu. The 2035 IKE Zone 6 1/2% Notes are unsecured and rank equally in right of payment with other existing and future unsecured senior indebtedness. All domestic restricted subsidiaries that guarantee other debt of ours or of
another guarantor of the Senior Notes in excess of $5.0 million are guarantors of the 2035 IKE Zone
6 1/2% Notes. As of December 31, 2011, we had
drawn $17.3 million of the proceeds. The balance of the proceeds, plus interest income, remains with a bond trustee pursuant to the terms and provisions of the loan agreement, and is classified on our consolidated balance sheet as a non-current
asset, restricted cash, until such time as we request reimbursement of amounts used to expand, refurbish and maintain our facilities in Calcasieu Parish. 
6 5/8% Senior Notes  In
January 2006, we issued $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6 5/8% senior notes due 2016. The 6  5/8%
senior notes are unsecured and were issued with an original issue discount of $0.8 million. There is no sinking fund and no scheduled amortization of the notes prior to maturity. The notes are subject to redemption and the holders may require us to
repurchase the notes upon a change of control. All domestic restricted subsidiaries that guarantee other debt of ours or of another guarantor of the Senior Notes in excess of $5.0 million are guarantors of the 6 5/8% senior notes. 
The indentures governing the Senior Notes contain customary covenants and events of default. Accordingly, these agreements generally
impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions, among other things, provide limitations on incurrence of additional indebtedness, the payment of dividends, certain investments and acquisitions and sales of assets.
However, the effectiveness of certain of these restrictions is currently suspended because the Senior Notes are currently rated investment grade by at least two nationally recognized credit rating agencies. The most significant of these provisions,
if it were currently effective, would restrict us from incurring additional debt, except specified permitted debt (including borrowings under our credit facility), when our fixed charge coverage ratio is below 2.0:1. These limitations are subject to
a number of important qualifications and exceptions, including, without limitation, an exception for the payment of our regular quarterly dividend of up to $0.20 per share (currently $0.0738 per share). If the restrictions were currently effective,
distributions in excess of $100.0 million would not be allowed unless, after giving pro forma effect to the distribution, our fixed charge coverage ratio is at least 2.0:1 and such payment, together with the aggregate amount of all other
distributions after January 13, 2006, is less than the sum of 50% of our consolidated net income for the period from October 1, 2003 to the end of the most recent quarter for which financial statements have been filed, plus 100% of net
cash proceeds received after October 1, 2003 as a contribution to our common equity capital or from the issuance or sale of certain securities, plus several other adjustments. 
  41 


Table of Contents
Revenue Bonds  In December 1997, we entered into a loan agreement with a public trust established for public purposes for the benefit of the Parish of Calcasieu, Louisiana. The public trust issued $10.9 million
principal amount of tax-exempt waste disposal revenue bonds in order to finance our construction of waste disposal facilities for an ethylene plant. The waste disposal revenue bonds expire in December 2027 and are subject to redemption and
mandatory tender for purchase prior to maturity under certain conditions. Interest on the waste disposal revenue bonds accrues at a rate determined by a remarketing agent and is payable quarterly. The interest rate on the waste disposal revenue
bonds at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was 0.20% and 0.45%, respectively.  Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness
and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Based on our
current level of operations, we believe our cash flow from operations, available cash and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility will be adequate to meet our normal operating needs for the foreseeable future. 
Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments  In addition to long-term debt, we are required to make payments relating to various types of obligations. The following table summarizes our minimum payments as of December 31, 2011 relating to
long-term debt, operating leases, pension benefits funding, post-retirement healthcare benefits, unconditional purchase obligations and interest payments for the next five years and thereafter. The amounts do not include deferred charges,
liabilities for uncertain tax positions and other items classified in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet due to the uncertainty of the future payment schedule. 
 
























 
  
Payment Due by Period
 

 
  
Total
 
  
2012
 
  
2013-2014
 
  
2015-2016
 
  
Thereafter
 

 
  
(dollars in millions)
 

 Contractual Obligations
  



  



  



  



  




 Long-term debt
  
$
764.6
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
250.0
  
  
$
514.6
  

 Operating leases
  
 
102.2
  
  
 
19.2
  
  
 
33.0
  
  
 
19.9
  
  
 
30.1
  

 Pension benefits funding
  
 
6.4
  
  
 
4.8
  
  
 
1.6
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Post-retirement healthcare benefits
  
 
16.5
  
  
 
1.7
  
  
 
4.1
  
  
 
4.1
  
  
 
6.6
  

 Unconditional purchase obligations
  
 
151.1
  
  
 
59.2
  
  
 
62.7
  
  
 
29.0
  
  
 
0.2
  

 Interest payments
  
 
780.4
  
  
 
50.0
  
  
 
100.0
  
  
 
91.7
  
  
 
538.7
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
1,821.2
  
  
$
134.9
  
  
$
201.4
  
  
$
394.7
  
  
$
1,090.2
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Other Commercial Commitments
  



  



  



  



  




 Standby letters of credit
  
$
15.7
  
  
$
15.7
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Long-Term Debt. Long-term debt consists of the 6 5/8% senior notes due 2016, the 6 1/2% senior notes due 2029, the 6 3/4% senior notes due 2032, the 2035 GO Zone 6 1/2% Notes, the 2035 IKE Zone 6 1/2% Notes and the tax-exempt waste disposal revenue bonds.
 Operating Leases. We lease various facilities and equipment under noncancelable
operating leases (primarily related to rail car leases and land) for various periods.  Pension Benefits Funding. We have
noncontributory defined benefit pension plans that cover certain eligible salaried and wage employees of one subsidiary. We expect to contribute approximately $4.8 million and $1.6 million in 2012 and 2013, respectively, for plan years 2011 and
2012. Funding requirements for our defined benefit pension plans have not been determined for plan years 2013 and beyond. Due to the uncertainty of the funding, no amounts with respect to such plan years have been included in the table above.
Long-term liabilities for pension benefits were $24.4 million as of December 31, 2011. See the discussion in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information. 
  42 


Table of Contents
Post-retirement Healthcare Benefits. We provide post-retirement healthcare benefits
to the employees of two subsidiaries who meet certain minimum age and service requirements. See the discussion in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information. 
Unconditional Purchase Obligations. We are party to various unconditional obligations, primarily to purchase goods and services,
including commitments to purchase various utilities, nitrogen, oxygen, capital items, product storage and pipeline usage. We also have various purchase commitments for our capital projects and for materials, supplies and services incident to the
ordinary conduct of business which may not be unconditional and are not reflected in the table above.  Interest
Payments. Interest payments are based on interest rates in effect at December 31, 2011 and assume contractual amortization payments.  Standby Letters of Credit. This includes (1) our obligation under an $11.3 million letter of credit issued in connection with the $10.9 million tax-exempt waste disposal revenue bonds and
(2) other letters of credit totaling $4.4 million issued to support obligations under our insurance programs, including workers’ compensation claims and other commercial obligations. 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  None.  Critical Accounting Policies 
Critical accounting policies are those that are important to our financial condition and require management’s most difficult,
subjective, or complex judgments. Different amounts would be reported under different operating conditions or under alternative assumptions. We have evaluated the accounting policies used in the preparation of the accompanying consolidated financial
statements and related notes and believe those policies are reasonable and appropriate.  We apply those accounting policies
that we believe best reflect the underlying business and economic events, consistent with GAAP. Our more critical accounting policies include those related to revenue recognition, long-lived assets, accruals for long-term employee benefits,
inventories, accounts receivable, income taxes and environmental and legal obligations. Inherent in such policies are certain key assumptions and estimates. We periodically update the estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements
based on our latest assessment of the current and projected business and general economic environment. Our significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Form
10-K. We believe the following to be our most critical accounting policies applied in the preparation of our financial statements.  Revenue Recognition. Revenue is recognized when title and risk of loss passes to the customer upon delivery under executed customer purchase orders or contracts. For export contracts, the title and
risk of loss passes to customers at the time specified by each contract. Provisions for discounts, rebates and returns are provided for in the same period as the related sales are recorded. 
Long-Lived Assets. Key estimates related to long-lived assets include useful lives, recoverability of carrying values and existence
of any retirement obligations. Such estimates could be significantly modified. The carrying values of long-lived assets could be impaired by significant changes or projected changes in supply and demand fundamentals (which would have a negative
impact on operating rates or margins), new technological developments, new competitors with significant raw material or other cost advantages, adverse changes associated with the U.S. and world economies, the cyclical nature of the chemical and
refining industries and uncertainties associated with governmental actions.  We evaluate long-lived assets for potential
impairment indicators whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable, including when negative conditions such as significant current or projected operating losses exist. Our judgments
regarding the existence 
  43 


Table of Contents

of impairment indicators are based on legal factors, market conditions and the operational performance of our businesses. Actual impairment losses incurred could vary significantly from amounts
estimated. Long-lived assets assessed for impairment are grouped at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. Additionally, future events could cause us to conclude
that impairment indicators exist and that associated long-lived assets of our businesses are impaired. Any resulting impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 
The estimated useful lives of long-lived assets range from three to 35 years. Depreciation and amortization of these assets, including
amortization of deferred turnaround costs, under the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives totaled $131.4 million, $128.7 million and $123.2 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. If the useful lives of the assets were found
to be shorter than originally estimated, depreciation charges would be accelerated.  We defer the costs of planned major
maintenance activities, or turnarounds, and amortize the costs over the period until the next planned turnaround of the affected unit. In 2011, we completed a major turnaround at our Calvert City facility. In 2009, we completed a turnaround at one
of our ethylene units in Lake Charles. Total costs deferred on these turnarounds were $8.4 million in 2011 and $20.3 million in 2009. There were no planned major maintenance activities in 2010. Amortization in 2011, 2010 and 2009 of previously
deferred turnaround costs was $14.7 million, $15.0 million and $15.1 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, deferred turnaround costs, net of accumulated amortization, totaled $29.6 million. Expensing turnaround costs would likely
result in greater variability of our quarterly operating results and would adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.  Additional information concerning long-lived assets and related depreciation and amortization appears in Notes 4 and 5 to the audited consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Form
10-K.  Fair Value Estimates. We develop estimates of fair value to allocate the purchase price paid to acquire a
business to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in an acquisition, to assess impairment of long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets and to record equity securities, derivative instruments and pension plan assets. We use all
available information to make these fair value determinations, including the engagement of third-party consultants. At December 31, 2011, our recorded goodwill was $30.0 million, all of which was associated with the acquisition of our Longview
facilities. In addition, we record all equity securities, derivative instruments and pension plan assets at fair value. The fair value of these items is determined by quoted market prices or from observable market-based inputs. See Notes 7 and 11 to
the consolidated financial statements for more information.  Long-Term Employee Benefit Costs. Our costs for long-term
employee benefits, particularly pension and postretirement medical and life benefits, are incurred over long periods of time and involve many uncertainties over those periods. The net periodic benefit cost attributable to current periods is based on
several assumptions about such future uncertainties and is sensitive to changes in those assumptions. It is our responsibility, often with the assistance of independent experts, to select assumptions that represent the best estimates of those
uncertainties. It is also our responsibility to review those assumptions periodically and, if necessary, adjust the assumptions to reflect changes in economic or other factors.  Accounting for employee retirement plans involves estimating the cost of benefits that are to be provided in the future and attempting to match, for each employee, that estimated cost to the period
worked. To accomplish this, we rely extensively on advice from actuaries, and we make assumptions about inflation, investment returns, mortality, employee turnover and discount rates that ultimately impact amounts recorded. Changes in these
assumptions may result in different expense and liability amounts. Two of the more significant assumptions relate to the discount rate for measuring benefit obligations and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. At December 31,
2011, the projected pension benefit obligation was calculated using an assumed weighted average discount rate of 4.5%. The discount rate was determined using a benchmark pension discount curve and applying spot rates from the curve to each year of
expected benefit payments to determine the appropriate discount rate. The return on asset assumption of 7.0% is based on historical asset returns, anticipated 
  44 


Table of Contents

future performance of the investments and financial markets and input from our third-party independent actuary and the pension fund trustee. Even with the increase in the value of plan assets
that occurred during 2011, we expect funding requirements for the pension plans to increase in 2012 as a result of our accumulated benefit obligation at December 31, 2011. Additional information on the 2012 funding requirements and key
assumptions underlying these benefit costs appear in Note 7 to the audited consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  Assumed healthcare trend rates do not have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the healthcare plans because benefits for participants are capped at a fixed amount. 
While we believe that the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K related to these
retirement plans are based on the best estimates and judgments available, the actual outcomes could differ from these estimates. 
Inventories. Inventories primarily include product, materials and supplies. Inventories are stated at lower of cost or market. Cost
is determined using the first-in, first-out, or FIFO, method. The use of other methods, such as last-in, first-out (“LIFO”), could result in differing amounts being reported as inventories and cost of sales depending on price changes and
sales turnover levels.  Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. In our determination of the allowance for doubtful accounts,
and consistent with our accounting policy, we estimate the amount of accounts receivable that we believe are unlikely to be collected and we record an expense of that amount. Estimating this amount requires us to analyze the financial strength of
our customers, and, in our analysis, we combine the use of historical experience, our accounts receivable aged trial balance and specific collectibility analysis. We review our allowance for doubtful accounts quarterly. Balances over 90 days past
due and accounts determined by our analysis of financial strength of customers to be high risk are reviewed individually for collectibility. By its nature, such an estimate is highly subjective and it is possible that the amount of accounts
receivable that we are unable to collect may be different than the amount initially estimated.  Income Taxes. We utilize
the liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under the liability method, deferred tax assets or liabilities are recorded based upon temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their carrying values for financial
reporting purposes. Deferred tax expense or benefit is the result of changes in the deferred tax assets and liabilities during the period. Valuation allowances are recorded against deferred tax assets when it is considered more likely than not that
the deferred tax assets will not be realized.  Environmental and Legal Obligations. We consult with various
professionals to assist us in making estimates relating to environmental costs and legal proceedings. We accrue an expense when we determine that it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. While we
believe that the amounts recorded in the accompanying consolidated financial statements related to these contingencies are based on the best estimates and judgments available, the actual outcomes could differ from our estimates. Additional
information about certain legal proceedings and environmental matters appears in Note 18 to the audited consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  Recent Accounting Pronouncements  See Note 1 to the audited consolidated
financial statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements, including expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporated herein by reference. 
 


Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  Commodity Price Risk  A substantial portion of our products and raw
materials are commodities whose prices fluctuate as market supply and demand fundamentals change. Accordingly, product margins and the level of our profitability tend to 
  45 


Table of Contents

fluctuate with changes in the business cycle. We try to protect against such instability through various business strategies. Our strategies include ethylene product feedstock flexibility and
moving downstream into the olefins and vinyls products where pricing is more stable. We use derivative instruments in certain instances to reduce price volatility risk on feedstocks and products. Based on our open derivative positions at
December 31, 2011, a hypothetical $0.10 increase in the price of a gallon of ethane would have increased our income before taxes by $0.1 million and a hypothetical $0.10 increase in the price of a gallon of propane would have decreased our
income before taxes by $0.1 million. Additional information concerning derivative commodity instruments appear in Notes 10 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements.  Interest Rate Risk  We are exposed to interest rate risk with
respect to fixed and variable rate debt. At December 31, 2011, we had variable rate debt of $10.9 million outstanding. All of the debt outstanding under our revolving credit facility (none was outstanding at December 31, 2011) and our loan
relating to the tax-exempt waste disposal revenue bonds are at variable rates. We do not currently hedge our variable interest rate debt, but we may do so in the future. The average variable interest rate for our variable rate debt of $10.9 million
as of December 31, 2011 was 0.20%. A hypothetical 100 basis point increase in the average interest rate on our variable rate debt would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $0.1 million. Also, at December 31, 2011, we had
$754.0 million principal amount of fixed rate debt. We are subject to the risk of higher interest cost if and when this debt is refinanced. If interest rates are 1% higher at the time of refinancing, our annual interest expense would increase by
approximately $7.5 million. 
  46 


Table of Contents


Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Index to Consolidated Financial Statements   








 
  
Page
 

 Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
  
 
47
  

 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
48
  

 Consolidated Financial Statements:
  




 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010
  
 
49
  

 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
  
 
50
  

 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income for the Years Ended
 December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
  
 
51
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
  
 
52
  

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
54
  

 Financial Statement Schedule II—Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
  
 
95
  
 Financial statement schedules not included in this Form 10-K have been omitted because they are not
applicable or because the required information is shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.  
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING  The management of Westlake Chemical Corporation
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Westlake’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  Westlake management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set
forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control—Integrated Framework. Based on its assessment, Westlake’s management has concluded that the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011 based on those criteria.  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the
independent registered public accounting firm that audited the financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, has also audited the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 as stated
in their report that appears on the following page. 
  47 


Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 To the Board of Directors and Stockholders  of Westlake Chemical Corporation:  In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Westlake Chemical Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the
accompanying index presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, on the financial statement schedule, and on the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the
financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinions.  A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material
effect on the financial statements.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate.  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  Houston, Texas  February 23, 2012 
  48 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
 (in thousands of dollars, except
par values and share amounts)
 

ASSETS
  



 




 Current assets
  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
825,901
  
 
$
630,299
  

 Accounts receivable, net
  
 
407,372
  
 
 
362,863
  

 Inventories
  
 
490,777
  
 
 
450,028
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
 
12,495
  
 
 
15,482
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
19,611
  
 
 
17,288
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
1,756,156
  
 
 
1,475,960
  

 Property, plant and equipment, net
  
 
1,232,066
  
 
 
1,170,334
  

 Equity investments
  
 
46,741
  
 
 
46,314
  

 Restricted cash
  
 
96,283
  
 
 
150,288
  

 Other assets, net
  
 
135,575
  
 
 
111,248
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
3,266,821
  
 
$
2,954,144
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  



 




 Current liabilities
  



 




 Accounts payable
  
$
227,034
  
 
$
204,774
  

 Accrued liabilities
  
 
137,561
  
 
 
118,804
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
364,595
  
 
 
323,578
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
764,563
  
 
 
764,482
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
330,791
  
 
 
315,518
  

 Other liabilities
  
 
50,560
  
 
 
45,496
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
1,510,509
  
 
 
1,449,074
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Commitments and contingencies (Notes 6 and 18)
  



 




 Stockholders’ equity
  



 




 Preferred stock, $0.01 par value, 50,000,000 shares authorized; no shares issued and outstanding
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Common stock, $0.01 par value, 150,000,000 shares authorized; 66,601,909 and 66,256,144 shares issued at December 31, 2011
and 2010, respectively
  
 
666
  
 
 
663
  

 Common stock, held in treasury, at cost; 69,816 shares at December 31, 2011
  
 
(2,518
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
467,796
  
 
 
452,703
  

 Retained earnings
  
 
1,299,438
  
 
 
1,058,737
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income
  



 




 Benefits liability, net of tax
  
 
(15,143
) 
 
 
(12,328
) 

 Cumulative translation adjustment
  
 
4,888
  
 
 
5,295
  

 Unrealized holding gains on investments, net of tax
  
 
1,185
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total stockholders’ equity
  
 
1,756,312
  
 
 
1,505,070
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity
  
$
3,266,821
  
 
$
2,954,144
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  49 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 

 
  
(in thousands of dollars, except share amountsand per share data)
 

 Net sales
  
$
3,619,848
  
 
$
3,171,787
  
 
$
2,325,723
  

 Cost of sales
  
 
3,060,842
  
 
 
2,689,104
  
 
 
2,130,595
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
559,006
  
 
 
482,683
  
 
 
195,128
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
112,210
  
 
 
104,319
  
 
 
87,871
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
446,796
  
 
 
378,364
  
 
 
107,257
  

 Other income (expense)
  



 



 




 Interest expense
  
 
(50,992
) 
 
 
(39,875
) 
 
 
(34,957
) 

 Other income, net
  
 
5,628
  
 
 
4,471
  
 
 
6,453
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
 
401,432
  
 
 
342,960
  
 
 
78,753
  

 Provision for income taxes
  
 
142,466
  
 
 
121,567
  
 
 
25,758
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
258,966
  
 
$
221,393
  
 
$
52,995
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings per common share:
  



 



 




 Basic
  
$
3.89
  
 
$
3.35
  
 
$
0.80
  

 Diluted
  
$
3.87
  
 
$
3.34
  
 
$
0.80
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average shares outstanding:
  



 



 




 Basic
  
 
65,927,421
  
 
 
65,472,875
  
 
 
65,323,101
  

 Diluted
  
 
66,300,158
  
 
 
65,676,664
  
 
 
65,421,390
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Dividends per common share
  
$
0.2746
  
 
$
0.2420
  
 
$
0.2200
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  50 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND 
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME   








































 
 
Common Stock
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accumulated
OtherComprehensive Income(Loss)
 
 
 
 

 
 
Number ofShares
 
 
Amount
 
 
CommonStock,Held inTreasury,at Cost
 
 
AdditionalPaid-inCapital
 
 
RetainedEarnings
 
 
BenefitsLiability, Netof
Tax
 
 
CumulativeForeignCurrencyExchange
 
 
NetUnrealizedHoldingGains onInvestments,Net of Tax
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(in thousands of dollars, except share amounts)
 

 Balances at December 31, 2008
 
 
65,658,142
  
 
$
657
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
435,581
  
 
$
814,873
  
 
$
(13,339
) 
 
$
1,288
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
1,239,060
  

 Net income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
52,995
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
52,995
  

 Other comprehensive (loss) income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,517
) 
 
 
3,063
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
546
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive income
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
53,541
  

 Stock options exercised
 
 
55,401
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
879
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
879
  

 Stock-based compensation, net of tax on stock options exercised
 
 
266,408
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,009
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,012
  

 Dividends paid
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(14,510
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(14,510
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balances at December 31, 2009
 
 
65,979,951
  
 
 
660
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
442,469
  
 
 
853,358
  
 
 
(15,856
) 
 
 
4,351
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,284,982
  

 Net income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
221,393
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
221,393
  

 Other comprehensive income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,528
  
 
 
944
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,472
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive income
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
225,865
  

 Stock options exercised
 
 
173,014
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,745
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,747
  

 Stock-based compensation, net of tax on stock options exercised
 
 
103,179
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,489
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,490
  

 Dividends paid
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(16,014
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(16,014
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balances at December 31, 2010
 
 
66,256,144
  
 
 
663
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
452,703
  
 
 
1,058,737
  
 
 
(12,328
) 
 
 
5,295
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,505,070
  

 Net income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
258,966
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
258,966
  

 Other comprehensive (loss) income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,815
) 
 
 
(407
) 
 
 
1,185
  
 
 
(2,037
) 


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive income
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
256,929
  

 Common stock repurchased
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,518
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,518
) 

 Stock options exercised
 
 
274,872
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,341
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,344
  

 Stock-based compensation, net of tax on stock options exercised
 
 
70,893
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,752
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,752
  

 Dividends paid
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(18,265
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(18,265
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balances at December 31, 2011
 
 
66,601,909
  
 
$
666
  
 
$
(2,518
) 
 
$
467,796
  
 
$
1,299,438
  
 
$
(15,143
) 
 
$
4,888
  
 
$
1,185
  
 
$
1,756,312
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  51 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands of dollars)
 

 Cash flows from operating activities
  



 



 




 Net income
  
$
258,966
  
 
$
221,393
  
 
$
52,995
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities
  



 



 




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
131,397
  
 
 
128,732
  
 
 
123,199
  

 Provision for doubtful accounts
  
 
1,321
  
 
 
917
  
 
 
1,970
  

 Amortization of debt issue costs
  
 
1,683
  
 
 
2,154
  
 
 
1,461
  

 Stock-based compensation expense
  
 
6,391
  
 
 
6,164
  
 
 
5,638
  

 Loss from disposition of fixed assets
  
 
1,375
  
 
 
581
  
 
 
2,711
  

 Impairment of long-lived assets
  
 
1,975
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Gain on involuntary conversion of assets
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(455
) 

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
14,114
  
 
 
14,153
  
 
 
31,207
  

 Equity in income of joint ventures
  
 
(427
) 
 
 
(2,212
) 
 
 
(3,818
) 

 Changes in operating assets and liabilities
  



 



 




 Accounts receivable
  
 
(45,766
) 
 
 
(33,478
) 
 
 
5,667
  

 Inventories
  
 
(40,749
) 
 
 
(80,611
) 
 
 
(41,450
) 

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
 
2,987
  
 
 
(7,217
) 
 
 
(236
) 

 Accounts payable
  
 
20,311
  
 
 
25,644
  
 
 
67,044
  

 Accrued liabilities
  
 
18,785
  
 
 
9,910
  
 
 
8,308
  

 Other, net
  
 
(10,067
) 
 
 
(2,846
) 
 
 
(18,719
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
 
362,296
  
 
 
283,284
  
 
 
235,522
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from investing activities
  



 



 




 Acquisition of business
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(6,297
) 

 Additions to equity investments
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(10,177
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Additions to property, plant and equipment
  
 
(176,843
) 
 
 
(81,269
) 
 
 
(99,769
) 

 Proceeds from disposition of assets
  
 
2,880
  
 
 
914
  
 
 
3,255
  

 Proceeds from insurance for involuntary conversion of assets
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
484
  

 Proceeds from repayment of loan to affiliate
  
 
1,192
  
 
 
763
  
 
 
—  
  

 Purchase of securities and other investments
  
 
(30,265
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Settlements of derivative instruments
  
 
251
  
 
 
9,494
  
 
 
(859
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used for investing activities
  
 
(202,785
) 
 
 
(80,275
) 
 
 
(103,186
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from financing activities
  



 



 




 Capitalized debt issuance costs
  
 
(2,697
) 
 
 
(3,331
) 
 
 
(2,203
) 

 Dividends paid
  
 
(18,265
) 
 
 
(16,014
) 
 
 
(14,510
) 

 Proceeds from exercise of stock options
  
 
5,344
  
 
 
3,745
  
 
 
879
  

 Repurchase of common stock for treasury
  
 
(2,518
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Utilization of restricted cash
  
 
54,227
  
 
 
197,298
  
 
 
38,851
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by financing activities
  
 
36,091
  
 
 
181,698
  
 
 
23,017
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
195,602
  
 
 
384,707
  
 
 
155,353
  

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year
  
 
630,299
  
 
 
245,592
  
 
 
90,239
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year
  
$
825,901
  
 
$
630,299
  
 
$
245,592
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  52 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS—(Continued) 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands of dollars)
 

 Supplemental cash flow information
  



  



  




 Cash paid (refunded) during the year for:
  



  



  




 Interest paid (net of interest capitalized)
  
$
48,431
  
  
$
33,980
  
  
$
33,394
  

 Income taxes paid (refunded)
  
 
126,283
  
  
 
108,218
  
  
 
(40,741
) 

 Non-cash financing activity:
  



  



  




 Proceeds from borrowings related to series 2009A revenue bonds (in restricted cash)
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
4,900
  

 Proceeds from borrowings related to the
6 1/2% tax-exempt revenue bonds due 2029 (in
restricted cash)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
93,943
  
  
 
—  
  

 Proceeds from borrowings related to the GO Zone 6 1/2% tax-exempt revenue bonds due 2035 (in restricted
cash)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
87,940
  
  
 
—  
  

 Proceeds from borrowings related to the IKE Zone 6 1/2% tax-exempt revenue bonds due 2035 (in restricted
cash)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
64,209
  
  
 
—  
  

    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  53 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data) 
1. Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies 
Description of Business  Westlake Chemical Corporation (the “Company”) operates as an integrated manufacturer and marketer of basic chemicals, vinyls, polymers and fabricated building products. These products include
some of the most widely used chemicals in the world, which are fundamental to many diverse consumer and industrial markets, including flexible and rigid packaging, automotive products, coatings, residential and commercial construction as well as
other durable and non-durable goods. The Company’s customers range from large chemical processors and plastics fabricators to small construction contractors, municipalities and supply warehouses primarily throughout North America. The
petrochemical industry is subject to price fluctuations and volatile feedstock pricing typical of a commodity-based industry, the effects of which may not be immediately passed along to customers. 
Principles of Consolidation  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and subsidiaries in which the Company directly or indirectly owns more than a 50% voting interest and exercises a controlling
financial interest or the entity meets the definition of a variable interest entity. The Company owns a 59% interest in a PVC joint venture in China, Suzhou Huasu Plastics Company, Ltd., but accounts for the investment using the equity method of
accounting because the entity does not meet the definition of a variable interest entity and because contractual arrangements allowing certain substantive participatory rights to minority shareholders prevent the Company from exercising a
controlling financial interest over this entity. In addition, the Company has a 50% ownership interest in a natural gas liquids pipeline joint venture, Cypress Interstate Pipeline L.L.C., and accounts for its interest in this joint venture using the
equity method of accounting. Undistributed earnings from joint ventures included in retained earnings were $14,031 as of December 31, 2011.  Cash and Cash Equivalents  Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid
investments that are readily convertible into cash and have a maturity of three months or less at the date of acquisition.  Allowance
for Doubtful Accounts  The determination of the allowance for doubtful accounts is based on estimation of the amount of
accounts receivable that the Company believes are unlikely to be collected. Estimating this amount requires analysis of the financial strength of the Company’s customers, the use of historical experience, the Company’s accounts receivable
aged trial balance, and specific collectibility analysis. The allowance for doubtful accounts is reviewed quarterly. Past due balances over 90 days and high risk accounts as determined by the analysis of financial strength of customers are reviewed
individually for collectibility.  Inventories  Inventories primarily include product, material and supplies. Inventories are stated at lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) or average method.
 Property, Plant and Equipment  Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. Cost includes expenditures for improvements and betterments that extend the useful lives of the assets and interest
capitalized on significant capital projects. Capitalized interest was $693, $22 and $123 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Repair and maintenance costs are charged to operations as incurred. 
  54 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
The accounting guidance for asset retirement obligations requires the recording of
liabilities equal to the fair value of asset retirement obligations and corresponding additional asset costs, when there is a legal asset retirement obligation as a result of existing or enacted law, statute or contract. The Company has conditional
asset retirement obligations for the removal and disposal of hazardous materials from certain of the Company’s manufacturing facilities. However, no asset retirement obligations have been recognized because the fair value of the conditional
legal obligation cannot be measured due to the indeterminate settlement date of the obligation. Settlement of these conditional asset retirement obligations is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows in any individual reporting period.  Depreciation is provided by utilizing the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:   








 Classification
  
Years
 

 Buildings and improvements
  
 
25
  

 Plant and equipment
  
 
25
  

 Ethylene pipeline
  
 
35
  

 Other
  
 
3-10
  
 Fair Value Estimates  The Company develops estimates of fair value to allocate the purchase price paid to acquire a business to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in an acquisition, to assess impairment of long-lived
assets, goodwill and intangible assets and to record equity securities, derivative instruments and pension plan assets. The Company uses all available information to make these fair value determinations, including the engagement of third-party
consultants.  Impairment of Long-Lived Assets  The accounting guidance for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets requires that the Company review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Long-lived assets assessed for impairment are grouped at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. Recoverability
of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future net undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. Assets are considered to be impaired if the carrying amount of an asset exceeds
the future undiscounted cash flows. The impairment recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or
estimated fair value less costs to sell.  Impairment of Intangible Assets 
The accounting guidance for goodwill and intangible assets requires that goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for
impairment at least annually. Other intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over their estimated useful life and reviewed for impairment in accordance with the provisions of the accounting guidance. As of December 31, 2011, the
Company’s recorded goodwill was $29,990, all of which was associated with the Company’s Olefins segment. The annual impairment test for the recorded goodwill was performed as of October 31, 2011. The Company’s impairment test
indicated that its goodwill was not impaired. In addition, there has been no impairment of the goodwill since it was initially recorded. 
Restricted Cash  Restricted cash, which is restricted as to withdrawal or usage, is classified separately from the cash and cash equivalents category on the Company’s balance sheet. As indicated in Note 6, the
proceeds of the 6 3/4% senior

  55 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   

notes due 2032 and the 6 1/2% senior notes due 2035 issued by the Company, along with their accrued interest income, remain with a trustee, and are classified on the Company’s balance sheet as a non-current asset until such
time as the Company submits a request for reimbursement of qualifying amounts spent for facilities in Louisiana.  Turnaround
Costs  The Company accounts for turnaround costs under the deferral method. Turnarounds are the scheduled and required
shutdowns of specific operating units in order to perform planned major maintenance activities. The costs related to the significant overhaul and refurbishment activities include maintenance materials, parts and direct labor costs. The costs of the
turnaround are deferred when incurred at the time of the turnaround and amortized (within depreciation and amortization) on a straight-line basis until the next planned turnaround, which ranges from three to six years. Deferred turnaround costs are
presented as a component of other assets, net. The cash outflows related to these costs are included in operating activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows.  Exchanges  The Company enters into inventory exchange transactions
with third parties, which involve fungible commodities. These exchanges are settled in like-kind quantities and are valued at lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the FIFO method. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, net exchange
balances of $14,557 and $950 were included in accounts receivable, net, respectively.  Income Taxes 
The Company utilizes the liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes. Under the liability method, deferred tax assets or
liabilities are recorded based upon temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their carrying values for financial reporting purposes. Deferred tax expense or benefit is the result of changes in the deferred tax assets
and liabilities during the period. Valuation allowances are recorded against deferred tax assets when it is considered more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized.  Foreign Currency Translation  Assets and liabilities of foreign
subsidiaries are translated to U.S. dollars at the exchange rate as of the end of the year. Statement of operations items are translated at the average exchange rate for the year. The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as a separate
component of stockholders’ equity.  Concentration of Credit Risk 
Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to concentration of risk consist principally of trade receivables from
customers engaged in manufacturing polyethylene products, polyvinyl chloride products and polyvinyl chloride pipe products. The Company performs periodic credit evaluations of the customers’ financial condition and generally does not require
collateral. The Company maintains allowances for potential losses.  Revenue Recognition 
Revenue is recognized when title and risk of loss passes to the customer upon delivery under executed customer purchase orders or
contracts. For export contracts, the title and risk of loss passes to customers at the time specified by each contract. Provisions for discounts, rebates and returns are provided for in the same period as the related sales are recorded. 
  56 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
Earnings per Share 
The accounting guidance for earnings per share requires the Company to present basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share.
Basic earnings per share excludes dilution and is computed by dividing income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share reflects the dilution that could occur if
securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock or resulted in the issuance of common stock. 
Price Risk Management  The accounting guidance for derivative instruments and hedging activities requires that the Company recognize all derivative instruments on the balance sheet at fair value, and changes in the
derivative’s fair value must be currently recognized in earnings or comprehensive income, depending on the designation of the derivative. If the derivative is designated as a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair value of the derivative and
of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in earnings. If the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the change in the fair value of the derivative is recorded in comprehensive income and is
recognized in the statement of operations when the hedged item affects earnings. Ineffective portions of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges are recognized in earnings currently. 
The Company utilizes commodity price swaps to reduce price risks by entering into price swaps with counterparties and by purchasing or
selling futures on established exchanges. The Company takes both fixed and variable positions, depending upon anticipated future physical purchases and sales of these commodities. The fair value of derivative financial instruments is estimated using
quoted market prices in active markets and observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data when active markets are not available. The Company assesses both counterparty as well as its own nonperformance
risk when measuring the fair value of derivative liabilities. The Company does not consider its nonperformance risk to be significant. See Note 11 for a summary of the fair value of derivative instruments. 
Environmental Costs  Environmental costs relating to current operations are expensed or capitalized, as appropriate, depending on whether such costs provide future economic benefits. Remediation liabilities are recognized
when the costs are considered probable and can be reasonably estimated. Measurement of liabilities is based on currently enacted laws and regulations, existing technology and undiscounted site-specific costs. Environmental liabilities in connection
with properties that are sold or closed are realized upon such sale or closure, to the extent they are probable and estimable and not previously reserved. Recognition of any joint and several liabilities is based upon the Company’s best
estimate of its final pro rata share of the liability.  Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
The carrying amounts reported in the balance sheet for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, net and accounts payable
approximate their fair value due to the short maturities of these instruments. The fair value of the Company’s debt at December 31, 2011 differs from the carrying value due to the Company’s fixed rate senior notes. The fair value of
financial instruments is estimated using quoted market prices in active markets and observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data when active markets are not available. See Note 11 for more information on
the fair value of financial instruments.  Use of Estimates 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

  57 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
Other  Amortization of debt issuance costs is computed on a basis which approximates the interest method over the term of the related debt. Certain other assets (see Note 5) are amortized over periods ranging
from two to 20 years using the straight-line method.  Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
Fair Value Measurement 
In January 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an accounting standards update on fair value
measurement disclosures. The new accounting guidance requires disclosures on significant transfers in and out of Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy and gross presentation of Level 3 reconciliation components. It also clarifies two existing
disclosure requirements regarding fair value disclosures by class of assets and liabilities rather than by major category and disclosures of valuation technique and the inputs used in determining fair value of each class of assets and liabilities
for Levels 2 and 3 measurements. The accounting standards update is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the gross presentation of the Level 3 reconciliation, which is effective for reporting periods
beginning after December 15, 2010. With the exception of the gross presentation of the Level 3 reconciliation, the Company adopted the guidance as of January 1, 2010, and it did not have an impact on the Company’s consolidated
financial position or results of operations. The Company adopted the guidance pertaining to the gross presentation of the Level 3 reconciliation as of January 1, 2011, and the adoption did not have an impact on the Company’s consolidated
financial position or results of operations.  In May 2011, the FASB issued new accounting guidance changing some fair
value measurement principles, such as by prohibiting the application of a blockage factor in fair value measurements and only requiring the application of the highest and best use concept when measuring nonfinancial assets. The accounting guidance
will require, for recurring Level 3 fair value measurements, disclosure of quantitative information about unobservable inputs used, a description of the valuation processes used and a qualitative discussion about the sensitivity of the measurements.
The accounting guidance further requires new disclosures about the use of a nonfinancial asset measured or disclosed at fair value if its use differs from its highest and best use. In addition, entities must report the fair value hierarchy level of
assets and liabilities not recorded at fair value but where fair value is disclosed. The accounting standards update will be effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2011 and is not expected to have a material impact on the
Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations.  Presentation of Other Comprehensive Income 
In June 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standards update on the presentation of other comprehensive income. The new accounting
guidance eliminates the current option to report other comprehensive income and its components in the statement of changes in stockholders’ equity. The new standard allows companies to present net income and other comprehensive income either in
one continuous statement or in two separate, but consecutive, statements. The FASB issued another accounting standards update on the presentation of other comprehensive income in December 2011, deferring the effective date for amendments to the
presentation of reclassification adjustments of items out of accumulated other comprehensive income. In the interim, reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income should be presented consistent with the current presentation
requirements. All other requirements of the June 2011 accounting standards update are not affected by the December 2011 update. With the exception of the presentation of reclassification adjustments of items out of accumulated other
comprehensive income, the accounting standards update will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011 and is not expected to have an impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations.

  58 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
Testing Goodwill for Impairment 
In September 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to simplify how entities test goodwill for impairment. The new
accounting guidance provides an entity with an option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it
is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test under current accounting guidance. If an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the
two-step impairment test is unnecessary. However, if an entity concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform the first step of the two-step impairment test. Also under this new accounting guidance, an entity has the option to bypass the
qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to performing the first step of the two-step goodwill impairment test, but may resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. The accounting
standards update will be effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2011 and is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations. 
Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities  In December 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standards update on disclosures for offsetting assets and liabilities. The new accounting guidance requires companies to disclose both gross and net
information about (1) instruments and transactions eligible for offset in the statement of financial position, and (2) instruments and transactions subject to an agreement similar to a master netting arrangement. The accounting standards
update will be effective for reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013 and is not expected to have an impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations. 
2. Accounts Receivable 
Accounts receivable consist of the following at December 31: 
 












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Trade customers
  
$
391,401
  
 
$
353,035
  

 Affiliates
  
 
122
  
 
 
475
  

 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
 
(10,969
) 
 
 
(9,710
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
380,554
  
 
 
343,800
  

 Federal and state taxes
  
 
16,113
  
 
 
15,499
  

 Other
  
 
10,705
  
 
 
3,564
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Accounts receivable, net
  
$
407,372
  
 
$
362,863
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

3. Inventories 
Inventories consist of the following at December 31: 
 












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Finished products
  
$
234,830
  
  
$
219,568
  

 Feedstock, additives, and chemicals
  
 
207,899
  
  
 
189,007
  

 Materials and supplies
  
 
48,048
  
  
 
41,453
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Inventories
  
$
490,777
  
  
$
450,028
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  59 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
4. Property, Plant and Equipment 
Property, plant and equipment consist of the following at December 31: 
 












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Land
  
$
13,509
  
 
$
12,897
  

 Building and improvements
  
 
135,049
  
 
 
129,881
  

 Plant and equipment
  
 
2,039,050
  
 
 
1,963,186
  

 Other
  
 
147,342
  
 
 
133,241
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
2,334,950
  
 
 
2,239,205
  

 Less: Accumulated depreciation
  
 
(1,196,845
) 
 
 
(1,098,792
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
1,138,105
  
 
 
1,140,413
  

 Construction in progress
  
 
93,961
  
 
 
29,921
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property, plant and equipment, net
  
$
1,232,066
  
 
$
1,170,334
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Depreciation expense on property, plant and equipment of $110,268, $105,744 and $100,333 is included in
cost of sales in the consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  The Company recorded asset impairment charges of $1,975 associated with the closure of its Springfield, Kentucky PVC pipe facility in June 2011. See Note 16 for more information. 
The Company assessed certain of its Vinyls segment building products assets, with a carrying value of $100,049, for potential impairment
in December 2011, and the Company’s analysis concluded that these assets were not impaired. The future cash flows used to test the recoverability of these building products assets for the impairment analysis were calculated using an
undiscounted cash flow methodology. The undiscounted cash flow projections were based on a 15-year forecast beginning in 2012, in order to reflect the estimated remaining useful lives of the assets. The forecast was based on sales volume trends and
margins developed by management considering historical data. While the Company believes its estimates of undiscounted future cash flows used in performing the impairment test are appropriate, different assumptions regarding such cash flows could
materially affect the evaluation. Under the undiscounted cash flow methodology, even if the future cash flows of the building products assets assessed for impairment decreased by 20%, they would not be impaired. 
  60 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
5. Other Assets 
Other assets consist of the following at December 31: 
 
































 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
WeightedAverage Life
 

 
 
Cost
 
 
AccumulatedAmortization
 
 
Net
 
 
Cost
 
 
AccumulatedAmortization
 
 
Net
 
 

 Intangible assets:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Technology licenses
 
$
44,827
  
 
$
(40,860
) 
 
$
3,967
  
 
$
44,762
  
 
$
(39,763
) 
 
$
4,999
  
 
 
12
  

 Patents
 
 
6,503
  
 
 
(3,306
) 
 
 
3,197
  
 
 
6,503
  
 
 
(2,655
) 
 
 
3,848
  
 
 
10
  

 Customer relationships
 
 
17,649
  
 
 
(6,901
) 
 
 
10,748
  
 
 
17,649
  
 
 
(5,544
) 
 
 
12,105
  
 
 
13
  

 Goodwill
 
 
29,990
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
29,990
  
 
 
29,990
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
29,990
  
 




 Other
 
 
1,161
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,161
  
 
 
1,161
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,161
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total intangible assets
 
 
100,130
  
 
 
(51,067
) 
 
 
49,063
  
 
 
100,065
  
 
 
(47,962
) 
 
 
52,103
  
 




 Available-for-sale investments
 
 
30,113
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
30,113
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 




 Notes receivable from affiliate
 
 
2,383
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,383
  
 
 
3,575
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,575
  
 




 Turnaround costs
 
 
86,728
  
 
 
(57,175
) 
 
 
29,553
  
 
 
85,307
  
 
 
(49,864
) 
 
 
35,443
  
 
 
5
  

 Debt issuance costs
 
 
20,628
  
 
 
(8,989
) 
 
 
11,639
  
 
 
17,930
  
 
 
(7,307
) 
 
 
10,623
  
 
 
10
  

 Other, net
 
 
22,502
  
 
 
(9,678
) 
 
 
12,824
  
 
 
19,444
  
 
 
(9,940
) 
 
 
9,504
  
 
 
5
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Other assets, net
 
$
262,484
  
 
$
(126,909
) 
 
$
135,575
  
 
$
226,321
  
 
$
(115,073
) 
 
$
111,248
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 Amortization expense on other assets of $22,812, $25,142 and $24,327 is included in the consolidated
statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Scheduled amortization of
intangible assets for the next five years is as follows: $3,292, $3,246, $2,707, $2,707 and $2,653 in 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively.  Goodwill  The annual impairment test for the recorded goodwill was
performed as of October 31, 2011. The Company’s impairment test indicated that its goodwill was not impaired. The fair value of the Olefins segment, the reporting unit assessed, was calculated using both a discounted cash flow methodology
and a market value methodology. The discounted cash flow projections were based on a nine-year forecast, from 2012 to 2020, to reflect the cyclicality of the Company’s olefins business. The forecast was based on (1) prices and spreads
projected by IHS Chemical, a chemical industry organization offering market and business advisory services for the chemical market, for the same period, and (2) estimates by management, including our strategic and operational plans. Other
significant assumptions used in the discounted cash flow projection included sales volumes based on current capacities. The future cash flows were discounted to present value using a discount rate of 8.8%. 
The significant assumptions used in determining the fair value of the reporting unit using the market value methodology include the
determination of appropriate market comparables and the estimated multiples of EBITDA a willing buyer is likely to pay.  Under
the discounted cash flow methodology, even if the fair value of the Olefins segment decreased by 20%, the carrying value of the Olefins segment would not exceed its fair value. 
  61 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
Available-for-sale Investments 
The cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and fair value of the Company’s available-for-sale investments were as
follows:   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Cost
 
  
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
(1)
 
 
Fair Value
 

 Available-for-sale equity securities
  
$
28,265
  
  
$
1,981
  
  
$
(133
) 
 
$
30,113
  
  


(1)
All unrealized loss positions were held at a loss for less than 12 months.  Because the Company does not intend to sell, nor is it likely to be required to sell, its available-for-sale securities, declines in fair value are considered temporary. The Company regularly evaluates
available evidence to determine if its investments are other-than-temporarily impaired. The Company considers the evidence to support the recovery of the cost basis of a security including volatility of the stock, the length of time the security has
been in a loss position, value and growth expectations and overall market and sector fundamentals, in determining whether unrealized losses represent an other-than-temporary impairment. 
As the fair value of the equity securities was higher than cost at December 31, 2011, an unrealized gain of $1,185, net of income tax
expense of $663, was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. See Note 11 for the fair value hierarchy of the Company’s available-for-sale securities. 
6. Long-Term Debt 
Long-term debt consists of the following at December 31: 
 












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 


6 5/8%
senior notes due 2016
  
$
249,674
  
  
$
249,593
  

 6 1/2% senior notes due 2029
  
 
100,000
  
  
 
100,000
  

 6 3/4% senior notes due 2032
  
 
250,000
  
  
 
250,000
  

 6 1/2% senior notes due 2035 (the “2035 GO Zone 6 1/2% Notes”)
  
 
89,000
  
  
 
89,000
  

 6 1/2% senior notes due 2035 (the “2035 IKE Zone 6 1/2% Notes”)
  
 
65,000
  
  
 
65,000
  

 Loan related to tax-exempt waste disposal revenue bonds due 2027
  
 
10,889
  
  
 
10,889
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Long-term debt
  
$
764,563
  
  
$
764,482
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Revolving Credit Facility  In September 2011, the Company entered into a second amendment and restatement to the senior secured revolving credit facility. The amendment and restatement, among other things, extended the
scheduled maturity date of the facility, reduced the interest rate and facility fee payable under the facility and amended the covenants restricting the Company’s ability to make distributions, acquisitions and investments. 
The Company’s senior secured revolving credit facility is currently $400,000. The facility includes a provision permitting the
Company to increase the size of the facility, up to four times, in increments of at least $25,000 each (up to a maximum of $150,000) under certain circumstances if certain lenders agree to commit to such an increase. 
The facility allows the Company to borrow up to (1) 85% of the net amount of eligible accounts receivable, plus (2) the lesser
of (a) 70% of the value of the lower of cost or market of eligible inventory, or (b) 85% of the 
  62 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   

appraised net orderly liquidation value of all eligible inventory, plus (3) 100% of cash held in an account with the agent under the credit facility and subject to a control agreement with
the agent, minus (4) such reserves as the agent may establish. Advances on inventory are limited to $325,000. The facility includes a $400,000 sub-limit for letters of credit, and any outstanding letters of credit will be deducted from
availability under the facility.  At December 31, 2011, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the revolving
credit facility. Any borrowings under the facility will bear interest at either LIBOR plus a spread ranging from 1.75% to 2.25% or a base rate plus a spread ranging from 0.25% to 0.75%. The revolving credit facility also requires an unused
commitment fee of 0.375% per annum. All interest rates under the facility are subject to monthly grid pricing adjustments based on prior month average daily loan availability. The revolving credit facility matures on September 16, 2016. As of
December 31, 2011, the Company had outstanding letters of credit totaling $15,715 and borrowing availability of $384,285 under the revolving credit facility.  The Company’s revolving credit facility requires the Company to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.0:1 for successive 30-day periods after any date on which the borrowing
availability under the facility is less than the greater of (1) 12.5% of the commitments under the facility and (2) $50,000, until the borrowing availability exceeds the greater of the amount in clause (1) and the amount in clause
(2) for a 30-day period.  In order to make acquisitions or investments, the Company’s revolving credit facility
provides that (1) the Company must maintain a minimum borrowing availability of at least the greater of $100,000 or 25% of the total bank commitments under its revolving credit facility or (2) the Company must maintain a minimum borrowing
availability of at least the greater of $70,000 or 17.5% of the total bank commitments under its revolving credit facility and meet a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.0:1 under its revolving credit facility. However, the Company may make
specified distributions up to an aggregate of $25,000 and specified acquisitions up to an aggregate of $25,000 if either the Company maintains a minimum borrowing availability of at least the greater of $70,000 or 17.5% of the total bank commitments
under its revolving credit facility or the Company meet the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.0:1 under its revolving credit facility. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may make (1) investments up to $200,000 in one or more
joint ventures that own feedstock, raw material and ethylene pipeline, storage and fractionating facilities and (2) additional investments up to $55,000 in Suzhou Huasu Plastics Co., Ltd. The revolving credit facility contains other customary
covenants and events of default that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on the Company. These restrictions, among other things, provide limitations on the occurrence of additional indebtedness and the Company’s ability to
create liens, to engage in certain affiliate transactions and to engage in sale-leaseback transactions.  GO Zone Bonds
 In December 2010, the Louisiana Local Government Environmental Facility and Development
Authority (the “Authority”), a political subdivision of the State of Louisiana, completed the offering of $89,000 of
6 1/2% tax-exempt revenue bonds due November 1,
2035 under the Gulf Opportunity Zone Act of 2005 (the “GO Zone Act”). The bonds are subject to optional redemption by the Authority upon the direction of the Company at any time prior to November 1, 2020 for 100% of the principal
plus accrued interest and a discounted “make whole” payment of remaining unpaid principal and interest payments. On or after November 1, 2020, the bonds are subject to optional redemption by the Authority upon the direction of the
Company for 100% of the principal plus accrued interest.  In July 2010, the Authority completed
the reoffering of $100,000 of 6 1/2% tax-exempt
revenue bonds due August 1, 2029 under the GO Zone Act. The bonds are subject to optional redemption by the Authority upon the direction of the Company at any time prior to August 1, 2020 for 100% of the principal plus accrued
interest and a discounted “make whole” payment of remaining unpaid principal and interest payments. On or after August 1, 2020, the bonds are subject to optional redemption by the Authority upon the direction of the Company for 100%
of the principal plus accrued interest. 
  63 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
In December 2007, the Authority issued $250,000 of 6 3/4% tax-exempt revenue bonds due November 1, 2032
under the GO Zone Act. The bonds are subject to optional redemption by the Authority upon the direction of the Company at any time prior to November 1, 2017 for 100% of the principal plus accrued interest and a discounted “make
whole” payment of remaining unpaid principal and interest payments. On or after November 1, 2017, the bonds are subject to optional redemption by the Authority upon the direction of the Company for 100% of the principal plus accrued
interest.  Each series of the bonds is subject to redemption and the holders may require the bonds to be repurchased
upon a change of control or a change in or loss of the current tax status of the bonds. In addition, the bonds are subject to optional redemption by the Authority upon the direction of the Company if certain events have occurred in connection with
the operation of the projects for which the bond proceeds may be used, including if the Company has determined that the continued operation of any material portion of the projects would be impracticable, uneconomical or undesirable for any reason.
 In connection with each offering of the bonds, the Company entered into a loan agreement with the
Authority pursuant to which the Company agreed to pay all of the principal, premium, if any, and interest on the bonds and certain other amounts to the Authority. The net proceeds from the offerings were loaned by the Authority to the Company. The
Company intends to use the proceeds to expand, refurbish and maintain certain of its facilities in the Louisiana Parishes of Calcasieu and Ascension. The bonds are unsecured and rank equally in right of payment with other existing and future
unsecured senior indebtedness. All domestic restricted subsidiaries that guarantee other debt of the Company or of another guarantor of the 6 
5/8% senior notes due 2016, the 6 1/2% senior notes due 2029, the 6 3/4% senior notes due 2032, the 2035 GO Zone 6 1/2% Notes and the 2035 IKE Zone
6 1/2% Notes (collectively, the “Senior
Notes”) in excess of $5,000 are guarantors of the bonds. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had drawn $40,517 of the proceeds from the
6 1/2% bonds due November 1, 2035, all the
proceeds from the 6 1/2% senior notes due 2029 and
$250,005 of the proceeds from the 6 3/4% senior
notes due 2032. The balance of the proceeds, plus interest income, remains with a bond trustee pursuant to the terms and provisions of the loan agreements, and is classified on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet as a non-current asset,
restricted cash, until such time as the Company requests reimbursement of amounts used to expand, refurbish and maintain its facilities in Calcasieu and Ascension Parishes. 
IKE Zone Bonds  In December 2010, the Authority completed the offering of $65,000 of 6 1/2% tax-exempt revenue bonds due November 1, 2035 under Section 704 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “IKE Zone Act”). The bonds are
subject to optional redemption by the Authority upon the direction of the Company at any time prior to November 1, 2020 for 100% of the principal plus accrued interest and a discounted “make whole” payment of remaining unpaid
principal and interest payments. On or after November 1, 2020, the bonds are subject to optional redemption by the Authority upon the direction of the Company for 100% of the principal plus accrued interest. The bonds are subject to redemption,
repurchase by the holders upon a change of control or a change in or loss of the current tax status of the bonds and optional redemption by the Authority under terms substantially similar to the terms for the GO Zone Bonds. In connection with
the offering of the bonds, the Company entered into a loan agreement with the Authority pursuant to which the Company agreed to pay all of the principal, premium, if any, and interest on the bonds and certain other amounts to the Authority. The net
proceeds from the offering were loaned by the Authority to the Company. The Company intends to use the proceeds to expand, refurbish and maintain certain of its facilities in the Louisiana Parish of Calcasieu. The 2035 IKE Zone 6 1/2% Notes are unsecured and rank equally in right of payment with
other existing and future unsecured senior indebtedness. All domestic restricted subsidiaries that guarantee other debt of the Company or of another guarantor of the Senior Notes in excess of $5,000 are guarantors of the 2035 IKE Zone 6 1/2% Notes. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had
drawn $17,299 of the bond proceeds. The balance of the proceeds, 
  64 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   

plus interest income, remains with a bond trustee pursuant to the terms and provisions of the loan agreement, and is classified on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet as a non-current
asset, restricted cash, until such time as the Company requests reimbursement of amounts used to expand, refurbish and maintain its facilities in Calcasieu Parish.  6  5/8% Senior Notes 
In January 2006, the Company issued $250,000 of aggregate principal amount of 6 5/8% senior notes due 2016. The 6 5/8% senior notes are unsecured and were issued with an original issue
discount of $815. There is no sinking fund and no scheduled amortization of the notes prior to maturity. The notes are subject to redemption and the holders may require the Company to repurchase the notes upon a change of control. All domestic
restricted subsidiaries that guarantee other debt of the Company or of another guarantor of the Senior Notes in excess of $5,000 are guarantors of the
6 5/8% senior notes.
 The indentures governing the Senior Notes contain customary covenants and events of default. Accordingly,
these agreements generally impose significant operating and financial restrictions on the Company. These restrictions, among other things, provide limitations on incurrence of additional indebtedness, the payment of dividends, certain investments
and acquisitions and sales of assets. However, the effectiveness of certain of these restrictions is currently suspended because the Senior Notes are currently rated investment grade by at least two nationally recognized credit rating agencies. The
most significant of these provisions, if it were currently effective, would restrict the Company from incurring additional debt, except specified permitted debt (including borrowings under its credit facility), when the Company’s fixed charge
coverage ratio is below 2.0:1. These limitations are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, including, without limitation, an exception for the payment of the Company’s regular quarterly dividend of up to $0.20 per
share (currently $0.0738 per share). If the restrictions were currently effective, distributions in excess of $100,000 would not be allowed unless, after giving pro forma effect to the distribution, the Company’s fixed charge coverage ratio is
at least 2.0:1 and such payment, together with the aggregate amount of all other distributions after January 13, 2006, is less than the sum of 50% of the Company’s consolidated net income for the period from October 1, 2003 to the end
of the most recent quarter for which financial statements have been filed, plus 100% of net cash proceeds received after October 1, 2003 as a contribution to the Company’s common equity capital or from the issuance or sale of certain
securities, plus several other adjustments.  Revenue Bonds 
In December 1997, the Company entered into a loan agreement with a public trust established for public purposes for the benefit of the
Parish of Calcasieu, Louisiana. The public trust issued $10,889 principal amount of tax-exempt waste disposal revenue bonds in order to finance the Company’s construction of waste disposal facilities for an ethylene plant. The waste disposal
revenue bonds expire in December 2027 and are subject to redemption and mandatory tender for purchase prior to maturity under certain conditions. Interest on the waste disposal revenue bonds accrues at a rate determined by a remarketing agent and is
payable quarterly. The interest rate on the waste disposal revenue bonds at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was 0.20% and 0.45%, respectively.  The weighted average interest rate on all long-term debt was 6.5% at December 31, 2011 and 2010.  As of December 31, 2011, the Company had no maturities of long-term debt until 2016. 
7. Employee Benefits 
The Company has a defined contribution savings plan covering all regular full-time and part-time employees whereby
eligible employees may elect to contribute up to 100% of their annual compensation. The Company matches 100% of an employee’s contribution up to the first 4% of such employee’s compensation. The

  65 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   

Company may, at its discretion, make an additional contribution in an amount as the board of directors may determine. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company
charged approximately $4,801, $4,556 and $4,450, respectively, to expense for these contributions.  Further, within the defined
contribution savings plan, the Company also makes an annual retirement contribution to substantially all employees of one subsidiary and certain employees of another subsidiary who have completed one year of service. The Company’s contributions
to the plan are determined as a percentage of employees’ base and overtime pay. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company charged approximately $5,234, $5,209 and $5,173, respectively, to expense for these
contributions.  The Company has noncontributory defined benefit pension plans that cover certain eligible salaried and wage
employees of one subsidiary. Benefits for salaried employees under these plans are based primarily on years of service and employees’ pay near retirement. Benefits for wage employees are based upon years of service and a fixed amount as
periodically adjusted. The Company recognizes the years of service prior to the Company’s acquisition of the facilities for purposes of determining vesting, eligibility and benefit levels for certain employees of the subsidiary and for
determining vesting and eligibility for certain other employees of the subsidiary. The measurement date for these plans is December 31.  The Company also provides post-retirement healthcare benefits to the employees of two subsidiaries who meet certain minimum age and service requirements. The Company has the right to modify or terminate
some of these benefits.  Details of the changes in benefit obligations, plan assets and funded status of the Company’s
pension and post-retirement healthcare plans are as follows:   




















 
  
Pension Benefits
 
 
Post-retirementHealthcare
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Change in benefit obligation
  



 



 



 




 Benefit obligation, beginning of year
  
$
54,033
  
 
$
52,059
  
 
$
20,047
  
 
$
21,048
  

 Service cost
  
 
930
  
 
 
938
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
45
  

 Interest cost
  
 
2,723
  
 
 
2,751
  
 
 
840
  
 
 
919
  

 Actuarial loss (gain)
  
 
4,358
  
 
 
326
  
 
 
816
  
 
 
(656
) 

 Benefits paid
  
 
(2,168
) 
 
 
(2,041
) 
 
 
(1,507
) 
 
 
(1,309
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Benefit obligation, end of year
  
$
59,876
  
 
$
54,033
  
 
$
20,212
  
 
$
20,047
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Change in plan assets
  



 



 



 




 Fair value of plan assets, beginning of year
  
$
32,867
  
 
$
28,580
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  

 Actual return
  
 
833
  
 
 
3,782
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Employer contribution
  
 
3,946
  
 
 
2,546
  
 
 
1,507
  
 
 
1,309
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(2,168
) 
 
 
(2,041
) 
 
 
(1,507
) 
 
 
(1,309
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair value of plan assets, end of year
  
$
35,478
  
 
$
32,867
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Funded status, end of year
  
$
(24,398
) 
 
$
(21,166
) 
 
$
(20,212
) 
 
$
(20,047
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31
  



 



 



 




 Current liabilities
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
(1,710
) 
 
$
(1,590
) 

 Noncurrent liabilities
  
 
(24,398
) 
 
 
(21,166
) 
 
 
(18,502
) 
 
 
(18,457
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net amount recognized
  
$
(24,398
) 
 
$
(21,166
) 
 
$
(20,212
) 
 
$
(20,047
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  66 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   




















 
  
Pension Benefits
 
  
Post-retirementHealthcare
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income
  



  



  



  




 Net loss
  
$
20,325
  
  
$
15,791
  
  
$
3,523
  
  
$
2,825
  

 Transition obligation
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
114
  

 Prior service cost
  
 
890
  
  
 
1,187
  
  
 
218
  
  
 
404
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total before tax (1)
  
$
21,215
  
  
$
16,978
  
  
$
3,741
  
  
$
3,343
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
For 2011, after-tax totals for pension benefits and post-retirement healthcare benefits were $12,873 and $2,270, respectively. The sum of these amounts ($15,143) is
reflected in stockholders’ equity as accumulated other comprehensive income. For 2010, after-tax totals for pension benefits and post-retirement healthcare benefits were $10,300 and $2,028, respectively. The sum of these amounts ($12,328) is
reflected in stockholders’ equity as accumulated other comprehensive income.  The Pension Protection Act of
2006 (the “Pension Protection Act”) established a relationship between a qualified pension plan’s funded status and the actual benefits that can be provided. Restrictions on plan benefits and additional funding and notice requirements
are imposed when a plan’s funded status is less than certain threshold levels. For the 2011 plan year, the funded status for the Company’s pension plans are in the 61% to 80% range. Accordingly, the Company’s pension plans are
currently restricted from increasing plan benefits, unless the cost of the plan amendment is fully funded by the Company prior to the effective date of the benefit increase. In 2009, the Company amended the pension plan for wage employees to
increase, over a three-year period, the monthly benefit multiplier used to compute plan benefits. During 2011, the Company fully funded the benefit increase for the current year prior to the effective date of the benefit increase, so the plan
remains in compliance with the Pension Protection Act’s benefit restriction requirements.  Pension plans with an
accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets at December 31 are as follows:   












 
  
Pension Benefits
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Information for pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets
  



 




 Projected benefit obligation
  
$
(59,876
) 
 
$
(54,033
) 

 Accumulated benefit obligation
  
 
(54,508
) 
 
 
(49,602
) 

 Fair value of plan assets
  
 
35,478
  
 
 
32,867
  
  




























 
  
Pension Benefits
 
 
Post-retirement Healthcare
 

 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Components of net periodic benefit cost
  



 



 



 



  



  




 Service cost
  
$
930
  
 
$
938
  
 
$
842
  
 
$
16
  
  
$
45
  
  
$
85
  

 Interest cost
  
 
2,723
  
 
 
2,751
  
 
 
2,465
  
 
 
840
  
  
 
919
  
  
 
1,067
  

 Expected return on plan assets
  
 
(2,279
) 
 
 
(1,935
) 
 
 
(1,652
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Net amortization
  
 
1,567
  
 
 
1,899
  
 
 
1,646
  
 
 
418
  
  
 
377
  
  
 
427
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net periodic benefit cost
  
$
2,941
  
 
$
3,653
  
 
$
3,301
  
 
$
1,274
  
  
$
1,341
  
  
$
1,579
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  67 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   




























 
  
Pension Benefits
 
 
Post-retirement Healthcare
 

 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligation recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI)
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Net loss (gain) emerging
  
$
5,804
  
 
$
(1,521
) 
 
$
3,804
  
 
$
816
  
 
$
(656
) 
 
$
1,039
  

 Prior service cost
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,484
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Amortization of net loss
  
 
(1,271
) 
 
 
(1,602
) 
 
 
(1,381
) 
 
 
(118
) 
 
 
(51
) 
 
 
(101
) 

 Amortization of transition obligation
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(114
) 
 
 
(114
) 
 
 
(114
) 

 Amortization of prior service cost
  
 
(296
) 
 
 
(297
) 
 
 
(265
) 
 
 
(186
) 
 
 
(212
) 
 
 
(212
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recognized in OCI
  
$
4,237
  
 
$
(3,420
) 
 
$
3,642
  
 
$
398
  
 
$
(1,033
) 
 
$
612
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net periodic benefit cost and OCI
  
$
7,178
  
 
$
233
  
 
$
6,943
  
 
$
1,672
  
 
$
308
  
 
$
2,191
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The estimated prior service cost and net loss for the defined benefit plans that will be amortized from
other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost during 2012 are expected to be $297 and $1,755, respectively. The estimated prior service cost and net loss for the post-retirement healthcare benefit plans that will be amortized from other
comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost during 2012 are expected to be $84 and $176, respectively. No transition obligation for the post-retirement healthcare benefit plans will be amortized from other comprehensive income into net
periodic benefit cost in 2012.  The weighted-average assumptions used to determine pension and post-retirement healthcare plan
obligations and net periodic benefit costs for the plans are as follows:   




























  
  
Pension Benefits
 
 
Post-retirement Healthcare
 

  
  
  2011  
 
 
  2010  
 
 
  2009  
 
 
  2011  
 
 
  2010  
 
 
  2009  
 

 Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December 31
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Discount rate
  
 
4.5
% 
 
 
5.3
% 
 
 
5.5
% 
 
 
4.0
% 
 
 
4.5
% 
 
 
5.0
% 

 Expected return on plan assets
  
 
7.0
% 
 
 
7.0
% 
 
 
7.0
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Rate of compensation increase
  
 
4.0
% 
 
 
4.0
% 
 
 
4.0
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Weighted average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit costs for years ended December 31
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Discount rate
  
 
5.3
% 
 
 
5.5
% 
 
 
6.0
% 
 
 
4.5
% 
 
 
5.0
% 
 
 
5.8
% 

 Expected return on plan assets
  
 
7.0
% 
 
 
7.0
% 
 
 
7.0
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Rate of compensation increase
  
 
4.0
% 
 
 
4.0
% 
 
 
4.0
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 The Company’s return on asset assumption of 7% is based on historical asset returns, anticipated
future performance of the investments and financial markets and input from the Company’s third-party independent actuary and the pension fund trustee. The discount rate is determined using a benchmark pension discount curve and applying spot
rates from the curve to each year of expected benefit payments to determine the appropriate discount rate for the Company. 
Assumed healthcare trend rates do not have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the healthcare plans because benefits for
participants are capped at a fixed amount.   
  68 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
The Company’s overall investment strategy is to achieve a balance between moderate
income generation and capital appreciation. The investment strategy includes a mix of approximately 65% of investments for long-term growth and 35% for near-term benefit payments with a diversification of asset types. The Company does not believe
that there are significant concentrations of risk in the pension plan assets due to its strategy of asset diversification. The pension fund investment policy allows the pension fund trustee a 10% discretionary range in the asset allocation model,
with a target of approximately 55% equity securities and 45% fixed income. The Company expects to maintain the 55/45 investment policy for the near future. Equity securities primarily include investments in large-cap and small-cap companies located
in the United States and international developed market stocks. Fixed income securities are comprised of investment grade bonds, including U.S. Treasuries and corporate bonds of companies from diversified industries. 
Under the accounting guidance for fair value measurements, inputs used to measure fair value are classified in one of three levels:
 Level 1: Quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
Level 2: Observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data. 
Level 3: Unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data. 
The investments in the bank collective trust funds are valued using a market approach based on the net asset value of units held. The fair
values of the Company’s pension plans assets at December 31, by asset category, are as follows:   




























 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Total
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Total
 

 Bank collective trust funds—Equity securities:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Large-cap index funds (1)
  
$
17,562
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
17,562
  
  
$
15,007
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
15,007
  

 Small-cap index funds (2)
  
 
2,324
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,324
  
  
 
3,220
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
3,220
  

 International index funds (3)
  
 
3,367
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
3,367
  
  
 
3,216
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
3,216
  

 Bank collective trust funds—Fixed income:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Bond index funds (4)
  
 
11,806
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
11,806
  
  
 
10,957
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
10,957
  

 Short term investment funds
  
 
—  
  
  
 
419
  
  
 
419
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
467
  
  
 
467
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
35,059
  
  
$
419
  
  
$
35,478
  
  
$
32,400
  
  
$
467
  
  
$
32,867
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Over 90% of the assets of these funds are invested in large-cap U.S. companies. The remainder of the assets of these funds is invested in cash reserves.
  


(2)
Over 95% of the assets of these funds are invested in small-cap U.S. companies. The remainder of the assets of these funds is invested in cash reserves.
  


(3)
At least 90% of the assets of these funds are invested in international companies in developed markets (excluding the U.S. and Canada). The remainder of the assets of
these funds is invested in cash reserves.   


(4)
This category represents investment grade bonds of U.S. issuers, including U.S. Treasury notes. 
Because of the immaterial amount of the Company’s Level 3 pension plans assets, no summary of changes in the fair value of Level 3
pension plans assets is presented.   
  69 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
The Company’s funding policy is consistent with the minimum funding requirements of
federal law and regulations, and based on preliminary estimates, the Company expects to make contributions of approximately $2,862 for the salaried pension plan and approximately $1,923 for the wage pension plan in 2012. 
The following benefit payments are expected to be paid:   












 
  
PensionBenefits
 
  
Post-retirementHealthcare
 

 Estimated future benefit payments:
  



  




 Year 1
  
$
2,381
  
  
$
1,710
  

 Year 2
  
 
2,651
  
  
 
1,937
  

 Year 3
  
 
2,895
  
  
 
2,113
  

 Year 4
  
 
3,141
  
  
 
2,144
  

 Year 5
  
 
3,303
  
  
 
1,999
  

 Years 6 to 10
  
 
18,698
  
  
 
6,594
  

8. Stockholders’ Equity 
The Company’s board of directors has declared regular quarterly dividends to holders of its common stock
aggregating $18,265, $16,014 and $14,510 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Common Stock
 Each share of common stock entitles the holder to one vote on all matters on which holders are permitted to vote,
including the election of directors. There are no cumulative voting rights. Accordingly, holders of a majority of the total votes entitled to vote in an election of directors will be able to elect all of the directors standing for election. Subject
to preferences that may be applicable to any outstanding preferred stock, the holders of the common stock will share equally on a per share basis any dividends when, as and if declared by the board of directors out of funds legally available for
that purpose. If the Company is liquidated, dissolved or wound up, the holders of the Company’s common stock will be entitled to a ratable share of any distribution to stockholders, after satisfaction of all the Company’s liabilities and
of the prior rights of any outstanding class of the Company’s preferred stock. The Company’s common stock has no preemptive or conversion rights or other subscription rights. There are no redemption or sinking fund provisions applicable to
the Company’s common stock.  Preferred Stock  The Company’s charter authorizes the issuance of shares of preferred stock. The Company’s board of directors has the authority, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred shares from time
to time in one or more series, and to fix the number of shares and terms of each such series. The board may determine the designations and other terms of each series including dividend rates, whether dividends will be cumulative or non-cumulative,
redemption rights, liquidation rights, sinking fund provisions, conversion or exchange rights and voting rights.   
  70 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
9. Stock-Based Compensation 
Under the Westlake Chemical Corporation 2004 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the “2004 Plan”), all employees and
nonemployee directors of the Company, as well as certain individuals who have agreed to become the Company’s employees, are eligible for awards. Shares of common stock may be issued as authorized in the 2004 Plan. At the discretion of the
administrator of the 2004 Plan, employees and non-employee directors may be granted awards in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock awards or cash awards (any of which may be a performance award). Outstanding stock option
awards have a ten-year term and vest either (1) ratably on an annual basis over a three to five-year period or (2) in one-half increments on the five-year and nine and one-half-year anniversaries of the award date. Current outstanding
restricted stock awards also vest either (1) ratably on an annual basis over a three or five-year period, (2) at the end of a three-year period or (3) in one-half increments on the five-year and nine and one-half-year anniversaries of
the award date. In accordance with accounting guidance related to share-based payments, stock-based compensation expense for all stock-based compensation awards is based on estimated grant-date fair value. The Company recognizes these stock-based
compensation costs net of a forfeiture rate and on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the award for only those shares expected to vest. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the total recognized
stock-based compensation expense related to the 2004 Plan was $6,391, $6,164 and $5,638, respectively.  Option activity and
changes during the year ended December 31, 2011 were as follows:   




















 
  
Options
 
 
WeightedAverageExercisePrice
 
  
WeightedAverageRemainingTerm(Years)
 
  
AggregateIntrinsicValue
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2010
  
 
1,314,524
  
 
$
20.81
  
  



  




 Granted
  
 
99,380
  
 
 
45.83
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
(274,872
) 
 
 
19.44
  
  



  




 Cancelled
  
 
(5,885
) 
 
 
34.41
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
  
 
1,133,147
  
 
$
23.26
  
  
 
6.5
  
  
$
19,788
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Exercisable at December 31, 2011
  
 
503,830
  
 
$
18.74
  
  
 
5.8
  
  
$
10,835
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 For options outstanding at December 31, 2011, the options had the following range of exercise prices:
  












 Range of Prices
  
Options Outstanding
 
  
Weighted AverageRemaining ContractualLife (Years)
 

 $14.24 – $19.29
  
 
505,268
  
  
 
6.2
  

 $20.53 – $27.24
  
 
258,767
  
  
 
7.5
  

 $30.07 – $45.83
  
 
369,112
  
  
 
6.2
  
 The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total pretax intrinsic value (the
difference between the Company’s closing stock price on the last trading day of the year and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money options) that would have been received by the option holders had all option holders
exercised their options on December 31, 2011. This amount changes based on the fair market value of the Company’s common stock. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the total intrinsic value of options exercised was
$8,185, $1,835 and $485, respectively.   
  71 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
As of December 31, 2011, $2,989 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
stock options is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.1 years. Income tax benefits of $2,160, $214 and $155 were realized from the exercise of stock options during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively.  The Company used the Black-Scholes option pricing model to value its options. The table below presents the
weighted average value and assumptions used in determining each option’s fair value. Volatility was calculated using historical trends of the Company’s common stock price. 
 
















 
  
Stock Option Grants
 

 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Weighted average fair value
  
$
  19.22
  
  
$
  8.31
  
  
$
5.67
  

 Risk-free interest rate
  
 
2.8%
  
  
 
2.9%
  
  
 
2.8%
  

 Expected life in years
  
 
6
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
6 – 7
  

 Expected volatility
  
 
41.9%
  
  
 
41.8%
  
  
 
42.5%
  

 Expected dividend yield
  
 
0.5%
  
  
 
1.1%
  
  
 
1.5%
  
 Non-vested restricted stock awards as of December 31, 2011 and changes during the year ended
December 31, 2011 were as follows:   












 
  
Number ofShares
 
 
WeightedAverageGrant DateFair Value
 

 Non-vested at December 31, 2010
  
 
654,241
  
 
$
19.97
  

 Granted
  
 
78,828
  
 
 
45.03
  

 Vested
  
 
(143,121
) 
 
 
19.64
  

 Forfeited
  
 
(7,935
) 
 
 
20.48
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Non-vested at December 31, 2011
  
 
582,013
  
 
$
23.43
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 As of December 31, 2011, there was $4,740 of unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to
non-vested restricted stock awards. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.0 years. The total fair value of shares of restricted stock that vested during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was
$6,214, $1,427 and $246, respectively. 
10. Derivative Commodity Instruments 
The Company uses derivative instruments to reduce price volatility risk on commodities, primarily natural gas and
ethane, from time to time. The Company does not use derivative instruments to engage in speculative activities.  For derivative
instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges, the gains or losses on the derivative instruments, as well as the offsetting losses or gains on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk, were included in cost of sales in the
consolidated statement of operations in 2011. There were no derivative instruments designated by the Company as fair value hedges in 2010 and 2009. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had 57,960,000 gallons of feedstock forward contracts
designated as fair value hedges.  Gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivative instruments that are not
designated as hedging instruments were included in cost of sales in the consolidated statements of operations in 2011, 2010 and 2009.   
  72 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
The exposure on commodity derivatives used for price risk management includes the risk
that the counterparty will not pay if the market declines below the established fixed price. In such case, the Company would lose the benefit of the derivative differential on the volume of the commodities covered. In any event, the Company would
continue to receive the market price on the actual volume hedged. The Company also bears the risk that it could lose the benefit of market improvements over the fixed derivative price for the term and volume of the derivative instruments (as such
improvements would accrue to the benefit of the counterparty).  The fair values of derivative instruments in the Company’s
consolidated balance sheets were as follows:   














  
  
 Asset Derivatives
 

 
  
 Balance Sheet Location
  
Fair Value as of December 31,
 

 
  
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 

 Not designated as hedging instruments
  

  



  




 Commodity forward contracts
  
 Accounts receivable, net
  
$
2,437
  
  
$
47
  


  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total asset derivatives
  
$
2,437
  
  
$
47
  


  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 




 
  
 Liability Derivatives
 

 
  
 Balance Sheet Location
  
Fair Value as of December 31,
 

 
  
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Designated as hedging instruments
  

  



  




 Commodity forward contracts
  
 Accrued liabilities
  
$
3,262
  
  
$
—  
  

 Not designated as hedging instruments
  

  



  




 Commodity forward contracts
  
 Accrued liabilities
  
 
973
  
  
 
46
  


  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liability derivatives
  
$
4,235
  
  
$
46
  


  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The following tables reflect the impact of derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges and the
related hedged item on the Company’s consolidated statement of operations. There was no material ineffectiveness with regard to the Company’s qualifying hedges in 2011. 
 


















 Derivatives in Fair ValueHedging Relationships
  

Location of Gain (Loss)Recognized in Income on Derivative
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

  
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Commodity forward contracts
  
Cost of sales
  
$
(4,895
) 
 
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


















 Hedged Items in Fair ValueHedging
Relationships
  

Location of Gain (Loss)Recognized in Income on Hedged Items
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

  
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Firm commitment designated as the hedged item
  
Cost of sales
  
$
5,092
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  


  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The impact of derivative instruments that have not been designated as hedges on the Company’s
consolidated statements of operations were as follows:   


















 Derivatives Not Designated asHedging Instruments
  

Location of Gain (Loss)Recognized in Income on Derivative
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

  
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Commodity forward contracts
  
Cost of sales
  
$
2,043
  
  
$
69
  
  
$
5,347
  


  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 See Note 11 for the fair value of the Company’s derivative instruments. 
  73 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
11. Fair Value Measurements 
The Company reports certain assets and liabilities at fair value, which is defined as the price that would be received
to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (exit price). The following tables summarize, by level within the fair value hierarchy, the Company’s assets and
liabilities at December 31 that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis:   
















 
  
2011
 

 
  
Level 1
 
 
Level 2
 
 
Total
 

 Derivative instruments
  



 



 




 Risk management assets
  
$
1,090
  
 
$
1,347
  
 
$
2,437
  

 Risk management liabilities
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(4,235
) 
 
 
(4,235
) 

 Firm commitments
  



 



 




 Hedged portion of firm commitment
  
 
—  
  
 
 
3,262
  
 
 
3,262
  

 Marketable securities
  



 



 




 Available-for-sale equity securities
  
 
30,113
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
30,113
  




 
  
2010
 

 
  
Level 1
 
 
Level 2
 
 
Total
 

 Derivative instruments
  



 



 




 Risk management assets
  
$
47
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
47
  

 Risk management liabilities
  
 
(46
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(46
) 
 The Level 2 measurements are derived using forward curves supplied by industry recognized and unrelated
third-party services. There were no transfers in and out of Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy in 2011 and 2010.  See
Note 16 for the measurement of certain assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.  In addition to the assets and liabilities
above, the Company has other financial assets and liabilities subject to fair value measures. These financial assets and liabilities include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, net, accounts payable and long-term debt, all of which are
recorded at carrying value. The carrying amounts reported in the consolidated balance sheets for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, net and accounts payable approximate their fair value due to the short maturities of these instruments.
The carrying and fair values of the Company’s long-term debt at December 31 are summarized below:   




















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
CarryingValue
 
  
FairValue
 
  
CarryingValue
 
  
FairValue
 


6
 5/8% senior notes due 2016
  
$
249,674
  
  
$
254,890
  
  
$
249,593
  
  
$
258,438
  

 6 1/2% senior notes due 2029
  
 
100,000
  
  
 
108,834
  
  
 
100,000
  
  
 
99,875
  

 6 3/4% senior notes due 2032
  
 
250,000
  
  
 
263,988
  
  
 
250,000
  
  
 
251,925
  

 2035 GO Zone 6 1/2% Notes
  
 
89,000
  
  
 
93,090
  
  
 
89,000
  
  
 
88,653
  

 2035 IKE Zone 6 1/2% Notes
  
 
65,000
  
  
 
67,987
  
  
 
65,000
  
  
 
64,905
  

 Variable rate tax-exempt waste disposal revenue bonds due 2027
  
 
10,889
  
  
 
10,889
  
  
 
10,889
  
  
 
10,889
  

  74 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
12. Other Income, net 
Other income, net consists of the following: 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Management services
  
$
400
  
 
$
850
  
 
$
823
  

 Interest income
  
 
2,865
  
 
 
1,510
  
 
 
1,382
  

 Franchise taxes
  
 
(893
) 
 
 
(754
) 
 
 
(585
) 

 Equity in income of joint ventures
  
 
2,890
  
 
 
2,212
  
 
 
3,818
  

 Other
  
 
366
  
 
 
653
  
 
 
1,015
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
5,628
  
 
$
4,471
  
 
$
6,453
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

13. Income Taxes 
The components of income (loss) before income taxes are as follows: 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Domestic
  
$
404,422
  
 
$
339,382
  
  
$
72,079
  

 Foreign
  
 
(2,990
) 
 
 
3,578
  
  
 
6,674
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
401,432
  
 
$
342,960
  
  
$
78,753
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The Company’s provision for (benefit from) income taxes consists of the following: 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Current
  



 



  




 Federal
  
$
120,018
  
 
$
97,822
  
  
$
(3,049
) 

 State
  
 
8,729
  
 
 
8,128
  
  
 
(2,306
) 

 Foreign
  
 
(395
) 
 
 
1,464
  
  
 
(94
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
128,352
  
 
 
107,414
  
  
 
(5,449
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Deferred
  



 



  




 Federal
  
 
6,732
  
 
 
7,083
  
  
 
29,824
  

 State
  
 
7,682
  
 
 
6,829
  
  
 
660
  

 Foreign
  
 
(300
) 
 
 
241
  
  
 
723
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
14,114
  
 
 
14,153
  
  
 
31,207
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total provision
  
$
142,466
  
 
$
121,567
  
  
$
25,758
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  75 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
A reconciliation of taxes computed at the statutory rate to the Company’s income
tax expense is as follows:   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Provision for federal income tax at statutory rate
  
$
140,501
  
 
$
120,036
  
 
$
27,563
  

 State income tax provision net of federal income tax effect
  
 
10,745
  
 
 
9,372
  
 
 
462
  

 Foreign tax
  
 
(695
) 
 
 
1,705
  
 
 
629
  

 Foreign losses (earnings)
  
 
1,047
  
 
 
(1,252
) 
 
 
(2,336
) 

 Manufacturing deduction
  
 
(9,905
) 
 
 
(8,750
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Contingent tax liability
  
 
(20
) 
 
 
(411
) 
 
 
(1,004
) 

 Other, net
  
 
793
  
 
 
867
  
 
 
444
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
142,466
  
 
$
121,567
  
 
$
25,758
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The tax effects of the principal temporary differences between financial reporting and income tax
reporting at December 31 are as follows:   












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Net operating loss carryforward
  
$
13,958
  
 
$
15,018
  

 Credit carryforward
  
 
769
  
 
 
1,729
  

 Accruals
  
 
29,002
  
 
 
24,693
  

 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
 
1,329
  
 
 
878
  

 Inventories
  
 
7,321
  
 
 
6,893
  

 Other
  
 
5,900
  
 
 
6,119
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred taxes assets—total
  
 
58,279
  
 
 
55,330
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property, plant and equipment
  
 
(344,535
) 
 
 
(328,635
) 

 Turnaround costs
  
 
(11,073
) 
 
 
(13,091
) 

 Other
  
 
(914
) 
 
 
(795
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax liabilities—total
  
 
(356,522
) 
 
 
(342,521
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Valuation allowance
  
 
(12,937
) 
 
 
(11,039
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net deferred tax liabilities
  
$
(311,180
) 
 
$
(298,230
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 Balance sheet classifications
  



 




 Current deferred tax asset
  
$
19,611
  
 
$
17,288
  

 Deferred tax liability
  
 
(330,791
) 
 
 
(315,518
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net deferred tax liabilities
  
$
(311,180
) 
 
$
(298,230
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 At December 31, 2011, the Company had foreign and state net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $294,929, which will expire in varying amounts between 2012 and 2030 and are subject to certain limitations on an annual basis. Management believes the Company will realize the benefit of the net operating loss carryforwards before
they expire, but to the extent that the full benefit may not be realized, a net operating loss valuation allowance has been recorded. The valuation allowance increased by $1,898 in 2011 due to additional current year losses not expected to be
realized.   
  76 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
Applicable U.S. deferred income taxes and related foreign dividend withholding taxes
have not been provided on approximately $13,223 of undistributed earnings and profits of the Company’s foreign corporate joint venture and foreign subsidiaries. The Company considers such earnings to be permanently reinvested outside the United
States. The types of events that would cause the earnings to be subject to tax are a taxable remittance or restructuring. It is not practical to estimate the amount of deferred income taxes associated with these earnings. 
The gross unrecognized tax benefits at December 31 are as follows: 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Beginning balance
  
$
3,141
  
 
$
4,873
  
 
$
5,054
  

 Additions based on tax position related to current year
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
678
  

 (Reductions) additions for tax positions for prior years
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(26
) 
 
 
711
  

 Reductions due to tax settlements
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,389
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Reductions due to statutes of limitations expiring
  
 
(19
) 
 
 
(317
) 
 
 
(1,570
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance
  
$
3,122
  
 
$
3,141
  
 
$
4,873
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Management anticipates no material reductions to the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits
within the next twelve months.  The Company recognizes penalties and interest accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits in
income tax expense. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had no material accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions.  The Company files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various states and foreign jurisdictions. The Company is no longer subject to examinations by tax authorities before the year 2005.
In January 2012, the Internal Revenue Service completed the audit of the Company for the 2009 tax year with no assessment. 
14. Earnings per Share 
The Company has unvested shares of restricted stock outstanding that are considered participating securities and,
therefore, computes basic and diluted earnings per share under the two-class method. Basic earnings per share for the periods are based upon the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the periods. Diluted earnings per
share include the effect of certain stock options.   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net income
  
$
258,966
  
 
$
221,393
  
 
$
52,995
  

 Less:
  



 



 




 Net income attributable to participating securities
  
 
(2,310
) 
 
 
(2,230
) 
 
 
(475
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to common shareholders
  
$
256,656
  
 
$
219,163
  
 
$
52,520
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  77 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
The following table reconciles the denominator for the basic and diluted earnings per
share computations shown in the consolidated statements of operations:   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Weighted average common shares—basic
  
 
65,927,421
  
  
 
65,472,875
  
  
 
65,323,101
  

 Plus incremental shares from:
  



  



  




 Assumed exercise of options
  
 
372,737
  
  
 
203,789
  
  
 
98,289
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Weighted average common shares—diluted
  
 
66,300,158
  
  
 
65,676,664
  
  
 
65,421,390
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Earnings per share:
  



  



  




 Basic
  
$
3.89
  
  
$
3.35
  
  
$
0.80
  

 Diluted
  
$
3.87
  
  
$
3.34
  
  
$
0.80
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009 are options to purchase 141,335, 433,403 and 536,644 shares of common stock, respectively. These options were outstanding during the periods reported but were excluded because the option exercise price was greater than the average
market price of the shares. 
15. Related Party and Affiliate Transactions 
The Company leases office space for management and administrative services from an affiliated party. For the years
ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company incurred and paid lease payments of approximately $1,556, $1,549 and $1,469, respectively.  In March 2000, the Company loaned $2,000 to Suzhou Huasu Plastics Company, Ltd., a Chinese joint venture company in which the Company owns a 59% equity stake. Interest on the debt accrues at LIBOR plus
2%. Previously, the Company loaned this same affiliate $5,150. Principal payments of $1,192 and $763 were received from the affiliate in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Interest payments of $441 and $934 were received in 2011 and 2010, respectively,
and included in other income, net in the consolidated statements of operations. No interest or principal payments were received in 2009. As of December 31, 2011, the notes receivable balances of $1,192 and $2,383 are included in prepaid
expenses and other current assets and other assets, net, respectively, in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. 
16. Plant Closures 
In June 2011, as a result of excess capacity in the PVC pipe market and in an effort to reduce costs and optimize
operations, the Company closed its Springfield PVC pipe facility and fully impaired the associated assets. Asset impairment costs and severance and other costs related to the PVC pipe facility closure recorded in 2011 were $1,975 and $1,389,
respectively. The fair value of the impaired assets were determined using internally developed, unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs in the fair value hierarchy of fair value accounting) based on the projected cash flows of the pipe facility.
 In October 2009, as a result of excess capacity due to the weak construction market and in an effort to reduce total costs,
the Company closed its Bristol, Indiana PVC pipe facility and moved the production to the Company’s other PVC pipe facilities. Asset impairments and severance and other costs related to closed PVC pipe facilities, including the Bristol
facility, were $3,898 and $457, respectively, for the year ended 
  78 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   

December 31, 2009. The Company determined the fair value of the impaired assets using internally developed, unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs in the fair value hierarchy of fair value
accounting) based on the projected cash flows of the closed plants. The remaining carrying value of these assets after impairment was $2,167. 
17. Business Interruption Insurance Recoveries 
During the first quarter of 2009, the Company’s Calvert City, Kentucky complex experienced an ice storm that
caused a power failure at the facility and resulted in damage to a compressor for the ethylene unit. The Company received property damage insurance proceeds of $4,577 related to this outage during the third quarter of 2009, which are included in
cost of sales in the consolidated statement of operations. The insurance proceeds received were for repair costs and involuntary asset conversion and are included in cash flows from operating and investing activities, respectively. In addition, the
Company received $2,321 for insurance recoveries related to business interruption costs incurred due to the ice storm, which is included in cost of sales in the consolidated statement of operations. 
18. Commitments and Contingencies 
The Company is subject to environmental laws and regulations that can impose civil and criminal sanctions and that may
require it to mitigate the effects of contamination caused by the release or disposal of hazardous substances into the environment. Under one law, an owner or operator of property may be held strictly liable for remediating contamination without
regard to whether that person caused the contamination, and without regard to whether the practices that resulted in the contamination were legal at the time they occurred. Because several of the Company’s production sites have a history of
industrial use, it is impossible to predict precisely what effect these legal requirements will have on the Company. 
Contract Disputes with Goodrich and PolyOne. In connection with the 1990 and 1997 acquisitions of the Goodrich Corporation
(“Goodrich”) chemical manufacturing complex in Calvert City, Goodrich agreed to indemnify the Company for any liabilities related to preexisting contamination at the complex. For its part, the Company agreed to indemnify Goodrich for
post-closing contamination caused by the Company’s operations. The soil and groundwater at the complex, which does not include the Company’s nearby PVC facility, had been extensively contaminated under Goodrich’s operations. In 1993,
Goodrich spun off the predecessor of PolyOne Corporation (“PolyOne”), and that predecessor assumed Goodrich’s indemnification obligations relating to preexisting contamination. 
In 2003, litigation arose among the Company, Goodrich and PolyOne with respect to the allocation of the cost of remediating contamination
at the site. The parties settled this litigation in December 2007 and the case was dismissed. In the settlement the parties agreed that, among other things: (1) PolyOne would pay 100% of the costs (with specified exceptions), net of recoveries
or credits from third parties, incurred with respect to environmental issues at the Calvert City site from August 1, 2007 forward; (2) either the Company or PolyOne might, from time to time in the future (but not more than once every five
years), institute an arbitration proceeding to adjust that percentage; and (3) the Company and PolyOne would negotiate a new environmental remediation utilities and services agreement to cover the Company’s provision to or on behalf of
PolyOne of certain environmental remediation services at the site. The current environmental remediation activities at the Calvert City complex do not have a specified termination date but are expected to last for the foreseeable future. The costs
incurred by PolyOne to provide the environmental remediation services were $3,287 and $3,028 in 2011 and 2010, respectively. On March 17, 2010, the Company received notice of PolyOne’s intention to commence an arbitration proceeding under
the settlement agreement. In this proceeding, PolyOne seeks to readjust the percentage allocation of costs and to recover approximately $1,400 from the Company in reimbursement of previously paid remediation costs. The arbitration is currently
stayed. 
  79 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
Administrative Proceedings. There are several administrative proceedings in
Kentucky involving the Company, Goodrich and PolyOne related to the same manufacturing complex in Calvert City. In 2003, the Kentucky Environmental and Public Protection Cabinet (the “Cabinet”) re-issued Goodrich’s Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) permit which requires Goodrich to remediate contamination at the Calvert City manufacturing complex. Both Goodrich and PolyOne challenged various terms of the permit in an attempt to shift
Goodrich’s clean-up obligations under the permit to the Company. The Company intervened in the proceedings. The Cabinet has suspended all corrective action under the RCRA permit in deference to a remedial investigation and feasibility study
(“RIFS”) being conducted pursuant to an Administrative Settlement Agreement (“AOC”), which became effective on December 9, 2009. See “Change in Regulatory Regime” below. The proceedings have been postponed.
Periodic status conferences will be held to evaluate whether additional proceedings will be required. On September 19, 2011, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the remaining proceedings, which was denied on December 29, 2011.
 Change in Regulatory Regime. In May 2009, the Cabinet sent a letter to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(“EPA”) requesting the EPA’s assistance in addressing contamination at the Calvert City site under the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”). In its response to the Cabinet
also in May 2009, the EPA stated that it concurred with the Cabinet’s request and would incorporate work previously conducted under the Cabinet’s RCRA authority into the EPA’s cleanup efforts under CERCLA. Since 1983, the EPA has
been addressing contamination at an abandoned landfill adjacent to the Company’s plant which had been operated by Goodrich and which was being remediated pursuant to CERCLA. During the past two years, the EPA has directed Goodrich and PolyOne
to conduct additional investigation activities at the landfill and at the Company’s plant. In June 2009, the EPA notified the Company that the Company may have potential liability under section 107(a) of CERCLA at its plant site. Liability
under section 107(a) of CERCLA is strict and joint and several. The EPA also identified Goodrich and PolyOne, among others, as potentially responsible parties at the plant site. The Company negotiated, in conjunction with the other potentially
responsible parties, the AOC and an order to conduct the RIFS. The parties submitted and received EPA approval for a RIFS work plan to implement the AOC. The parties are currently conducting the RIFS. 
Monetary Relief. Except as noted above with respect to the settlement of the contract litigation among the Company, Goodrich and
PolyOne, none of the court, the Cabinet nor the EPA has established any allocation of the costs of remediation among the various parties that are involved in the judicial and administrative proceedings discussed above. At this time, the Company is
not able to estimate the loss or reasonable possible loss, if any, on the Company’s financial statements that could result from the resolution of these proceedings. Any cash expenditures that the Company might incur in the future with respect
to the remediation of contamination at the complex would likely be spread out over an extended period. As a result, the Company believes it is unlikely that any remediation costs allocable to it will be material in terms of expenditures made in any
individual reporting period.  EPA Audit of Ethylene Units in Lake Charles. During 2007, the EPA conducted an audit of
the Company’s ethylene units in Lake Charles, Louisiana, with a focus on leak detection and repair, or LDAR. In January 2008, the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, notified the Company that the EPA had referred the matter to the DOJ to bring
a civil case against the Company alleging violations of various environmental laws and regulations. The DOJ informed the Company that it would seek monetary penalties and require the Company to implement an “enhanced LDAR” program for the
ethylene units. The EPA has proposed a settlement and provided a draft consent decree, which would require the Company’s Lake Charles facilities to undertake an enhanced LDAR program and would require payment of a civil penalty. The Company is
engaged in negotiations with the EPA. 
  80 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   

The Company has recorded an accrual for a probable loss related to monetary penalties. Although the ultimate amount of liability is not ascertainable, the Company believes that the resolution of
this matter will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  In addition to the matters described above, the Company is involved in various routine legal proceedings incidental to the conduct of its business. The Company does not believe that any of these routine
legal proceedings will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  Other
Commitments  The Company is obligated under various long-term and short-term noncancelable operating leases, primarily
related to rail car leases. Several of the leases provide for renewal terms. At December 31, 2011, future minimum lease commitments were as follows:   








 2012
  
$
 19,175
  

 2013
  
 
18,818
  

 2014
  
 
14,167
  

 2015
  
 
10,522
  

 2016
  
 
9,354
  

 Thereafter
  
 
30,119
  


  
  
  
 


  
$
102,155
  


  
  
  
 
 Rental expense, net of railcar mileage credits, was approximately $36,644, $38,506 and $42,886 for the
years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  The Company has various purchase commitments for its capital
projects and for materials, supplies and services incident to the ordinary conduct of business. Such commitments are at prices not in excess of market prices. Certain feedstock purchase commitments require taking delivery of minimum volumes at
market-determined prices. 
19. Segment and Geographic Information 
Segment Information  The Company operates in two principal business segments: Olefins and Vinyls. These segments are strategic business units that offer a variety of different products. The Company manages each segment
separately as each business requires different technology and marketing strategies.  The Company’s Olefins segment
manufactures and markets ethylene, polyethylene, styrene monomer and various ethylene co-products. The majority of the Company’s ethylene production is used in the Company’s polyethylene, styrene and VCM operations. The remainder of the
Company’s ethylene is sold to external customers. In addition, the Company makes ethylene co-products such as propylene, crude butadiene and hydrogen that are sold to external customers. 
The majority of sales in the Company’s Olefins business are made under long-term agreements where contract volumes are established
within a range (typically, more than one year). Earlier terminations may occur if the parties fail to agree on price and deliveries are suspended for a period of several months. In most cases, these contracts also contemplate extension of the term
unless specifically terminated by one of the parties. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of sales in the Olefins segment for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 or 2009. 
  81 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
The Company’s Vinyls segment manufactures and markets PVC, VCM, chlorine, caustic
soda and ethylene. The Company also manufactures and sells products fabricated from PVC that the Company produces, including pipe, window and door profiles and fence. The Company’s main manufacturing complex is located in Calvert City. It
includes an ethylene plant, a chlor-alkali plant, a VCM plant and a PVC plant. The Company also operates a PVC and VCM manufacturing facility in Geismar, Louisiana. In addition, the Company owns a 59% interest in a PVC joint venture in China.
 The Company uses its chlorine, VCM and PVC production to manufacture building products at the Company’s 10 regional
plants. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2009, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of sales in the Vinyls segment. For the year ended December 31, 2010, one customer in the Company’s Vinyls segment accounted for
10.6% of segment net sales.  The accounting policies of the individual segments are the same as those described in Note 1.
  
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net external sales
  



 



 




 Olefins
  



 



 




 Polyethylene
  
$
1,772,144
  
 
$
1,656,203
  
 
$
1,210,706
  

 Ethylene, styrene and other
  
 
795,698
  
 
 
605,009
  
 
 
400,745
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total olefins
  
 
2,567,842
  
 
 
2,261,212
  
 
 
1,611,451
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Vinyls
  



 



 




 PVC, caustic soda and other
  
 
757,314
  
 
 
558,156
  
 
 
398,825
  

 Building products
  
 
294,692
  
 
 
352,419
  
 
 
315,447
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total vinyls
  
 
1,052,006
  
 
 
910,575
  
 
 
714,272
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
3,619,848
  
 
$
3,171,787
  
 
$
2,325,723
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Intersegment sales
  



 



 




 Olefins
  
$
444,889
  
 
$
322,125
  
 
$
233,746
  

 Vinyls
  
 
1,474
  
 
 
1,047
  
 
 
1,222
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
446,363
  
 
$
323,172
  
 
$
234,968
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from operations
  



 



 




 Olefins
  
$
459,266
  
 
$
460,027
  
 
$
177,101
  

 Vinyls
  
 
4,012
  
 
 
(62,429
) 
 
 
(57,445
) 

 Corporate and other
  
 
(16,482
) 
 
 
(19,234
) 
 
 
(12,399
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
446,796
  
 
$
378,364
  
 
$
107,257
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Depreciation and amortization
  



 



 




 Olefins
  
$
86,915
  
 
$
86,086
  
 
$
82,952
  

 Vinyls
  
 
43,877
  
 
 
42,062
  
 
 
39,843
  

 Corporate and other
  
 
605
  
 
 
584
  
 
 
404
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
131,397
  
 
$
128,732
  
 
$
123,199
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  82 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Other income, net
  



 



 




 Olefins
  
$
2,813
  
 
$
440
  
 
$
440
  

 Vinyls
  
 
194
  
 
 
399
  
 
 
478
  

 Corporate and other
  
 
2,621
  
 
 
3,632
  
 
 
5,535
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
5,628
  
 
$
4,471
  
 
$
6,453
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes
  



 



 




 Olefins
  
$
149,033
  
 
$
147,296
  
 
$
44,987
  

 Vinyls
  
 
(2,193
) 
 
 
(24,519
) 
 
 
(31,287
) 

 Corporate and other
  
 
(4,374
) 
 
 
(1,210
) 
 
 
12,058
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
142,466
  
 
$
121,567
  
 
$
25,758
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Capital expenditures
  



 



 




 Olefins
  
$
90,641
  
 
$
37,865
  
 
$
40,251
  

 Vinyls
  
 
84,192
  
 
 
42,371
  
 
 
58,186
  

 Corporate and other
  
 
2,010
  
 
 
1,033
  
 
 
1,332
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
176,843
  
 
$
81,269
  
 
$
99,769
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  












 
  
December 31,2011
 
  
December 31,2010
 

 Total assets
  



  




 Olefins
  
$
1,441,752
  
  
$
1,351,088
  

 Vinyls
  
 
824,825
  
  
 
767,875
  

 Corporate and other
  
 
1,000,244
  
  
 
835,181
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
3,266,821
  
  
$
2,954,144
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 In the first quarter of 2011, in order to better reflect large buyer market related pricing, the Company
changed its intersegment market pricing methodology used to account for intersegment sales of ethylene sold from the Olefins segment to the Vinyls segment. Had this pricing methodology been in effect on January 1, 2010, the impact on Olefins
segment income from operations for 2010 would be a reduction of $29,813. This reduction would be offset by an improvement in the Vinyls and Corporate segments’ operating results for 2010 of $25,536 and $4,277, respectively. If this pricing
methodology were in effect on January 1, 2009, income from operations for the Olefins segment for 2009 would have increased by $2,979. This increase would be offset by a reduction in the Vinyls and Corporate segments’ operating results for
2009 of $2,847 and $132, respectively. The impact on the Corporate segment’s loss from operations for 2010 and 2009 is attributable to changes in intercompany profit in inventory reserve related to sales from the Olefins segment to the Vinyls
segment. There would be no impact on the Company’s reported consolidated income from operations for 2010 or 2009. 
  83 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
A reconciliation of total segment income from operations to consolidated income before
income taxes is as follows:   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Income from operations for reportable segments
  
$
446,796
  
 
$
378,364
  
 
$
107,257
  

 Interest expense
  
 
(50,992
) 
 
 
(39,875
) 
 
 
(34,957
) 

 Other income, net
  
 
5,628
  
 
 
4,471
  
 
 
6,453
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
$
401,432
  
 
$
342,960
  
 
$
78,753
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Geographic Information   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Sales to external customers (1)
  



  



  




 United States
  
$
3,221,562
  
  
$
2,832,980
  
  
$
2,088,344
  

 Foreign
  



  



  




 Canada
  
 
247,357
  
  
 
214,662
  
  
 
154,972
  

 Singapore
  
 
29,210
  
  
 
32,733
  
  
 
27,300
  

 Other
  
 
121,719
  
  
 
91,412
  
  
 
55,107
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
3,619,848
  
  
$
3,171,787
  
  
$
2,325,723
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  












 
  
December 31,2011
 
  
December 31,2010
 

 Long-lived assets
  



  




 United States
  
$
1,223,073
  
  
$
1,159,051
  

 Foreign
  
 
8,993
  
  
 
11,283
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
1,232,066
  
  
$
1,170,334
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Revenues are attributed to countries based on location of customer. 
20. Subsequent Events 
Subsequent events were evaluated through the date on which the financial statements were issued. 
21. Guarantor Disclosures 
The Company’s payment obligations under the Company’s 6 5/8% senior notes due 2016 is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by
each of its current and future domestic restricted subsidiaries that guarantee other debt of the Company or of another guarantor of the senior notes in excess of $5,000 (the “Guarantor Subsidiaries”). Each Guarantor Subsidiary is 100%
owned by Westlake Chemical Corporation. These guarantees are the joint and several obligations of the Guarantor Subsidiaries. The following condensed consolidating financial information presents the financial condition, results of operations and
cash flows of Westlake Chemical Corporation, the Guarantor Subsidiaries and the remaining subsidiaries that do not guarantee the notes (the “Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries”), together with consolidating adjustments necessary to present the
Company’s results on a consolidated basis. 
  84 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
Condensed Consolidating Financial Information as of December 31, 2011
  
























 
  
WestlakeChemicalCorporation
 
  
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
Eliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Balance Sheet
  



  



  



  



 




 Current assets
  



  



  



  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
803,320
  
  
$
2,517
  
  
$
20,064
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
825,901
  

 Accounts receivable, net
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,384,705
  
  
 
949
  
  
 
(978,282
) 
 
 
407,372
  

 Inventories
  
 
—  
  
  
 
478,229
  
  
 
12,548
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
490,777
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
 
363
  
  
 
10,332
  
  
 
1,800
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
12,495
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
430
  
  
 
19,049
  
  
 
132
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
19,611
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
804,113
  
  
 
1,894,832
  
  
 
35,493
  
  
 
(978,282
) 
 
 
1,756,156
  

 Property, plant and equipment, net
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,223,073
  
  
 
8,993
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,232,066
  

 Equity investments
  
 
2,597,598
  
  
 
53,912
  
  
 
35,650
  
  
 
(2,640,419
) 
 
 
46,741
  

 Restricted cash
  
 
96,283
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
96,283
  

 Other assets, net
  
 
17,650
  
  
 
132,968
  
  
 
2,467
  
  
 
(17,510
) 
 
 
135,575
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
3,515,644
  
  
$
3,304,785
  
  
$
82,603
  
  
$
(3,636,211
) 
 
$
3,266,821
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Current liabilities
  



  



  



  



 




 Accounts payable
  
$
1,005,529
  
  
$
210,476
  
  
$
3,748
  
  
$
(992,719
) 
 
$
227,034
  

 Accrued liabilities
  
 
76
  
  
 
120,656
  
  
 
2,392
  
  
 
14,437
  
 
 
137,561
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
1,005,605
  
  
 
331,132
  
  
 
6,140
  
  
 
(978,282
) 
 
 
364,595
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
753,674
  
  
 
10,889
  
  
 
11,500
  
  
 
(11,500
) 
 
 
764,563
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
—  
  
  
 
336,165
  
  
 
636
  
  
 
(6,010
) 
 
 
330,791
  

 Other liabilities
  
 
53
  
  
 
50,458
  
  
 
49
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
50,560
  

 Stockholders’ equity
  
 
1,756,312
  
  
 
2,576,141
  
  
 
64,278
  
  
 
(2,640,419
) 
 
 
1,756,312
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity
  
$
3,515,644
  
  
$
3,304,785
  
  
$
82,603
  
  
$
(3,636,211
) 
 
$
3,266,821
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  85 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
Condensed Consolidating Financial Information as of December 31, 2010
  
























 
  
WestlakeChemicalCorporation
 
  
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
Eliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Balance Sheet
  



  



  



  



 




 Current assets
  



  



  



  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
611,158
  
  
$
53
  
  
$
19,088
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
630,299
  

 Accounts receivable, net
  
 
128,628
  
  
 
1,302,314
  
  
 
2,086
  
  
 
(1,070,165
) 
 
 
362,863
  

 Inventories
  
 
—  
  
  
 
437,130
  
  
 
12,898
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
450,028
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
 
162
  
  
 
13,763
  
  
 
1,557
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
15,482
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
357
  
  
 
16,771
  
  
 
160
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
17,288
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
740,305
  
  
 
1,770,031
  
  
 
35,789
  
  
 
(1,070,165
) 
 
 
1,475,960
  

 Property, plant and equipment, net
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,159,051
  
  
 
11,283
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,170,334
  

 Equity investments
  
 
2,320,094
  
  
 
53,274
  
  
 
35,588
  
  
 
(2,362,642
) 
 
 
46,314
  

 Restricted cash
  
 
150,288
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
150,288
  

 Other assets, net
  
 
16,897
  
  
 
108,352
  
  
 
3,769
  
  
 
(17,770
) 
 
 
111,248
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
3,227,584
  
  
$
3,090,708
  
  
$
86,429
  
  
$
(3,450,577
) 
 
$
2,954,144
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Current liabilities
  



  



  



  



 




 Accounts payable
  
$
952,000
  
  
$
189,852
  
  
$
4,541
  
  
$
(941,619
) 
 
$
204,774
  

 Accrued liabilities
  
 
16,868
  
  
 
228,364
  
  
 
2,121
  
  
 
(128,549
) 
 
 
118,804
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
968,868
  
  
 
418,216
  
  
 
6,662
  
  
 
(1,070,168
) 
 
 
323,578
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
753,593
  
  
 
10,889
  
  
 
11,500
  
  
 
(11,500
) 
 
 
764,482
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
—  
  
  
 
320,813
  
  
 
972
  
  
 
(6,267
) 
 
 
315,518
  

 Other liabilities
  
 
53
  
  
 
45,435
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
45,496
  

 Stockholders’ equity
  
 
1,505,070
  
  
 
2,295,355
  
  
 
67,287
  
  
 
(2,362,642
) 
 
 
1,505,070
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity
  
$
3,227,584
  
  
$
3,090,708
  
  
$
86,429
  
  
$
(3,450,577
) 
 
$
2,954,144
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  86 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
Condensed Consolidating Financial Information for the Year Ended December 31,
2011   
























 
  
WestlakeChemicalCorporation
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Statement of Operations
  



 



 



 



 




 Net sales
  
$
—  
  
 
$
3,581,470
  
 
$
42,202
  
 
$
(3,824
) 
 
$
3,619,848
  

 Cost of sales
  
 
—  
  
 
 
3,024,419
  
 
 
40,247
  
 
 
(3,824
) 
 
 
3,060,842
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
—  
  
 
 
557,051
  
 
 
1,955
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
559,006
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
3,762
  
 
 
102,989
  
 
 
5,459
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
112,210
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 (Loss) income from operations
  
 
(3,762
) 
 
 
454,062
  
 
 
(3,504
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
446,796
  

 Interest expense
  
 
(50,919
) 
 
 
(73
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(50,992
) 

 Other income (expense), net
  
 
10,217
  
 
 
(4,212
) 
 
 
(377
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,628
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 (Loss) income before income taxes
  
 
(44,464
) 
 
 
449,777
  
 
 
(3,881
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
401,432
  

 (Benefit from) provision for income taxes
  
 
(11,835
) 
 
 
155,313
  
 
 
(1,012
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
142,466
  

 Equity in net income of subsidiaries
  
 
291,595
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(291,595
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
258,966
  
 
$
294,464
  
 
$
(2,869
) 
 
$
(291,595
) 
 
$
258,966
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Condensed Consolidating Financial Information for the Year Ended December 31, 2010 
 
























 
  
WestlakeChemicalCorporation
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
Eliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Statement of Operations
  



 



 



  



 




 Net sales
  
$
—  
  
 
$
3,130,513
  
 
$
44,006
  
  
$
(2,732
) 
 
$
3,171,787
  

 Cost of sales
  
 
—  
  
 
 
2,653,234
  
 
 
38,602
  
  
 
(2,732
) 
 
 
2,689,104
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
—  
  
 
 
477,279
  
 
 
5,404
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
482,683
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
4,257
  
 
 
95,441
  
 
 
4,621
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
104,319
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 (Loss) income from operations
  
 
(4,257
) 
 
 
381,838
  
 
 
783
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
378,364
  

 Interest expense
  
 
(39,829
) 
 
 
(46
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(39,875
) 

 Other income (expense), net
  
 
15,045
  
 
 
(12,715
) 
 
 
2,141
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
4,471
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 (Loss) income before income taxes
  
 
(29,041
) 
 
 
369,077
  
 
 
2,924
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
342,960
  

 (Benefit from) provision for income taxes
  
 
(2,471
) 
 
 
122,541
  
 
 
1,497
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
121,567
  

 Equity in net income of subsidiaries
  
 
247,963
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(247,963
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
221,393
  
 
$
246,536
  
 
$
1,427
  
  
$
(247,963
) 
 
$
221,393
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  87 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
Condensed Consolidating Financial Information for the Year Ended December 31,
2009   
























 
  
WestlakeChemicalCorporation
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
Eliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Statement of Operations
  



 



 



  



 




 Net sales
  
$
—  
  
 
$
2,289,953
  
 
$
38,980
  
  
$
(3,210
) 
 
$
2,325,723
  

 Cost of sales
  
 
—  
  
 
 
2,099,795
  
 
 
34,010
  
  
 
(3,210
) 
 
 
2,130,595
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
—  
  
 
 
190,158
  
 
 
4,970
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
195,128
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
4,185
  
 
 
80,213
  
 
 
3,473
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
87,871
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 (Loss) income from operations
  
 
(4,185
) 
 
 
109,945
  
 
 
1,497
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
107,257
  

 Interest expense
  
 
(34,864
) 
 
 
(93
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(34,957
) 

 Other income (expense), net
  
 
14,843
  
 
 
(12,981
) 
 
 
4,591
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
6,453
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 (Loss) income before income taxes
  
 
(24,206
) 
 
 
96,871
  
 
 
6,088
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
78,753
  

 (Benefit from) provision for income taxes
  
 
(6,314
) 
 
 
31,620
  
 
 
452
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
25,758
  

 Equity in net income of subsidiaries
  
 
70,887
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(70,887
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
52,995
  
 
$
65,251
  
 
$
5,636
  
  
$
(70,887
) 
 
$
52,995
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  88 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
Condensed Consolidating Financial Information for the Year Ended December 31,
2011   
























 
  
WestlakeChemicalCorporation
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Statement of Cash Flows
  



 



 



 



 




 Cash flows from operating activities
  



 



 



 



 




 Net income (loss)
  
$
258,966
  
 
$
294,464
  
 
$
(2,869
) 
 
$
(291,595
) 
 
$
258,966
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash (used for) provided by operating activities
  



 



 



 



 




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
1,683
  
 
 
127,807
  
 
 
3,590
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
133,080
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
190
  
 
 
14,225
  
 
 
(301
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
14,114
  

 Net changes in working capital and other
  
 
(291,666
) 
 
 
(45,667
) 
 
 
1,874
  
 
 
291,595
  
 
 
(43,864
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash (used for) provided by operating activities
  
 
(30,827
) 
 
 
390,829
  
 
 
2,294
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
362,296
  

 Cash flows from investing activities
  



 



 



 



 




 Additions to property, plant and equipment
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(175,706
) 
 
 
(1,137
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(176,843
) 

 Proceeds from disposition of assets
  
 
—  
  
 
 
2,877
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,880
  

 Proceeds from repayment of loan to affiliate
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,192
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,192
  

 Purchase of securities and other investments
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(30,265
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(30,265
) 

 Settlements of derivative instruments
  
 
—  
  
 
 
251
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
251
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash (used for) provided by investing activities
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(202,843
) 
 
 
58
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(202,785
) 

 Cash flows from financing activities
  



 



 



 



 




 Intercompany financing
  
 
186,898
  
 
 
(185,522
) 
 
 
(1,376
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Capitalized debt issuance costs
  
 
(2,697
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,697
) 

 Dividends paid
  
 
(18,265
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(18,265
) 

 Proceeds from exercise of stock options
  
 
5,344
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,344
  

 Repurchase of common stock for treasury
  
 
(2,518
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,518
) 

 Utilization of restricted cash
  
 
54,227
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
54,227
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities
  
 
222,989
  
 
 
(185,522
) 
 
 
(1,376
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
36,091
  

 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
192,162
  
 
 
2,464
  
 
 
976
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
195,602
  

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year
  
 
611,158
  
 
 
53
  
 
 
19,088
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
630,299
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year
  
$
803,320
  
 
$
2,517
  
 
$
20,064
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
825,901
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  89 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
Condensed Consolidating Financial Information for the Year Ended December 31,
2010   
























 
  
WestlakeChemicalCorporation
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Statement of Cash Flows
  



 



 



 



 




 Cash flows from operating activities
  



 



 



 



 




 Net income
  
$
221,393
  
 
$
246,536
  
 
$
1,427
  
 
$
(247,963
) 
 
$
221,393
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash (used for) provided by operating activities
  



 



 



 



 




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
2,154
  
 
 
125,002
  
 
 
3,730
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
130,886
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
7,864
  
 
 
6,048
  
 
 
241
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
14,153
  

 Net changes in working capital and other
  
 
(245,113
) 
 
 
(87,299
) 
 
 
1,301
  
 
 
247,963
  
 
 
(83,148
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash (used for) provided by operating activities
  
 
(13,702
) 
 
 
290,287
  
 
 
6,699
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
283,284
  

 Cash flows from investing activities
  



 



 



 



 




 Additions to equity investments
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(10,177
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(10,177
) 

 Additions to property, plant and equipment
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(79,928
) 
 
 
(1,341
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(81,269
) 

 Proceeds from disposition of assets
  
 
—  
  
 
 
914
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
914
  

 Proceeds from repayment of loan to affiliate
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
763
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
763
  

 Settlements of derivative instruments
  
 
—  
  
 
 
9,494
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,494
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used for investing activities
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(79,697
) 
 
 
(578
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(80,275
) 

 Cash flows from financing activities
  



 



 



 



 




 Intercompany financing
  
 
210,360
  
 
 
(210,614
) 
 
 
254
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Capitalized debt issuance costs
  
 
(3,331
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(3,331
) 

 Dividends paid
  
 
(16,014
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(16,014
) 

 Proceeds from exercise of stock options
  
 
3,745
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,745
  

 Utilization of restricted cash
  
 
197,298
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
197,298
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities
  
 
392,058
  
 
 
(210,614
) 
 
 
254
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
181,698
  

 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
378,356
  
 
 
(24
) 
 
 
6,375
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
384,707
  

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year
  
 
232,802
  
 
 
77
  
 
 
12,713
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
245,592
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year
  
$
611,158
  
 
$
53
  
 
$
19,088
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
630,299
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  90 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
Condensed Consolidating Financial Information for the Year Ended December 31,
2009   
























 
  
WestlakeChemicalCorporation
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Statement of Cash Flows
  



 



 



 



 




 Cash flows from operating activities
  



 



 



 



 




 Net income
  
$
52,995
  
 
$
65,251
  
 
$
5,636
  
 
$
(70,887
) 
 
$
52,995
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash (used for) provided by operating activities
  



 



 



 



 




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
1,461
  
 
 
119,296
  
 
 
3,903
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
124,660
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
2,086
  
 
 
27,113
  
 
 
2,008
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
31,207
  

 Net changes in working capital and other
  
 
(72,567
) 
 
 
27,731
  
 
 
609
  
 
 
70,887
  
 
 
26,660
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash (used for) provided by operating activities
  
 
(16,025
) 
 
 
239,391
  
 
 
12,156
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
235,522
  

 Cash flows from investing activities
  



 



 



 



 




 Acquisition of business
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(6,297
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(6,297
) 

 Additions to property, plant and equipment
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(98,555
) 
 
 
(1,214
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(99,769
) 

 Proceeds from disposition of assets
  
 
—  
  
 
 
3,255
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,255
  

 Proceeds from insurance for involuntary conversion of assets
  
 
—  
  
 
 
484
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
484
  

 Settlements of derivative instruments
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(859
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(859
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used for investing activities
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(101,972
) 
 
 
(1,214
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(103,186
) 

 Cash flows from financing activities
  



 



 



 



 




 Intercompany financing
  
 
137,442
  
 
 
(137,411
) 
 
 
(31
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Capitalized debt issuance costs
  
 
(2,203
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,203
) 

 Dividends paid
  
 
(14,510
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(14,510
) 

 Proceeds from exercise of stock options
  
 
879
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
879
  

 Utilization of restricted cash
  
 
38,851
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
38,851
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities
  
 
160,459
  
 
 
(137,411
) 
 
 
(31
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
23,017
  

 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
144,434
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
10,911
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
155,353
  

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year
  
 
88,368
  
 
 
69
  
 
 
1,802
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
90,239
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year
  
$
232,802
  
 
$
77
  
 
$
12,713
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
245,592
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  91 


Table of Contents
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)  (in thousands of dollars, except share amounts and per share data)   
22. Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) 
 




















 
  
Three Months Ended
 

 
  
March 31,2011
 
  
June 30,2011
 
  
September 30,2011
 
  
December 31,2011
 

 Net sales
  
$
867,252
  
  
$
925,049
  
  
$
968,372
  
  
$
859,175
  

 Gross profit
  
 
167,584
  
  
 
167,095
  
  
 
147,067
  
  
 
77,260
  

 Income from operations
  
 
140,637
  
  
 
138,369
  
  
 
117,331
  
  
 
50,459
  

 Net income
  
 
83,544
  
  
 
81,049
  
  
 
67,930
  
  
 
26,443
  

 Basic earnings per common share (1)
  
$
1.26
  
  
$
1.22
  
  
$
1.02
  
  
$
0.40
  

 Diluted earnings per common share (1)
  
$
1.25
  
  
$
1.21
  
  
$
1.01
  
  
$
0.40
  




 
  
Three Months Ended
 

 
  
March 31,2010
 
  
June 30,2010
 
  
September 30,2010
 
  
December 31,2010
 

 Net sales
  
$
778,334
  
  
$
818,389
  
  
$
779,677
  
  
$
795,387
  

 Gross profit
  
 
57,680
  
  
 
126,024
  
  
 
134,855
  
  
 
164,124
  

 Income from operations
  
 
34,429
  
  
 
99,537
  
  
 
107,346
  
  
 
137,052
  

 Net income
  
 
17,647
  
  
 
56,942
  
  
 
62,731
  
  
 
84,073
  

 Basic earnings per common share (1)
  
$
0.27
  
  
$
0.86
  
  
$
0.95
  
  
$
1.27
  

 Diluted earnings per common share (1)
  
$
0.27
  
  
$
0.86
  
  
$
0.95
  
  
$
1.26
  
  


(1)
Basic and diluted earnings per common share (“EPS”) for each quarter is computed using the weighted average shares outstanding during that quarter, while EPS
for the year is computed using the weighted average shares outstanding for the year. As a result, the sum of the EPS for each of the four quarters may not equal the EPS for the year. 



  92 


Table of Contents


Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
None.   


Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures 
Disclosure, Controls and Procedures  We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our President and Chief Executive Officer (our principal executive officer) and our Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer (our principal financial officer), of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as of the end of the period covered by this
Form 10-K. In the course of this evaluation, management considered certain internal control areas in which we have made and are continuing to make changes to improve and enhance controls. Based upon that evaluation, our President and Chief Executive
Officer and our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective as of December 31, 2011 to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in the
reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to management as appropriate to allow
timely decisions regarding required disclosure.  Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2011 that
have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting  Westlake’s management’s report on internal control over financial reporting
appears on page 47 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, has also audited the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, as stated in their report that appears on page 48 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
 


Item 9B.
Other Information  None.

  93 


Table of Contents
PART III 
 


Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.  Pursuant to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K, the information required by this item with respect to our executive officers is set forth in Part I of this Form 10-K. 
 


Item 11.
Executive Compensation.   


Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 
 


Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 
 


Item 14.
Principal Accountant Fees and Services.  The information required by Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 is incorporated by reference to the Proxy Statement, which will be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act within 120
days of December 31, 2011. 
  94 


Table of Contents
PART IV 
 


Item 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   


(a)(1)
The financial statements listed in the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K are filed as part of this Form 10-K.
  


(a)(2)
The following schedule is presented as required. All other schedules are omitted because the information is not applicable, not required, or has been furnished in the
Consolidated Financial Statements or Notes thereto in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 
Financial Statement Schedule  SCHEDULE II  VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
(dollars in thousands)   




















 Accounts Receivable Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
  
Balance atBeginningof Year
 
  
Charged toExpense
 
  
Additions/(Deductions) 
(1)
 
 
Balance atEnd ofYear
 

 2011
  
$
9,710
  
  
$
1,321
  
  
$
(62
) 
 
$
10,969
  

 2010
  
 
9,167
  
  
 
917
  
  
 
(374
) 
 
 
9,710
  

 2009
  
 
14,438
  
  
 
1,970
  
  
 
(7,241
) 
 
 
9,167
  
  


(1)
Primarily accounts receivable written off during the period. 
  95 


Table of Contents


(a)(3)
Exhibits   






 Exhibit No.
  
 Exhibit




2.1
  
Acquisition Agreement dated as of October 9, 2006 by and between Westlake Longview Corporation (formerly Westlake NG II Corporation) and Eastman Chemical Company (incorporated by
reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on October 12, 2006, File No. 1-32260).




3.1
  
Certificate of Incorporation of Westlake as filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on August 6, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Registration Statement on Form
S-1/A, filed on August 9, 2004).




3.2
  
Bylaws of Westlake (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Registration Statement on Form S-1/A, filed on August 9, 2004).




4.1
  
Indenture dated as of January 1, 2006 by and among Westlake, the potential subsidiary guarantors listed therein and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as trustee
(incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on January 13, 2006, File No. 1-32260).




4.2
  
First Supplemental Indenture dated as of January 13, 2006 by and among Westlake, the subsidiary guarantors party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as trustee
(incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on January 13, 2006, File No. 1-32260).




4.3
  
Form of 6 5/8%
senior notes due 2016 (included in Exhibit 4.2).




4.4
  
Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 1, 2007, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as
trustee (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 18, 2007, File No. 1-32260).




4.5
  
Form of 6 3/4% senior notes due 2032 (included in Exhibit 4.4).




4.6
  
Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 2, 2010, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as
trustee (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on July 8, 2010, File No. 1-32260).




4.7
  
Form of 6 1/2% senior notes due 2029 (included in Exhibit 4.6).




4.8
  
Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 2, 2010, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.,
as trustee (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 8, 2010, File No. 1-32260).




4.9
  
Form of 6 1/2% senior notes due 2035 (the “2035 GO Zone Notes”) (included in Exhibit 4.8).




4.10
  
Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 2, 2010, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as
trustee (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 8, 2010, File No. 1-32260).




4.11
  
Form of 6 1/2% senior notes due 2035 (the “2035 IKE Zone Notes”) (included in Exhibit 4.10).




4.12
  
Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 31, 2007, among the Company, WPT LLC, Westlake Polymers LLC, Westlake Petrochemicals LLC, Westlake Styrene LLC, the other subsidiary
guarantors party thereto and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. related to the 6 5/8%
senior notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to Westlake’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, filed on February 20, 2008, File No.
1-32260).
  96 


Table of Contents






 Exhibit No.
  
 Exhibit




4.13
  
Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 31, 2007, among the Company, WPT LLC, Westlake Polymers LLC, Westlake Petrochemicals LLC, Westlake Styrene LLC, the other subsidiary
guarantors party thereto and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. related to the 6 3/4% senior notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to Westlake’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, filed on February 20, 2008, File No.
1-32260).





  
Westlake and its subsidiaries are party to other long-term debt instruments not filed herewith under which the total amount of securities authorized does not exceed 10% of the total
assets of Westlake and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Pursuant to paragraph 4(iii)(A) of Item 601(b) of Regulation S-K, Westlake agrees to furnish a copy of such instruments to the SEC upon request.




10.1
  
Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of September 16, 2011 by and among the financial institutions party thereto, as lenders, Bank of America, N.A., as agent,
and Westlake Chemical Corporation and certain of its domestic subsidiaries, as borrowers, relating to a $400.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on
September 19, 2011, File No. 1-32260).




10.2
  
Loan Agreement, dated as of November 1, 2007, by and between the Company and the Louisiana Local Government Environmental Facilities and Community Development Authority
(incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 18, 2007, File No. 1-32260).




10.3
  
Amended and Restated Loan Agreement, dated as of July 2, 2010, by and between the Company and the Louisiana Local Government Environmental Facilities and Community Development
Authority (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on July 8, 2010, File No. 1-32260).




10.4
  
Loan Agreement, dated as of November 1, 2010, by and between the Company and the Louisiana Local Government Environmental Facilities and Community Development Authority, relating to
the 2035 GO Zone Notes (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 8, 2010, File No. 1-32260).




10.5
  
Loan Agreement, dated as of November 1, 2010, by and between the Company and the Louisiana Local Government Environmental Facilities and Community Development Authority, relating to
the 2035 IKE Zone Notes (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 8, 2010, File No. 1-32260).




10.6
  
Form of Registration Rights Agreement between Westlake and TTWF LP (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Registration Statement on Form S-1/A, filed on July 2,
2004).




10.7+
  
Westlake Group Performance Unit Plan effective January 1, 1991 (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Registration Statement on Form S-4, filed on September 22,
2003).




10.8+
  
EVA Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Registration Statement on Form S-4, filed on September 22, 2003).




10.9+
  
Agreement with Stephen Wallace dated November 5, 2003 (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, filed on
March 26, 2004, File No. 1-32260).




10.10+
  
Westlake Chemical Corporation 2004 Omnibus Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Registration Statement on Form S-1/A, filed on August 9,
2004).
  97 


Table of Contents






 Exhibit No.
  
 Exhibit




10.11+
  
Form of Employee Nonqualified Option Award Letter Agreement (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, filed on
March 16, 2005, File No. 1-32260).




10.12+
  
Form of Employee Nonqualified Option Award (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, filed on March 16, 2005,
File No. 1-32260).




10.13+
  
Form of Director Option Award Letter (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, filed on March 16, 2005, File No.
1-32260).




10.14+
  
Form of Director Option Award (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, filed on March 16, 2005, File No.
1-32260).




10.15+
  
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, filed on March 16, 2005, File
No. 1-32260).




10.16+
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award letter granted effective as of August 31, 2005, to Directors (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on
September 15, 2005, File No. 1-32260).




10.17+
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award letter granted effective as of August 31, 2005, to Named Executive Officers (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K,
filed on September 15, 2005, File No. 1-32260).




10.18+
  
Form of Award letter for stock options granted effective as of August 31, 2005, to Named Executive Officers (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form
8-K, filed on September 15, 2005, File No. 1-32260).




10.19+
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award granted effective as of March 15, 2006, to Named Executive Officers (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on
March 22, 2006, File No. 1-32260).




10.20+
  
Form of Award Letter for Stock Options granted effective as of March 15, 2006, to Named Executive Officers (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K,
filed on March 22, 2006, File No. 1-32260).




10.21+
  
Form of Award Letter for Stock Options granted effective as of August 21, 2006, to Non-Management Directors (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form
8-K, filed on August 24, 2006, File No. 1-32260).




10.22+
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award granted effective as of August 21, 2006, to Non-Management Directors (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed
on August 24, 2006, File No. 1-32260).




10.23+
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award Letter for Special February 2007 Awards (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on March 1, 2007, File No.
1-32260).




10.24+
  
Form of Stock Option Award Letter for Special February 2007 Awards (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on March 1, 2007, File No.
1-32260).




10.25+
  
Form of Long-Term Cash Performance Award Letter effective as of February 26, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
March 31, 2010, filed on May 5, 2010, File No. 1-32260).
  98 


Table of Contents






 Exhibit No.
  
 Exhibit




10.26+
  
Westlake Chemical Corporation Annual Incentive Plan adopted by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors on May 15, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s
Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 21, 2009, File No. 1-32260).




10.27+
  
Form of Long-Term Cash Performance Award Letter effective as of February 18, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2010, filed on February 24, 2011, File No. 1-32260).




10.28+
  
Westlake Chemical Corporation Amended and Restated Annual Incentive Plan adopted by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors on March 24, 2011 (incorporated by reference
to Westlake’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, filed on May 4, 2011, File No. 1-32260).




21†
  
Subsidiaries of Westlake.




23.1†
  
Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.




31.1†
  
Rule 13a-14(a) / 15d-14(a) Certification (Principal Executive Officer).




31.2†
  
Rule 13a-14(a) / 15d-14(a) Certification (Principal Financial Officer).




32.1†
  
Section 1350 Certification (Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer).




101.INS†
  
XBRL Instance Document (1)




101.SCH†
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document
(1)




101.CAL†
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document
(1)




101.LAB†
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document
(1)




101.PRE†
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document
(1)
  


†
Filed herewith.   


+
Management contract, compensatory plan or arrangement.   


(1)
Pursuant to Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, this interactive data file is deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of sections 11 or
12 of the Securities Act of 1933, is deemed not filed for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and otherwise is not subject to liability under these sections. 
  99 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.   









 

 
WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORPORATION





Date: February 23, 2012
 

 
/S/    ALBERT
CHAO        


 

 
Albert Chao, President and Chief Executive Officer
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by
the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.   








 Signature
  
 Title
 
 Date





 /S/    ALBERT
CHAO         Albert Chao
  
 President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)
 
February 23, 2012





 /S/    M. STEVEN
BENDER         M. Steven Bender
  
 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer (Principal Financial Officer)
 
February 23, 2012





 /S/    GEORGE J.
MANGIERI         George J. Mangieri
  
 Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)
 
February 23, 2012





 /S/    JAMES
CHAO         James Chao
  
 Chairman of the Board of Directors
 
February 23, 2012






/S/    ALBERT CHAO    
     Albert Chao
  
 Director
 
February 23, 2012





 /S/    E. WILLIAM
BARNETT         E. William Barnett
  
 Director
 
February 23, 2012





 /S/    ROBERT T.
BLAKELY         Robert T. Blakely
  
 Director
 
February 23, 2012





 /S/    DOROTHY C.
JENKINS         Dorothy C. Jenkins
  
 Director
 
February 23, 2012





 /S/    MAX L.
LUKENS         Max L. Lukens
  
 Director
 
February 23, 2012





 /S/    H. JOHN RILEY,
JR.         H. John Riley, Jr.
  
 Director
 
February 23, 2012

  100



Table of Contents
Exhibit Index 
 






 Exhibit No.
  
 Exhibit




2.1
  
Acquisition Agreement dated as of October 9, 2006 by and between Westlake Longview Corporation (formerly Westlake NG II Corporation) and Eastman Chemical Company (incorporated by
reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on October 12, 2006, File No. 1-32260).




3.1
  
Certificate of Incorporation of Westlake as filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on August 6, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Registration Statement on Form
S-1/A, filed on August 9, 2004).




3.2
  
Bylaws of Westlake (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Registration Statement on Form S-1/A, filed on August 9, 2004).




4.1
  
Indenture dated as of January 1, 2006 by and among Westlake, the potential subsidiary guarantors listed therein and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as trustee
(incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on January 13, 2006, File No. 1-32260).




4.2
  
First Supplemental Indenture dated as of January 13, 2006 by and among Westlake, the subsidiary guarantors party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as trustee
(incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on January 13, 2006, File No. 1-32260).




4.3
  
Form of 6  5/8%
senior notes due 2016 (included in Exhibit 4.2).




4.4
  
Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 1, 2007, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as
trustee (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 18, 2007, File No. 1-32260).




4.5
  
Form of 6 3/4% senior notes due 2032 (included in Exhibit 4.4).




4.6
  
Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 2, 2010, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as
trustee (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on July 8, 2010, File No. 1-32260).




4.7
  
Form of 6 1/2% senior notes due 2029 (included in Exhibit 4.6).




4.8
  
Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 2, 2010, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.,
as trustee (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 8, 2010, File No. 1-32260).




4.9
  
Form of 6 1/2% senior notes due 2035 (the “2035 GO Zone Notes”) (included in Exhibit 4.8).




4.10
  
Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 2, 2010, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as
trustee (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 8, 2010, File No. 1-32260).




4.11
  
Form of 6 1/2% senior notes due 2035 (the “2035 IKE Zone Notes”) (included in Exhibit 4.10).
  101



Table of Contents






 Exhibit No.
  
 Exhibit




4.12
  
Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 31, 2007, among the Company, WPT LLC, Westlake Polymers LLC, Westlake Petrochemicals LLC, Westlake Styrene LLC, the other subsidiary
guarantors party thereto and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. related to the 6 5/8% senior notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to Westlake’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, filed on February 20, 2008, File No.
1-32260).




4.13
  
Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 31, 2007, among the Company, WPT LLC, Westlake Polymers LLC, Westlake Petrochemicals LLC, Westlake Styrene LLC, the other subsidiary
guarantors party thereto and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. related to the 6 3/4% senior notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to Westlake’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, filed on February 20, 2008, File No.
1-32260).





  
Westlake and its subsidiaries are party to other long-term debt instruments not filed herewith under which the total amount of securities authorized does not exceed 10% of the total
assets of Westlake and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Pursuant to paragraph 4(iii)(A) of Item 601(b) of Regulation S-K, Westlake agrees to furnish a copy of such instruments to the SEC upon request.




10.1
  
Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of September 16, 2011 by and among the financial institutions party thereto, as lenders, Bank of America, N.A., as agent,
and Westlake Chemical Corporation and certain of its domestic subsidiaries, as borrowers, relating to a $400.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on
September 19, 2011, File No. 1-32260).




10.2
  
Loan Agreement, dated as of November 1, 2007, by and between the Company and the Louisiana Local Government Environmental Facilities and Community Development Authority
(incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 18, 2007, File No. 1-32260).




10.3
  
Amended and Restated Loan Agreement, dated as of July 2, 2010, by and between the Company and the Louisiana Local Government Environmental Facilities and Community Development
Authority (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on July 8, 2010, File No. 1-32260).




10.4
  
Loan Agreement, dated as of November 1, 2010, by and between the Company and the Louisiana Local Government Environmental Facilities and Community Development Authority, relating to
the 2035 GO Zone Notes (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 8, 2010, File No. 1-32260).




10.5
  
Loan Agreement, dated as of November 1, 2010, by and between the Company and the Louisiana Local Government Environmental Facilities and Community Development Authority, relating to
the 2035 IKE Zone Notes (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 8, 2010, File No. 1-32260).




10.6
  
Form of Registration Rights Agreement between Westlake and TTWF LP (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Registration Statement on Form S-1/A, filed on July 2,
2004).




10.7+
  
Westlake Group Performance Unit Plan effective January 1, 1991 (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Registration Statement on Form S-4, filed on September 22,
2003).




10.8+
  
EVA Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Registration Statement on Form S-4, filed on September 22, 2003).




10.9+
  
Agreement with Stephen Wallace dated November 5, 2003 (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, filed on
March 26, 2004, File No. 1-32260).
  102



Table of Contents






 Exhibit No.
  
 Exhibit




10.10+
  
Westlake Chemical Corporation 2004 Omnibus Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Registration Statement on Form S-1/A, filed on August 9,
2004).




10.11+
  
Form of Employee Nonqualified Option Award Letter Agreement (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, filed on
March 16, 2005, File No. 1-32260).




10.12+
  
Form of Employee Nonqualified Option Award (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, filed on March 16, 2005,
File No. 1-32260).




10.13+
  
Form of Director Option Award Letter (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, filed on March 16, 2005, File No.
1-32260).




10.14+
  
Form of Director Option Award (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, filed on March 16, 2005, File No.
1-32260).




10.15+
  
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, filed on March 16, 2005, File
No. 1-32260).




10.16+
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award letter granted effective as of August 31, 2005, to Directors (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on
September 15, 2005, File No. 1-32260).




10.17+
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award letter granted effective as of August 31, 2005, to Named Executive Officers (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K,
filed on September 15, 2005, File No. 1-32260).




10.18+
  
Form of Award letter for stock options granted effective as of August 31, 2005, to Named Executive Officers (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form
8-K, filed on September 15, 2005, File No. 1-32260).




10.19+
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award granted effective as of March 15, 2006, to Named Executive Officers (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on
March 22, 2006, File No. 1-32260).




10.20+
  
Form of Award Letter for Stock Options granted effective as of March 15, 2006, to Named Executive Officers (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K,
filed on March 22, 2006, File No. 1-32260).




10.21+
  
Form of Award Letter for Stock Options granted effective as of August 21, 2006, to Non-Management Directors (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form
8-K, filed on August 24, 2006, File No. 1-32260).




10.22+
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award granted effective as of August 21, 2006, to Non-Management Directors (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed
on August 24, 2006, File No. 1-32260).




10.23+
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award Letter for Special February 2007 Awards (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on March 1, 2007, File No.
1-32260).




10.24+
  
Form of Stock Option Award Letter for Special February 2007 Awards (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on March 1, 2007, File No.
1-32260).




10.25+
  
Form of Long-Term Cash Performance Award Letter effective as of February 26, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
March 31, 2010, filed on May 5, 2010, File No. 1-32260).
  103



Table of Contents






 Exhibit No.
  
 Exhibit




10.26+
  
Westlake Chemical Corporation Annual Incentive Plan adopted by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors on May 15, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s
Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 21, 2009, File No. 1-32260).




10.27+
  
Form of Long-Term Cash Performance Award Letter effective as of February 18, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Westlake’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2010, filed on February 24, 2011, File No. 1-32260).




10.28+
  
Westlake Chemical Corporation Amended and Restated Annual Incentive Plan adopted by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors on March 24, 2011 (incorporated by reference
to Westlake’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, filed on May 4, 2011, File No. 1-32260).




21†
  
Subsidiaries of Westlake.




23.1†
  
Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.




31.1†
  
Rule 13a-14(a) / 15d-14(a) Certification (Principal Executive Officer).




31.2†
  
Rule 13a-14(a) / 15d-14(a) Certification (Principal Financial Officer).




32.1†
  
Section 1350 Certification (Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer).




101.INS†
  
XBRL Instance Document (1)




101.SCH†
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document
(1)




101.CAL†
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document
(1)




101.LAB†
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document
(1)




101.PRE†
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document
(1)
  


†
Filed herewith.   


+
Management contract, compensatory plan or arrangement.   


(1)
Pursuant to Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, this interactive data file is deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of sections 11 or
12 of the Securities Act of 1933, is deemed not filed for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and otherwise is not subject to liability under these sections. 
  104




