
10-K
1
d260150d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549   
  FORM 10-K
  


x
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 
OR   


¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the transition period from
                     to
                      Commission file number 1-32190   
  NEWMARKET
CORPORATION  Incorporated pursuant to the Laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia 
Internal Revenue Service Employer Identification No. 20-0812170 
330 South Fourth Street  Richmond, Virginia 23219-4350  804-788-5000 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
 






 Title of each class
 
 Name of each exchange on which registered

COMMON STOCK, without par value
 
NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
    Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act    Yes  x    No  ¨  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act    Yes  ¨    No  x  Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes  x    No  ¨  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
corporate website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to submit and post such files).    Yes  x    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  x
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller
reporting company. See definition of “accelerated filer,” “large accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (check one): 
 










Large accelerated filer
 
x
  
Accelerated filer
 
¨






Non-accelerated filer
 
¨
  
Smaller reporting company
 
¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).    Yes  ¨    No  x  Aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30, 2011 (the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter):
$1,781,611,842*  Number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of January 31, 2012: 13,404,831 
   
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  Portions of NewMarket Corporation’s definitive Proxy Statement for its 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   


*
In determining this figure, an aggregate of 3,397,329 shares of Common Stock as beneficially owned by Bruce C. Gottwald and members of his immediate family have been
excluded and treated as shares held by affiliates. See Item 12. The aggregate market value has been computed on the basis of the closing price in the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions on June 30, 2011 as reported by The
Wall Street Journal.     
 


Table of Contents
Form 10-K  Table of Contents   










PART I
 

  




 Item 1.
 
Business
  
 
3
  

 Item 1A.
 
Risk Factors
  
 
12
  

 Item 1B.
 
Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
19
  

 Item 2.
 
Properties
  
 
19
  

 Item 3.
 
Legal Proceedings
  
 
20
  

 Item 4.
 
 Mine Safety Disclosures 
  
 
20
  





PART II
 

  




 Item 5.
 
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
  
 
21
  

 Item 6.
 
Selected Financial Data
  
 
23
  

 Item 7.
 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation
  
 
25
  

 Item 7A.
 
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
  
 
38
  

 Item 8.
 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
40
  

 Item 9.
 
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
 
94
  

 Item 9A.
 
Controls and Procedures
  
 
94
  

 Item 9B.
 
Other Information
  
 
95
  





PART III
 

  




 Item 10.
 
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
96
  

 Item 11.
 
Executive Compensation
  
 
96
  

 Item 12.
 
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
  
 
96
  

 Item 13.
 
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
97
  

 Item 14.
 
Principal Accounting Fees and Services
  
 
97
  





PART IV
 

  




 Item 15.
 
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 
  
 
98
  

 Signatures 
  
 
101
  

  2 


Table of Contents
PART I   


ITEM 1.
BUSINESS  NewMarket Corporation
(NewMarket) (NYSE: NEU) is a holding company which is the parent company of Afton Chemical Corporation (Afton), Ethyl Corporation (Ethyl), NewMarket Services Corporation (NewMarket Services), and NewMarket Development Corporation (NewMarket
Development).  Each of our subsidiaries manages its own assets and liabilities. Afton encompasses the petroleum additives business, while
Ethyl represents the sale and distribution of tetraethyl lead (TEL) in North America and certain petroleum additives manufacturing operations. NewMarket Development manages the property that we own in Richmond, Virginia. NewMarket Services provides
various administrative services to NewMarket, Afton, Ethyl, and NewMarket Development. NewMarket Services departmental expenses and other expenses are billed to NewMarket and each subsidiary pursuant to services agreements between the companies.
 References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to “we,” “us,” “our,” and “NewMarket” are to NewMarket
Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, unless the context indicates otherwise.  As a specialty chemicals company, Afton
develops, manufactures, and blends highly formulated fuel and lubricant additive packages, and markets and sells these products worldwide. Afton is one of the largest lubricant and fuel additives companies worldwide. Lubricant and fuel additives are
necessary products for efficient maintenance and reliable operation of all vehicles and machinery. From custom-formulated chemical blends to market-general additive components, we believe Afton provides customers with products and solutions that
make fuels burn cleaner, engines run smoother, and machines last longer.  Through an open, flexible, and collaborative style, Afton works
closely with its customers to understand their business and help them meet their goals. This style has allowed Afton to develop long-term relationships with its customers in every major region of the world, which Afton serves through eleven
manufacturing facilities across the globe.  With almost 400 employees in research and development, Afton is dedicated to developing chemical
formulations that are tailored to our customers’ and the end-users’ specific needs. Afton’s portfolio of technologically-advanced, value-added products allows it to provide a full range of products and services to its customers.
 Ethyl provides contract manufacturing services to Afton and to third parties and is one of the primary marketers of TEL in North America.
 NewMarket Development manages the property that we own on a site in Richmond, Virginia consisting of approximately 64 acres. We have our
corporate offices on this site, as well as a research and testing facility, the office complex we constructed for Foundry Park I, LLC (Foundry Park I), a wholly-owned subsidiary of NewMarket Development, and several acres dedicated to other uses. We
are currently exploring various development opportunities for portions of the property as the demand warrants. This effort is ongoing in nature, as we have no specific timeline for any future developments. 
We were incorporated in the Commonwealth of Virginia in 2004. Our principal executive offices are located at 330 South Fourth Street, Richmond, Virginia,
and our telephone number is (804) 788-5000. We employed 1,625 people at the end of 2011.  Business Segments 
Our business is composed of two segments, petroleum additives and real estate development. The petroleum additives segment is primarily represented by
Afton and the real estate development segment is represented by Foundry Park I. The TEL business of Ethyl is reflected in the “All other” category. All of these are discussed below. 
  3 


Table of Contents
Petroleum Additives—Petroleum additives are used in lubricating oils and fuels to enhance their
performance in machinery, vehicles, and other equipment. We manufacture chemical components that are selected to perform one or more specific functions and combine those chemicals with other components to form additive packages for use in specified
end-user applications. The petroleum additives market is an international marketplace, with customers ranging from oil companies and refineries to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and other specialty chemical companies. The products offered
by the petroleum additives segment are sold to common customers, are manufactured in the same plants, share common components or building blocks, and are supported with a common sales, as well as research and development, workforce. 
We believe our success in the petroleum additives market is largely due to our ability to bring value to our customers through our products and our open,
flexible, and collaborative working style. We accomplish this by understanding their needs and applying our technical capabilities, formulation expertise, broadly differentiated product offerings, and global distribution capabilities to meet those
needs. We invest significantly in research and development in order to meet our customers’ needs and to adapt to the rapidly changing environment for new and improved products and services. 
We view the petroleum additives marketplace as being comprised of two broad product groupings: lubricant additives and fuel additives. Lubricant
additives are highly formulated chemical products that improve the efficiency, durability, performance, and functionality of mineral oils, synthetic oils, and biodegradable fluids, thereby enhancing the performance of machinery and engines. Fuel
additives are chemical components and products that improve the refining process and performance of gasoline, diesel, biofuels, and other fuels, resulting in lower fuel costs, improved vehicle performance, reduced tailpipe or smokestack emissions,
and improved power plant efficiency.  Lubricant Additives  Lubricant additives are essential ingredients for lubricating oils. Lubricant additives are used in a wide variety of vehicle and industrial applications, including engine oils, transmission fluids, gear
oils, hydraulic oils, turbine oils, and in virtually any other application where metal-to-metal moving parts are utilized. Lubricant additives are organic and synthetic chemical components that enhance wear protection, prevent deposits, and protect
against the hostile operating environment of an engine, transmission, axle, hydraulic pump, or industrial machine.  Lubricants are used in
nearly every piece of operating machinery from heavy industrial equipment to vehicles. Lubricants provide a layer of protection between moving mechanical parts. Without this layer of protection, the normal functioning of machinery would not occur.
Effective lubricants reduce downtime, prevent accidents, and increase efficiency. Specifically, lubricants serve the following main functions:   


 
•
 
 Friction reduction—Friction is reduced by maintaining a thin film of lubricant between moving surfaces, preventing them from coming into
direct contact with one another and reducing wear on moving machinery.   


 
•
 
 Heat removal—Lubricants act as coolants by removing heat resulting from either friction or through contact with other, higher temperature
materials.   


 
•
 
 Containment of contaminants—Lubricants can be contaminated in many ways, especially over time. Lubricants are required to function by
carrying contaminants away from the machinery and neutralizing the harmful impact of the by-products created by combustion. 
The functionality of lubricants is created through an exact balance between a base fluid and performance enhancing additives. This balance is the goal of
effective formulations achieved by experienced research professionals. We offer a full line of lubricant additive products, each of which is composed of component chemicals specially selected to perform desired functions. We manufacture most of the
chemical components and 
  4 


Table of Contents

blend these components to create formulated additives packages designed to meet industry and customer specifications. Lubricant additive components are generally classified based upon their
intended functionality, including:   


 
•
 
 detergents, which clean moving parts of engines and machines, suspend oil contaminants and combustion by-products, and absorb acidic combustion
products;   


 
•
 
 dispersants, which serve to inhibit the formation of sludge and particulates; 
 


 
•
 
 extreme pressure/antiwear agents, which reduce wear on moving engine and machinery parts; 
 


 
•
 
 viscosity index modifiers, which improve the viscosity and temperature characteristics of lubricants and help the lubricant flow evenly to all parts of
an engine or machine; and   


 
•
 
 antioxidants, which prevent oil from degrading over time.  We are one of the leading global suppliers of specially formulated lubricant additives that combine some or all of the components described above to develop our products. Our products are highly
formulated, complex chemical compositions derived from extensive research and testing to ensure all additive components work together to provide the intended results. Our products are engineered to meet specifications prescribed by either the
industry generally or a specific customer. Purchasers of lubricant additives tend to be oil companies, distributors, refineries, and compounders/blenders.  Key drivers of demand for lubricant additives include total vehicle miles driven, drain/refill intervals, the average age of vehicles on the road, vehicle production, equipment production, and new engine
and driveline technologies.  We view our participation in the lubricant marketplace in three primary areas: engine oil additives, driveline
additives, and industrial additives. Our view is not necessarily the same way others view the market.  Engine Oil Additives—The
largest submarket within the lubricant additives marketplace is engine oil additives, which we estimate represents approximately 70% of the overall lubricant additives market volume. The engine oils market’s primary customers include consumers,
service dealers, and OEMs. The extension of drain intervals has generally offset increased demand due to higher vehicle population and more miles driven. The primary functions of engine oil additives are to reduce friction, prevent wear, control
formation of sludge and oxidation, and prevent rust. Engine oil additives are typically sold to lubricant manufacturers who combine them with a base oil fluid to meet internal, industry, and OEM specifications. 
Key drivers of the engine oils market are the total vehicle miles driven, number of vehicles on the road, drain intervals, engine and crankcase size,
changes in engine design, and temperature and specification changes driven by the OEMs. Afton offers additives for oils that protect the modern engine and makes additives that are specially formulated to protect high mileage vehicles. Afton offers
products that enhance the performance of mineral, part-synthetic, and fully-synthetic engine oils.  Driveline Additives—The
driveline additives submarket is comprised of additives designed for products such as transmission fluids, gear oils, and off-road fluids. This submarket shares in the 30% of the market not covered by engine oils. Transmission fluids primarily serve
as the power transmission and heat transfer medium in the area of the transmission where the torque of the drive shaft is transferred to the gears of the vehicle. Gear oil additives lubricate gears, bearings, clutches, and bands in the gear-box and
are used in vehicles, off-highway, hydraulic, and marine equipment. Other products in this area include hydraulic transmission fluids, universal tractor fluids, power steering fluids, shock absorber fluids, gear oils, and lubricants for heavy
machinery. These products must conform to highly prescribed specifications developed by vehicle OEMs for specific models or designs. These additives are generally sold to oil companies and often ultimately sold to vehicle OEMs for new vehicles
(factory-fill). End-products are also sold to service dealers for aftermarket servicing (service-fill), as well as retailers and distributors. 
  5 


Table of Contents
Key drivers of the driveline additives marketplace are the number of vehicles manufactured, drain intervals
for transmission fluids and gear applications, changes in engine and transmission design and temperatures, and specification changes driven by the OEMs.  Industrial Additives—The industrial additives submarket is comprised of additives designed for products for industrial applications such as hydraulic fluids, grease, industrial gear fluids,
industrial specialty applications, and metalworking additives. This submarket also shares in the 30% of the market not covered by engine oils. These products must conform to industry specifications, OEM requirements and/or application and operating
environment demands. Industrial additives are generally sold to oil companies, service dealers for after-market servicing, and distributors. 
Key drivers of the industrial additives marketplace are gross domestic product levels and industrial production. 
Fuel Additives  Fuel additives
are chemical compounds that are used to improve both the oil refining process and the performance of gasoline, diesel, residual, biofuels, and other fuels. Benefits of fuel additives in the oil refining process include reduced use of crude oil,
lower processing costs, and improved fuel storage properties. Fuel performance benefits include ignition improvements, combustion efficiency, reduced emission particulates, fuel economy improvements, and engine cleanliness, as well as protection
against deposits in fuel injectors, intake valves, and the combustion chamber. Our fuel additives are extensively tested and designed to meet stringent industry, government, OEM, and individual customer requirements. 
Many different types of additives are used in fuels. Their use is generally determined by customer, industry, OEM, and government specifications, and
often differs from country to country. The types of fuel additives we offer include:   


 
•
 
 gasoline performance additives, which clean and maintain key elements of the fuel delivery systems, including fuel injectors and intake valves, in
gasoline engines;   


 
•
 
 diesel fuel performance additives, which perform similar cleaning functions in diesel engines; 
 


 
•
 
 cetane improvers, which increase the cetane number (ignition quality) in diesel fuel by reducing the delay between injection and ignition;
  


 
•
 
 stabilizers, which reduce or eliminate oxidation in fuel; 
 


 
•
 
 corrosion inhibitors, which minimize the corrosive effects of combustion by-products and prevent rust; 
 


 
•
 
 lubricity additives, which restore lubricating properties lost in the refining process; 
 


 
•
 
 cold flow improvers, which improve the pumping and flow of diesel in cold temperatures; and 
 


 
•
 
 octane enhancers, which increase octane ratings and decrease emissions.  We offer a broad line of fuel additives worldwide and sell our products to major fuel marketers and refiners, as well as independent terminals and other fuel blenders. 
Key drivers in the fuel additive marketplace include total vehicle miles driven, the introduction of more sophisticated engines, regulations on emissions
(both gasoline and diesel), quality of the crude oil slate and performance standards, and marketing programs of major oil companies. 
Competition  We believe we are
one of the four largest manufacturers and suppliers in the petroleum additives marketplace.  In the lubricant additives submarket of petroleum
additives, our major competitors are The Lubrizol Corporation (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.), Infineum (a joint venture between ExxonMobil Chemical and Royal Dutch Shell plc), and Chevron Oronite Company LLC. There are
several other suppliers in the worldwide market who are competitors in their particular product areas. 
  6 


Table of Contents
The fuel additives submarket is fragmented and characterized by many competitors. While we participate in
many facets of the fuel additives market, our competitors tend to be more narrowly focused. In the gasoline detergent market, we compete mainly against BASF AG, Chevron Oronite Company LLC, and The Lubrizol Corporation; in the cetane improver
market, we compete mainly against Innospec, Inc. (Innospec), Eurenco, and EPC - U.K.; and in the diesel markets, we compete mainly against The Lubrizol Corporation, Infineum, BASF AG, and Innospec. We also compete against other regional
competitors in the fuel additives marketplace.  The competition among the participants in these industries is characterized by the need to
provide customers with cost effective, technologically-capable products that meet or exceed industry specifications. The need to continually increase technology performance and lower cost through formulation technology and cost improvement programs
is vital for success in this environment.  Real Estate Development—The real estate development segment represents the operations
of Foundry Park I.  In January 2007, Foundry Park I entered into a Deed of Lease Agreement with MeadWestvaco Corporation
(MeadWestvaco) under which it is leasing an office building which we have constructed on approximately three acres in Richmond, Virginia. The construction of the building was completed in late 2009 and was to the specifications of MeadWestvaco,
which is using the building as its corporate headquarters. The rental income to us began in 2010. The lease term is for a period of 13 1/2 years with rent based upon a factor of the final project cost.  Foundry Park I obtained financing, which was due in August 2010 and which was guaranteed by NewMarket, for the construction phase. In early 2010, we secured a five year loan on the property. We used the
proceeds from this loan together with cash on hand to repay the construction loan. Further information on our financing of the project and the related interest rate swap agreements is in Notes 12 and 16 (when we make a reference to Notes, we mean
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included herein). None of these agreements impacts the terms of the lease with MeadWestvaco. Through 2009, we capitalized the costs of the project, as well as the financing expenses. 
We are currently exploring various development opportunities for other portions of the property we own, as the demand warrants. This search is
ongoing in nature, and we have no specific timeline for any future developments.  All Other—The “All other” category
includes the continuing operations of the TEL business (primarily sales of TEL in North America), as well as certain contract manufacturing performed by Ethyl. Ethyl manufacturing facilities include our Houston, Texas and Sarnia, Ontario, Canada
plants. The Houston plant is substantially dedicated to petroleum additives manufacturing and produces both lubricant additives and fuel additives. The Sarnia plant is completely dedicated to petroleum additives manufacturing and produces fuel
additives. The financial results of the petroleum additives production by the Ethyl manufacturing facilities are reflected in the petroleum additives segment results. The “All other” category financial results include a service fee charged
by Ethyl for its production services to Afton. Our remaining manufacturing facilities are part of Afton and produce both lubricant additives and fuel additives.  Raw Materials and Product Supply  We use a variety of raw materials and chemicals in
our manufacturing and blending processes and believe the sources of these are adequate for our current operations. The primary raw materials for Afton are base oil, polyisobutylene, antioxidants, alcohols, solvents, sulfonates, friction
modifiers, olefins, and copolymers. As the performance requirements of our products become more complex, we often work with highly specialized
suppliers. In some cases, we source from a single supplier. In cases where we decide to source from a single supplier, we manage our risk by maintaining safety stock of the raw material, qualifying alternate supply, or

  7 


Table of Contents

identifying a backup position. The backup position could take additional time to implement, but we are confident we can ensure continued supply for our customers. We continue to monitor
the raw material supply situation and will adjust our procurement strategies as conditions require. Research, Development, and Testing
 Research, development, and testing (R&D) provides technologies and performance based solutions for the petroleum additives market.
We develop products through a combination of chemical synthesis, formulation development, engineering design, and performance testing. In addition to products, R&D provides our customers with product differentiation and technical support to
assure total customer satisfaction.  We are committed to providing the most advanced products, comprehensive testing programs, and superior
technical support to our customers and to OEMs worldwide. R&D expenditures, which totaled $105 million in 2011, $91 million in 2010, and $86 million in 2009, are expected to increase again in 2012 in support of our core technology
areas. Afton continues to expand our internal testing, research, and customer support capabilities around the world in support of our goals of providing market-driven technical leadership and performance-based differentiation. In 2011, we
opened a new custom-built R&D laboratory in Suzhou, China to support the growing needs of our customers in the Asia-Pacific region. This new facility replaces the laboratory we opened in Shanghai, China in 2009. 
Afton continues to develop new technology and products to meet the changing requirements of OEMs and to keep our customers well positioned for the
future. A significant portion of our R&D investment is dedicated to the development of products that deliver improved fuel efficiency or is required for future hardware designs.  In 2011, we successfully launched effective new technologies for multiple new engine oil categories for passenger cars and commercial trucks in support of our customers in all regions of the world.
Research in the engine oil area continues to increase with a focused approach to develop next generation technologies capable of meeting new performance standards and to provide our customers with marketing differentiation. 
We continue to provide leading technology in the fuel additives area. New products were developed and launched in all product lines including gasoline
performance additives, diesel performance additives, and finished fuel additives. Research is focused on the development of new technologies that exceed the changing needs of modern engine fueling systems and changing fuel properties, as well as
addressing the growing need for increased fuel economy and emissions reduction. In addition, we continued to maintain close interactions with regulatory, industry, and OEM leaders to guide our development of future fuel additive technologies based
on well-defined market needs.  Our industrial additives product slate continued to expand with the development of new products in multiple
areas including hydraulic fluids, grease, industrial gear oils, turbine oils, and metalworking fluid additives. Research is focused on the development of technologies that will provide differentiation to our customers in multiple performance areas
including equipment life and energy efficiency.  Technology development continued at a rapid pace in our transmission fluid, axle oil, and
tractor fluid product lines. This included the development of new factory fill products for OEMs in the United States, Germany, Japan, and China, and for expansion of our service fill product portfolio. Afton’s state-of-the art testing
capabilities are enabling customized research in all areas of performance needed by both OEMs and tier one suppliers. Our leading-edge capabilities and fundamental understanding in the areas of friction control, energy efficiency, and wear/pitting
prevention were used to set the stage for next generation products in all driveline areas.  Intellectual Property 
Our intellectual property, including our patents, licenses, and trademarks, is an important component of our business. We actively protect our inventions,
new technologies, and product developments by filing patent 
  8 


Table of Contents

applications and maintaining trade secrets. We currently own approximately 1,300 issued or pending United States and foreign patents. In addition, we have acquired the rights under patents and
inventions of others through licenses or otherwise. We take care to respect the intellectual property rights of others and we believe our products do not infringe upon those rights. We vigorously participate in patent opposition proceedings around
the world, where necessary, to secure a technology base free of infringement. We believe our patent position is strong, aggressively managed, and sufficient for the conduct of our business. 
We also have several hundred trademark registrations throughout the world for our marks, including NewMarket®, Afton Chemical®, Ethyl®, mmt®, HiTEC®, TecGARD®, GREENBURN®, Passion for Solutions®, CleanStart®, Polartech®, and BioTEC®, as well as several pending trademark and service mark applications, including Axcel™ and 24/7 QuickResponseSM.  Commitment to Environmental and Safety Excellence 
We are committed to continuous improvement and vigilant management of the health and safety of our employees, customers, and the
communities in which we operate, as well as the stewardship of the environment. One way our companies demonstrate this is through our commitment to the Guiding Principles of the American Chemistry Council (ACC) Responsible Care® (RC) program. Both Afton and Ethyl have implemented Responsible Care Management Systems (RCMS® or RC14001®) at their U.S. headquarters and most facilities. Our implementation of RC management systems is certified by an independent third-party auditing process as
established by the ACC as a requirement of membership. Additionally, Afton’s Feluy, Belgium and Suzhou, China plants are certified to the environmental standard ISO 14001. Suzhou is also certified to OHSAS 18001, a global occupational
health and safety standard. Afton’s Sauget, Illinois plant continues to be an OSHA Star VPP (Voluntary Protection Program) location. 
Safety and environmental responsibility are a way of life at NewMarket—enhancing operations, the way we work, and the relationships we maintain with
our employees, customers, supply chain partners, and the communities in which we operate. Our executive management meetings begin with a review of our environmental and safety performance.
Our objective is to establish a culture where our employees understand that good environmental and safety performance is good business and understand
that environmental compliance and safety is their personal responsibility.  Our worldwide injury/illness recordable rate
(which is the number of injuries per 200,000 hours worked) in 2011 was 0.67. The rate was 0.64 in 2010 and 0.66 in 2009. We plan to continue to demonstrate our safety-first culture with continuous improvement in our safety
record. This represents a focused effort by all of our employees. We are extremely proud of our accomplishments in the safety area, especially when compared to safety records in other industries. Both Afton and Ethyl continue to be
among top performers among their industry peers. Based on the 2010 OSHA recordable data, both companies rank in the top 10th percentile in their respective size groups. Ethyl won the Responsible Care Company of the Year award from the ACC
in 2011, which is an honor given by the ACC to only one company in each size category. As members of the ACC, Afton and Ethyl provide data on
twelve metrics used to track environmental, safety, energy use, community outreach and emergency preparedness, greenhouse gas intensity, and product stewardship performance of the ACC member companies. These can be viewed at
http://responsiblecare.americanchemistry.com/Performance-Results. The information on this website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form
10-K or any other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
  9 


Table of Contents
Environmental  We operate under policies that we believe comply with federal, state, local, and foreign requirements regarding the handling, manufacture, and use of materials. One or more regulatory agencies may
classify some of these materials as hazardous or toxic. We also believe that we comply in all material respects with laws, regulations, statutes, and ordinances protecting the environment, including those related to the discharge of materials. We
expect to continue to comply in all material respects. We regularly review the status of significant existing or potential environmental issues.  Total liabilities accrued at year-end for environmental remediation were $21.7 million for 2011 and $22.5 million for 2010. In addition to the accruals for environmental remediation, we also had accruals
for dismantling and decommissioning costs of $600 thousand at December 31, 2011 and $500 thousand at December 31, 2010.  As new
technology becomes available, it may be possible to reduce accrued amounts. While we believe that we are fully accrued for known environmental issues, it is possible that unexpected future costs could have a significant financial impact on our
financial position and results of operations.  We spent approximately $19 million in 2011, $18 million in 2010, and $17 million in 2009 for
ongoing environmental operating and clean-up costs, excluding depreciation of previously capitalized expenditures. These environmental operating and clean-up expenses are included in cost of goods sold. 
For capital expenditures on pollution prevention and safety projects, we spent $9 million in 2011, $7 million in 2010, and $5 million in 2009.
 Our estimate of the effects of complying with governmental pollution prevention and safety regulations is subject to: 
 


 
•
 
 potential changes in applicable statutes and regulations (or their enforcement and interpretation); 
 


 
•
 
 uncertainty as to the success of anticipated solutions to pollution problems; 
 


 
•
 
 uncertainty as to whether additional expense may prove necessary; and 
 


 
•
 
 potential for emerging technology to affect remediation methods and reduce associated costs. 
We are subject to liabilities associated with the investigation and cleanup of hazardous substances, as well as personal injury, property damage, or
natural resource damage arising from the release of, or exposure to, such hazardous substances. Further, we may have environmental liabilities imposed in many situations without regard to violations of laws or regulations. These liabilities may also
be imposed jointly and severally (so that a responsible party may be held liable for more than its share of the losses involved, or even the entire loss) and may be imposed on many different entities with a relationship to the hazardous substances
at issue, including, for example, entities that formerly owned or operated the property and entities that arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances at an affected property. We are subject to many environmental laws, including the federal
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as CERCLA or Superfund, in the United States, and similar foreign and state laws.  Under CERCLA, we are currently considered a potentially responsible party (PRP), at several sites, ranging from a de minimis PRP or a minor PRP, to an involvement considered greater than the minor
PRP involvement. At some of these sites, the remediation methodology, as well as the proportionate shares of each PRP, has been well established. Other sites are not as mature, which makes it more difficult to reasonably estimate our share of the
future clean-up or remediation costs.  In 2000, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) named us as a PRP for the clean-up of soil and
groundwater contamination at the Sauget Area 2 Site in Sauget, Illinois. Without admitting any fact, 
  10 


Table of Contents

responsibility, fault, or liability in connection with this site, we are participating with other PRPs in site investigations and feasibility studies. The Sauget Area 2 Site PRPs received notice
of approval from the EPA of their October 2009 Human Health Risk Assessment. Additionally, the PRPs have submitted their Feasibility Study (FS) to the EPA Remedy review board. We have accrued our estimated proportional share of the expenses, as well
as our best estimate of our proportional share of the remediation liability proposed in our ongoing discussions and submissions with the agencies involved. We do not believe there is any additional information available as a basis for revision of
the liability that we have established at December 31, 2011. The amount accrued for this site is not material. We also have several other sites where we are in the process of environmental remediation and monitoring. See Note 18. 
Geographic Areas  We have
operations in the United States, Europe, Asia, Latin America, Australia, the Middle East, and Canada. The economies are stable in the countries where we do most of our business. In countries with more political or economic uncertainty, we generally
minimize our risk of loss by utilizing U.S. Dollar-denominated transactions, letters of credit, and prepaid transactions. Our foreign customers consist of financially viable government organizations, as well as both large and smaller companies.
 The table below reports revenues and long-lived assets by geographic area. Except for the United States, no single country exceeded 10% of
revenue or long-lived assets during any year. We assign revenues to geographic areas based on the location to which the product was shipped to a third-party. The change in revenues during the three-year period is discussed more fully in Item 7,
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.”  Geographic Areas
 (in millions of dollars)   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Revenue
  



  



  




 United States
  
$
768
  
  
$
651
  
  
$
605
  

 Foreign
  
 
1,382
  
  
 
1,146
  
  
 
925
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Consolidated revenue
  
$
2,150
  
  
$
1,797
  
  
$
1,530
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Long-lived assets (a)
  



  



  




 United States
  
$
257
  
  
$
256
  
  
$
257
  

 Foreign
  
 
96
  
  
 
78
  
  
 
45
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total long-lived assets
  
$
353
  
  
$
334
  
  
$
302
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(a)
Long-lived assets include property, plant, and equipment, net of depreciation.  Net sales to one customer of our petroleum additives segment exceeded 10% of consolidated revenue in 2011, 2010, and 2009. Sales to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its affiliates (Shell) amounted to $246
million (11% of consolidated revenue) in 2011, $217 million (12% of consolidated revenue) in 2010, and $232 million (15% of consolidated revenue) in 2009. These sales represent a wide-range of products sold to this customer in multiple regions of
the world.  Availability of Reports Filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and Corporate Governance Documents
 Our internet website address is www.newmarket.com. We make available, free of charge through our website, our Annual Report on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and 
  11 


Table of Contents

amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), as soon as reasonably practicable after
such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Conduct, and the charters of our Audit; Compensation; and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees, are available
on our website and are available in print, without charge, to any shareholder upon request by contacting our Corporate Secretary at NewMarket Corporation, 330 South Fourth Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219. The information on our website is not, and
shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other filings we make with the SEC.  Executive Officers of the Registrant  The names and ages of all executive officers
as of February 22, 2012 follow.   










 Name
  
Age
 
  
 Positions

 Thomas E. Gottwald
  
 
51
  
  
President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)

 David A. Fiorenza
  
 
62
  
  
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)

 Steven M. Edmonds
  
 
59
  
  
Vice President—General Counsel

 Bruce R. Hazelgrove, III
  
 
51
  
  
Vice President—Corporate Resources

 Wayne C. Drinkwater
  
 
65
  
  
Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)

 M. Rudolph West
  
 
58
  
  
Secretary

 C. S. Warren Huang
  
 
62
  
  
President, Afton Chemical Corporation

 Cameron D. Warner, Jr.
  
 
53
  
  
Treasurer
 Our officers, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, hold office until the meeting of the Board of Directors
following the next annual shareholders’ meeting. With the exception of Mr. Warner, all of the officers have served in these capacities with NewMarket for at least the last five years. Mr. Warner has been employed by NewMarket for at
least five years in various senior management capacities. Prior to being named Treasurer in October 2011, Mr. Warner was Director—Treasury and Corporate Development since April, 2007. Prior to that position and beginning in December 2005,
he was Director—Corporate Development and Planning.   


ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS  Our business is subject to
many factors that could materially adversely affect our future performance and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Those risk factors
are outlined below.   


 
•
 
 Availability of raw materials and transportation systems, including sourcing from some single suppliers, could have a material adverse effect on our
operations.  The chemical industry can experience some tightness of supply of certain materials or
availability of transportation systems. In addition, in some cases, we choose to source from a single supplier. Any significant disruption in supply could affect our ability to obtain raw materials or to utilize transportation systems. This could
have a material adverse effect on our operations.   


 
•
 
 Several of our products are produced solely at one facility, and a significant disruption or disaster at such a facility could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations.  Several of the products we sell are produced only in one
location. We are dependent upon the continued safe operation of these production facilities. These production facilities are subject to various hazards associated with the manufacturing, handling, storage, and transportation of chemical materials
and products, including leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, unscheduled downtime, and environmental hazards. Some of our products involve the manufacturing

  12 


Table of Contents

and handling of a variety of reactive, explosive, and flammable materials. Many of these hazards could cause a disruption in the production of our products. We cannot assure that these facilities
will not experience these types of hazards and disruptions in the future or that these incidents will not result in production delays or otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows in any given
period.   


 
•
 
 We may be unable to respond effectively to technological changes in our industry. 
Our future business success will depend upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, develop and market
products and applications that meet changing customer needs, and successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Our industry is characterized by frequent changes in industry performance standards,
which affect the amount and timing of our research and development costs and other technology-related costs. As a result, the life cycle of our products is often hard to predict. Further, technological changes in some or all of our customers’
products or processes may make our products obsolete. Our inability to maintain a highly qualified technical workforce or their inability to anticipate, respond to, or utilize changing technologies could have a material adverse effect on our results
of operations, financial condition, or cash flows in any given period.   


 
•
 
 Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our future performance and growth. 
Protection of our proprietary processes, methods, compounds, and other technologies is important to our business. We
depend upon our ability to develop and protect our intellectual property rights to distinguish our products from those of our competitors. Failure to protect our existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable technologies
or having to pay other companies for infringing on their intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark, and copyright law, as well as judicial enforcement, to protect such technologies. We currently own
approximately 1,300 issued and pending U.S. and foreign patents. Some of these patents are licensed to others. In addition, we have acquired the rights under patents and inventions of others through licenses or otherwise. We have developed, and may
in the future develop, technologies with universities or other academic institutions, or with the use of government funding. In such cases, the academic institution or the government may retain certain rights to the developed intellectual property.
We also own several hundred trademark and service mark registrations throughout the world for our marks, including
NewMarket®, Afton Chemical®, Ethyl®, HiTEC®, TecGARD®, GREENBURN® BioTEC®, Passion for Solutions®, CleanStart®, Polartech®, and mmt®, as well as pending trademark and service mark applications, including Axcel™ and 24/7 QuickResponseSM. In the event that we are unable to continue using certain of our marks, we may be forced to rebrand our products,
which could result in the loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertise and market brands. In particular, the loss of our HiTEC® mark could have a material adverse effect on our business.  We cannot assure that the measures taken by us to protect these assets and rights will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary manufacturing expertise or that adequate remedies
will be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or manufacturing expertise. We cannot assure that any of our intellectual property rights will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or rendered
unenforceable. Furthermore, we cannot assure that any pending patent application filed by us will result in an issued patent, or if patents are issued to us, that those patents will provide meaningful protection against competitors or against
competitive technologies. The failure of our patents or other measures to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing expertise, methods, and compounds could have an adverse effect on our results of
operations, financial condition, or cash flow. We could face patent infringement claims from our competitors or others alleging that our processes or products infringe on their proprietary technologies. If we were found to be infringing on the
proprietary 
  13 


Table of Contents

technology of others, we may be liable for damages, and we may be required to change our processes, to redesign our products partially or completely, to pay to use the technology of others or to
stop using certain technologies or producing the infringing product entirely. Even if we ultimately prevail in an infringement suit, the existence of the suit could prompt customers to switch to products that are not the subject of infringement
suits. We may not prevail in any intellectual property litigation and such litigation may result in significant legal costs or otherwise impede our ability to produce and distribute key products. 
 


 
•
 
 Our business is subject to hazards common to chemical businesses, any of which could interrupt our production or our transportation systems and
adversely affect our results of operations.  Our business is subject to hazards common to chemical
manufacturing, storage, handling, and transportation, including explosions, fires, inclement weather, natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, transportation interruptions, remediation, chemical spills, discharges or releases of
toxic or hazardous substances or gases, and other risks. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to, or destruction of, property and equipment, and environmental contamination. In addition, the occurrence of material
operating problems at our facilities due to any of these hazards may diminish our ability to meet our output goals. Accordingly, these hazards and their consequences could have a material adverse effect on our operations as a whole, including our
results of operations, or cash flows, both during and after the period of operational difficulties.   


 
•
 
 The occurrence or threat of extraordinary events, including natural disasters and domestic and international terrorist attacks may disrupt our
operations, decrease demand for our products, and increase our expenses.  Chemical-related assets may be
at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other possible targets in the United States and throughout the world. Federal legislation has imposed significant new site security requirements, specifically on chemical manufacturing facilities,
that will require an estimated $2 million to $3 million in capital expenditures over the next two years at our manufacturing facilities and will increase our annual overhead expenses. Federal regulations have also been enacted to increase the
security of the transportation of hazardous chemicals in the United States. Further regulations could be enacted in the future, which could result in additional costs.  The occurrence of extraordinary events, including future terrorist attacks and the outbreak or escalation of hostilities, cannot be predicted, but their occurrence can be expected to affect negatively the
economy in general, and specifically the markets for our products. The resulting damage from a direct attack on our assets or assets used by us could include loss of life and property damage. In addition, available insurance coverage may not be
sufficient to cover all of the damage incurred or, if available, may be prohibitively expensive.   


 
•
 
 Competition could adversely affect our operating results. 
We face intense competition in certain of the product lines and markets in which we compete. We expect that our competitors will develop
and introduce new and enhanced products, which could cause a decline in the market acceptance of certain products we manufacture. In addition, as a result of price competition, we may be compelled to reduce the prices for some of our products, which
could adversely affect our margins and profitability. Competitive pressures can also result in the loss of major customers. Our inability to compete successfully could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition,
or cash flows in any given period. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater financial, technological, and other resources than we have. Some of our competitors may also be able to maintain greater operating and financial flexibility
than we are able to maintain. As a result, these competitors may be able to better withstand changes in conditions within our industry, changes in the prices for raw materials, and changes in general economic conditions. 
  14 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Sudden or sharp raw materials price increases may adversely affect our profit margins. 
We utilize a variety of raw materials in the manufacture of our products, including base oil, polyisobutylene, antioxidants, alcohols,
solvents, sulfonates, friction modifiers, olefins, and copolymers. Our profitability is sensitive to changes in the costs of these materials caused by changes in supply, demand or other market conditions, over which we have little or no control.
Political and economic conditions in the Middle East and Latin America have caused, and may continue to cause, the cost of our raw materials to fluctuate. War, armed hostilities, terrorist acts, civil unrest, or other incidents may also cause a
sudden or sharp increase in the cost of our raw materials. We cannot assure that we will be able to pass on to our customers any future increases in raw material costs in the form of price increases for our products. 
 


 
•
 
 Our reliance on a small number of significant customers may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
 Our principal customers are major multinational oil companies. The oil industry is characterized by the
concentration of a few large participants as a result of consolidation. The loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in purchases by a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
condition, or cash flows.   


 
•
 
 Our customers are concentrated in the lubricant and fuel industries and, as a result, our reliance on that industry is significant.
 Most of our customers are primarily engaged in the fuel and lubricant industries. This concentration of
customers affects our overall risk profile, since our customers will be similarly affected by changes in economic, geopolitical, and industry conditions. Many factors affect the level of our customers’ spending on our products, including, among
others, general business conditions, changes in technology, interest rates, gasoline prices, and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. A sudden or protracted downturn in these industries could adversely affect the buying power and
purchases by our customers.   


 
•
 
 We face risks related to our foreign operations that may negatively affect our business. 
In 2011, sales to customers outside of the United States accounted for over 60% of consolidated revenue. We do business in all major
regions of the world, some of which do not have stable economies or governments. In particular, we sell and market products in countries experiencing political and/or economic instability in the Middle East, Asia Pacific, Europe, and Latin America.
Our international operations are subject to international business risks, including unsettled political conditions, expropriation, import and export restrictions, increases in royalties, exchange controls, national and regional labor strikes, taxes,
government royalties, inflationary or unstable economies and currency exchange rate fluctuations, and changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies (such as restrictions on repatriation of earnings or proceeds from
liquidated assets of foreign subsidiaries). The occurrence of any one or a combination of these factors may increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our business. 
 


 
•
 
 We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, which may adversely affect our results of operations. 
We conduct our business in the local currency of many of the countries in which we operate. The financial condition and results of
operations of our foreign operating subsidiaries are reported in the relevant local currency and then translated to U.S. Dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. Changes in exchange
rates between these foreign currencies and the U.S. Dollar will affect the recorded levels of our assets and liabilities, as well as our revenues, costs, and operating margins. The primary foreign currencies in which we have exchange rate
fluctuation exposure are the European Union Euro, British Pound Sterling, Japanese Yen, and Canadian Dollar. Exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. Dollar have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may do so in the
future. 
  15 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 An information technology system failure may adversely affect our business. 
We rely on information technology systems to transact our business. An information technology system failure due to computer viruses,
internal or external security breaches, power interruptions, hardware failures, fire, natural disasters, human error, or other causes could disrupt our operations and prevent us from being able to process transactions with our customers, operate our
manufacturing facilities, and properly report those transactions in a timely manner. A significant, protracted information technology system failure may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash
flows.   


 
•
 
 Our business is subject to government regulation and could be adversely affected by future governmental regulation.
 We are subject to regulation by local, state, federal, and foreign governmental authorities. In some
circumstances, before we may sell certain products, these authorities must approve these products, our manufacturing processes, and our facilities. We are also subject to ongoing reviews of our products, manufacturing processes, and facilities by
governmental authorities.  In order to obtain regulatory approval of certain new products, we must, among other things,
demonstrate to the relevant authority that the product is safe and effective for its intended uses and that we are capable of manufacturing the product in accordance with current regulations. The process of seeking approvals can be costly, time
consuming, and subject to unanticipated and significant delays. There can be no assurance that approvals will be granted to us on a timely basis, or at all. Any delay in obtaining, or any failure to obtain or maintain, these approvals would
adversely affect our ability to introduce new products and to generate sales from those products.  New laws and regulations,
including climate change regulations, may be introduced in the future that could result in additional compliance costs, seizures, confiscation, recall, or monetary fines, any of which could prevent or inhibit the development, distribution, and sale
of our products. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, and recalls or seizures, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
condition, or cash flows.  Our business and our customers are subject to significant regulations under the European
Commission’s Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals (REACH) regulation. REACH became effective on June 1, 2007. It imposes obligations on European Union manufacturers and importers of chemicals and other products into the
European Union to compile and file comprehensive reports, including testing data, on each chemical substance, perform chemical safety assessments, and obtain pre-market authorization with respect to certain substances of particularly high concern.
The regulation imposes additional burdens on chemical producers and importers, and, to a lesser extent, downstream users of chemical substances and preparations. Our manufacturing presence and sales activities in the European Union will require us
to incur additional compliance costs.  We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and
anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business. We are also subject to export and import
laws and regulations which restrict trading with embargoed or sanctioned countries. Although we have policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws and regulations, our employees, contractors and agents may take actions in
violation of our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation.   


 
•
 
 Legal proceedings and other claims could impose substantial costs on us. 
We are involved in numerous administrative and legal proceedings that result from, and are incidental to, the conduct of our business.
From time to time, these proceedings involve environmental, product liability, TEL, premises asbestos liability, and other matters. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” We have 
  16 


Table of Contents

insurance coverage that we believe would be available to mitigate potential damages in many of these proceedings. However, there is no assurance that our available insurance will cover these
claims, that our insurers will not challenge coverage for certain claims, or that final damage awards will not exceed our available insurance coverage. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
condition, or cash flows.   


 
•
 
 Environmental matters could have a substantial negative impact on our results of operations. 
As a manufacturer and distributor of chemical products, we are generally subject to extensive local, state, federal, and foreign
environmental, safety, and health laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to land and water, the generation, handling, treatment, and disposal of hazardous waste and other materials, and remediation of
contaminated soil, as well as surface and ground water. Our operations entail the risk of violations of those laws and regulations, many of which provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. We believe that we comply in all
material respects with laws, regulations, statutes, and ordinances protecting the environment, including those related to the discharge of materials. However, we cannot assure that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with all of these
requirements.  In addition, these requirements, and the enforcement or interpretation of these requirements, may become more
stringent in the future. Although we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with any such requirements, the costs could be material. Noncompliance could subject us to material liabilities, such as government fines, damages arising from
third-party lawsuits, or the suspension and potential cessation of noncompliant operations. We may also be required to make significant site or operational modifications at substantial cost. Future developments could also restrict or eliminate the
use of or require us to make modifications to our products, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.  At any given time, we are involved in claims, litigation, administrative proceedings, and investigations of various types in a number of jurisdictions involving potential environmental liabilities,
including clean-up costs associated with waste disposal sites, natural resource damages, property damage, and personal injury. We cannot assure that the resolution of these environmental matters will not have an adverse effect on our results of
operations, financial condition, or cash flows.  There may be environmental problems associated with our properties of which we
are unaware. Some of our properties contain, or may have contained in the past, on-site facilities or underground tanks for the storage of chemicals, hazardous materials, and waste products that could create a potential for release of hazardous
substances or contamination of the environment. The discovery of environmental liabilities attached to our properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. 
We may also face liability arising from current or future claims alleging personal injury, product liability, property damage due to
exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances, such as premises asbestos, at or from our facilities. We may also face liability for personal injury, product liability, property damage, natural resource damage, or clean-up costs for the alleged
migration of contaminants or hazardous substances from our facilities or for future accidents or spills. A significant increase in the number or success of these claims could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash
flows. For further discussion of some related claims, see Item 1, “Business—Environmental.”  The ultimate
costs and timing of environmental liabilities are difficult to predict. Liability under environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. A liable party could be held responsible for all
costs at a site, whether currently or formerly owned or operated, regardless of fault, knowledge, timing of the contamination, cause of the contamination, percentage of contribution to the contamination, or the legality of the original disposal. We
could incur significant costs, including clean-up costs, natural resource damages, civil or criminal fines and sanctions, and third-party claims, as a result of past or future violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. 
  17 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 We have been identified, and in the future may be identified, as a PRP in connection with state and federal laws regarding environmental clean-up
projects.  Within the United States, we are subject to the federal, state and local environmental laws
under which we may be designated as a PRP. As a PRP, we may be liable for a share of the costs associated with cleaning up hazardous waste sites, such as a landfill to which we may have sent waste. 
In de minimis PRP matters and in some minor PRP matters, we generally negotiate a consent decree to pay an apportioned settlement.
This relieves us of any further liability as a PRP, except for remote contingencies. We are also a PRP at sites where our liability may be in excess of the de minimis or minor PRP levels. Most sites where we are a PRP represent environmental
issues that are quite mature. The sites have been investigated, and in many cases, the remediation methodology, as well as the proportionate shares of each PRP, has been established. Other sites are not as mature, which makes it more difficult to
reasonably estimate our share of future clean-up or remediation costs. Generally, environmental remediation and monitoring will go on for an extended period. As a result, we may incur substantial expenses for all these sites over a number of years.
 Liability for investigation and remediation of hazardous substance contamination at currently or formerly owned or operated
facilities or at third-party waste disposal sites is joint and several. Currently, we are involved in active remediation efforts at several sites where we have been named a PRP. If other PRPs at these sites are unable to contribute to the
remediation costs, we could be held responsible for some, or all, of their portion of the remediation costs, in addition to the portion of these costs for which we are already responsible. 
 


 
•
 
 Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect our business. 
Our senior credit agreement and senior notes contain restrictive covenants. These covenants may constrain our activities and limit our
operational and financial flexibility. The failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of
operations.   


 
•
 
 The insurance that we maintain may not fully cover all potential exposures. 
We maintain property, business interruption, and casualty insurance, but such insurance may not cover all risks associated with the
hazards of our business and is subject to limitations, including deductibles and maximum liabilities covered. We may incur losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of our insurance policies, including liabilities for environmental
remediation. In the future, we may not be able to obtain coverage at current levels, and our premiums may increase significantly on coverage that we maintain.   


 
•
 
 Landlord and financing risks associated with Foundry Park I could adversely affect our financial results. 
In January 2007, Foundry Park I entered into a Deed of Lease Agreement with MeadWestvaco under which it is leasing an office building
which we have constructed on approximately three acres in Richmond, Virginia.  Our landlord and financing activities may
subject us to the following risks:   


 
•
 
 We may incur costs associated with our landlord activities that exceed our expectations and result in the Foundry Park I operations materially
negatively impacting our results of operations for our real estate development segment; and   


 
•
 
 we may incur losses, which could be material, under the Goldman Sachs interest rate swap agreement. See Note 16 for further information on the interest
rate swap.   


 
•
 
 We may not be able to complete recent or future acquisitions or successfully integrate recent or future acquisitions into our business, which could
result in unanticipated expenses and losses.  As part of our business growth strategy, we intend to
pursue acquisitions and joint venture opportunities. Our ability to implement this component of our growth strategy will be limited by our 
  18 


Table of Contents

ability to identify appropriate acquisition or joint venture candidates and our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. The expense incurred in completing
acquisitions or entering into joint ventures, the time it takes to integrate an acquisition, or our failure to integrate businesses successfully, could result in unanticipated expenses and losses. Furthermore, we may not be able to realize any of
the anticipated benefits from acquisitions or joint ventures.  The process of integrating acquired operations into our existing
operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. 
 


 
•
 
 Our financial results will vary according to the timing of customer orders and other external factors, which complicates gauging our performance.
 External factors beyond our control, such as timing of customer orders, product shipment dates, and
other factors can cause shifts in net sales and income from quarter to quarter. These external factors can magnify the impact of industry cycles. As a result, our income and cash flows may fluctuate significantly on a quarter-to-quarter basis, and
gauging trends in our business may be impaired.   


 
•
 
 We could be required to make additional contributions to our pension plans, which may be underfunded due to any underperformance of the equities
markets.  Our pension plan asset allocation is predominantly weighted towards equities. Cash contribution
requirements to our pension plans are sensitive to changes in our plans’ actual return on assets. Reductions in our plans’ return on assets due to poor performance of the equities markets could cause our pension plans to be underfunded and
require us to make additional cash contributions.   


ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  None.
  


ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES  Our principal operating
properties are shown below. Unless indicated, we own the research, development, and testing facilities and manufacturing properties, which primarily support the petroleum additives business segment. 
 






 Research, Development, and Testing
  
 Richmond, Virginia
Bracknell, England Manchester, England
 Tsukuba, Japan Ashland, Virginia
(leased)  Suzhou, China




 Manufacturing and Distribution
  
 Bedford Park, Illinois (lubricant additives)  Feluy, Belgium (lubricant additives)  Houston, Texas (lubricant and fuel additives; also
TEL storage and distribution) Hyderabad, India (lubricant additives)  Manchester, England (lubricant additives)  Orangeburg, South Carolina (fuel
additives) Port Arthur, Texas (lubricant additives)  Rio de Janeiro, Brazil (petroleum additives storage and distribution; leased) Sarnia,
Ontario, Canada (fuel additives)  Sauget, Illinois (lubricant and fuel additives)
Suzhou, China (lubricant additives) 

  19 


Table of Contents
We own our corporate headquarters located in Richmond, Virginia, and generally lease our regional and sales
offices located in a number of areas worldwide.  NewMarket Development manages the property that we own on a site in Richmond, Virginia
consisting of approximately 64 acres. We have our corporate offices on this site, as well as a research and testing facility, the office complex we constructed for Foundry Park I, and several acres dedicated to other uses. We are currently
exploring various development opportunities for portions of the property as the demand warrants. This effort is ongoing in nature, and we have no specific timeline for any future developments. 
In January 2007, Foundry Park I entered into a Deed of Lease Agreement with MeadWestvaco under which it is leasing the office building which we
constructed on approximately three acres in Richmond, Virginia.  Production Capacity 
We believe our plants and supply agreements are sufficient to meet expected sales levels. Operating rates of the plants vary with product mix and normal
sales swings. We believe that our facilities are well maintained and in good operating condition.   


ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  We are involved in
legal proceedings that are incidental to our business and include administrative or judicial actions seeking remediation under environmental laws, such as Superfund. Some of these legal proceedings relate to environmental matters and involve
governmental authorities. For further information, see “Environmental” in Part I, Item 1.  While it is not possible to predict
or determine with certainty the outcome of any legal proceeding, we believe the outcome of any of these proceedings, or all of them combined, will not result in a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of
operations, or cash flows.  As previously disclosed, NewMarket Corporation and Afton Chemical Corporation (collectively, NewMarket) brought
two civil actions against Innospec Inc. and its subsidiaries Alcor Chemie Vertriebs GmbH and Innospec Ltd. (collectively Innospec) in July 2010.  NewMarket and Innospec have agreed to settle these actions pursuant to the terms of a settlement agreement between them signed on September 13, 2011 which provides for mutual releases of the parties
and dismissal of the actions with prejudice. Under the settlement agreement, Innospec will pay NewMarket an aggregate amount of approximately $45 million, payable in a combination of cash, a promissory note, and stock, of which $25 million was
paid in cash on September 20, 2011 and approximately $5 million was paid in the form of 195,313 shares of unregistered Innospec Inc. common stock. Fifteen million dollars is payable in three equal annual installments of $5 million under the
promissory note, which bears interest at 1% per year. The first installment is due on September 10, 2012.    Following
the litigation, the United States Department of Justice has advised us that it is conducting a review of certain of our foreign business activities in relation to compliance with relevant U.S. economic sanctions programs and anti-corruption laws, as
well as certain historical conduct in the domestic U.S. market, and has requested certain information from us regarding our foreign business activities. We intend to cooperate with the review. 
 


ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES  Not applicable.

  20 


Table of Contents
PART II   


ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
Our common stock, with no par value, has traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol “NEU” since June 21, 2004 when we
became the parent holding company of Ethyl, Afton, NewMarket Services, NewMarket Development, and their subsidiaries. We had 2,830 shareholders of record at January 31, 2012.  On July 21, 2010, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program authorizing management to repurchase up to $200 million of NewMarket’s outstanding common stock until
December 31, 2012, as market conditions warrant and covenants under our existing agreements permit. We may conduct the share repurchases in the open market and in privately negotiated transactions. The repurchase program does not require
NewMarket to acquire any specific number of shares and may be terminated or suspended at any time. Approximately $60 million remained available under the 2010 authorization at December 31, 2011. There were no purchases during the fourth quarter
2011 under this authorization.  As shown in the table below, cash dividends declared and paid totaled $2.39 per share for the twelve months
ended December 31, 2011 and $1.565 per share for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010.   
















 Year
  
Date Declared
 
  
Date Paid
 
  
Per Share Amount
 

 2011
  
 
February 17, 2011
  
  
 
April 1, 2011
  
  
 
44 cents
  


  
 
April 20, 2011
  
  
 
July 1, 2011
  
  
 
60 cents
  


  
 
July 21, 2011
  
  
 
October 1, 2011
  
  
 
60 cents
  


  
 
October 27, 2011
  
  
 
January 1, 2012
  
  
 
75 cents
  






 2010
  
 
February 18, 2010
  
  
 
April 1, 2010
  
  
 
37.5 cents
  


  
 
April 22, 2010
  
  
 
July 1, 2010
  
  
 
37.5 cents
  


  
 
July 21, 2010
  
  
 
October 1, 2010
  
  
 
37.5 cents
  


  
 
October 18, 2010
  
  
 
January 1, 2011
  
  
 
44 cents
  
 The declaration and payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors. Future dividends will
depend on various factors, including our financial condition, earnings, cash requirements, legal requirements, restrictions in agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. For a
discussion of the restrictions on our ability to declare and pay dividends, see Note 12.  The following table shows the high and low prices of
our common stock on the NYSE for each of the last eight quarters.   




















 
  
2011
 

 
  
FirstQuarter
 
  
SecondQuarter
 
  
ThirdQuarter
 
  
FourthQuarter
 

 High
  
$
160.89
  
  
$
190.76
  
  
$
180.39
  
  
$
204.92
  

 Low
  
$
118.83
  
  
$
149.12
  
  
$
135.01
  
  
$
140.46
  




 
  
2010
 

 
  
FirstQuarter
 
  
SecondQuarter
 
  
ThirdQuarter
 
  
FourthQuarter
 

 High
  
$
126.89
  
  
$
116.29
  
  
$
115.98
  
  
$
131.76
  

 Low
  
$
81.80
  
  
$
87.03
  
  
$
84.57
  
  
$
113.19
  

  21 


Table of Contents
The performance graph showing the five-year cumulative total return on our common stock as compared to
specialty chemical companies and the S&P 500 is shown below. The graph assumes $100 invested on the last day of December 2006. Dividends are assumed to be reinvested quarterly. Beginning in 2011, the performance graph no longer includes The
Lubrizol Corporation, as it was acquired by another company during 2011 and is no longer publicly traded.  Performance Graph
 Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return 
Performance Through December 31, 2011   



  22 


Table of Contents


ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
NewMarket Corporation and Subsidiaries  Five Year Summary   
























 
 
Years Ended December 31
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 
 
(in thousands, except per-share amounts)
 

 Results of Operations
 



 



 



 



 




 Revenue
 
$
2,149,558
  
 
$
1,797,392
  
 
$
1,530,122
  
 
$
1,617,431
  
 
$
1,374,874
  

 Costs and expenses
 
 
1,847,629
  
 
 
1,510,088
  
 
 
1,267,834
  
 
 
1,501,071
  
 
 
1,266,251
  

 Special item income, net (1)
 
 
38,656
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating profit
 
 
340,585
  
 
 
287,304
  
 
 
262,288
  
 
 
116,360
  
 
 
108,623
  

 Interest and financing expenses, net
 
 
18,820
  
 
 
17,261
  
 
 
11,716
  
 
 
12,046
  
 
 
11,557
  

 Other (expense) income, net (2)
 
 
(18,048
) 
 
 
(10,047
) 
 
 
(11,196
) 
 
 
1,012
  
 
 
3,358
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income tax expense
 
 
303,717
  
 
 
259,996
  
 
 
239,376
  
 
 
105,326
  
 
 
100,424
  

 Income tax expense (3)
 
 
96,810
  
 
 
82,871
  
 
 
77,093
  
 
 
32,099
  
 
 
21,874
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations
 
 
206,907
  
 
 
177,125
  
 
 
162,283
  
 
 
73,227
  
 
 
78,550
  

 Income from operations of discontinued business (net of tax) (4)
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
16,771
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
 
$
206,907
  
 
$
177,125
  
 
$
162,283
  
 
$
73,227
  
 
$
95,321
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Financial Position and Other Data
 



 



 



 



 




 Total assets
 
$
1,191,662
  
 
$
1,062,741
  
 
$
1,025,192
  
 
$
811,452
  
 
$
770,934
  

 Operations:
 



 



 



 



 




 Working capital
 
$
463,707
  
 
$
396,388
  
 
$
405,087
  
 
$
310,265
  
 
$
317,380
  

 Current ratio
 
 
3.15 to 1
  
 
 
2.92 to 1
  
 
 
3.05 to 1
  
 
 
3.28 to 1
  
 
 
2.79 to 1
  

 Depreciation and amortization
 
$
43,352
  
 
$
39,134
  
 
$
32,820
  
 
$
28,968
  
 
$
29,126
  

 Capital expenditures
 
$
53,515
  
 
$
36,406
  
 
$
89,133
  
 
$
74,619
  
 
$
36,656
  

 Gross profit as a % of revenue
 
 
26.0
  
 
 
28.7
  
 
 
30.3
  
 
 
19.4
  
 
 
21.6
  

 Research, development, and testing expenses (5)
 
$
105,496
  
 
$
91,188
  
 
$
86,072
  
 
$
81,752
  
 
$
76,834
  

 Total debt
 
$
243,567
  
 
$
221,913
  
 
$
250,081
  
 
$
237,162
  
 
$
157,797
  

 Common stock and other shareholders’ equity
 
$
549,593
  
 
$
491,640
  
 
$
458,185
  
 
$
291,123
  
 
$
317,007
  

 Total debt as a % of total capitalization(debt plus equity)
 
 
30.7
  
 
 
31.1
  
 
 
35.3
  
 
 
44.9
  
 
 
33.2
  

 Net income as a % of average shareholders’ equity
 
 
39.7
  
 
 
37.3
  
 
 
43.3
  
 
 
24.1
  
 
 
30.8
  








 Common Stock
 



 



 



 



 




 Basic earnings per share:
 



 



 



 



 




 Income from continuing operations
 
$
15.10
  
 
$
12.12
  
 
$
10.67
  
 
$
4.77
  
 
$
4.66
  

 Income from operations of discontinued business (net of tax) (4)
 
 
0.00
  
 
 
0.00
  
 
 
0.00
  
 
 
0.00
  
 
 
1.00
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
 
$
15.10
  
 
$
12.12
  
 
$
10.67
  
 
$
4.77
  
 
$
5.66
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted earnings per share:
 



 



 



 



 




 Income from continuing operations
 
$
15.09
  
 
$
12.09
  
 
$
10.65
  
 
$
4.75
  
 
$
4.63
  

 Income from operations of discontinued business (net of tax) (4)
 
 
0.00
  
 
 
0.00
  
 
 
0.00
  
 
 
0.00
  
 
 
.99
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
 
$
15.09
  
 
$
12.09
  
 
$
10.65
  
 
$
4.75
  
 
$
5.62
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Shares used to compute basic earnings per share
 
 
13,707
  
 
 
14,619
  
 
 
15,206
  
 
 
15,362
  
 
 
16,841
  

 Shares used to compute diluted earnings per share
 
 
13,712
  
 
 
14,650
  
 
 
15,243
  
 
 
15,430
  
 
 
16,957
  

 Equity per share
 
$
41.00
  
 
$
35.03
  
 
$
30.12
  
 
$
19.15
  
 
$
20.37
  

 Cash dividends declared per share
 
$
2.39
  
 
$
1.565
  
 
$
1.075
  
 
$
.80
  
 
$
.575
  

  23 


Table of Contents
Notes to the Five Year Summary 
 


(1)
Special item income, net was $38.7 million in 2011 and represented the gain on the legal settlement with Innospec Inc. 
 


(2)
Other (expense) income, net in 2011, 2010, and 2009 included the loss on the Goldman Sachs interest rate swap. The loss on the interest rate swap was $17.5 million for
the twelve months ended December 31, 2011; $10.3 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010; and $11.4 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009. We are not using hedge accounting to record the interest rate
swap, and accordingly, any change in the fair value is immediately recognized in earnings. Other (expense) income, net in both 2008 and 2007 consists primarily of investment income. 
 


(3)
Income tax expense in 2007 included a special item gain of $9.5 million primarily representing a reversal of deferred tax provisions that were previously provided on
the undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries.   


(4)
Discontinued operations for 2007 reflect the April 1, 2007 termination of all marketing agreements between the subsidiaries of Ethyl and Innospec. The gain on the
termination of this business was $22.8 million ($14.6 million after tax). The remaining amounts reflect the after-tax earnings of this business.   


(5)
Of the total research, development, and testing expenses, the portion related to new products and processes was $51 million in 2011, $45 million in 2010, $46 million in
2009, $44 million in 2008, and $42 million in 2007. 
  24 


Table of Contents


ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION  Forward-Looking Statements  The following discussion, as well as other discussions
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, contains forward-looking statements about future events and expectations within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current
expectations and projections about future results. When we use words in this document such as “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “should,”
“could,” “may,” “will,” and similar expressions, we do so to identify forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements we make regarding future prospects of growth in the petroleum
additives market, our ability to maintain or increase our market share, and our future capital expenditure levels.  We believe our
forward-looking statements are based on reasonable expectations and assumptions, within the bounds of what we know about our business and operations. However, we offer no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from our expectations
due to uncertainties and factors that are difficult to predict and beyond our control.  These factors include, but are not limited to,
availability of raw materials and transportation systems; supply disruptions at single sourced facilities; ability to respond effectively to technological changes in our industry; failure to protect our intellectual property rights; hazards common
to chemical businesses; occurrence or threat of extraordinary events, including natural disasters and terrorist attacks; competition from other manufacturers; sudden or sharp raw materials price increases; gain or loss of significant customers;
risks related to operating outside of the United States; the impact of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; political, economic, and regulatory factors concerning our products; future governmental regulation; resolution of environmental
liabilities or legal proceedings; and inability to complete recent or future acquisitions or successfully integrate recent or future acquisitions into our business. In addition, certain risk factors are also discussed in Item 1A, “Risk
Factors.”  You should keep in mind that any forward-looking statement made by us in this discussion or elsewhere speaks only as of the
date on which we make it. New risks and uncertainties arise from time to time, and it is impossible for us to predict these events or how they may affect us. We have no duty to, and do not intend to, update or revise the forward-looking statements
in this discussion after the date hereof, except as may be required by law. In light of these risks and uncertainties, any forward-looking statement made in this discussion, or elsewhere, might not occur. 
OVERVIEW  While we experienced
some slowdown in the demand for our products during the final months of 2011, operations for the full year generated strong results with increased net sales, improved operating profit in every major world region, and higher product shipments in our
petroleum additives segment as compared to 2010, reflecting the value our technology-driven products provide to our customers. In 2011, our plants continued to run safely at high production levels and we again expanded our capability in research and
development through new investment in people and facilities.  Our cash flow from operations was strong during 2011, enabling us to repurchase
659,373 shares of our common stock for $94.8 million and increase our quarterly dividend from 44 cents per share at the beginning of the year to 75 cents per share at the end of the year. Also, our working capital position improved during 2011, and
we ended the year with $50 million in cash and $22 million drawn on the $300 million revolving credit facility.  On September 13, 2011,
we signed a settlement agreement with Innospec Inc. and its subsidiaries, Alcor Chemie Vertriebs GmbH and Innospec Ltd. (collectively, Innospec) which provided for mutual releases of the parties and

  25 


Table of Contents

a dismissal of the actions with prejudice. Under the settlement agreement, Innospec will pay NewMarket an aggregate amount of approximately $45 million, payable in a combination of cash, a
promissory note, and stock, of which $25 million was paid in cash on September 20, 2011 and approximately $5 million was paid in the form of 195,313 shares of unregistered Innospec Inc. common stock. Fifteen million dollars is payable in three
equal annual installments of $5 million under the promissory note, which bears interest at 1% per year. The first installment is due on September 10, 2012. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $38.7 million, which is net of expenses related to
the settlement of the lawsuit.  RESULTS OF OPERATION  Revenue  Our consolidated revenue for 2011 amounted to $2.2 billion, an increase of
20% from $1.8 billion in 2010. The increase of $267 million between 2010 and 2009 was 17%.  Net sales to one customer of our petroleum
additives segment exceeded 10% of consolidated revenue in 2011, 2010, and 2009. Sales to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its affiliates (Shell) amounted to $246 million (11% of consolidated revenue) in 2011, $217 million (12% of consolidated revenue) in
2010, and $232 million (15% of consolidated revenue) in 2009. These sales represent a wide-range of products sold to this customer in multiple regions of the world.  No other single customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenue in 2011, 2010, or 2009. 
The following table shows revenue by segment for each of the last three years.  Consolidated Revenue by Segment  (in millions of dollars) 
 
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Petroleum additives
  
$
2,127
  
  
$
1,774
  
  
$
1,518
  

 Real estate development
  
 
11
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
0
  

 All other
  
 
12
  
  
 
12
  
  
 
12
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Consolidated revenue
  
$
2,150
  
  
$
1,797
  
  
$
1,530
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Petroleum Additives—Petroleum additives net sales for 2011 of $2.1 billion were approximately 20% higher than
2010 levels. The increase between the two years primarily resulted from higher selling prices, as well as higher product shipments and a favorable impact from foreign currency. Product shipments increased 6% in 2011 from 2010 levels, reflecting
higher shipments across both the lubricant and fuel additive product lines. The higher product shipments included a benefit to revenue resulting from increased shipments of certain higher priced products. When comparing the two years, the
U.S. Dollar weakened against the major currencies in which we conduct business, including the European Union Euro, British Pound Sterling, and Japanese Yen, resulting in a favorable foreign currency impact on revenue. 
Net sales in 2010 of $1.8 billion were $256 million or 17% higher than 2009 net sales of $1.5 billion. The increase in net sales reflected higher total
product shipments of 12%, including the benefit of the Polartech group of companies (Polartech) shipments during 2010. The increase in product shipments was across most product lines, but primarily in the lubricant additives product lines. Selling
prices were also favorable for 2010 as compared to 2009. An unfavorable foreign currency impact of $6 million partially offset the increase in product shipments and selling prices. While recovering in 2009 from the worldwide economic slowdown,
product shipments were weaker than normal during the first half of 2009. 
  26 


Table of Contents
The approximate components of the petroleum additives increase in net sales of $353 million when comparing
2011 to 2010 and $256 million when comparing 2010 to 2009 are shown below in millions.   








 Net sales for year ended December 31, 2009
  
$
1,518
  

 Increase in shipments, including changes in product mix
  
 
213
  

 Increase in selling prices, including changes in customer mix
  
 
49
  

 Decrease due to foreign currency impact
  
 
(6
) 


  
  
  
 

 Net sales for year ended December 31, 2010
  
 
1,774
  

 Increase in shipments, including changes in product mix
  
 
145
  

 Increase in selling prices, including changes in customer mix
  
 
175
  

 Increase due to foreign currency impact
  
 
33
  


  
  
  
 

 Net sales for year ended December 31, 2011
  
$
2,127
  


  
  
  
 
 Real Estate Development Segment—The revenue of $11 million for the real estate development segment for both
2011 and 2010 represents the rental of the office building, which was constructed by Foundry Park I. The building was completed in late 2009, and we began recognizing rental revenue in January 2010. 
Segment Operating Profit 
NewMarket evaluates the performance of the petroleum additives business and the real estate development business based on segment operating profit.
NewMarket Services expenses are charged to NewMarket and each subsidiary pursuant to services agreements between the companies. Depreciation on segment property, plant, and equipment, as well as amortization of segment intangible assets, is included
in the segment operating profit.  The “All other” category includes the operations of the TEL business, as well as certain contract
manufacturing performed by Ethyl.  The table below reports operating profit by segment for the last three years. 
Segment Operating Profit  (in millions of dollars)   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Petroleum additives
  
$
348
  
  
$
299
  
  
$
280
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Real estate development
  
$
7
  
  
$
7
  
  
$
(1
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 All other
  
$
3
  
  
$
3
  
  
$
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Petroleum Additives—The petroleum additives segment includes a net gain of $39 million related to the
Innospec settlement in 2011, which is discussed above in the Overview section. Including the legal settlement, the petroleum additives operating profit increased $49 million when comparing 2011 and 2010. The increase was across both the lubricant
and fuel additives product lines. As discussed above in the Revenue section, increased product shipments, higher selling prices, and foreign currency were all significant favorable impacts to operating profit during 2011. Partially offsetting these
favorable factors on operating profit were unfavorable impacts from increased raw material costs, as well as additional planned spending in selling, general, and administrative expenses (SG&A), and research, development, and testing expenses
(R&D).  The petroleum additives operating profit increased $19 million when comparing 2010 and 2009. When compared to 2009 operating
profit levels, the 2010 results are higher across the lubricant additives product lines, but lower across the fuel additives product lines. Substantially increased product shipments and somewhat higher selling

  27 


Table of Contents

prices, as well as the benefit of the Polartech acquisition, as discussed in the Revenue section above, were significant favorable factors in the operating profit when compared to
2009. Partially offsetting these favorable factors on operating profit, were unfavorable impacts from margin compression, as well as planned additional spending in SG&A. While operating profit improved in 2010 over 2009, the operating
profit margin was unfavorable when comparing the two years. The lower 2010 operating profit margin reflects increased raw material costs and less favorable product mix resulting from the decrease of shipments of certain high margin
products. Finally, our SG&A, together with R&D, was $32 million, or 16%, higher in 2011 than 2010 and $25 million, or 14%, higher in
2010 than 2009.  In 2011, SG&A increased approximately $18 million, or 16%, as compared to 2010. In 2010, the increase was approximately
$19 million, or 21%, over 2009 levels. The increase for both periods was primarily the result of certain growth-related costs reflecting higher personnel-related costs and professional fees. The increase from 2009 to 2010 also reflects the inclusion
of the Polartech operations in 2010. Total R&D for petroleum additives was $105 million in 2011, $91 million in 2010, and $86 million in 2009. We continue to invest in SG&A and R&D to support our customers’ programs and to develop
the technology required to remain a leader in this industry. We expect this to continue for the foreseeable future. R&D related to new products and processes was $51 million in 2011, $45 million in 2010, and $46 million in 2009. All of our
R&D was related to the petroleum additives segment.  Real estate development—Operating profit for the real estate development
segment was $7 million for both 2011 and 2010, compared to a loss of $1 million for 2009. During 2009, the office building was under construction resulting in no rental revenue and limited non-capital expenses. 
The following discussion references certain captions on the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Interest and Financing Expenses 
Interest and financing expenses were $19 million in 2011, $17 million in 2010, and $12 million in 2009. The increase in interest and financing expenses
between 2011 and 2010 was primarily due to higher average outstanding debt reflecting higher borrowings on the revolving credit facility, which was partially offset by a lower average interest rate during 2011. The increase between 2010 and 2009 was
primarily related to the mortgage loan on the Foundry Park I office building, as well as higher average outstanding debt on the revolving credit facility during 2010. Prior to obtaining the mortgage loan in January 2010, the interest and financing
expenses for the construction phase of the office building were capitalized.  Other Expense, Net 
Other expense, net was $18 million in 2011, $10 million in 2010, and $11 million in 2009. The 2011 amount includes $1 million expense related to the
consent we obtained in January 2011 from the holders of the senior notes to modify the formula for calculating the capacity under the senior notes to make certain restricted payments. The remaining amounts for 2011, 2010, and 2009 primarily
represent the loss on an interest rate swap which is recorded at fair value. See Note 16 for additional information on the interest rate swap. 
Income Tax Expense  Income tax
expense was $97 million in 2011, $83 million in 2010, and $77 million in 2009. The effective tax rate was 31.9% in both 2011 and 2010 and 32.2% in 2009. The 2011 and 2010 effective income tax rates include the benefit of higher income in foreign
jurisdictions with lower tax rates. The effective income tax rates for each year include a substantial benefit from the domestic manufacturing tax deduction, as well as the benefit from the R&D tax credit. See Note 22 for further details on
income taxes. 
  28 


Table of Contents
The increase in income before income tax expense between 2010 and 2011 resulted in the entire increase in
income tax expense of $14 million.  The increase in income before income tax expense between 2009 and 2010 resulted in an increase in income
tax expense of $7 million. This was partially offset by a reduction in income tax expense of $1 million due to the lower effective tax rate in 2010 compared to 2009.  Our deferred taxes are in a net asset position. Based on current forecast operating plans and historical profitability, we believe that we will recover nearly the full benefit of our deferred tax assets
and have, therefore, only recorded an immaterial valuation allowance at a foreign subsidiary.  CASH FLOWS DISCUSSION 
We generated cash from operating activities of $185 million in 2011, $164 million in 2010, and $226 million in 2009. 
During 2011, we used the cash provided by operating activities of $185 million, along with $18 million of borrowings under our revolving credit facility
and an additional $7 million of borrowings under foreign lines of credit to fund $54 million in capital expenditures, $98 million in repurchases of our common stock, and $33 million in dividend payments. In addition, we made a net deposit of $13
million related to the Goldman Sachs interest rate swap, made a net payment of $5 million for settlements under the mortgage loan interest rate swap, and funded $3 million for debt issuance costs. Further information on the Goldman Sachs and
mortgage loan interest rate swaps is in Note 16. These cash flows, including an unfavorable foreign exchange impact of $1 million, resulted in an increase in cash and cash equivalents of $1 million. Cash flows from operating activities included a
decrease of $62 million resulting from higher working capital requirements and payments of $31 million for our pension and postretirement plans, as well as $25 million proceeds from a legal settlement. 
During 2010, we utilized the $164 million of cash generated from operations and $152 million of cash on hand, along with the borrowing of $68 million
under the mortgage loan for Foundry Park I and $4 million under the revolving credit facility to fund several key initiatives. These initiatives included repaying the Foundry Park I construction loan of $99 million. We also funded the acquisition of
Polartech for $41 million, funded capital expenditures of $36 million, repurchased $122 million of our common stock, paid $23 million of dividends on our common stock, made a net deposit of $8 million related to the Goldman Sachs interest rate swap,
paid $4 million for debt issuance costs, and made a net payment of $2 million for settlements under the mortgage loan interest rate swap. These cash flows included an unfavorable foreign currency impact on cash of $2 million. Cash flows from
operating activities included a decrease of $63 million resulting from higher working capital requirements and payments of $22 million for our pension and postretirement plans.  During 2009, we used the cash generated from operations, along with $56 million of draws under the Foundry Park I construction loan and $11 million from a net return of funds for the deposit related to an
interest rate lock agreement to fund $89 million of capital expenditures, payoff the outstanding balance of $42 million on the revolving credit agreement, and make a net deposit of $15 million related to the Goldman Sachs interest rate swap. We also
paid dividends on our common stock of $16 million. These items, including a favorable fluctuation in foreign currency rates of $5 million, resulted in an increase of $130 million in cash and cash equivalents. Cash flows from operating activities
included an increase of $23 million resulting from lower working capital requirements, as well as payments of $25 million for our pension and postretirement plans.  We expect that cash from operations, together with borrowing available under our senior credit facility, will continue to be sufficient to cover our operating expenses and planned capital expenditures for
at least the next twelve months. 
  29 


Table of Contents
FINANCIAL POSITION AND LIQUIDITY  Cash  At December 31, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents of $50 million as
compared to $49 million at the end of 2010.  At both December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, we had a book overdraft for some of our
disbursement cash accounts. A book overdraft represents disbursements that have not cleared the bank accounts at the end of the reporting period. We transfer cash on an as-needed basis to fund these items as they clear the bank in subsequent
periods.  Our cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries amounted to approximately $45 million at December 31, 2011 and
$43 million at December 31, 2010. A significant amount, but not all, of these foreign cash balances are associated with earnings that we have asserted are indefinitely reinvested. We plan to use these indefinitely reinvested earnings to support
growth outside of the United States through funding of operating expenses, research and development expenses, capital expenditures, and other cash needs of our foreign subsidiaries. Periodically, we repatriate cash from our foreign subsidiaries to
the United States through intercompany dividends. These intercompany dividends are paid only by subsidiaries whose earnings we have not asserted are indefinitely reinvested or whose earnings qualify as previously taxed income, as defined by the
Internal Revenue Code. If circumstances were to change that would cause these indefinitely reinvested earnings to be repatriated, an incremental U.S. tax liability would be incurred. As part of our foreign subsidiary repatriation activities, we
received cash dividends of $30 million for 2011, $53 million for 2010, and $24 million for 2009.  Debt 
Senior Notes—The 7.125% senior notes are our senior unsecured obligations and are jointly and severally guaranteed on an unsecured basis by
all existing and future domestic restricted subsidiaries wholly-owned by NewMarket. The 7.125% senior notes are due in 2016. We incurred financing costs of approximately $3 million in 2006 related to the 7.125% senior notes, which are being
amortized over the term of the agreement. We incurred additional financing costs of approximately $3 million in 2011 for consents we obtained from the senior note holders related to the change in the formula for calculating the capacity to make
restricted payments under the senior notes. Of the $3 million incurred in 2011, $1 million was expensed immediately, with the remaining fees being amortized over the remaining term of the agreement. 
The 7.125% senior notes and the subsidiary guarantees rank:   


 
•
 
 effectively junior to all of our and the guarantors’ existing and future secured indebtedness, including any borrowings under the senior credit
facility described below;   


 
•
 
 equal in right of payment with any of our and the guarantors’ existing and future unsecured senior indebtedness; and 
 


 
•
 
 senior in right of payment to any of our and the guarantors’ existing and future subordinated indebtedness. 
The indenture governing the 7.125% senior notes contains covenants that, among other things, limit our ability and the ability of our restricted
subsidiaries to:   


 
•
 
 incur additional indebtedness;   


 
•
 
 create liens;   


 
•
 
 pay dividends or repurchase capital stock;   


 
•
 
 make certain investments; 
  30 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 sell assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies; and 
 


 
•
 
 engage in transactions with affiliates.  The more restrictive and significant of the covenants under the indenture include a minimum fixed charge ratio of 2.00, as well as a limitation on restricted payments, as defined in the indenture. Our
fixed charge coverage ratio was 20.46 at December 31, 2011. In addition, we would have been permitted to make additional restricted payments in the amount of approximately $126 million at December 31, 2011. 
We were in compliance with all covenants under the indenture governing the 7.125% senior notes as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010.
 Senior Credit Facility—On November 12, 2010, we entered into a Credit Agreement (Credit Agreement). The Credit Agreement
provides for a $300 million, multicurrency revolving credit facility, with a $100 million sublimit for multicurrency borrowings, a $100 million sublimit for letters of credit, and a $20 million sublimit for swingline loans. The Credit Agreement
includes an expansion feature, which allows us, subject to certain conditions, to request to increase the aggregate amount of the revolving credit facility or obtain incremental term loans in an amount up to $150 million. 
At December 31, 2011, we had outstanding letters of credit of $6.1 million and $22.0 million borrowed, resulting in the unused portion of the senior
credit facility amounting to $271.9 million. For further information on the outstanding letters of credit, see Note 18.  We paid financing
costs in 2010 of approximately $2.5 million related to this agreement and carried over deferred financing costs from our previous revolving credit agreement of approximately $700 thousand, resulting in total deferred financing costs of $3.2 million,
which we are amortizing over the term of the Credit Agreement.  The obligations under the Credit Agreement are unsecured and are fully
guaranteed by NewMarket and the subsidiary guarantors. The revolving credit facility matures on November 12, 2015.  Borrowing made under
the revolving credit facility bear interest at an annual rate equal to, at our election, either (1) the Alternate Base Rate (ABR) plus the Applicable Rate (solely in the case of loans denominated in U.S. dollars to NewMarket) or (2) the
Adjusted LIBO Rate plus the Applicable Rate. ABR is the greatest of (i) the rate of interest publicly announced by the Administrative Agent as its prime rate, (ii) the federal funds effective rate from time to time plus 0.5% or
(iii) the Adjusted LIBO Rate for a one month interest period plus 1%. The Adjusted LIBO Rate means the rate at which Eurocurrency deposits in the London interbank market for certain periods (as selected by NewMarket) are quoted, as adjusted for
statutory reserve requirements for Eurocurrency liabilities and other applicable mandatory costs. Depending on our consolidated Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement), the Applicable Rate ranges from 1.00% to 1.50% for loans bearing
interest based on the ABR and from 2.00% to 2.50% for loans bearing interest based on the Adjusted LIBO Rate. At December 31, 2011, the Applicable Rate was 1.00% for loans bearing interest based on the ABR and 2.00% for loans bearing interest
based on the Adjusted LIBO Rate. Our average interest rate under the Credit Agreement was 2.9% during 2011. At December 31, 2011, the interest rate on outstanding borrowings was 4.25%.  The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants that require NewMarket to maintain a consolidated Leverage Ratio of no more than 3.00 to 1.00 and a consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio (as defined in
the Credit Agreement) of no less than 3.00 to 1.00, as of the end of each fiscal quarter ending on and after December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011, the Leverage Ratio was 0.69 and the Interest Coverage Ratio was 17.90. 
We were in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. 
Mortgage Loan Agreement—On January 28, 2010, Foundry Park I entered into a mortgage loan agreement in the amount of $68.4 million. The
loan, which is collateralized by the Foundry Park I office building, is for a period of five years, with two thirteen-month extension options. NewMarket Corporation is fully guaranteeing 
  31 


Table of Contents

the loan. The mortgage loan bears interest at a variable rate of LIBOR plus a margin of 400 basis points. At December 31, 2011, the interest rate was 4.27%. Principal payments on the loan
are being made monthly based on a 15 year amortization schedule, with all remaining amounts due in five years, unless we exercise the extension options. We incurred financing costs of $1.5 million related to the mortgage loan, which are being
amortized over the initial term of the agreement.  Concurrently with the closing of the mortgage loan, Foundry Park I obtained an interest
rate swap to effectively convert the variable interest rate in the loan to a fixed interest rate by setting LIBOR at 2.642% for five years. Further information on the interest rate swap is in Note 16. 
Construction Loan Agreement—Foundry Park I and NewMarket Corporation entered into a construction loan agreement with a group of banks on
August 7, 2007 to borrow up to $116 million to fund the development and construction of an office building. The construction loan bore interest at LIBOR plus a margin of 140 basis points. The term of the loan was for a period of 36 months and
was unconditionally guaranteed by NewMarket Corporation. No principal reduction payment became due during the construction period. As a condition of the construction loan and concurrently with the closing of the loan, Foundry Park I also obtained
interest rate risk protection in the form of an interest rate swap. See Note 16. On January 29, 2010, we paid off the outstanding balance of $99.1 million of the construction loan with proceeds of $68.4 million from the mortgage loan agreement
(discussed above) and cash on hand of $30.7 million.  Other Borrowings—One of our subsidiaries in India has a short-term line of
credit of 110 million Rupees for working capital purposes. The average interest rate was approximately 10.8% during 2011 and 11.1% at December 31, 2011. The outstanding balance of $1.7 million (90 million Rupees) at December 31, 2011
is due during 2012. Another subsidiary in China has a short-term line of credit of $10 million for working capital purposes. The average interest rate was approximately 2.3% during 2011 and 2.5% at December 31, 2011. The outstanding balance of
$6.3 million at December 31, 2011 is due during 2012.  ***  We had combined current and noncurrent long-term debt of $244 million at December 31, 2011 and $222 million at December 31, 2010. The increase in debt resulted from additional borrowings of $18
million on the revolving credit facility, as well as $7 million under the short-term lines of credit in India and China described above. These amounts were partially offset by payments on the mortgage loan of $3 million. 
As a percentage of total capitalization (total debt and shareholders’ equity), our total debt decreased from 31.1% at the end of 2010 to 30.7% at
the end of 2011. The change in the percentage was primarily the result of the increase in shareholders’ equity offset by the increase in debt. The increase in shareholders’ equity reflects our earnings, partially offset by the impact of
dividend payments, the stock repurchase program, and the increase in accumulated other comprehensive loss. Normally, we repay long-term debt with cash from operations or refinancing activities. 
Working Capital  At
December 31, 2011, we had working capital of $464 million, resulting in a current ratio of 3.15 to 1. Our working capital at year-end 2010 was $396 million resulting in a current ratio of 2.92 to 1. 
The change in the working capital ratio primarily reflects higher accounts receivable and inventories, as well as higher prepaid expenses and other
current assets at December 31, 2011. The increase in accounts receivable primarily reflects higher sales levels when comparing fourth quarter 2011 and fourth quarter 2010, while the fluctuation in inventories reflects higher quantities at
certain locations in response to demand for our products, as well as higher priced inventory resulting from increased raw material costs. The increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets primarily reflects higher prepaid taxes on
intercompany profit in inventory. 
  32 


Table of Contents
Capital Expenditures  We expect capital expenditures to be approximately $60 million to $70 million in 2012. We expect to continue to finance this capital spending through cash provided from operations, together with borrowing
available under our senior credit facility.  Environmental Expenses  We spent approximately $19 million in 2011, $18 million in 2010, and $17 million in 2009 for ongoing environmental operating and clean-up costs, excluding depreciation of previously capitalized
expenditures. These environmental operating and clean-up expenses are included in cost of goods sold. We expect to continue to fund these costs through cash provided by operations in the future. 
Contractual Obligations  The
table below shows our year-end contractual obligations by year due.   
























 
  
Payments Due by Period (in millions of dollars)
 

 
  
Total
 
  
Less than1 Year
 
  
1 - 3Years
 
  
3 - 5Years
 
  
More than5 Years
 

 Long-term debt obligations (a)
  
$
244
  
  
$
11
  
  
$
7
  
  
$
226
  
  
$
0
  

 Interest payable on long-term debt, interest rate swaps, and capital lease obligations
  
 
117
  
  
 
21
  
  
 
40
  
  
 
32
  
  
 
24
  

 Letters of credit (b)
  
 
6
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
6
  

 Operating lease obligations
  
 
24
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
1
  

 Property, plant, and equipment purchase obligations
  
 
7
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Raw material purchase obligations (c)
  
 
256
  
  
 
105
  
  
 
137
  
  
 
14
  
  
 
0
  

 Other long-term liabilities (d)
  
 
50
  
  
 
33
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
12
  

 Reserves for uncertain tax positions
  
 
1
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
705
  
  
$
186
  
  
$
199
  
  
$
277
  
  
$
43
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(a)
Amounts represent contractual payments due on the senior notes, senior credit facility, mortgage loan, and short-term lines of credit as of December 31, 2011.
See Note 12 for more information on long-term debt obligations. 


(b)
We intend to renew letters of credit when necessary as they mature; therefore, the obligations do not have a definitive maturity date. 


(c)
Raw material purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms,
including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable without penalty. Purchase orders made in
the ordinary course of business are excluded from the above table. Any amounts for which we are liable under purchase orders are reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as accounts payable or accrued expenses. 


(d)
These represent other long-term liability amounts reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets that have known payment streams. Amounts include environmental
liabilities, including asset retirement obligations, as well as contributions associated with pension and postretirement benefit plans. Amounts accrued for the potential exposure with respect to litigation, claims, and assessments are not included
in the table above.  Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans 
Our U.S. and foreign benefit plans are discussed separately below. Our U.S. pension and postretirement plans are similar and therefore, the information
discussed below applies to all of our U.S. benefit plans. Our foreign plans 
  33 


Table of Contents

are quite diverse, and the actuarial assumptions used by the various foreign plans are based upon the circumstances of each particular country and retirement plan. The discussion below
surrounding our foreign retirement benefits focuses only on our pension plan in the United Kingdom (U.K.) which represents the majority of the impact on our financial statements from foreign pension plans. We use a December 31 measurement date
to determine our pension and postretirement expenses and related financial disclosure information. Additional information on our pension and postretirement plans is in Note 19.  U.S. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans—The average remaining service period of active participants for our U.S. plans is 13.2 years, while the average remaining life expectancy of
inactive participants is 24.4 years. We utilize the Optional Combined Mortality Tables for males and females based on the RP-2000 Mortality Tables projected to 2012 with Scale AA in determining the impact of the U.S. benefit plans on our financial
statements.  Investment Return Assumptions and Asset Allocation—We periodically review our assumptions for
the long-term expected return on pension plan assets. As part of the review and to develop expected rates of return, we considered a stochastic analysis of expected returns based on the U.S. plans’ asset allocation as of both January 1,
2010 and January 1, 2011. This analysis reflects our expected long-term rates of return for each significant asset class or economic indicator. As of January 1, 2012, the expected rates were 8.8% for U.S. large cap stocks, 3.0% for fixed
income, and 2.3% for inflation. The range of returns developed relies both on forecasts and on broad-market historical benchmarks for expected return, correlation, and volatility for each asset class. 
The asset allocation for our U.S. pension plans is predominantly weighted toward equities. Through the ongoing monitoring of our investments, we have
determined that we should maintain the expected long-term rate of return for our U.S. pension plans at 9.0% at December 31, 2011.  An
actuarial loss occurred during 2011 as the actual investment return was lower than the expected return for all of our U.S. pension plans by approximately $11 million. During 2010 and 2009, the actual return was higher than the expected return,
resulting in an actuarial gain for all of our U.S. pension plans of approximately $4 million in 2010 and $10 million in 2009. Investment gains and losses are recognized in earnings on an amortized basis over a period of years so that 2011 losses
will cause an expected $400 thousand increase in expense in 2012. We expect that there will be continued volatility in pension expense as actual investment returns vary from the expected return, but we continue to believe the potential long-term
benefits justify the risk premium for equity investments.  At December 31, 2011, our expected long-term rate of return on our
postretirement plans was 6.00%. This rate varies from the pension rate of 9.0% primarily because of the difference in investment of assets. The assets of the postretirement plan are held in an insurance contract, which results in a lower assumed
rate of investment return.  Pension expense and the life insurance portion of postretirement expense are sensitive to changes in the expected
return on assets. For example, decreasing the expected rate of return by 25 basis points to 8.75% for pension assets and 5.75% for postretirement benefit assets (while holding other assumptions constant) would increase the forecasted 2012 expense
for our U.S. pension and postretirement plans by approximately $425 thousand. Similarly, a 25 basis point increase in the expected rate of return to 9.25% for pension assets and 6.25% for postretirement benefit assets (while holding other
assumptions constant) would reduce forecasted 2012 pension and postretirement expense by approximately $425 thousand.  Discount Rate
Assumption—We develop the discount rate assumption by determining the single effective discount rate for a unique hypothetical portfolio constructed from investment-grade bonds that, in aggregate, match the
projected cash flows of each of our retirement plans. The discount rate is developed based on the hypothetical portfolio on the last day of December. The discount rate at December 31, 2011 was 5.00% for all plans. 
  34 


Table of Contents
Pension and postretirement benefit expense is also sensitive to changes in the discount rate. For example,
decreasing the discount rate by 25 basis points to 4.75% (while holding other assumptions constant) would increase the forecasted 2012 expense for our U.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans by approximately $850 thousand. A 25 basis point
increase in the discount rate to 5.25% would reduce forecasted 2012 pension and postretirement benefit expense by approximately $950 thousand. 
Rate of Projected Compensation Increase—We have maintained our rate of projected compensation increase at December 31, 2011 at
3.50%. The rate assumption was based on an analysis of our projected compensation increases for the foreseeable future. 
Liquidity—Cash contribution requirements to the pension plan are sensitive to changes in assumed interest rates and
investment gains or losses in the same manner as pension expense. We expect our aggregate cash contributions, before income taxes, to the U.S. pension plans will be approximately $23 million in 2012. We expect our contributions to the postretirement
benefit plans will be approximately $2 million in 2012.  Other Assumptions—We periodically review our
assumption for the health care cost trend rate based on actual cost experience, typically assuming a higher current-year trend scaling down to a lower permanent rate over a five to ten year period. We refreshed this health care trend assumption for
2010 and 2011 resulting in an assumed rate of 9.0% for 2010 and 8.5% for 2011, scaling down to 5.75% by 2017.  Foreign Pension Benefit
Plans—Our foreign pension plans are quite diverse. The following information applies only to our U.K. pension plan, which represents the majority of the impact on our financial statements from our foreign pension plans. The average
remaining service period for our U.K. plan is 11 years, while the average remaining life expectancy is 36 years. We utilize the S1 SAPS Normal Health (Light) mortality tables and allow for future projected improvements in life expectancy in line
with the CMI 2010 model, with a long-term rate of improvement of 1% per year based on the membership of the plan, in determining the impact of the U.K. pension plans on our financial statements. 
Investment Return Assumptions and Asset Allocation—We periodically review our assumptions for the long-term expected
return on the U.K. pension plan assets. The expected long-term rate of return is based on both the asset allocation, as well as yields available in the U.K. markets.  The target asset allocation in the U.K. is to be invested 55% in equities, 40% in a mixture of government and corporate bonds, and 5% in a pooled investment property fund, although the actual allocation
at the end of 2011 was 52% in equities, 43% in government and corporate bonds, and 5% in a pooled investment property fund. Based on the actual asset allocation and the expected yields available in the U.K. markets, the expected long-term rate of
return for the U.K. pension plan was 5.5% at December 31, 2011.  An actuarial loss occurred during 2011 as the expected investment return
exceeded the actual investment return in 2011 by approximately $2 million for our U.K. pension plan. This loss compares to actuarial gains of $5 million in 2010 and $7 million in 2009 where actual investment returns exceeded expected returns.
Investment gains and losses are recognized in earnings on an amortized basis, resulting in increased expense of approximately $800 thousand in 2011, as well as an expected $500 thousand increased expense in 2012. We expect that there will be
continued volatility in pension expense as actual investment returns vary from the expected return, but we continue to believe the potential benefits justify the risk premium for the target asset allocation. 
Pension expense is sensitive to changes in the expected return on assets. For example, decreasing the expected rate of return by 25 basis points to 5.25%
(while holding other assumptions constant) would increase the forecasted 2012 expense for our U.K. pension plan by approximately $200 thousand. Similarly, a 25 basis point increase in the expected rate of return to 5.75% (while holding other
assumptions constant) would reduce forecasted 2012 pension expense by approximately $200 thousand. 
  35 


Table of Contents
Discount Rate Assumption—We utilize a yield curve based on AA-rated
corporate bond yields constructed from iBoxx indices in developing a discount rate assumption (extrapolated at longer terms based on the corresponding swap yield curve). The yield appropriate to the duration of the U.K. plan liabilities is then
used. The discount rate at December 31, 2011 was 4.8%.  Pension expense is also sensitive to changes in the discount rate. For example,
decreasing the discount rate by 25 basis points to 4.55% (while holding other assumptions constant) would increase the forecasted 2012 expense for our U.K. pension plans by approximately $100 thousand. A 25 basis point increase in the discount rate
to 5.05% would reduce forecasted 2012 pension expense by approximately $100 thousand.  Rate of Projected Compensation
Increase—We have decreased our rate of projected compensation increase at December 31, 2011 to 4.50% from 5.10%. The rate assumption was based on an analysis of our projected compensation increases for the foreseeable future.
 Liquidity—Cash contribution requirements to the U.K. pension plan are sensitive to changes in assumed
interest rates in the same manner as pension expense. We expect our aggregate U.K. cash contributions, before income taxes, will be approximately $5 million in 2012.  OUTLOOK  We begin 2012 with a positive view of our business and the customer-focused
approach that we believe has resulted in 2011 being a record setting year. We believe the fundamentals of how we run our business—a safety-first culture, customer-focused solutions, technology-driven product offerings, world-class supply chain
capability, and a regional organizational structure to better understand our customers’ needs—will continue to pay dividends to all of our stakeholders.  We expect 2012 to be a more profitable year than 2011, as we project an increase in volume, revenue, and net income. There has been no significant change in the positive fundamentals of the petroleum
additives business, and we expect the industry demand to continue to grow at a rate of approximately 1% - 2%. We plan to exceed that rate. Over the past several years, we have made significant investments to expand our capabilities around the world.
These investments have been in people, research centers, and production capacity. We intend to use these new capabilities to improve our ability to deliver the goods and service that our customers value and to expand our business and profits.
 In summary, we expect the business practices that have produced the outstanding results of the past two years will continue in 2012. As a
global company operating in most countries around the world, we are not immune to the economic conditions in many of those countries. Western Europe and the Euro are a significant factor in our business and financial results. 
Our business continues to generate significant amounts of cash beyond what is necessary for the expansion and growth of our current product lines. We
regularly review the many internal opportunities which we have to utilize this cash, both from a geographical and product line point of view. We continue our efforts in investigating potential acquisitions as both a use for this cash and to generate
shareholder value. Our primary focus in the acquisition area remains on the petroleum additives industry. It is our view that this industry will provide the greatest opportunity for a good return on our investment while minimizing risk. We
remain focused on this strategy and will evaluate any future opportunities. Nonetheless, we are patient in this pursuit and intend to make the right acquisition when the opportunity arises. Until an acquisition materializes, we will build cash
on our balance sheet and will continue to evaluate all alternative uses of that cash to enhance shareholder value, including stock repurchases and dividends. 
  36 


Table of Contents
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 
It is our goal to clearly present our financial information in a manner that enhances the understanding of our sources of earnings and cash flows, as well
as our financial condition. We do this by including the information required by the SEC, as well as additional information that gives further insight into our financial operations.  Our financial report includes a discussion of our accounting principles, as well as methods and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements. We believe these discussions and statements
fairly represent the financial position and operating results of our company. The purpose of this portion of our discussion is to further emphasize some of the more critical areas where a significant change in facts and circumstances in our
operating and financial environment could cause a change in future reported financial results.  Intangibles (net of amortization) and
Goodwill  We have certain identifiable intangibles, as well as goodwill, amounting to $38 million at year-end 2011 that are discussed
in Note 10. These intangibles relate to our petroleum additives business and, except for the goodwill, are being amortized over periods with up to approximately eighteen years of remaining life. We continue to assess the market related to these
intangibles, as well as their specific values, and have concluded the values and amortization periods are appropriate. We also evaluate these intangibles for any potential impairment when significant events or circumstances occur that might impair
the value of these assets. These evaluations continue to support the value at which these identifiable intangibles are carried on our financial statements. In addition, none of our reporting units with goodwill is at risk of failing the goodwill
impairment test. However, if conditions were to substantially deteriorate in the petroleum additives market, it could possibly cause a reduction in the periods of this amortization charge or result in a noncash write-off of all or a portion of the
intangibles’ carrying amount. A reduction in the amortization period would have no effect on cash flows. We do not anticipate such a change in the market conditions in the near term.  Environmental and Legal Proceedings  We have made disclosure of our environmental
matters in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe our environmental accruals are appropriate for the exposures and regulatory guidelines under which we currently
operate. While we currently do not anticipate significant changes to the many factors that could impact our environmental requirements, we continue to keep our accruals consistent with these requirements as they change. 
Also, as noted in the discussion of “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, while it is not possible to predict
or determine with certainty the outcome of any legal proceeding, it is our opinion, based on our current knowledge, that we will not experience any material adverse effects on our results of operations or financial condition as a result of any
pending or threatened proceeding.  Pension Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits 
We use assumptions to record the impact of the pension and postretirement plans in the financial statements. These assumptions include the discount rate,
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, rate of compensation increase, and health-care cost trend rate. A change in any one of these assumptions could result in different results for the plans. We develop these assumptions after
considering available information that we deem relevant. Information is provided on the pension and postretirement plans in Note 19. In addition, further disclosure on the effect of changes in these assumptions is provided in the “Financial
Position and Liquidity” section of Item 7.  Income Taxes  We file consolidated U.S. federal and both consolidated and individual state income tax returns, as well as individual foreign income tax returns, under which assumptions may be made to determine the
deductibility of 
  37 


Table of Contents

certain costs. We make estimates related to the impact of tax positions taken on our financial statements when we believe the tax position is likely to be upheld on audit. In addition, we make
certain assumptions in the determination of the estimated future recovery of deferred tax assets.  RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
 For a full discussion of the more significant pronouncements which may impact our financial statements, see Note 27. 
 


ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  We are exposed to many market risk factors, including fluctuations in interest and foreign currency rates, as well as changes in the cost of raw materials and marketable security prices. These risk
factors may affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position.  We manage these risks through regular operating and
financing methods, including the use of derivative financial instruments. When we have derivative instruments, they are with major financial institutions and are not for speculative or trading purposes. Also, as part of our financial risk
management, we regularly review significant contracts for embedded derivatives and record them in accordance with accounting standards.  The
following analysis presents the effect on our earnings, cash flows, and financial position as if the hypothetical changes in market risk factors occurred at December 31, 2011. We analyzed only the potential impacts of our hypothetical
assumptions. This analysis does not consider other possible effects that could impact our business.  Interest Rate Risk
 At December 31, 2011, we had total debt of $244 million. Of the total debt, $150 million is at fixed rates. There was no interest
rate risk at the end of the year associated with the fixed rate debt.  At year-end 2011, we had $22 million of outstanding variable rate debt
under our revolving credit facility and $8 million of outstanding variable rate debt under short-term lines of credit. Holding all other variables constant, if the variable portion of the interest rates hypothetically increased 10%, the effect on
our earnings and cash flows would have been higher interest expense of approximately $100 thousand.  The remaining amount of debt represents
the outstanding balance of the mortgage loan, which bears interest at a variable rate of LIBOR plus a margin of 400 basis points. Concurrently with the closing of the mortgage loan, Foundry Park I obtained an interest rate swap to effectively
convert the variable interest rate of the loan to a fixed interest rate by setting LIBOR at 2.642% for five years. Accordingly, in combination, there is no interest rate risk associated with the mortgage loan and related interest rate swap, other
than the change in the value of the interest rate swap due to changes in the yield curve. The fair value amounted to a liability of $4 million at December 31, 2011. Any change in fair value is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive
income, to the degree of effectiveness of the swap. With other variables held constant, a hypothetical 50 basis point adverse parallel shift in the LIBOR yield curve would have resulted in an increase of approximately $1 million in the fair value
liability of the mortgage loan interest rate swap at December 31, 2011.  We recorded the Goldman Sachs interest rate swap at fair value,
which amounted to a liability of $32 million at December 31, 2011. Any change in fair value is recognized immediately in earnings. With other variables held constant, a hypothetical 50 basis point adverse parallel shift in the LIBOR yield curve
would have resulted in an increase of approximately $5 million in the liability fair value of the interest rate swap with Goldman Sachs. See Note 16 for further information. 
  38 


Table of Contents
A hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates, holding all other variables constant, would have resulted in
a change of $4 million in fair value of our debt at year-end 2011.  Foreign Currency Risk 
We sell to customers in foreign markets through our foreign subsidiaries, as well as through export sales from the United States. These transactions are
often denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Our primary currency exposures are the European Union Euro, British Pound Sterling, Japanese Yen, and Canadian Dollar. We sometimes enter into forward contracts as hedges to minimize
the fluctuation of intercompany accounts receivable denominated in foreign currencies. At December 31, 2011, we had no outstanding forward contracts.  Raw Material Price Risk  We utilize a variety of raw materials in the manufacture of
our products, including base oil, polyisobutylene, antioxidants, alcohols, solvents, sulfonates, friction modifiers, olefins and copolymers. Our profitability is sensitive to changes in the costs of these materials caused by changes in supply,
demand, or other market conditions, over which we have little or no control. If we experience sudden or sharp increases in the cost of our raw materials, we may not be able to pass on these increases in whole or in part to our customers. Political
and economic conditions in the Middle East and Latin America have caused and may continue to cause the cost of our raw materials to fluctuate. War, armed hostilities, terrorist acts, civil unrest or other incidents may also cause a sudden or sharp
increase in the cost of our raw materials. If we cannot pass on to our customers any future increases in raw material costs in the form of price increases for our products, there will be a negative impact on operating profit. 
Marketable Security Price Risk 
As part of the legal settlement related to the Innospec lawsuit, we own 195,313 shares of unregistered Innospec Inc. common stock. We have classified the
stock as available for sale and have recorded the stock in current assets at fair market value discounted for transfer restrictions on the shares. The unrealized gain or loss on the common stock is recorded in Other Comprehensive Income. At
December 31, 2011, we valued the stock at $5 million. A hypothetical 10% decrease in the stock price, holding all other variables constant, would have resulted in a decrease of approximately $500 thousand in the fair value of the stock at
December 31, 2011. 
  39 


Table of Contents


ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  To the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of NewMarket Corporation:  In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of
income, shareholders’ equity and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of NewMarket Corporation and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting, included in Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial
statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for
our opinions.  A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Richmond, Virginia  February 22, 2012

  40 


Table of Contents
NewMarket Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statements of Income 
 
















 
  
Years Ended December 31
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands, except per-share amounts)
 

 Revenue:
  



  



  




 Net sales—product
  
$
2,138,127
  
  
$
1,786,076
  
  
$
1,530,122
  

 Rental revenue
  
 
11,431
  
  
 
11,316
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
2,149,558
  
  
 
1,797,392
  
  
 
1,530,122
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Costs:
  



  



  




 Cost of goods sold—product
  
 
1,586,145
  
  
 
1,277,505
  
  
 
1,066,862
  

 Cost of rental
  
 
4,386
  
  
 
4,428
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
1,590,531
  
  
 
1,281,933
  
  
 
1,066,862
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
559,027
  
  
 
515,459
  
  
 
463,260
  






 Selling, general, and administrative expenses
  
 
151,602
  
  
 
136,967
  
  
 
114,900
  






 Research, development, and testing expenses
  
 
105,496
  
  
 
91,188
  
  
 
86,072
  






 Gain on legal settlement, net
  
 
38,656
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Operating profit
  
 
340,585
  
  
 
287,304
  
  
 
262,288
  






 Interest and financing expenses, net
  
 
18,820
  
  
 
17,261
  
  
 
11,716
  






 Other expense, net
  
 
18,048
  
  
 
10,047
  
  
 
11,196
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income before income tax expense
  
 
303,717
  
  
 
259,996
  
  
 
239,376
  






 Income tax expense
  
 
96,810
  
  
 
82,871
  
  
 
77,093
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
206,907
  
  
$
177,125
  
  
$
162,283
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Basic earnings per share
  
$
15.10
  
  
$
12.12
  
  
$
10.67
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted earnings per share
  
$
15.09
  
  
$
12.09
  
  
$
10.65
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Shares used to compute basic earnings per share
  
 
13,707
  
  
 
14,619
  
  
 
15,206
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Shares used to compute diluted earnings per share
  
 
13,712
  
  
 
14,650
  
  
 
15,243
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  41 


Table of Contents
NewMarket Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Balance Sheets 
 












 
  
December 31
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(in thousands, except shareamounts)
 

 ASSETS
  



 




 Current assets:
  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
50,370
  
 
$
49,192
  

 Short-term investments
  
 
0
  
 
 
300
  

 Trade and other accounts receivable, net
  
 
278,332
  
 
 
257,748
  

 Inventories
  
 
306,785
  
 
 
273,215
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
7,261
  
 
 
6,876
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
 
36,983
  
 
 
15,444
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
679,731
  
 
 
602,775
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property, plant, and equipment, at cost
  
 
1,034,472
  
 
 
988,180
  

 Less accumulated depreciation and amortization
  
 
681,506
  
 
 
654,204
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net property, plant, and equipment
  
 
352,966
  
 
 
333,976
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Prepaid pension cost
  
 
11,494
  
 
 
8,597
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
35,805
  
 
 
21,974
  

 Other assets and deferred charges
  
 
73,619
  
 
 
48,893
  

 Intangibles (net of amortization) and goodwill
  
 
38,047
  
 
 
46,526
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL ASSETS
  
$
1,191,662
  
 
$
1,062,741
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  



 




 Current liabilities:
  



 




 Accounts payable
  
$
103,217
  
 
$
109,250
  

 Accrued expenses
  
 
78,546
  
 
 
71,558
  

 Dividends payable
  
 
8,529
  
 
 
5,304
  

 Book overdraft
  
 
1,680
  
 
 
1,063
  

 Long-term debt, current portion
  
 
10,966
  
 
 
4,369
  

 Income taxes payable
  
 
13,086
  
 
 
14,843
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
216,024
  
 
 
206,387
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Long-term debt
  
 
232,601
  
 
 
217,544
  

 Other noncurrent liabilities
  
 
193,444
  
 
 
147,170
  

 Commitments and contingencies (Note 18)
  



 




 Shareholders’ equity:
  



 




 Common stock and paid in capital (without par value; authorized shares—80,000,000; issued and outstanding—13,404,831 at
December 31, 2011 and 14,034,884 at December 31, 2010)
  
 
64
  
 
 
0
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
  
 
(98,732
) 
 
 
(73,820
) 

 Retained earnings
  
 
648,261
  
 
 
565,460
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
549,593
  
 
 
491,640
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  
$
1,191,662
  
 
$
1,062,741
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  42 


Table of Contents
NewMarket Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity 
 
























 
  
Common Stock andPaid in Capital
 
 
AccumulatedOther
ComprehensiveLoss
 
 
RetainedEarnings
 
 
TotalShareholders’
Equity
 

 
  
 
 
 

 
  
 
 
 

 
  
Shares
 
 
Amount
 
 
 
 

 
  
(in thousands, except share amounts)
 

 Balance at December 31, 2008
  
 
15,199,207
  
 
$
115
  
 
$
(95,750
) 
 
$
386,758
  
 
$
291,123
  

 Comprehensive income:
  



 



 



 



 




 Net income
  



 



 



 
 
162,283
  
 
 
162,283
  

 Changes in (net of tax):
  



 



 



 



 




 Foreign currency translation adjustments
  



 



 
 
17,816
  
 



 
 
17,816
  

 Pension plans and other postretirement benefit adjustments:
  



 



 



 



 




 Prior service cost
  



 



 
 
200
  
 



 
 
200
  

 Unrecognized actuarial gain
  



 



 
 
3,304
  
 



 
 
3,304
  

 Transition obligation
  



 



 
 
9
  
 



 
 
9
  

 Derivative net loss
  



 



 
 
(363
) 
 



 
 
(363
) 


  



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive income
  



 



 



 



 
 
183,249
  


  



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Cash dividends ($1.075 per share)
  



 



 



 
 
(16,347
) 
 
 
(16,347
) 

 Stock options exercised
  
 
9,000
  
 
 
40
  
 



 



 
 
40
  

 Issuance of stock
  
 
1,782
  
 
 
120
  
 



 



 
 
120
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
 
15,209,989
  
 
 
275
  
 
 
(74,784
) 
 
 
532,694
  
 
 
458,185
  

 Comprehensive income:
  



 



 



 



 




 Net income
  



 



 



 
 
177,125
  
 
 
177,125
  

 Changes in (net of tax):
  



 



 



 



 




 Foreign currency translation adjustments
  



 



 
 
(6,042
) 
 



 
 
(6,042
) 

 Pension plans and other postretirement benefit adjustments:
  



 



 



 



 




 Prior service cost
  



 



 
 
(523
) 
 



 
 
(523
) 

 Unrecognized actuarial gain
  



 



 
 
9,006
  
 



 
 
9,006
  

 Transition obligation
  



 



 
 
10
  
 



 
 
10
  

 Derivative net loss
  



 



 
 
(1,487
) 
 



 
 
(1,487
) 


  



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive income
  



 



 



 



 
 
178,089
  


  



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Cash dividends ($1.565 per share)
  



 



 



 
 
(22,608
) 
 
 
(22,608
) 

 Repurchases of common stock
  
 
(1,213,158
) 
 
 
(3,104
) 
 



 
 
(121,751
) 
 
 
(124,855
) 

 Stock options exercised
  
 
21,000
  
 
 
91
  
 



 



 
 
91
  

 Stock option tax benefit
  



 
 
711
  
 



 



 
 
711
  

 Issuance of stock
  
 
17,053
  
 
 
2,027
  
 



 



 
 
2,027
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
14,034,884
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(73,820
) 
 
 
565,460
  
 
 
491,640
  

 Comprehensive income:
  



 



 



 



 




 Net income
  



 



 



 
 
206,907
  
 
 
206,907
  

 Changes in (net of tax):
  



 



 



 



 




 Foreign currency translation adjustments
  



 



 
 
163
  
 



 
 
163
  

 Pension plans and other postretirement benefit adjustments:
  



 



 



 



 




 Prior service cost
  



 



 
 
260
  
 



 
 
260
  

 Unrecognized actuarial loss
  



 



 
 
(25,154
) 
 



 
 
(25,154
) 

 Transition obligation
  



 



 
 
40
  
 



 
 
40
  

 Derivative net loss
  



 



 
 
(585
) 
 



 
 
(585
) 

 Unrealized gain on marketable securities
  



 



 
 
364
  
 



 
 
364
  


  



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive income
  



 



 



 



 
 
181,995
  


  



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Cash dividends ($2.39 per share)
  



 



 



 
 
(32,588
) 
 
 
(32,588
) 

 Repurchases of common stock
  
 
(659,373
) 
 
 
(3,237
) 
 



 
 
(91,518
) 
 
 
(94,755
) 

 Stock options exercised
  
 
16,000
  
 
 
70
  
 



 



 
 
70
  

 Stock option tax benefit
  



 
 
1,102
  
 



 



 
 
1,102
  

 Issuance of stock
  
 
13,320
  
 
 
2,129
  
 



 



 
 
2,129
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
 
13,404,831
  
 
$
64
  
 
$
(98,732
) 
 
$
648,261
  
 
$
549,593
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  43 


Table of Contents
NewMarket Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
 
















 
 
Years Ended December 31
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
(in thousands)
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
 
$
49,192
  
 
$
151,831
  
 
$
21,761
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from operating activities
 



 



 




 Net income
 
 
206,907
  
 
 
177,125
  
 
 
162,283
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash flows from operating activities:
 



 



 




 Noncash foreign exchange loss (gain)
 
 
114
  
 
 
(603
) 
 
 
1,812
  

 Depreciation and other amortization
 
 
41,749
  
 
 
37,667
  
 
 
31,573
  

 Amortization of deferred financing costs
 
 
1,603
  
 
 
1,467
  
 
 
1,247
  

 Noncash pension benefits expense
 
 
13,719
  
 
 
13,911
  
 
 
13,578
  

 Noncash postretirement benefits expense
 
 
2,780
  
 
 
2,832
  
 
 
2,647
  

 Noncash environmental remediation and dismantling
 
 
1,321
  
 
 
3,554
  
 
 
4,177
  

 Deferred income tax expense
 
 
2,375
  
 
 
1,933
  
 
 
4,257
  

 Unrealized loss on derivative instruments—net
 
 
12,642
  
 
 
8,016
  
 
 
11,440
  

 Stock award
 
 
2,900
  
 
 
2,790
  
 
 
0
  

 Gain on legal settlement, net
 
 
(38,656
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Change in assets and liabilities:
 



 



 




 Trade and other accounts receivable, net
 
 
(16,225
) 
 
 
(34,815
) 
 
 
(66
) 

 Inventories
 
 
(33,154
) 
 
 
(74,852
) 
 
 
26,097
  

 Prepaid expenses
 
 
(13,721
) 
 
 
24,281
  
 
 
(30,893
) 

 Accounts payable and accrued expenses
 
 
1,976
  
 
 
11,718
  
 
 
30,740
  

 Income taxes payable
 
 
(887
) 
 
 
10,671
  
 
 
(2,870
) 

 Realized loss (gain) on derivative instruments, net
 
 
4,874
  
 
 
2,308
  
 
 
(92
) 

 Cash pension benefits contributions
 
 
(29,447
) 
 
 
(20,333
) 
 
 
(23,728
) 

 Cash postretirement benefits contributions
 
 
(1,929
) 
 
 
(1,835
) 
 
 
(1,280
) 

 Proceeds from legal settlement
 
 
25,000
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Change in book overdraft
 
 
617
  
 
 
(1,167
) 
 
 
1,231
  

 Excess tax benefits from stock-based payment arrangements
 
 
(1,102
) 
 
 
(711
) 
 
 
0
  

 Other, net
 
 
1,142
  
 
 
90
  
 
 
(6,478
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash provided from (used in) operating activities
 
 
184,598
  
 
 
164,047
  
 
 
225,675
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from investing activities
 



 



 




 Capital expenditures
 
 
(53,515
) 
 
 
(36,406
) 
 
 
(89,133
) 

 Deposits for interest rate swap
 
 
(46,467
) 
 
 
(44,072
) 
 
 
(38,730
) 

 Return of deposits for interest rate swap
 
 
33,600
  
 
 
36,180
  
 
 
23,460
  

 Payments on settlement of interest rate swap
 
 
(5,148
) 
 
 
(2,574
) 
 
 
0
  

 Receipts from settlement of interest rate swap
 
 
274
  
 
 
266
  
 
 
0
  

 Proceeds from sale of short-term investment
 
 
300
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Acquisition of business (net of cash acquired of $1.8 million in 2010)
 
 
0
  
 
 
(41,300
) 
 
 
0
  

 Deposits for interest rate lock agreement
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(5,000
) 

 Return of deposits for interest rate lock agreement
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
15,500
  

 Purchase of short-term investment
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(300
) 

 Foundry Park I deferred leasing costs
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,500
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash provided from (used in) investing activities
 
 
(70,956
) 
 
 
(87,906
) 
 
 
(95,703
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from financing activities
 



 



 




 Net borrowings (repayments) under revolving credit agreement
 
 
18,000
  
 
 
4,000
  
 
 
(41,900
) 

 Repayment on Foundry Park I mortgage loan
 
 
(2,731
) 
 
 
(2,125
) 
 
 
0
  

 Net borrowings under lines of credit
 
 
6,529
  
 
 
1,494
  
 
 
0
  

 Repayment of Foundry Park I construction loan
 
 
0
  
 
 
(99,102
) 
 
 
0
  

 Draws on Foundry Park I construction loan
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
55,603
  

 Borrowing under Foundry Park I mortgage loan
 
 
0
  
 
 
68,400
  
 
 
0
  

 Repurchases of common stock
 
 
(98,093
) 
 
 
(121,517
) 
 
 
0
  

 Dividends paid
 
 
(32,588
) 
 
 
(22,608
) 
 
 
(16,347
) 

 Debt issuance costs
 
 
(3,233
) 
 
 
(3,992
) 
 
 
(465
) 

 Proceeds from exercise of stock options
 
 
70
  
 
 
91
  
 
 
40
  

 Excess tax benefits from stock-based payment arrangements
 
 
1,102
  
 
 
711
  
 
 
0
  

 Payments on the capital lease
 
 
(144
) 
 
 
(835
) 
 
 
(784
) 

 Payment for financed intangible asset
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,000
) 
 
 
(1,000
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash provided from (used in) financing activities
 
 
(111,088
) 
 
 
(176,483
) 
 
 
(4,853
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents
 
 
(1,376
) 
 
 
(2,297
) 
 
 
4,951
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
1,178
  
 
 
(102,639
) 
 
 
130,070
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
 
$
50,370
  
 
$
49,192
  
 
$
151,831
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  44 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 


1.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
Consolidation—Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of NewMarket Corporation and its subsidiaries. All
intercompany transactions are eliminated upon consolidation. References to “we,” “our,” and “NewMarket” are to NewMarket Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, unless the context indicates otherwise.
 NewMarket is the parent company of two operating companies, each managing its own assets and liabilities. Those companies are Afton, which
focuses on petroleum additive products, and Ethyl, representing certain manufacturing operations and the TEL business. NewMarket is also the parent company of NewMarket Development, which manages the property and improvements that we own in
Richmond, Virginia, and NewMarket Services, which provides various administrative services to NewMarket, Afton, Ethyl, and NewMarket Development.  Certain reclassifications have been made to the accompanying consolidated financial statements and the related notes to conform to the current presentation. 
Foreign Currency Translation—We translate the balance sheets of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. Dollars based on the current exchange rate
at the end of each period. We translate the statements of income using the weighted-average exchange rates for the period. NewMarket includes translation adjustments in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as part of accumulated other comprehensive loss
and transaction adjustments in cost of sales.  Revenue Recognition—Our policy is to recognize revenue from the sale of products
when title and risk of loss have transferred to the buyer, the price is fixed and determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Provisions for rebates to customers are recorded in the same period the related sales are recorded. Freight
costs incurred on the delivery of product are included in cost of goods sold. The majority of our sales are sold FOB (“free on board”) shipping point or on a substantially equivalent basis. Our standard terms of delivery are included in
our contracts, sales order confirmation documents, and invoices.  We recognize rental revenue on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The cumulative difference between lease revenue recognized under this method and the contractual lease payment terms is recorded in “Other assets and deferred charges” on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents—Our cash equivalents generally consist of government obligations and commercial paper with original maturities of
90 days or less. Throughout the year, we have cash balances in excess of federally insured amounts on deposit with various financial institutions. We state cash and cash equivalents at cost, which approximates fair value. 
At both December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, we had a book overdraft for some of our disbursement cash accounts. A book overdraft
represents disbursements that have not cleared the bank accounts at the end of the reporting period. We transfer cash on an as-needed basis to fund these items as the items clear the bank in subsequent periods. 
Accounts Receivable—We record our accounts receivable at net realizable value. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated
losses resulting from our customers not making required payments. We determine the adequacy of the allowance by periodically evaluating each customer’s receivable balance, considering our customers’ financial condition and credit history,
and considering current economic conditions.  Inventories—NewMarket values its U.S. petroleum additives and TEL inventories at the
lower of cost or market, with cost determined on the last-in, first-out (LIFO) basis. In countries where the LIFO method is not permitted, we use the weighted-average method. Inventory cost includes raw materials, direct labor, and manufacturing
overhead. 
  45 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
Property, Plant, and Equipment—We state property, plant, and equipment at cost and compute
depreciation by the straight-line method based on the estimated useful lives of the assets. We capitalize expenditures for significant improvements that extend the useful life of the related property. We expense repairs and maintenance, including
plant turnaround costs, as incurred. When property is sold or retired, we remove the cost and accumulated depreciation from the accounts and any related gain or loss is included in earnings.  Our policy on capital leases is to record the asset at the lower of fair value at lease inception or the present value of the total minimum lease payments. We compute amortization by the straight-line
method over the lesser of the estimated economic life of the asset or the term of the lease.  Real Estate Development and Construction
Costs—We capitalize in property, plant, and equipment the costs associated with real estate development projects, including the cost of land, as well as development and construction costs. We also capitalize interest costs associated with
the project. Upon completion of the project, the accumulated depreciable costs are recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income over the estimated useful life of the asset.  Intangibles (Net of Amortization) and Goodwill—Identifiable intangibles include the cost of acquired contracts, formulas and technology, trademarks and trade names, and customer bases. We
assign a value to identifiable intangibles based on independent appraisals and internal estimates at the time of acquisition. NewMarket amortizes the cost of the customer bases by an accelerated method and the cost of the remaining identifiable
intangibles by the straight-line method over the estimated economic life of the intangible.  Goodwill arises from the excess of cost over net
assets of businesses acquired. Goodwill represents the residual purchase price after allocation to all identifiable net assets. We test goodwill for impairment each year and whenever a significant event or circumstance occurs which could reduce the
fair value of the reporting unit to which the goodwill applies below the carrying amount of the reporting unit.  Impairment of Long-Lived
Assets—When significant events or circumstances occur that might impair the value of long-lived assets, we evaluate recoverability of the recorded cost of these assets. Assets are considered to be impaired if their carrying amount is not
recoverable from the estimated undiscounted future cash flows associated with the assets. If we determine an asset is impaired and its recorded cost is higher than estimated fair market value based on the estimated present value of future cash
flows, we adjust the asset to estimated fair market value.  Asset Retirement Obligations—Asset retirement obligations, including
costs associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets, are recorded at the fair value of the liability for an asset retirement obligation when incurred instead of ratably over the life of the asset. The asset retirement costs must be
capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long-lived asset. If the liability is settled for an amount other than the recorded balance, we recognize either a gain or loss at settlement. 
Environmental Costs—NewMarket capitalizes environmental compliance costs if they extend the useful life of the related property or prevent
future contamination. Environmental compliance costs also include maintenance and operation of pollution prevention and control facilities. We expense these compliance costs as incurred.  Accrued environmental remediation and monitoring costs relate to an existing condition caused by past operations. NewMarket accrues these costs in current operations within cost of goods sold in the
Consolidated Statements of Income when it is probable that we have incurred a liability and the amount can be reasonably estimated. These estimates are based on an assessment of the site, available clean-up methods, and prior experience in handling
remediation. 
  46 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
When we can reliably determine the amount and timing of future cash flows, we discount these
liabilities, incorporating an inflation factor.  Legal Costs—We expense legal costs in the period incurred. 
Employee Savings Plan—Most of our full-time salaried and hourly employees may participate in defined contribution savings plans. Employees
who are covered by collective bargaining agreements may also participate in a savings plan according to the terms of their bargaining agreements. Employees, as well as NewMarket, contribute to the plans. We made contributions of $4 million in 2011,
as well as 2010, and $3 million in 2009 related to these plans.  Research, Development, and Testing Expenses—NewMarket expenses
all research, development, and testing costs as incurred. Of the total research, development, and testing expenses, those related to new products and processes were $51 million in 2011, $45 million in 2010, and $46 million in 2009. 
Income Taxes—We recognize deferred income taxes for temporary differences between the financial reporting basis and the income tax basis of
assets and liabilities. We also adjust for changes in tax rates and laws at the time the changes are enacted. A valuation allowance is recorded when it is more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will not be realized. We recognize accrued
interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions as part of income tax expense on our Consolidated Statements of Income.  We
generally provide for additional U.S. taxes that would be incurred when a foreign subsidiary returns its earnings in cash to the United States. Undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries for which U.S. taxes have not been provided
totaled approximately $177 million at December 31, 2011, $138 million at December 31, 2010, and $92 million at December 31, 2009. Deferred income taxes have not been provided on these earnings since we expect them to be
indefinitely reinvested abroad. Accordingly, no provision has been made for taxes that may be payable on the remittance of these earnings at December 31, 2011 or December 31, 2010. The determination of the amount of such unrecognized
deferred tax liability is not practicable.  Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities—We record all derivatives on
the balance sheet at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of derivatives depends on the intended use of the derivative, whether we have elected to designate a derivative in a hedging relationship and apply hedge accounting,
and whether the hedging relationship has satisfied the criteria necessary to apply hedge accounting. We may enter into derivative contracts that are intended to economically hedge certain of our risks, even though hedge accounting does not apply or
we elect not to apply hedge accounting. We do not enter into derivative instruments for speculative purposes.  Derivatives designated and
qualifying as a hedge of the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset, liability, or firm commitment attributable to a particular risk, such as interest rate risk, are considered fair value hedges. Derivatives designated and qualifying as a
hedge of the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. Derivatives may also be designated as hedges of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a
foreign operation.  Additional information on our derivatives and hedging activities is in Note 16. 
Stock-Based Compensation—When we issue stock options, we use an option-pricing model similar to Black-Scholes to estimate the fair value of
options and recognize the related costs in the financial statements. See Note 15 for further information on our stock-based compensation plan. 
  47 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
Investments—We classify current marketable securities as “available for sale” and
record them at fair value with the unrealized gains or losses, net of tax, included as a component of shareholders’ equity in accumulated other comprehensive loss. The fair value is determined based on quoted market prices. 
When a decline in the fair value of a marketable security is considered other than temporary, we write down the investment to estimated fair market value
with a corresponding charge to earnings.  Estimates and Risks Due to Concentration of Business—The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.  In addition, our financial results can be influenced by certain risk factors. Some of our
significant concentrations of risk include the following:   


 
•
 
 reliance on a small number of significant customers;   


 
•
 
 customers concentrated in the fuel and lubricant industries; 
 


 
•
 
 production of several of our products solely at one facility; and 
 


 
•
 
 cash balances in excess of federally insured amounts on deposit with various financial institutions. 
 


2.
Acquisition of Business 
On March 5, 2010, Afton Chemical Corporation completed the acquisition of 100% of Polartech for $43.1 million in cash. Polartech
is a global company specializing in the supply of metalworking additives. The acquisition agreement included all physical assets of the Polartech business including the headquarters, research and development, and manufacturing facilities in the
United Kingdom, as well as manufacturing sites in India, China, and the United States.  We performed a valuation of the assets acquired to
determine the purchase price allocation. This valuation resulted in the recognition of $6 million of identifiable intangibles, including formulas and technology, customer base, and trademarks/trade names. We also acquired property, plant, and
equipment of $28.4 million, as well as working capital.  As part of the acquisition, we recorded $4.2 million of goodwill. The goodwill
resulted from the cost of assets acquired exceeding the valuation of the assets and liabilities. All of the goodwill recognized is part of the petroleum additives segment, and none is deductible for tax purposes. 
Pro forma consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, assuming the acquisition had occurred
on January 1, 2010 or January 1, 2009, would not be materially different from the actual results reported for NewMarket for the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. 
  48 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 


3.
Earnings Per Share 
Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated as follows: 
 
















 
  
Years Ended December 31
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Basic earnings per share
  



  



  




 Numerator:
  



  



  




 Net income
  
$
206,907
  
  
$
177,125
  
  
$
162,283
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Denominator:
  



  



  




 Weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding
  
 
13,707
  
  
 
14,619
  
  
 
15,206
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Basic earnings per share
  
$
15.10
  
  
$
12.12
  
  
$
10.67
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted earnings per share
  



  



  




 Numerator:
  



  



  




 Net income
  
$
206,907
  
  
$
177,125
  
  
$
162,283
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Denominator:
  



  



  




 Weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding
  
 
13,707
  
  
 
14,619
  
  
 
15,206
  

 Shares issuable upon exercise of stock options
  
 
5
  
  
 
31
  
  
 
37
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total shares
  
 
13,712
  
  
 
14,650
  
  
 
15,243
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted earnings per share
  
$
15.09
  
  
$
12.09
  
  
$
10.65
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Options are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share when the option exercise price exceeds the
average market price of the underlying common share, as the impact on earnings per share would be anti-dilutive. We had no anti-dilutive options that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per share for any period presented. 
 


4.
Supplemental Cash Flow Information 
 
















 
  
Years Ended December 31
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Cash paid during the year for
  



  



  




 Interest and financing expenses (net of capitalization)
  
$
17,329
  
  
$
15,884
  
  
$
12,456
  

 Income taxes
  
$
96,919
  
  
$
59,949
  
  
$
94,093
  

  49 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 


5.
Trade and Other Accounts Receivable, Net 
 












 
  
December 31
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Trade receivables
  
$
254,959
  
 
$
234,233
  

 Income tax receivables
  
 
5,755
  
 
 
15,146
  

 Other tax receivables
  
 
5,060
  
 
 
4,928
  

 Innospec Inc. settlement receivable
  
 
5,015
  
 
 
0
  

 Other
  
 
8,059
  
 
 
4,174
  

 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
 
(516
) 
 
 
(733
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
278,332
  
 
$
257,748
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Bad debt write-offs totaled $628 thousand in 2011 and $0 in 2010 and 2009. The allowance for doubtful accounts amounted
to $1.2 million at December 31, 2009. The change in the allowance for doubtful accounts between 2009 and 2010 primarily reflected our evaluation of certain higher risk customer receivables, all of which were current at December 31, 2010,
as well as allowances for disputed invoiced prices and quantities. The change in the allowance for doubtful accounts between 2010 and 2011 reflects our evaluation of certain higher risk customer receivables (all of which were current at
December 31, 2011), bad debt write-offs, and allowances for disputed invoiced prices and quantities.   


6.
Inventories 
 












 
  
December 31
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Finished goods and work-in-process
  
$
249,826
  
  
$
215,764
  

 Raw materials
  
 
50,037
  
  
 
50,853
  

 Stores, supplies, and other
  
 
6,922
  
  
 
6,598
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
306,785
  
  
$
273,215
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The reserve for obsolete and slow moving inventory amounted to $2 million at December 31, 2011 and $3 million at
December 31, 2010. These amounts are included in the table above.  Our foreign inventories amounted to $203 million at year-end 2011 and
$178 million at year-end 2010.  Our U.S. inventories, which are stated on the LIFO basis, amounted to $98 million at year-end 2011, which was
below replacement cost by approximately $65 million. At year-end 2010, LIFO basis inventories were $83 million, which was approximately $49 million below replacement cost.  During 2011, the TEL and raw material petroleum additives inventory quantities were reduced resulting in a liquidation of LIFO layers. The effect of these liquidations increased net income $300 thousand
with $200 thousand from petroleum additives and $100 thousand from TEL. During 2010, the TEL inventory quantities were reduced resulting in a liquidation of LIFO layers. The effect of this liquidation increased net income by $200 thousand in 2010.

  50 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 


7.
Prepaid Expenses and Other Current Assets 
 












 
  
December 31
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Income taxes on intercompany profit
  
$
17,998
  
  
$
5,673
  

 Dividend funding
  
 
8,529
  
  
 
5,304
  

 Marketable securities—Innospec Inc. settlement
  
 
5,208
  
  
 
0
  

 Insurance
  
 
2,661
  
  
 
2,380
  

 Other
  
 
2,587
  
  
 
2,087
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
36,983
  
  
$
15,444
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


8.
Property, Plant, and Equipment, At Cost 
 












 
  
December 31
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Land
  
$
42,771
  
  
$
39,302
  

 Land improvements
  
 
31,112
  
  
 
31,366
  

 Leasehold improvements
  
 
1,333
  
  
 
1,278
  

 Buildings
  
 
186,960
  
  
 
174,328
  

 Machinery and equipment
  
 
748,051
  
  
 
712,829
  

 Construction in progress
  
 
24,245
  
  
 
29,077
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
1,034,472
  
  
$
988,180
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 We depreciate the cost of property, plant, and equipment by the straight-line method and primarily over the following
useful lives:   








 Land improvements
  
 
5 - 30 years
  

 Buildings
  
 
10 - 50 years
  

 Machinery and equipment
  
 
3 - 15 years
  
 At both December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, assets held for lease and included in the table above, include
$3 million of land, $2 million of land improvements, $66 million of buildings, and $38 million of machinery and equipment. Accumulated depreciation on these assets was $8 million at December 31, 2011 and $4 million at December 31, 2010.
All of these assets represent the assets of Foundry Park I.  Interest capitalized was $500 thousand in 2011, $400 thousand in 2010, and $2.0
million in 2009. Of the total amount capitalized in 2009, $1.5 million related to the construction of the office building by Foundry Park I. Capitalized interest is amortized generally over the same lives as the asset to which it relates.
Depreciation expense was $33 million in 2011, $29 million in 2010, and $23 million in 2009. Amortization of capitalized interest, which is included in depreciation expense, was $300 thousand in 2011, as well as 2010, and $200 thousand in 2009.

  51 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 


9.
Other Assets and Deferred Charges 
 












 
  
December 31
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Interest rate swap deposits
  
$
36,041
  
  
$
23,175
  

 Innospec Inc. settlement receivable
  
 
10,030
  
  
 
0
  

 Deferred financing costs, net of amortization
  
 
6,795
  
  
 
6,165
  

 Asbestos insurance receivables
  
 
6,345
  
  
 
8,489
  

 Foundry Park I deferred leasing costs
  
 
4,597
  
  
 
4,997
  

 Other
  
 
9,811
  
  
 
6,067
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
73,619
  
  
$
48,893
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 We incurred $3 million of additional financing fees in 2011 primarily related to the consents we obtained from the senior
note holders related to the change in the formula for calculating the capacity to make restricted payments under the senior notes. We immediately expensed $1 million of the additional financing fees and deferred the remaining $2 million, recognizing
amortization expense of $1 million during 2011. The accumulated amortization on the deferred financing costs relating to our 7.125% senior notes, mortgage loan, and current senior credit facility was $3 million at December 31, 2011 and $2
million at December 31, 2010. See Note 12 for further information on our long-term debt and Note 16 for further information on interest rate swaps.   


10.
Intangibles (Net of Amortization) and Goodwill 
 




















 
  
December 31
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
GrossCarryingAmount
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
  
GrossCarryingAmount
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 

 Amortizing intangible assets
  



  



  



  




 Formulas and technology
  
$
91,552
  
  
$
69,387
  
  
$
91,487
  
  
$
64,013
  

 Contracts
  
 
16,380
  
  
 
12,139
  
  
 
16,380
  
  
 
9,650
  

 Customer bases
  
 
7,050
  
  
 
1,855
  
  
 
7,040
  
  
 
1,276
  

 Trademarks and trade names
  
 
1,609
  
  
 
295
  
  
 
1,600
  
  
 
133
  

 Goodwill
  
 
5,132
  
  



  
 
5,091
  
  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
121,723
  
  
$
83,676
  
  
$
121,598
  
  
$
75,072
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Aggregate amortization expense
   
  
$
8,604
  
  



  
$
8,767
  


  



  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
 The goodwill in both 2011 and 2010 relates to the 2010 purchase by Afton of Polartech, as well as the 2008 acquisition by
Afton of the North American Fuel Additives Business from GE Water and Process Technologies. The Polartech acquisition resulted in goodwill of $4.2 million, while the GE Water and Process Technologies acquisition resulted in goodwill of approximately
$900 thousand. The change in the goodwill amount between 2010 and 2011 is due to foreign currency fluctuations.  The fair value of intangible
assets is estimated at the time of acquisition based upon management’s assessment, as well as independent third-party appraisals in some cases. All of the intangibles relate to the petroleum additives segment. There is no accumulated goodwill
impairment. 
  52 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
Estimated amortization expense for the next five years is expected to be: 
 








 •    2012
    
$
7,421
  

 •    2013
    
$
7,108
  

 •    2014
    
$
6,163
  

 •    2015
    
$
5,790
  

 •    2016
    
$
1,936
  
 Generally, we amortize the cost of the customer base intangibles by an accelerated method and the cost of the remaining
intangible assets by the straight-line method over their estimated economic lives. We generally amortize contracts over 1.5 to 10 years and formulas and technology over 5 to 20 years. Trademarks and trade names are amortized over 10 years.
  


11.
Accrued Expenses 
 












 
  
December 31
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Employee benefits, payroll, and related taxes
  
$
26,255
  
  
$
25,214
  

 Customer rebates
  
 
21,414
  
  
 
16,160
  

 Environmental remediation
  
 
3,281
  
  
 
2,823
  

 Interest rate swap
  
 
2,366
  
  
 
2,395
  

 Environmental dismantling
  
 
283
  
  
 
0
  

 Other
  
 
24,947
  
  
 
24,966
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
78,546
  
  
$
71,558
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Environmental remediation and environmental dismantling includes asset retirement obligations recorded at a discount.
  


12.
Long-Term Debt 
 












 
  
December 31
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Senior notes—7.125% due 2016
  
$
150,000
  
 
$
150,000
  

 Foundry Park I mortgage loan—due 2015
  
 
63,544
  
 
 
66,275
  

 Revolving credit agreement
  
 
22,000
  
 
 
4,000
  

 Lines of credit
  
 
8,023
  
 
 
1,494
  

 Capital lease obligations
  
 
0
  
 
 
144
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
243,567
  
 
 
221,913
  

 Current maturities of long-term debt
  
 
(10,966
) 
 
 
(4,369
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
232,601
  
 
$
217,544
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Senior Notes—The 7.125% senior notes are our senior unsecured obligations and are jointly and severally
guaranteed on an unsecured basis by all existing and future domestic restricted subsidiaries wholly-owned by NewMarket. The 7.125% senior notes are due in 2016. We incurred financing costs of approximately $3 million in 2006 related to the 7.125%
senior notes, which are being amortized over the term of the agreement. We incurred additional financing costs of approximately $3 million in 2011 for the consents we obtained from the 
  53 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 

senior note holders related to the change in the formula for calculating the capacity to make restricted payments under the senior notes. Of the $3 million incurred in 2011, $1 million was
expensed immediately, with the remaining fees being amortized over the remaining term of the agreement.  The 7.125% senior notes and the
subsidiary guarantees rank:   


 
•
 
 effectively junior to all of our and the guarantors’ existing and future secured indebtedness, including any borrowings under the senior credit
facility described below;   


 
•
 
 equal in right of payment with any of our and the guarantors’ existing and future unsecured senior indebtedness; and 
 


 
•
 
 senior in right of payment to any of our and the guarantors’ existing and future subordinated indebtedness. 
The indenture governing the 7.125% senior notes contains covenants that, among other things, limit our ability and the ability of our restricted
subsidiaries to:   


 
•
 
 incur additional indebtedness;   


 
•
 
 create liens;   


 
•
 
 pay dividends or repurchase capital stock;   


 
•
 
 make certain investments;   


 
•
 
 sell assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies; and 
 


 
•
 
 engage in transactions with affiliates.  The more restrictive and significant of the covenants under the indenture include a minimum fixed charge ratio of 2.00, as well as a limitation on restricted payments, as defined in the indenture.
 We were in compliance with all covenants under the indenture governing the 7.125% senior notes as of December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010.  Senior Credit Facility—On November 12, 2010, we entered into a Credit Agreement (Credit Agreement).
The Credit Agreement provides for a $300 million, multicurrency revolving credit facility, with a $100 million sublimit for multicurrency borrowings, a $100 million sublimit for letters of credit, and a $20 million sublimit for swingline loans. The
Credit Agreement includes an expansion feature, which allows us, subject to certain conditions, to request to increase the aggregate amount of the revolving credit facility or obtain incremental term loans in an amount up to $150 million.
 At December 31, 2011, we had outstanding letters of credit of $6.1 million and borrowings of $22.0 million, resulting in the unused
portion of the senior credit facility amounting to $271.9 million. For further information on the outstanding letters of credit, see Note 18. 
We paid financing costs in 2010 of approximately $2.5 million related to this agreement and carried over deferred financing costs from our previous
revolving credit agreement of approximately $700 thousand, resulting in total deferred financing costs of $3.2 million, which we are amortizing over the term of the Credit Agreement.  The obligations under the Credit Agreement are unsecured and are fully guaranteed by NewMarket and the subsidiary guarantors. The revolving credit facility matures on November 12, 2015. 
  54 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
Borrowings made under the revolving credit facility bear interest at an annual rate equal to, at our
election, either (1) the ABR plus the Applicable Rate (solely in the case of loans denominated in U.S. dollars to NewMarket) or (2) the Adjusted LIBO Rate plus the Applicable Rate. ABR is the greatest of (i) the rate of interest
publicly announced by the Administrative Agent as its prime rate, (ii) the federal funds effective rate from time to time plus 0.5% or (iii) the Adjusted LIBO Rate for a one month interest period plus 1%. The Adjusted LIBO Rate means the
rate at which Eurocurrency deposits in the London interbank market for certain periods (as selected by NewMarket) are quoted, as adjusted for statutory reserve requirements for Eurocurrency liabilities and other applicable mandatory costs. Depending
on our consolidated Leverage Ratio, the Applicable Rate ranges from 1.00% to 1.50% for loans bearing interest based on the ABR and from 2.00% to 2.50% for loans bearing interest based on the Adjusted LIBO Rate. At December 31, 2011, the
Applicable Rate was 1.00% for loans bearing interest based on the ABR and 2.00% for loans bearing interest based on the Adjusted LIBO Rate. Our average interest rate under the Credit Agreement was 2.9% during 2011. At December 31, 2011, the
interest rate was 4.25%.  The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants that require NewMarket to maintain a consolidated Leverage Ratio
of no more than 3.00 to 1.00 and a consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of no less than 3.00 to 1.00, as of the end of each fiscal quarter ending on and after December 31, 2010. 
We were in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. 
Mortgage Loan Agreement—On January 28, 2010, Foundry Park I entered into a mortgage loan agreement in the amount of $68.4 million. The
loan, which is collateralized by the Foundry Park I office building, is for a period of five years, with two thirteen-month extension options. NewMarket Corporation is fully guaranteeing the loan. The mortgage loan bears interest at a variable rate
of LIBOR plus a margin of 400 basis points. At December 31, 2011, the interest rate was 4.27%. Principal payments on the loan are being made monthly based on a 15 year amortization schedule, with all remaining amounts due in five years, unless
we exercise the extension options. We incurred financing costs of $1.5 million related to the mortgage loan, which are being amortized over the initial term of the agreement.  Concurrently with the closing of the mortgage loan, Foundry Park I obtained an interest rate swap to effectively convert the variable interest rate in the loan to a fixed interest rate by setting LIBOR at
2.642% for five years. Further information on the interest rate swap is in Note 16.  Other Borrowings—One of our subsidiaries in
India has a short-term line of credit of 110 million Rupees for working capital purposes. The average interest rate was approximately 10.8% during 2011 and 9.8% during 2010. At December 31, 2011 the interest rate was 11.1%. The outstanding
balance on the India line of credit of $1.7 million (90 million Rupees) at December 31, 2011 is due during 2012. Another subsidiary in China has a short-term line of credit of $10 million with an outstanding balance of $6.3 million at
December 31, 2011. The average interest rate was approximately 2.3% during 2011 and 2.5% at December 31, 2011. The outstanding balance on the China line of credit is due during 2012. 
We recorded our capital lease obligations at the lower of fair market value of the related asset at the inception of the lease or the present value of
the total minimum lease payments. The capital lease obligation of approximately $100 thousand was paid off in 2011. 
  55 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
Principal debt payments for the next five years are scheduled as follows: 
 








 •    2012
    
$
11.0 million
  

 •    2013
    
$
 3.2 million
  

 •    2014
    
$
 3.4 million
  

 •    2015
    
$
76.0 million
  

 •    2016
    
$
150.0 million
  
  


13.
Other Noncurrent Liabilities 
 












 
  
December 31
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Employee benefits
  
$
120,558
  
  
$
90,584
  

 Interest rate swaps
  
 
33,424
  
  
 
19,717
  

 Environmental remediation
  
 
18,467
  
  
 
19,632
  

 Asbestos litigation reserve
  
 
9,389
  
  
 
12,030
  

 Environmental dismantling
  
 
337
  
  
 
478
  

 Other
  
 
11,269
  
  
 
4,729
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
193,444
  
  
$
147,170
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The increase in employee benefits primarily reflects the deterioration in the funded status of our pension and
postretirement plans. See Note 19 for further information on these employee benefit plans. Environmental remediation and environmental dismantling include our asset retirement obligations. Further information on the interest rate swaps is in Note
16.   


14.
Asset Retirement Obligations 
Our asset retirement obligations are related primarily to past TEL operations. The following table illustrates the 2011, 2010, and 2009
activity associated with our asset retirement obligations.   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Asset retirement obligations, beginning of year
  
$
2,975
  
  
$
3,031
  
 
$
3,009
  

 Liabilities incurred
  
 
100
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
2,000
  

 Accretion expense
  
 
165
  
  
 
139
  
 
 
168
  

 Liabilities settled
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
(1,539
) 

 Changes in expected cash flows and timing
  
 
57
  
  
 
(195
) 
 
 
(607
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Asset retirement obligations, end of year
  
$
3,297
  
  
$
2,975
  
 
$
3,031
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


15.
Stock-Based Compensation 
The 2004 Incentive Compensation and Stock Plan (the Plan) was approved on May 24, 2004. Any employee of our company or an
affiliate or a person who is a member of our board of directors or the board of directors of an affiliate is eligible to participate in the Plan if the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the Administrator), in its sole discretion,
determines that such person has contributed significantly or can be expected to contribute significantly to the profits or growth of our company or its affiliates (each, a participant). Under the terms of the Plan, we may grant participants stock
awards, incentive awards, or options (which may be either 
  56 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 

incentive stock options or nonqualified stock options), or stock appreciation rights (SARs), which may be granted with a related option. Stock options entitle the participant to purchase a
specified number of shares of our common stock at a price that is fixed by the Administrator at the time the option is granted; provided, however, that the price cannot be less than the shares’ fair market value on the date of grant. The
maximum period in which an option may be exercised is fixed by the Administrator at the time the option is granted but, in the case of an incentive stock option, cannot exceed ten years.  The maximum aggregate number of shares of our common stock that may be issued under the Plan is 1,500,000. During 2011, 18,930 shares of our common stock were issued under the Plan resulting in 1,451,335
shares being available for grant at December 31, 2011. No participant may be granted or awarded in any calendar year options or SARs covering more than 200,000 shares of our common stock in the aggregate. For purposes of this limitation and the
individual limitation on the grant of options, an option and corresponding SAR are treated as a single award.  Of the 18,930 shares of common
stock issued during 2011 under the Plan, 702 shares were to six of our non-employee directors with an aggregate fair value of $120 thousand at the issue date of July 1, 2011. The fair value of the shares was based on the closing price of our
common stock on the day prior to the date of issue. We recognized expense of $120 thousand related to the issuance of this common stock. The remaining 18,228 shares issued during 2011 under the Plan related to a stock award granted on
August 15, 2011. The shares issued under this award vested immediately; however, the stock may not be sold or otherwise transferred until August 15, 2012. We recognized expense of $2.9 million related to the issuance of the shares under
the stock award, based on the closing price of our common stock on the date of the stock award.  At December 31, 2010, we had 16,000
outstanding options to purchase shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $4.35 per share. These outstanding options became exercisable over a stated period of time. These previously granted outstanding options were awarded under
Ethyl’s 1982 Stock Option Plan, which terminated in March 2004, and pursuant to which no further options may be granted. None of these options included an associated SAR. These options were exercised during 2011. 
A summary of activity during 2011 in NewMarket’s stock option plan is presented below in whole shares: 
 




















 
  
WholeShares
 
 
WeightedAverageExercisePrice
 
  
WeightedAverageRemainingContractualTermin Years
 
  
AggregateIntrinsicValue(in thousands)
 

 Outstanding at January 1, 2011
  
 
16,000
  
 
$
4.35
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
(16,000
) 
 
 
4.35
  
  



  
$
2,805
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
  
 
0
  
 
$
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
$
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Exercisable at December 31, 2011
  
 
0
  
 
$
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
$
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 We have neither granted nor modified any stock option awards in 2011, 2010, or 2009. The total intrinsic value of options
exercised was $3 million for 2011, $2 million for 2010, and $500 thousand for 2009.  We recognized a tax benefit of $1 million on the $4.35
options for 2011 and $700 thousand for 2010. We recognized no tax benefit for 2009. There was no unrecognized compensation cost during 2011, 2010, or 2009. 
  57 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 


16.
Derivatives and Hedging Activities 
We are exposed to certain risks arising from both our business operations and economic conditions. We primarily manage our exposures to
a wide variety of business and operational risks through management of our core business activities.  We manage certain economic risks,
including interest rate, liquidity, and credit risk primarily by managing the amount, sources, and duration of our debt funding, as well as through the use of derivative financial instruments. Specifically, we have entered into interest rate swaps
to manage our exposure to interest rate movements.  Our foreign operations expose us to fluctuations of foreign exchange rates. These
fluctuations may impact the value of our cash receipts and payments as compared to our reporting currency, the U.S. Dollar. To manage this exposure, we sometimes enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize currency exposure due to cash
flows from foreign operations.  Cash Flow Hedge of Interest Rate Risk  In January 2010, we entered into an interest rate swap to manage our exposure to interest rate movements on the Foundry Park I mortgage loan and to reduce variability in interest expense. Further
information on the mortgage loan is in Note 12. We also had an interest rate swap to manage our exposure to interest rate movements on the Foundry Park I construction loan and add stability to capitalized interest expense. The Foundry Park I
construction loan interest rate swap matured on January 1, 2010. Both interest rate swaps are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge. As such, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the swaps is recorded in accumulated other
comprehensive loss and is subsequently reclassified into earnings in the period that the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. Any ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of the swap is recognized immediately in earnings. We
assess the effectiveness of the mortgage loan interest rate swap quarterly, just as we assessed the effectiveness of the construction loan interest rate swap quarterly, by comparing the changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging instrument
with the change in present value of the expected future cash flows of the hedged transaction.  Both interest rate swaps involve the receipt of
variable-rate amounts based on LIBOR in exchange for fixed-rate payments over the life of the agreement without exchange of the underlying notional amount. The fixed-rate payments are at a rate of 2.642% for the mortgage loan interest rate swap,
while the fixed-rate payments on the construction loan interest rate swap were at a rate of 4.975%. The notional amount of the mortgage loan interest rate swap was approximately $68 million at origination, $64 million at December 31, 2011, and
$66 million at December 31, 2010. The notional amount of the mortgage loan interest rate swap amortizes to approximately $54 million over the term of the swap. The amortizing notional amount is necessary to maintain the swap notional at an
amount that matches the declining mortgage loan principal balance over the loan term. The mortgage loan interest swap matures on January 29, 2015. The notional amount of the construction loan interest rate swap was approximately $94 million at
December 31, 2009, just prior to its January 1, 2010 maturity.  The unrealized loss, net of tax, related to the fair value of the
mortgage loan interest rate swap is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss in shareholders’ equity on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and amounted to approximately $2.2 million at December 31, 2011 and $1.5 million at
December 31, 2010. The unrealized loss, net of tax, related to the fair value of the construction loan interest rate swap and recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss amounted to approximately $37 thousand at December 31, 2009.
This amount was settled on January 1, 2010. Also recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss in shareholders’ equity on the Consolidated Balance Sheets was the accumulated losses related to the construction loan
interest rate swap. This amounted to approximately $2.6 million, net of tax, at both December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. The amounts remaining in accumulated other comprehensive loss

  58 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 

related to the construction loan interest rate swap are being recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income over the depreciable life of the office building beginning in January 2010.
Approximately $900 thousand, net of tax, currently recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to both the construction loan interest rate swap and the mortgage loan interest rate swap is expected to be reclassified into earnings over
the next twelve months.  Non-designated Hedges  On June 25, 2009, we entered into an interest rate swap with Goldman Sachs in the notional amount of $97 million and with a maturity date of January 19, 2022 (Goldman Sachs interest rate swap).
NewMarket entered into the Goldman Sachs interest rate swap in connection with the termination of a loan application and related rate lock agreement between Foundry Park I and Principal Commercial Funding II, LLC (Principal). When the rate lock
agreement was originally executed in 2007, Principal simultaneously entered into an interest rate swap with a third party to hedge Principal’s exposure to fluctuation in the ten-year United States Treasury Bond rate. Upon the termination on
June 25, 2009 of the rate lock agreement, Goldman Sachs both assumed Principal’s position with the third party and entered into an offsetting interest rate swap with NewMarket. Under the terms of this interest rate swap, NewMarket is
making fixed rate payments at 5.3075% and Goldman Sachs will make variable rate payments based on three-month LIBOR. We have collateralized this exposure through cash deposits posted with Goldman Sachs amounting to $36 million at December 31,
2011 and $23 million at December 31, 2010. This transaction effectively preserves the impact of the original rate lock agreement for the possible application to a future loan of a similar structure. 
We elected not to use hedge accounting for the Goldman Sachs interest rate swap and therefore, immediately recognize any change in the fair value of this
derivative financial instrument directly in earnings.  The table below presents the fair value of our derivative financial instruments, as
well as their classification on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. 
Fair Value of Derivative Instruments   




























 
 
Asset Derivatives
 
 
 Liability Derivatives
 

  
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 
 
 December 31, 2011
 
 
 December 31, 2010
 

  
 
 BalanceSheet Location
 
Fair Value
 
 
BalanceSheet Location
 
Fair Value
 
 
 Balance
Sheet Location
 
Fair Value
 
 
 Balance
Sheet Location
 
Fair Value
 

 Derivatives Designated as Hedging Instruments
 

 



 

 



 
Accrued expenses and Other noncurrent liabilities
 



 
Accrued expenses and Other noncurrent liabilities
 




 Mortgage loan interest rate swap
 

 
$
0
  
 

 
$
0
  
 
 
$
3,692
  
 
 
$
2,656
  


 

 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 











 Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments
 

 



 

 



 
 Accrued expenses and Other noncurrent liabilities
 



 
 Accrued expenses and Other noncurrent liabilities
 




 Goldman Sachs interest rate swap
 

 
$
0
  
 

 
$
0
  
 
 
$
32,098
  
 
 
$
19,456
  


 

 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 

  59 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
The total fair value reflected in the table above includes amounts recorded in accrued expenses of
approximately $130 thousand at both December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 for the mortgage loan interest rate swap and approximately $2 million at both December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 for the Goldman Sachs rate swap. 
The tables below present the effect of our derivative financial instruments on the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Effect of Derivative Instruments on the Consolidated Statements of Income 
Designated Cash Flow Hedges   












































 Derivatives inCash FlowHedgingRelationship
 
Amount of Gain (Loss)Recognized in OCI
onDerivative (Effective Portion)
 
 
 Location ofGain
(Loss)ReclassifiedfromAccumulatedOCI intoIncome(EffectivePortion)
 
Amount of Gain (Loss)Reclassified fromAccumulated OCI
intoIncome (Effective Portion)
 
 
 Location ofGain
(Loss)Recognizedin Income onDerivative(IneffectivePortion andAmountExcludedfromEffectivenessTesting)
 
Amount of Gain (Loss)Recognized in Incomeon
Derivative(Ineffective Portion andAmount Excluded fromEffectiveness Testing)
 

 
 
December 31
 
 
 
 
December 31
 
 
 
 
December 31
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Mortgage loan interestrateswap
 
$
(2,627
) 
 
$
(4,012
) 
 
$
0
  
 
Interest and financing expenses
 
$
(1,584
) 
 
$
(1,493
) 
 
$
0
  
 

 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Construction loan interestrateswap
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
(583
) 
 
Cost of rental
 
$
(85
) 
 
$
(85
) 
 
$
0
  
 
Other expense, net
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
92
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Effect of Derivative Instruments on the Consolidated Statements of Income 
Not Designated Derivatives   


















 Derivatives Not Designated as
Hedging Instruments
  
 Location of Gain (Loss)
Recognized in Income on Derivatives
  
Amount of Gain (Loss) Recognized inIncome on Derivatives
 

 
  
 
  
December 31
 

 
  
 
  
     2011     
 
 
     2010     
 
 
     2009     
 

 Goldman Sachs interest rate swap
  
Other expense, net
  
$
(17,516
) 
 
$
(10,324
) 
 
$
(11,440
) 


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Credit-risk-related Contingent Features  We have agreements with both of our current derivative counterparties that contain a provision where we could be declared in default on our derivative obligations if repayment of indebtedness is
accelerated by the lender due to our default on the indebtedness. 
  60 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
As of December 31, 2011, the fair value of derivatives in a net liability position, which includes
accrued interest but excludes any adjustment for nonperformance risk, related to these agreements was $35 million. We have minimum collateral posting thresholds with one of our derivative counterparties and have posted cash collateral of $36 million
as of December 31, 2011. If required, we could have settled our obligations under the agreements at their termination value of $35 million at December 31, 2011. 
 


17.
Fair Value Measurements 
The following table provides information on assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis. No events occurred
during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, requiring adjustment to the recognized balances of assets or liabilities which are recorded at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. 
 
























 
  
CarryingAmount inConsolidatedBalance Sheets
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
Fair Value Measurements Using
 

 
  
  
  
  Level 1  
 
  
  Level 2  
 
  
  Level 3  
 

 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
50,370
  
  
$
50,370
  
  
$
50,370
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  

 Marketable securities
  
 
5,208
  
  
 
5,208
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
5,208
  
  
 
0
  

 Interest rate swaps liability
  
 
35,790
  
  
 
35,790
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
35,790
  
  
 
0
  




 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
49,192
  
  
$
49,192
  
  
$
49,192
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  

 Short-term investments
  
 
300
  
  
 
300
  
  
 
300
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Interest rate swaps liability
  
 
22,112
  
  
 
22,112
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
22,112
  
  
 
0
  
 We determine the fair value of the derivative instruments shown in the table above by using widely-accepted valuation
techniques, including discounted cash flow analysis on the expected cash flows of each instrument. The analysis reflects the contractual terms of the derivatives, including the period to maturity, and uses observable market-based inputs. 
The fair value of the interest rate swaps is determined using the market standard methodology of netting the discounted future fixed cash receipts and
the discounted expected variable cash payments. The variable cash payments are based on an expectation of future interest rates derived from observable market interest rate curves. In determining the fair value measurements, we incorporate credit
valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect both our nonperformance risk and the counterparties’ nonperformance risk.  Although we
have determined that the majority of the inputs used to value our derivatives fall within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, the credit valuation adjustment associated with the derivatives utilizes Level 3 inputs. These Level 3 inputs include
estimates of current credit spreads to evaluate the likelihood of default by both us and the counterparties to the derivatives. As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, we have assessed the significance of the impact of the credit
valuation adjustment on the overall valuation of our derivatives and have determined that the credit valuation adjustment is not significant to the overall valuation of the derivatives. Accordingly, we have determined that our derivative valuations
should be classified in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.  The marketable securities in the table above represent the 195,313 shares of
unregistered Innospec Inc. common stock that we own. See Note 18 for further information. The fair value of the common stock is determined using the closing market price of Innospec Inc. common stock at December 31, 2011, discounted for
transfer restrictions on the shares. While the Innospec Inc. common stock is traded on a national exchange and the market 
  61 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 

price is a Level 1 input in the fair value hierarchy, the discount factor utilizes Level 3 inputs. We have assessed the significance of the impact of the discount factor adjustment on the overall
valuation of the marketable securities and have determined that it is not significant to the overall valuation of the marketable securities. Accordingly, we have determined that our marketable securities valuation should be classified in Level 2 of
the fair value hierarchy as the valuation relies on quoted prices for similar assets in an active market.  Long-Term Debt—We
record the value of our long-term debt at historical cost. The estimated fair value of our long-term debt is shown in the table below and is based primarily on estimated current rates available to us for debt of the same remaining duration and
adjusted for nonperformance risk and credit risk.   




















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
CarryingAmount
 
  
FairValue
 
  
CarryingAmount
 
  
FairValue
 

 Long-term debt, including current maturities
  
$
243,567
  
  
$
252,557
  
  
$
221,913
  
  
$
230,393
  
  


18.
Commitments and Contingencies 
Contractual Commitments—NewMarket has operating lease agreements primarily for office space, transportation equipment, and
storage facilities. Rental expense was $24 million in 2011, $22 million in 2010, and $19 million in 2009.  Future lease payments for all
noncancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2011 are:   








 •   2012
  
$
 9 million
  

 •   2013
  
$
 6 million
  

 •   2014
  
$
 5 million
  

 •   2015
  
$
 2 million
  

 •   2016
  
$
 1 million
  

 •   After 2016
  
$
 1 million
  
 We have contractual obligations for the construction of assets, as well as purchases of property and equipment of
approximately $7 million at December 31, 2011.  Raw Material Purchase Obligations—We have raw material purchase obligations
over the next five years amounting to approximately $256 million at December 31, 2011 for agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable, and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum
quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Raw material purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable without penalty. Purchase orders made in the ordinary
course of business are excluded from this amount. Any amounts for which we are liable under purchase orders are reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as accounts payable and accrued expenses. 
Litigation—We are involved in legal proceedings that are incidental to our business and include administrative or judicial actions seeking
remediation under environmental laws, such as Superfund. Some of these legal proceedings relate to environmental matters and involve governmental authorities. For further information see “Environmental” below and Item 3. 
While it is not possible to predict or determine with certainty the outcome of any legal proceeding, we believe the outcome of any of these proceedings,
or all of them combined, will not result in a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 
  62 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
As previously disclosed, NewMarket Corporation and Afton Chemical Corporation (collectively, NewMarket)
brought two civil actions against Innospec Inc. and its subsidiaries Alcor Chemie Vertriebs GmbH and Innospec Ltd. (collectively, Innospec) in July 2010.  NewMarket and Innospec have agreed to settle these actions pursuant to the terms of a settlement agreement between them signed on September 13, 2011 which provides for mutual releases of the parties
and dismissal of the actions with prejudice. Under the settlement agreement, Innospec will pay NewMarket an aggregate amount of approximately $45 million, payable in a combination of cash, a promissory note, and stock, of which $25 million was
paid in cash on September 20, 2011 and approximately $5 million was paid in the form of 195,313 shares of unregistered Innospec Inc. common stock. Fifteen million dollars is payable in three equal annual installments of $5 million under the
promissory note, which bears interest at 1% per year. The first installment is due on September 10, 2012.  Asbestos
 We are a defendant in personal injury lawsuits involving exposure to asbestos. These cases involve exposure to asbestos in
premises owned or operated, or formerly owned or operated, by subsidiaries of NewMarket. We have never manufactured, sold, or distributed products that contain asbestos. Nearly all of these cases are pending in Texas, Louisiana, or
Illinois and involve multiple defendants. We maintain an accrual for these proceedings, as well as a receivable for expected insurance recoveries.  During 2005, we entered into an agreement with Travelers Indemnity Company resolving certain long-standing issues regarding our coverage for certain premises asbestos claims. In addition, our
agreement with Travelers provides a procedure for allocating defense and indemnity costs with respect to certain future premises asbestos claims. The lawsuit we had previously filed against Travelers in the Southern District of Texas was
dismissed. We also settled our outstanding receivable from Albemarle Corporation for certain premises asbestos liability obligations.  The
accrual for our premises asbestos liability related to currently asserted claims is based on the following assumptions and factors:   


 
•
 
 We are often one of many defendants. This factor influences both the number of claims settled against us and also the indemnity cost associated
with such resolutions.   


 
•
 
 The estimated percent of claimants in each case that will actually, after discovery, make a claim against us, out of the total number of claimants in a
case, is based on a level consistent with past experience and current trends.   


 
•
 
 We utilize average comparable plaintiff cost history as the basis for estimating pending premises asbestos related claims. These claims are filed
by both former contractors’ employees and former employees who worked at past and present company locations. We also include an estimated inflation factor in the calculation. 
 


 
•
 
 No estimate is made for unasserted claims.   


 
•
 
 The estimated recoveries from insurance and Albemarle Corporation for these cases are based on, and are consistent with, the 2005 settlement
agreements.  Based on the above assumptions, we have provided an undiscounted liability related to premises asbestos claims
of $11 million at year-end 2011 and $14 million at year-end 2010. The liabilities related to asbestos claims are included in accrued expenses (current portion) and other noncurrent liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Certain of
these costs are recoverable through our insurance coverage and agreement with Albemarle 
  63 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 

Corporation. The receivable for these recoveries related to premises asbestos liabilities was $7 million at December 31, 2011 and $10 million at December 31, 2010. These
receivables are included in trade and other accounts receivable, net on the Consolidated Balance Sheets for the current portion. The noncurrent portion is included in other assets and deferred charges. 
Environmental—During 2000, the EPA named us as a PRP for the clean-up of soil and groundwater contamination at the Sauget Area 2 Site in
Sauget, Illinois. Without admitting any fact, responsibility, fault, or liability in connection with this site, we are participating with other PRPs in site investigations and feasibility studies. The Sauget Area 2 Site PRPs received notice of
approval from the EPA of their October 2009 Human Health Risk Assessment. Additionally, the PRPs have submitted their Feasibility Study (FS) to the EPA Remedy review board. We have accrued our estimated proportional share of the expenses for the FS,
as well as our best estimate of our proportional share of the remediation liability proposed in our ongoing discussions and submissions with the agencies involved. We do not believe there is any additional information available as a basis for
revision of the liability that we have established. The amount accrued for this site is not material.  At a former TEL plant site located
in the state of Louisiana, we have completed significant environmental remediation, although we will be monitoring and treating the site for an extended period. The accrual for this site was $6.1 million at year-end 2011 and $6.8 million at year-end
2010. We based these amounts on the best estimate of future costs discounted at approximately 3% in both 2011 and 2010. An inflation factor is included in the estimate. The undiscounted liability was $7.7 million at year-end 2011 and
$8.7 million at year-end 2010. The expected payments for each of the next five years amount to approximately $600 thousand for each of the years 2012 through 2016. Expected payments thereafter amount to approximately $4.7 million. 
At a plant site in Houston, Texas, we have an accrual of $7.4 million at December 31, 2011 and $7.6 million at December 31, 2010 for
environmental remediation, dismantling, and decontamination. Included in these amounts are $7.0 million at year-end 2011 and $7.3 million at year-end 2010 for remediation. Of the total remediation, $6.5 million at December 31, 2011 and $6.9
million at December 31, 2010 relates to remediation of groundwater and soil. The accruals for this site are discounted at approximately 3% at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. The accruals include an inflation factor. The
undiscounted accrual for this site was $10.2 million at year-end 2011 and $10.8 million at year-end 2010. The expected payments for each of the next five years are approximately $1.0 million in 2012, $500 thousand in 2013, $1.6 million in 2014, and
$200 thousand for each of the years 2015 and 2016. Expected payments thereafter amount to approximately $6.7 million.  At a superfund site in
Louisiana, we have an accrual of $3.1 million at December 31, 2011 and $3.3 million at December 31, 2010 for environmental remediation. The accrual for this site was discounted at approximately 3% at December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010 and included an inflation factor. The undiscounted accrual for this site was $4.0 million at December 31, 2011 and $4.2 million at December 31, 2010. The expected payments over the next five years amount to
approximately $300 thousand in 2012, $200 thousand in each of the years 2013 through 2014 and $300 thousand for each of the years 2015 and 2016. Expected payments thereafter amount to approximately $2.7 million. 
The remaining environmental liabilities are not discounted.  We accrue for environmental remediation and monitoring activities for which costs can be reasonably estimated and are probable. These estimates are based on an assessment of the site, available clean-up
methods, and prior experience in handling remediation. While we believe we are currently fully accrued for known environmental issues, it is possible that unexpected future costs could have a significant impact on our financial position and results
of operations. 
  64 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
At December 31, our total accruals for environmental remediation were $21.7 million for 2011 and
$22.5 million for 2010. In addition to the accruals for environmental remediation, we also have accruals for dismantling and decommissioning costs of $600 thousand at December 31, 2011 and $500 thousand at December 31, 2010. 
NewMarket spent $19 million in 2011, $18 million in 2010, and $17 million in 2009 for ongoing environmental operating and clean-up costs, excluding
depreciation of previously capitalized expenditures. On capital expenditures for pollution prevention and safety projects, we spent $9 million in 2011, $7 million in 2010, and $5 million in 2009. 
Letters of Credit and Guarantees—We have outstanding guarantees with several financial institutions in the amount of $63 million at
December 31, 2011. The guarantees are secured by letters of credit, as well as cash collateral. A portion of these guarantees is unsecured. The outstanding letters of credit amounted to $6 million at December 31, 2011, all of which were
issued under the letter of credit sub-facility of our revolving credit facility. See Note 12. The letters of credit primarily relate to insurance guarantees. We renew letters of credit as necessary. The remaining amounts represent performance,
lease, custom, and excise tax guarantees, as well as a cash deposit of $36 million related to the Goldman Sachs interest rate swap. The cash deposit is recorded in “Other assets and deferred charges” on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. See
Note 16 for further information. Expiration dates range from 2012 to 2014. Some of the guarantees have no expiration date.  We cannot estimate
the maximum amount of potential liability under the guarantees. However, we accrue for potential liabilities when a future payment is probable and the range of loss can be reasonably estimated. 
 


19.
Pension Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits 
NewMarket uses a December 31 measurement date for all of our plans.  U.S. Retirement Plans  NewMarket sponsors pension plans for all full-time U.S.
employees that offer a benefit based primarily on years of service and compensation. Employees do not contribute to these pension plans.  In
addition, we offer an unfunded, nonqualified supplemental pension plan. This plan restores the pension benefits from our regular pension plans that would have been payable to designated participants if it were not for limitations imposed by U.S.
federal income tax regulations.  We also provide postretirement health care benefits and life insurance to eligible retired employees.
NewMarket pays the premium for the insurance contract that holds plan assets for retiree life insurance benefits. 
  65 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
The components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs, as well as other amounts
recognized in other comprehensive loss, are shown below.   




























 
  
Years Ended December 31
 

 
  
Pension Benefits
 
 
Postretirement Benefits
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net periodic benefit cost
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Service cost
  
$
7,055
  
 
$
6,755
  
 
$
5,720
  
 
$
1,514
  
 
$
1,336
  
 
$
1,085
  

 Interest cost
  
 
9,079
  
 
 
8,559
  
 
 
7,934
  
 
 
3,158
  
 
 
3,277
  
 
 
3,408
  

 Expected return on plan assets
  
 
(11,445
) 
 
 
(9,689
) 
 
 
(8,592
) 
 
 
(1,595
) 
 
 
(1,627
) 
 
 
(1,636
) 

 Amortization of prior service cost
  
 
306
  
 
 
292
  
 
 
289
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
9
  

 Amortization of actuarial net loss (gain)
  
 
3,203
  
 
 
3,371
  
 
 
2,497
  
 
 
(602
) 
 
 
(439
) 
 
 
(453
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net periodic benefit cost
  
$
8,198
  
 
$
9,288
  
 
$
7,848
  
 
$
2,483
  
 
$
2,556
  
 
$
2,413
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive income (loss)
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Actuarial net loss (gain)
  
$
37,484
  
 
$
(7,530
) 
 
$
862
  
 
$
5,072
  
 
$
(1,754
) 
 
$
704
  

 Prior service cost
  
 
0
  
 
 
1,193
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Amortization of actuarial net (loss) gain
  
 
(3,203
) 
 
 
(3,371
) 
 
 
(2,497
) 
 
 
602
  
 
 
439
  
 
 
453
  

 Amortization of prior service cost
  
 
(306
) 
 
 
(292
) 
 
 
(289
) 
 
 
(8
) 
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
(9
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recognized in other comprehensive income (loss)
  
$
33,975
  
 
$
(10,000
) 
 
$
(1,924
) 
 
$
5,666
  
 
$
(1,324
) 
 
$
1,148
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recognized in net periodic benefit cost and other comprehensive income (loss)
  
$
42,173
  
 
$
(712
) 
 
$
5,924
  
 
$
8,149
  
 
$
1,232
  
 
$
3,561
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The estimated actuarial net loss which will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic
benefit cost during 2012 is expected to be $5 million for pension plans. There will be no estimated actuarial net gain to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost during 2012 for postretirement benefit
plans. The estimated prior service cost which will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost during 2012 is expected to be $200 thousand for pension plans, while the estimated prior service credit which
will be amortized from accumulated comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost during 2012 is expected to be $9 thousand for postretirement benefit plans. 
  66 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
Changes in the plans’ benefit obligations and assets follow. 
 




















 
  
Years Ended December 31
 

 
  
Pension Benefits
 
 
Postretirement Benefits
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Change in benefit obligation
  



 



 



 




 Benefit obligation at beginning of year
  
$
154,579
  
 
$
147,211
  
 
$
58,770
  
 
$
59,733
  

 Service cost
  
 
7,055
  
 
 
6,755
  
 
 
1,514
  
 
 
1,336
  

 Interest cost
  
 
9,079
  
 
 
8,559
  
 
 
3,158
  
 
 
3,277
  

 Plan amendment
  
 
0
  
 
 
1,193
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Actuarial net loss (gain)
  
 
26,505
  
 
 
(3,677
) 
 
 
4,324
  
 
 
(2,280
) 

 Benefits paid
  
 
(6,157
) 
 
 
(5,462
) 
 
 
(3,283
) 
 
 
(3,296
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Benefit obligation at end of year
  
$
191,061
  
 
$
154,579
  
 
$
64,483
  
 
$
58,770
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Change in plan assets
  



 



 



 




 Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year
  
$
112,143
  
 
$
90,141
  
 
$
26,623
  
 
$
27,157
  

 Actual return on plan assets
  
 
466
  
 
 
13,542
  
 
 
847
  
 
 
1,101
  

 Employer contributions
  
 
22,634
  
 
 
13,922
  
 
 
1,716
  
 
 
1,661
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(6,157
) 
 
 
(5,462
) 
 
 
(3,283
) 
 
 
(3,296
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair value of plan assets at end of year
  
$
129,086
  
 
$
112,143
  
 
$
25,903
  
 
$
26,623
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Funded status
  
$
(61,975
) 
 
$
(42,436
) 
 
$
(38,580
) 
 
$
(32,147
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets
  



 



 



 




 Noncurrent assets
  
$
0
  
 
$
661
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  

 Current liabilities
  
 
(2,443
) 
 
 
(2,434
) 
 
 
(1,800
) 
 
 
(1,809
) 

 Noncurrent liabilities
  
 
(59,532
) 
 
 
(40,663
) 
 
 
(36,780
) 
 
 
(30,338
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
(61,975
) 
 
$
(42,436
) 
 
$
(38,580
) 
 
$
(32,147
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss
  



 



 



 




 Actuarial net loss (gain)
  
$
95,031
  
 
$
60,750
  
 
$
(5,846
) 
 
$
(11,520
) 

 Prior service (cost) credit
  
 
(892
) 
 
 
(586
) 
 
 
27
  
 
 
35
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
94,139
  
 
$
60,164
  
 
$
(5,819
) 
 
$
(11,485
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The 2010 plan amendment in the table above represents contract negotiations with the Sauget and Houston plans.
 The accumulated benefit obligation for all domestic defined benefit pension plans was $159 million at December 31, 2011 and $130 million
at December 31, 2010.  The projected benefit obligation exceeded the fair market value of plan assets for all domestic plans at
December 31, 2011. The accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the fair market value of plan assets for all the domestic plans, except for the Port Arthur plan, at December 31, 2011. 
The projected benefit obligation exceeded the fair market value of plan assets for all domestic plans, except for the Port Arthur and Sauget plans, at
December 31, 2010. The fair market value of plan assets for all domestic plans, except the nonqualified plan, exceeded the accumulated benefit obligation at December 31, 2010.  The net asset position for plans in which assets exceed the projected benefit obligation is included in prepaid pension cost on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The net liability position of plans in
which the projected benefit obligation exceeds assets is included in other noncurrent liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
  67 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 

A portion of the accrued benefit cost for the nonqualified plan is included in current liabilities at both December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. As the nonqualified plan is unfunded,
the amount reflected in current liabilities represents the expected benefit payments related to the nonqualified plan during 2012.  The
following table shows information on domestic pension plans with the accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets. The second table presents information on domestic pension plans with the projected benefit obligation in excess of plan
assets.   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Plans with the accumulated benefit obligation in excess of the fair market value of plan assets
  



  




 Projected benefit obligation
  
$
189,260
  
  
$
25,825
  

 Accumulated benefit obligation
  
 
157,444
  
  
 
24,429
  

 Fair market value of plan assets
  
 
127,323
  
  
 
0
  





 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Plans with the projected benefit obligation in excess of the fair market value of plan assets
  



  




 Projected benefit obligation
  
$
191,061
  
  
$
130,501
  

 Fair market value of plan assets
  
 
129,086
  
  
 
87,377
  
 There are no assets held in the nonqualified plan by the trustee for the retired beneficiaries of the nonqualified plan.
Payments to retired beneficiaries of the nonqualified plan are made with cash from operations.  Assumptions—We used the following
assumptions to calculate the results of our retirement plans:   




























 
  
Pension Benefits
 
 
Postretirement Benefits
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for years ended December 31
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Discount rate
  
 
5.875
% 
 
 
5.875
% 
 
 
6.250
% 
 
 
5.875
% 
 
 
5.875
% 
 
 
6.250
% 

 Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets
  
 
9.00
% 
 
 
9.00
% 
 
 
9.00
% 
 
 
6.25
% 
 
 
6.25
% 
 
 
6.25
% 

 Rate of projected compensation increase
  
 
3.50
% 
 
 
4.00
% 
 
 
3.75
% 
 



 



 












 Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December 31
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Discount rate
  
 
5.000
% 
 
 
5.875
% 
 
 
5.875
% 
 
 
5.000
% 
 
 
5.875
% 
 
 
5.875
% 

 Rate of projected compensation increase
  
 
3.50
% 
 
 
3.50
% 
 
 
4.00
% 
 



 



 



 For pension plans, we base the assumed expected long-term rate of return for plan assets on an analysis of our actual
investments, including our asset allocation, as well as a stochastic analysis of expected returns. This analysis reflects the expected long-term rates of return for each significant asset class and economic indicator. As of January 1, 2012, the
expected rates were 8.8% for U.S. large cap stocks, 3.0% for fixed income, and 2.3% for inflation. The range of returns developed relies both on forecasts and on broad-market historical benchmarks for expected return, correlation, and volatility for
each asset class. Our asset allocation is predominantly weighted toward equities. Through our ongoing monitoring of our investments, we have determined that we should maintain the expected long-term rate of return for our U.S. plans at 9.0% at
December 31, 2011. For the post-retirement plan, we based the assumed expected long-term rate of return for plan assets on an evaluation of projected interest rates, as well as the guaranteed interest rate for our insurance contract.

  68 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
Assumed health care cost trend rates at December 31 are shown in the table below. The expected
health care cost trend rate for 2011 was 8.5%.   












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Health care cost trend rate assumed for next year
  
 
8.0
% 
 
 
8.5
% 

 Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline (the ultimate trend rate)
  
 
5.75
% 
 
 
5.0
% 

 Year that the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate
  
 
2017
  
 
 
2018
  
 A one-percentage point change in the assumed health care cost trend rate would have the following effects. 
 












 
  
1%Increase
 
  
1%Decrease
 

 Effect on accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2011
  
$
8,965
  
  
$
(7,015
) 

 Effect on net periodic postretirement benefit cost in 2011
  
$
820
  
  
$
(626
) 
 The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of
2010, was signed into law in March 2010. The PPACA mandates health care reforms with effective dates from 2010 to 2018, including an excise tax on high cost health care plans effective in 2018. The additional accumulated postretirement liability
resulting from the PPACA is not material and has been included in the benefit obligation for our postretirement plan at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. Given the complexity of the PPACA and the extended time period during which
implementation is currently expected to occur, additional adjustments to the benefit obligation may be necessary.  Plan
Assets—Pension plan assets are held and distributed by trusts and consist principally of common stock and investment-grade fixed income securities. We invest directly in common stocks, as well as in funds which primarily hold stock and debt
securities. Our target allocation is 90% to 97% in equities and 3% to 10% in debt securities or cash.  The pension obligation is long-term in
nature and the investment philosophy followed by the Pension Investment Committee is likewise long-term in its approach. The majority of the pension funds are invested in equity securities as historically, equity securities have outperformed debt
securities and cash investments, resulting in a higher investment return over the long-term. While in the short-term, equity securities may underperform other investment classes, we are less concerned with short-term results and more concerned with
long-term improvement. The pension funds are managed by six different investment companies who predominantly invest in U.S. and international equities. Each investment company’s performance is reviewed quarterly. A small portion of the funds is
in investments, such as cash or short-term bonds, which historically has been less vulnerable to short-term market swings. These funds are used to provide the cash needed to meet our monthly obligations. 
There are no significant concentrations of risk within plan assets, nor do the equity securities include any NewMarket common stock for any year
presented.  The assets of the postretirement benefit plan are invested completely in an insurance contract held by Metropolitan Life. No
NewMarket common stock is included in these assets. 
  69 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
The following table provides information on the fair value of our pension and postretirement benefit
plans assets, as well as the related level within the fair value hierarchy.   




































 
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 
 
 
 
 
Fair Value Measurements Using
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Value Measurements Using
 

 
 
Fair Value
 
 
Level 1
 
 
Level 2
 
 
  Level 3  
 
 
Fair Value
 
 
Level 1
 
 
Level 2
 
 
  Level 3  
 

 Pension Plans
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Equity securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 U. S. companies
 
$
89,659
  
 
$
89,659
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
        0
  
 
$
73,814
  
 
$
73,808
  
 
$
6
  
 
$
        0
  

 International companies
 
 
11,234
  
 
 
11,234
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
11,978
  
 
 
11,768
  
 
 
210
  
 
 
0
  

 Real estate investment trusts
 
 
1,198
  
 
 
1,198
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,930
  
 
 
1,930
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Exchange traded funds
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
838
  
 
 
838
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Common collective trust
 
 
11,898
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
11,898
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
12,453
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
12,453
  
 
 
0
  

 Money market instruments
 
 
3,367
  
 
 
3,367
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
2,687
  
 
 
2,687
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Mutual funds—fixed income
 
 
8,090
  
 
 
8,090
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
6,987
  
 
 
6,987
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
3,198
  
 
 
3,198
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,192
  
 
 
1,192
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Insurance contract
 
 
442
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
442
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
264
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
264
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


 
$
129,086
  
 
$
116,746
  
 
$
12,340
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
112,143
  
 
$
99,210
  
 
$
12,933
  
 
$
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Postretirement Plans
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Insurance contract
 
$
25,903
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
25,903
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
26,623
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
26,623
  
 
$
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The 2010 common collective trust fair value has been reclassified from Level 1 to Level 2 to conform to current
presentation.  The valuation methodologies used to develop the fair value measurements for the investments in the table above is outlined
below. There have been no changes in the valuation techniques used to value the investments.   


 
•
 
 Equity securities, including common stock, real estate investment trusts, and exchange traded funds, are valued at the closing price reported on a
national exchange.   


 
•
 
 The common collective trust is valued at the net asset value of units held by the Plan based on quoted market value of the underlying investments held
by the fund.   


 
•
 
 Mutual funds are valued at the closing price reported on a national exchange. 
 


 
•
 
 Money market instruments are valued at cost, which approximates fair value. 
 


 
•
 
 Cash and cash equivalents are valued at cost.   


 
•
 
 The insurance contracts are unallocated funds deposited with an insurance company and are stated at an amount equal to the sum of all amounts deposited
less the sum of all amounts withdrawn, adjusted for investment return. 
  70 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
Cash Flows—For U.S. plans, NewMarket expects to contribute $23 million to the pension plans
and $2 million to our other postretirement benefit plans in 2012. The expected benefit payments for the next ten years are as follows.   












 
  
Expected PensionBenefit Payments
 
  
ExpectedPostretirementBenefit Payments
 

 2012
  
$
6,713
  
  
$
3,917
  

 2013
  
 
7,194
  
  
 
3,809
  

 2014
  
 
7,804
  
  
 
3,679
  

 2015
  
 
8,767
  
  
 
3,568
  

 2016
  
 
9,453
  
  
 
3,449
  

 2017 through 2021
  
 
58,493
  
  
 
15,831
  
 Foreign Retirement Plans  For most employees of our foreign subsidiaries, NewMarket has defined benefit pension plans that offer benefits based primarily on years of service and compensation. These defined benefit plans provide
benefits for employees of our foreign subsidiaries located in Belgium, the United Kingdom, Germany, and Canada. NewMarket generally contributes to investment trusts and insurance policies to provide for these plans. 
In addition to the foreign defined benefit pension plans, NewMarket also provides retirement benefits in Japan and Brazil which are not defined benefit
plans. The total pension expense for these plans was $300 thousand for 2011, $200 thousand for 2010, and $100 thousand for 2009.  Our
foreign subsidiary in Canada also sponsors a defined benefit postretirement plan. This postretirement plan provides certain health care benefits and life insurance to eligible retired employees. We pay the entire premium for these benefits.
 The components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs, as well as other amounts recognized in other comprehensive loss, for
these foreign defined benefit retirement plans are shown below. 
  71 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
 




























 
 
Years Ended December 31
 

 
 
Pension Benefits
 
 
PostretirementBenefits
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net periodic benefit cost
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Service cost
 
$
4,510
  
 
$
3,015
  
 
$
2,543
  
 
$
30
  
 
$
25
  
 
$
13
  

 Interest cost
 
 
5,881
  
 
 
5,447
  
 
 
5,010
  
 
 
153
  
 
 
146
  
 
 
142
  

 Expected return on plan assets
 
 
(6,365
) 
 
 
(5,344
) 
 
 
(3,918
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Amortization of prior service cost
 
 
84
  
 
 
86
  
 
 
77
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Amortization of transition (asset) obligation
 
 
0
  
 
 
(37
) 
 
 
(35
) 
 
 
53
  
 
 
52
  
 
 
47
  

 Amortization of actuarial net loss
 
 
1,083
  
 
 
1,240
  
 
 
1,618
  
 
 
61
  
 
 
53
  
 
 
34
  

 Settlement loss
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
241
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net periodic benefit cost
 
$
5,193
  
 
$
4,407
  
 
$
5,536
  
 
$
297
  
 
$
276
  
 
$
236
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 









 Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive income (loss)
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Actuarial net loss (gain)
 
$
2,447
  
 
$
(723
) 
 
$
(2,720
) 
 
$
(374
) 
 
$
115
  
 
$
521
  

 Prior service cost
 
 
0
  
 
 
49
  
 
 
56
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Settlement loss
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(241
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Amortization of transition asset (obligation)
 
 
0
  
 
 
37
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
(53
) 
 
 
(52
) 
 
 
(47
) 

 Amortization of actuarial net loss
 
 
(1,083
) 
 
 
(1,240
) 
 
 
(1,618
) 
 
 
(61
) 
 
 
(53
) 
 
 
(34
) 

 Amortization of prior service cost
 
 
(84
) 
 
 
(86
) 
 
 
(77
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recognized in other comprehensive income (loss)
 
$
1,280
  
 
$
(1,963
) 
 
$
(4,565
) 
 
$
(488
) 
 
$
10
  
 
$
440
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recognized in net periodic benefit cost and other comprehensive income (loss)
 
$
6,473
  
 
$
2,444
  
 
$
971
  
 
$
(191
) 
 
$
286
  
 
$
676
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The estimated actuarial net loss which will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic
benefit cost during 2012 is expected to be $1 million for foreign pension plans and $30 thousand for foreign postretirement benefit plans. The estimated prior service cost which will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net
periodic benefit cost during 2012 is expected to be $300 thousand for foreign pension plans and zero for foreign postretirement benefit plans. There will be no estimated unrecognized transition asset amortized from accumulated other comprehensive
loss into net periodic benefit cost during 2012 for foreign pension plans. The estimated unrecognized transition obligation which will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost during 2012 is expected to
be $50 thousand expense for foreign postretirement benefit plans. 
  72 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
Changes in the benefit obligations and assets of the foreign defined benefit plans follow. 
 




















 
  
Years Ended December 31
 

 
  
PensionBenefits
 
 
PostretirementBenefits
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Change in benefit obligation
  



 



 



 




 Benefit obligation at beginning of year
  
$
108,304
  
 
$
102,092
  
 
$
3,068
  
 
$
2,810
  

 Service cost
  
 
4,510
  
 
 
3,015
  
 
 
30
  
 
 
25
  

 Interest cost
  
 
5,881
  
 
 
5,447
  
 
 
153
  
 
 
146
  

 Plan amendments
  
 
0
  
 
 
48
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Employee contributions
  
 
662
  
 
 
551
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Actuarial net (gain) loss
  
 
(1,392
) 
 
 
4,832
  
 
 
(391
) 
 
 
113
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(4,095
) 
 
 
(4,026
) 
 
 
(213
) 
 
 
(174
) 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
(1,214
) 
 
 
(3,655
) 
 
 
(51
) 
 
 
148
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Benefit obligation at end of year
  
$
112,656
  
 
$
108,304
  
 
$
2,596
  
 
$
3,068
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Change in plan assets
  



 



 



 




 Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year
  
$
103,364
  
 
$
92,456
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  

 Actual return on plan assets
  
 
2,364
  
 
 
10,887
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Employer contributions
  
 
6,699
  
 
 
6,369
  
 
 
213
  
 
 
174
  

 Employee contributions
  
 
662
  
 
 
551
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(4,095
) 
 
 
(4,026
) 
 
 
(213
) 
 
 
(174
) 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
(817
) 
 
 
(2,873
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair value of plan assets at end of year
  
$
108,177
  
 
$
103,364
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Funded status
  
$
(4,479
) 
 
$
(4,940
) 
 
$
(2,596
) 
 
$
(3,068
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets
  



 



 



 




 Noncurrent assets
  
$
11,494
  
 
$
7,936
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  

 Current liabilities
  
 
(384
) 
 
 
(373
) 
 
 
(206
) 
 
 
(163
) 

 Noncurrent liabilities
  
 
(15,589
) 
 
 
(12,503
) 
 
 
(2,390
) 
 
 
(2,905
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
(4,479
) 
 
$
(4,940
) 
 
$
(2,596
) 
 
$
(3,068
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss
  



 



 



 




 Actuarial net loss
  
$
32,923
  
 
$
31,559
  
 
$
515
  
 
$
950
  

 Prior service cost
  
 
(2,246
) 
 
 
(2,162
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Transition obligation
  
 
10
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
285
  
 
 
338
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
30,687
  
 
$
29,407
  
 
$
800
  
 
$
1,288
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The accumulated benefit obligation for all foreign defined benefit pension plans was $98 million at December 31,
2011 and $95 million at December 31, 2010.  The fair market value of plan assets exceeded both the accumulated benefit obligation and
projected benefit obligation for the United Kingdom plan at year-end 2011. The net asset position of the United Kingdom plan is included in prepaid pension cost on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011. The accumulated benefit
obligation and projected benefit obligation exceeded the fair market value of plan assets for the German, Afton Belgium, Canadian Hourly, and Canadian Salary plans at December 31, 2011. The accrued benefit cost of these plans is included in
other noncurrent liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As the German plan is unfunded, a portion of the accrued benefit cost for the German plan is included in current liabilities at year-end 2011 reflecting the expected benefit payments
related to the plan for the following year. 
  73 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
The fair market value of plan assets exceeded both the accumulated benefit obligation and projected
benefit obligation for the Canadian Salary plan and the United Kingdom plan at year-end 2010. The net asset positions of the Canadian Salary plan and the United Kingdom plan are included in prepaid pension cost on the Consolidated Balance Sheets in
2010. For the Canadian Hourly plan in 2010, the fair market value of plan assets exceeded the accumulated benefit obligation, but not the projected benefit obligation. The net liability position of the Canadian Hourly plan is included in noncurrent
liabilities. The accumulated benefit obligation and projected benefit obligation exceed the fair market value of plan assets for the German and Afton Belgium plans at December 31, 2010. The accrued benefit cost of these plans is included in
other noncurrent liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. A portion of the accrued benefit cost of the German plan is included in current liabilities.  The following table shows information on foreign plans with the accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets. The second table shows information on plans with the projected benefit obligation
in excess of plan assets.   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Plans with the accumulated benefit obligation in excess of the fair market value of plan assets
  



  




 Projected benefit obligation
  
$
38,758
  
  
$
22,245
  

 Accumulated benefit obligation
  
 
30,902
  
  
 
16,120
  

 Fair market value of plan assets
  
 
22,785
  
  
 
9,492
  





 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Plans with the projected benefit obligation in excess of the fair market value of plan assets
  



  




 Projected benefit obligation
  
$
38,758
  
  
$
25,594
  

 Fair market value of plan assets
  
 
22,785
  
  
 
12,717
  
 Assumptions—The information in the table below provides the weighted-average assumptions used to calculate
the results of our foreign defined benefit plans.   




























 
  
Pension Benefits
 
 
    Postretirement Benefits    
 

 
  
  2011  
 
 
  2010  
 
 
  2009  
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for the years ended
December 31
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Discount rate
  
 
5.16
% 
 
 
5.52
% 
 
 
5.93
% 
 
 
5.00
% 
 
 
5.25
% 
 
 
7.00
% 

 Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets
  
 
5.92
% 
 
 
5.92
% 
 
 
5.35
% 
 



 



 




 Rate of projected compensation increase
  
 
4.63
% 
 
 
4.22
% 
 
 
4.24
% 
 



 



 












 Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December 31
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Discount rate
  
 
4.65
% 
 
 
5.16
% 
 
 
5.52
% 
 
 
4.25
% 
 
 
5.00
% 
 
 
5.25
% 

 Rate of projected compensation increase
  
 
4.24
% 
 
 
4.63
% 
 
 
4.22
% 
 



 



 



 The actuarial assumptions used by the various foreign locations are based upon the circumstances of each particular
country and pension plan. The factors impacting the determination of the long-term rate of return for a particular foreign pension plan include the market conditions within a particular country, as well as the investment strategy and asset
allocation of the specific plan. 
  74 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
Assumed health care cost trend rates at December 31 are shown in the table below. 
 












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Health care cost trend rate assumed for next year
  
 
5.0
% 
 
 
7.5
% 

 Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline (the ultimate trend rate)
  
 
5.0
% 
 
 
5.0
% 

 Year that the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate
  
 
2012
  
 
 
2016
  
 A one-percentage point change in the assumed health care cost trend rate would have the following effects. 
 












 
  
1%Increase
 
  
1%Decrease
 

 Effect on accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2011
  
$
292
  
  
$
(361
) 

 Effect on net periodic postretirement benefit cost in 2011
  
$
1
  
  
$
(3
) 
 Plan Assets—Pension plan assets vary by foreign location and plan. Assets are held and distributed by trusts
and, depending upon the foreign location and plan, consist primarily of equity securities, corporate and government debt securities, cash, and insurance contracts. The combined average target allocation of our foreign pension plans is 53% in
equities, 34% in debt securities, 9% in insurance contracts, and 4% in a pooled investment property fund.  While the pension obligation is
long-term in nature for each of our foreign plans, the investment strategies followed by each plan vary to some degree based upon the laws of a particular country, as well as the provisions of the specific pension trust. The United Kingdom and
Canadian plans are invested predominantly in equity securities and debt securities. The funds of these plans are managed by various trustees and investment companies whose performance is reviewed throughout the year. The Afton Belgium plan is
invested in an insurance contract. The German plan has no assets.  There are no significant concentrations of risk within plan assets, nor do
the equity securities include any NewMarket common stock for any year presented. The benefits of the Canadian postretirement benefit plan are paid through an insurance contract. 
  75 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
The following table provides information on the fair value of our foreign pension plans assets, as well
as the related level within the fair value hierarchy.   




































 
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 
 
 
 
 
Fair ValueMeasurements
Using
 
 
 
 
 
Fair ValueMeasurements
Using
 

 
 
Fair Value
 
 
Level 1
 
 
Level 2
 
 
Level 3
 
 
Fair Value
 
 
Level 1
 
 
Level 2
 
 
Level 3
 

 Pension Plans
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Equity securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 U.S. companies
 
$
5,833
  
 
$
5,833
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
        0
  
 
$
6,081
  
 
$
6,081
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
        0
  

 International companies
 
 
38,159
  
 
 
38,159
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
39,826
  
 
 
39,826
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Debt securities—corporate
 
 
16,715
  
 
 
16,715
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
13,233
  
 
 
13,233
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Debt securities—government
 
 
20,222
  
 
 
20,222
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
16,418
  
 
 
16,418
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
297
  
 
 
297
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
465
  
 
 
465
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Pooled investment funds:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Equity securities—U.S. companies
 
 
825
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
825
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
786
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
786
  
 
 
0
  

 Equity securities—international companies
 
 
8,735
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
8,735
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
9,752
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
9,752
  
 
 
0
  

 Debt securities—corporate
 
 
690
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
690
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
470
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
470
  
 
 
0
  

 Debt securities—government
 
 
779
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
779
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
940
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
940
  
 
 
0
  

 Money market instruments
 
 
1,635
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,635
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,720
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,720
  
 
 
0
  

 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
333
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
333
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
278
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
278
  
 
 
0
  

 Property
 
 
4,166
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
4,166
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
3,903
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
3,903
  
 
 
0
  

 Insurance contract
 
 
9,788
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
9,788
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
9,492
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
9,492
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


 
$
108,177
  
 
$
81,226
  
 
$
26,951
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
103,364
  
 
$
76,023
  
 
$
27,341
  
 
$
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The valuation methodologies used to develop the fair value measurements for the investments in the table above are
outlined below. There have been no changes in the valuation techniques used to value the investments.   


 
•
 
 Equity securities are valued at the closing price reported on a national exchange. 
 


 
•
 
 Corporate and government debt securities are composed of bond funds that are priced daily. 
 


 
•
 
 Cash and cash equivalents are valued at cost.   


 
•
 
 The insurance contracts are funds deposited with an insurance company and are stated at an amount equal to the sum of all amounts deposited less the
sum of all amounts withdrawn, adjusted for investment return.   


 
•
 
 The pooled investment funds are priced daily. The underlying assets that are invested in equity securities, as well as corporate and government debt
securities are listed on a recognized exchange. The underlying assets that are invested in property are valued monthly by an independent property management firm. 
  76 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
Cash Flows—For foreign pension plans, NewMarket expects to contribute $6 million to the
plans in 2012. We expect to contribute approximately $200 thousand to the Canadian postretirement benefit plan. The expected benefit payments for the next ten years are as follows: 
 












 
  
Expected PensionBenefit Payments
 
  
ExpectedPostretirementBenefit Payments
 

 2012
  
$
3,444
  
  
$
206
  

 2013
  
 
4,179
  
  
 
139
  

 2014
  
 
3,284
  
  
 
145
  

 2015
  
 
4,142
  
  
 
150
  

 2016
  
 
3,783
  
  
 
154
  

 2017 through 2021
  
 
20,519
  
  
 
789
  
  


20.
Other Expense, Net 
Other expense, net was $18 million in 2011, $10 million in 2010, and $11 million in 2009, primarily representing a loss on the Goldman
Sachs interest rate swap derivative instrument recorded at fair value. See Note 16 for additional information on the interest rate swap.   


21.
Gains and Losses on Foreign Currency 
Transactions conducted in a foreign currency resulted in a net loss of $2 million in 2011, as well as 2010, and $8 million in
2009. These amounts are reported in cost of sales.   


22.
Income Tax Expense 
Our income before income taxes, as well as the provision for income taxes, follows: 
 
















 
  
Years Ended December 31
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Income before income tax expense
  



  



  




 Domestic
  
$
198,153
  
  
$
149,640
  
  
$
184,217
  

 Foreign
  
 
105,564
  
  
 
110,356
  
  
 
55,159
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
303,717
  
  
$
259,996
  
  
$
239,376
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income tax expense
  



  



  




 Current income taxes
  



  



  




 Federal
  
$
55,909
  
  
$
45,658
  
  
$
51,374
  

 State
  
 
9,996
  
  
 
4,470
  
  
 
5,337
  

 Foreign
  
 
28,530
  
  
 
30,810
  
  
 
16,125
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
94,435
  
  
 
80,938
  
  
 
72,836
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Deferred income taxes
  



  



  




 Federal
  
 
1,380
  
  
 
1,319
  
  
 
4,768
  

 State
  
 
230
  
  
 
62
  
  
 
(1,901
) 

 Foreign
  
 
765
  
  
 
552
  
  
 
1,390
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
2,375
  
  
 
1,933
  
  
 
4,257
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total income tax expense
  
$
96,810
  
  
$
82,871
  
  
$
77,093
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  77 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
The reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory rate to the effective income tax rate follows:
  
















 
  
% of
Income    Before Income Tax Expense    
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Federal statutory rate
  
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 

 State taxes, net of federal tax
  
 
1.9
  
 
 
1.4
  
 
 
1.8
  

 Foreign operations
  
 
(2.0
) 
 
 
(1.8
) 
 
 
(0.6
) 

 Impact of rate changes on deferred taxes
  
 
0.0
  
 
 
(0.1
) 
 
 
(0.7
) 

 Research tax credit
  
 
(0.7
) 
 
 
(0.7
) 
 
 
(0.8
) 

 Domestic manufacturing tax benefit
  
 
(2.4
) 
 
 
(1.4
) 
 
 
(2.0
) 

 Other items and adjustments
  
 
0.1
  
 
 
(0.5
) 
 
 
(0.5
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effective income tax rate
  
 
31.9
% 
 
 
31.9
% 
 
 
32.2
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 For those foreign subsidiaries that we have not determined their undistributed earnings to be indefinitely reinvested and
based on available foreign tax credits and current U.S. income tax rates, we believe that we have adequately provided for any additional U.S. taxes that would be incurred when one of these foreign subsidiaries returns its earnings in cash to the
United States.  Certain foreign operations have a U.S. tax impact due to our election to include their earnings in our federal income tax
return.  Our deferred income tax assets and liabilities follow. 
 












 
  
December 31
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Deferred income tax assets
  



  




 Future employee benefits
  
$
45,502
  
  
$
37,931
  

 Environmental and future shutdown reserves
  
 
7,751
  
  
 
7,977
  

 Loss on derivatives
  
 
15,466
  
  
 
10,176
  

 Trademark expenses
  
 
4,911
  
  
 
4,590
  

 Foreign currency translation adjustments
  
 
4,713
  
  
 
2,800
  

 Litigation accruals
  
 
1,289
  
  
 
1,474
  

 Financed intangible asset
  
 
1,779
  
  
 
1,521
  

 Other
  
 
3,465
  
  
 
2,034
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
84,876
  
  
 
68,503
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Deferred income tax liabilities
  



  




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
25,664
  
  
 
21,646
  

 Intangibles
  
 
5,067
  
  
 
8,272
  

 Inventory valuation and related reserves
  
 
2,851
  
  
 
2,836
  

 Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries
  
 
4,995
  
  
 
4,073
  

 Other
  
 
3,233
  
  
 
2,826
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
41,810
  
  
 
39,653
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net deferred income tax assets
  
$
43,066
  
  
$
28,850
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Reconciliation to financial statements
  



  




 Deferred income tax assets—current
  
$
7,261
  
  
$
6,876
  

 Deferred income tax assets—noncurrent
  
 
35,805
  
  
 
21,974
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net deferred income tax assets
  
$
43,066
  
  
$
28,850
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  78 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
Our deferred taxes are in a net asset position at December 31, 2011. Based on current forecast
operating plans and historical profitability, we believe that we will recover nearly the full benefit of our deferred tax assets and have, therefore, recorded an immaterial valuation allowance at a foreign subsidiary. 
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the unrecognized tax benefits from uncertain positions is as follows: 
 








 Balance at January 1, 2009
  
$
2,391
  

 Additions for tax positions of prior years
  
 
200
  

 Reductions as a result of settlements with tax authorities
  
 
(1,474
) 

 Decreases for tax positions of prior years
  
 
(200
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
 
917
  

 Additions for tax positions of prior years
  
 
333
  

 Reductions as a result of settlements with tax authorities
  
 
(200
) 

 Decreases for tax positions of prior years
  
 
(317
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
733
  

 Additions for tax positions of prior years
  
 
200
  

 Reductions as a result of settlements with tax authorities
  
 
(200
) 

 Decreases for tax positions of prior years
  
 
(133
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
600
  


  
  
  
 
 All of the balance at December 31, 2011, if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. 
During the year ended December 31, 2011, we reduced the accrued interest associated with uncertain tax positions by an immaterial amount, resulting
in net accrued interest of approximately $45 thousand. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we reduced the accrued interest associated with uncertain tax positions by an immaterial amount, resulting in a net accrued interest of
approximately $50 thousand. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we reduced the accrued interest associated with uncertain tax positions by approximately $250 thousand, resulting in a net accrued interest of approximately $50 thousand. We
recognize accrued interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions as part of income tax expense on our Consolidated Statements of Income.  We expect the amount of unrecognized tax benefits to change in the next twelve months; however, we do not expect the change to have a material impact on our financial statements. 
Our U.S. subsidiaries join in the filing of a U.S. federal consolidated income tax return. We are no longer subject to U.S. federal income tax
examinations for years before 2008. Foreign and U.S. state jurisdictions have statutes of limitations generally ranging from three to five years. Years still open to examination by foreign tax authorities in major jurisdictions include: the United
Kingdom (2008 and forward); Singapore (2011 and forward); Japan (2008 and forward); Belgium (2008 and forward); and Canada (2004 and forward). We are currently under examination in various U.S. state and foreign jurisdictions. 
  79 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 


23.
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 
The pre-tax, tax, and after-tax effects related to the adjustments in accumulated other comprehensive loss follow. 
 
























 
 
ForeignCurrencyTranslationAdjustments
 
 
PensionPlans and OtherPostretirementBenefitsAdjustments
 
 
AccumulatedDerivativeGain (Loss)
 
 
MarketableSecurities
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveLoss
 

 December 31, 2008
 
$
(29,881
) 
 
$
(63,568
) 
 
$
(2,301
) 
 
$
0
  
 
$
(95,750
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Adjustments
 
 
20,008
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(583
) 
 
 
0
  
 




 Prior service cost arising during the period
 
 
0
  
 
 
(56
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 




 Amortization of prior service cost included in net periodic pension cost
 
 
0
  
 
 
375
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net prior service cost
 
 
0
  
 
 
319
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Actuarial net gain arising during the period
 
 
0
  
 
 
633
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 




 Amortization of actuarial net loss included in net periodic pension cost
 
 
0
  
 
 
3,696
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 




 Settlement loss
 
 
0
  
 
 
241
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Actuarial net gain
 
 
0
  
 
 
4,570
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amortization of transition obligation included in net periodic pension cost
 
 
0
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 




 Tax (expense) benefit
 
 
(2,192
) 
 
 
(1,388
) 
 
 
220
  
 
 
0
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Other comprehensive income (loss)
 
 
17,816
  
 
 
3,513
  
 
 
(363
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
20,966
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 December 31, 2009
 
 
(12,065
) 
 
 
(60,055
) 
 
 
(2,664
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(74,784
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Adjustments
 
 
(5,955
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(2,434
) 
 
 
0
  
 




 Prior service cost arising during the period
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,242
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 




 Amortization of prior service cost included in net periodic pension cost
 
 
0
  
 
 
387
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net prior service cost
 
 
0
  
 
 
(855
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Actuarial net gain arising during the period
 
 
0
  
 
 
9,892
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 




 Amortization of actuarial net loss included in net periodic pension cost
 
 
0
  
 
 
4,225
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Actuarial net gain
 
 
0
  
 
 
14,117
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amortization of transition obligation in net periodic pension cost
 
 
0
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 




 Tax (expense) benefit
 
 
(87
) 
 
 
(4,784
) 
 
 
947
  
 
 
0
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Other comprehensive income (loss)
 
 
(6,042
) 
 
 
8,493
  
 
 
(1,487
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
964
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 December 31, 2010
 
 
(18,107
) 
 
 
(51,562
) 
 
 
(4,151
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(73,820
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Adjustments
 
 
(395
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(958
) 
 
 
590
  
 




 Amortization of prior service cost included in net periodic pension cost
 
 
0
  
 
 
398
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 




 Actuarial net loss arising during the period
 
 
0
  
 
 
(44,629
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 




 Amortization of actuarial net loss included in net periodic pension cost
 
 
0
  
 
 
3,745
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Actuarial net loss
 
 
0
  
 
 
(40,884
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amortization of transition obligation included in net periodic pension cost
 
 
0
  
 
 
53
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 




 Tax (expense) benefit
 
 
558
  
 
 
15,579
  
 
 
373
  
 
 
(226
) 
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Other comprehensive income (loss)
 
 
163
  
 
 
(24,854
) 
 
 
(585
) 
 
 
364
  
 
 
(24,912
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 December 31, 2011
 
$
(17,944
) 
 
$
(76,416
) 
 
$
(4,736
) 
 
$
364
  
 
$
(98,732
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  80 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 


24.
Segment and Geographic Area Information 
Segment Information—The tables below show our consolidated segment results. The “All other” category includes the
operations of the TEL business, as well as certain contract manufacturing performed by Ethyl.  The accounting policies of the segments are the
same as those described in Note 1. We evaluate the performance of the petroleum additives business based on segment operating profit. NewMarket Services departments and other expenses are billed to Afton and Ethyl based on the services provided
under the holding company structure. Depreciation on segment property, plant, and equipment, as well as amortization of segment intangible assets is included in segment operating profit. No transfers occurred between the petroleum additives segment,
the real estate development segment or the “All other” category during the periods presented. The table below reports revenue and operating profit by segment, as well as a reconciliation to income before income taxes for the last three
years.   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Revenue
  



 



 




 Petroleum additives
  
$
2,126,444
  
 
$
1,774,372
  
 
$
1,518,138
  

 Real estate development
  
 
11,431
  
 
 
11,316
  
 
 
0
  

 All other
  
 
11,683
  
 
 
11,704
  
 
 
11,984
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Consolidated revenue (a)
  
$
2,149,558
  
 
$
1,797,392
  
 
$
1,530,122
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Segment operating profit
  



 



 




 Petroleum additives
  



 



 




 Petroleum additives before gain on legal settlement, net
  
$
309,626
  
 
$
299,053
  
 
$
279,800
  

 Gain on legal settlement, net (b)
  
 
38,656
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total petroleum additives
  
 
348,282
  
 
 
299,053
  
 
 
279,800
  

 Real estate development
  
 
7,042
  
 
 
7,000
  
 
 
(391
) 

 All other
  
 
2,861
  
 
 
2,403
  
 
 
(57
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Segment operating profit
  
 
358,185
  
 
 
308,456
  
 
 
279,352
  

 Corporate, general, and administrative expenses
  
 
(16,709
) 
 
 
(20,330
) 
 
 
(17,033
) 

 Interest and financing expenses, net
  
 
(18,820
) 
 
 
(17,261
) 
 
 
(11,716
) 

 Loss on interest rate swap agreement (c)
  
 
(17,516
) 
 
 
(10,324
) 
 
 
(11,440
) 

 Other (expense) income, net
  
 
(1,423
) 
 
 
(545
) 
 
 
213
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income tax expense
  
$
303,717
  
 
$
259,996
  
 
$
239,376
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(a)
Net sales to one customer of our petroleum additives segment exceeded 10% of consolidated revenue in 2011, 2010, and 2009. Sales to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its
affiliates (Shell) amounted to $246 million (11% of consolidated revenue) in 2011, $217 million (12% of consolidated revenue) in 2010, and $232 million (15% of consolidated revenue) in 2009. These sales represent a wide-range of products sold to
this customer in multiple regions of the world. 


(b)
For 2011, the petroleum additives segment includes a net gain of $38.7 million related to a legal settlement. See Note 18 for additional information.



(c)
The loss on the interest rate swap agreement represents the change, since the beginning of the reporting period, in the fair value of an interest rate swap which we
entered into on June 25, 2009. We are not using hedge accounting to record the interest rate swap, and accordingly, any change in the fair value is immediately recognized in earnings. 
  81 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
The following table shows asset information by segment and the reconciliation to consolidated assets.
Segment assets consist of accounts receivable, inventory, and long-lived assets. Long-lived assets in the table below include property, plant, and equipment, net of depreciation, as well as intangible assets and certain other assets, both net of
amortization.   
















 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Segment assets
 



 



  




 Petroleum additives
 
$
854,134
  
 
$
768,814
  
  
$
613,852
  

 Real estate development
 
 
109,162
  
 
 
112,385
  
  
 
113,125
  

 All other
 
 
14,125
  
 
 
17,246
  
  
 
17,633
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


 
 
977,421
  
 
 
898,445
  
  
 
744,610
  

 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
50,370
  
 
 
49,192
  
  
 
151,831
  

 Short-term investments
 
 
0
  
 
 
300
  
  
 
300
  

 Other accounts receivable
 
 
173
  
 
 
5,906
  
  
 
379
  

 Deferred income taxes
 
 
43,066
  
 
 
28,850
  
  
 
38,788
  

 Prepaid expenses
 
 
36,943
  
 
 
15,358
  
  
 
38,975
  

 Non-segment property, plant and equipment, net
 
 
24,791
  
 
 
23,315
  
  
 
23,951
  

 Prepaid pension cost
 
 
11,494
  
 
 
8,597
  
  
 
2,430
  

 Other assets and deferred charges
 
 
47,404
  
 
 
32,778
  
  
 
23,928
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets
 
$
1,191,662
  
 
$
1,062,741
  
  
$
1,025,192
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Additions to long-lived assets
 



 



  




 Petroleum additives
 
$
50,760
  
 
$
42,908
  
  
$
37,173
  

 Real estate development
 
 
0
  
 
 
2,046
  
  
 
53,030
  

 All other
 
 
30
  
 
 
51
  
  
 
25
  

 Corporate
 
 
2,725
  
 
 
1,631
  
  
 
405
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total additions to long-lived assets
 
$
53,515
  
 
$
46,636
  
  
$
90,633
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Depreciation and amortization
 



 



  




 Petroleum additives
 
$
36,604
  
 
$
32,454
  
  
$
30,098
  

 Real estate development
 
 
4,091
  
 
 
4,065
  
  
 
0
  

 All other
 
 
112
  
 
 
98
  
  
 
94
  

 Corporate
 
 
2,545
  
 
 
2,517
  
  
 
2,628
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total depreciation and amortization
 
$
43,352
  
 
$
39,134
  
  
$
32,820
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  82 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
Geographic Area Information—The table below reports revenue, total assets, and long-lived
assets by geographic area. Long-lived assets in the table below include property, plant, and equipment, net of depreciation. No country, except for the United States, exceeded 10% of consolidated revenue or long-lived assets in any year. NewMarket
assigns revenues to geographic areas based on the location to which the product was shipped.   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Revenue
  



  



  




 United States
  
$
767,715
  
  
$
650,781
  
  
$
604,592
  

 Foreign
  
 
1,381,843
  
  
 
1,146,611
  
  
 
925,530
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Consolidated revenue
  
$
2,149,558
  
  
$
1,797,392
  
  
$
1,530,122
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets
  



  



  




 United States
  
$
634,939
  
  
$
590,216
  
  
$
637,227
  

 Foreign
  
 
556,723
  
  
 
472,525
  
  
 
387,965
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
1,191,662
  
  
$
1,062,741
  
  
$
1,025,192
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Long-lived assets
  



  



  




 United States
  
$
256,998
  
  
$
255,785
  
  
$
256,901
  

 Foreign
  
 
95,968
  
  
 
78,191
  
  
 
45,514
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total long-lived assets
  
$
352,966
  
  
$
333,976
  
  
$
302,415
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


25.
Selected Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data (unaudited) 
 




















 2011
  
FirstQuarter
 
  
SecondQuarter
 
  
ThirdQuarter
 
  
FourthQuarter
 

 Total revenue
  
$
508,083
  
  
$
578,523
  
  
$
557,396
  
  
$
505,556
  

 Gross profit
  
$
140,964
  
  
$
147,796
  
  
$
145,196
  
  
$
125,071
  

 Net income
  
$
49,589
  
  
$
52,259
  
  
$
71,361
  
  
$
33,698
  

 Basic earnings per share
  



  



  



  




 Net income
  
$
3.57
  
  
$
3.77
  
  
$
5.22
  
  
$
2.51
  

 Diluted earnings per share
  



  



  



  




 Net income
  
$
3.57
  
  
$
3.77
  
  
$
5.22
  
  
$
2.51
  

 Shares used to compute basic earnings per share
  
 
13,890
  
  
 
13,852
  
  
 
13,680
  
  
 
13,405
  

 Shares used to compute diluted earnings per share
  
 
13,906
  
  
 
13,856
  
  
 
13,680
  
  
 
13,405
  







 2010
  
FirstQuarter
 
  
SecondQuarter
 
  
ThirdQuarter
 
  
FourthQuarter
 

 Total revenue
  
$
395,126
  
  
$
469,841
  
  
$
471,777
  
  
$
460,648
  

 Gross profit
  
$
120,408
  
  
$
132,201
  
  
$
135,922
  
  
$
126,928
  

 Net income
  
$
42,138
  
  
$
39,856
  
  
$
45,719
  
  
$
49,412
  

 Basic earnings per share
  



  



  



  




 Net income
  
$
2.79
  
  
$
2.69
  
  
$
3.19
  
  
$
3.48
  

 Diluted earnings per share
  



  



  



  




 Net income
  
$
2.78
  
  
$
2.69
  
  
$
3.18
  
  
$
3.47
  

 Shares used to compute basic earnings per share
  
 
15,118
  
  
 
14,796
  
  
 
14,353
  
  
 
14,209
  

 Shares used to compute diluted earnings per share
  
 
15,154
  
  
 
14,828
  
  
 
14,383
  
  
 
14,235
  

  83 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 


26.
Consolidating Financial Information 
The 7.125% senior notes (senior notes) due 2016 are guaranteed by certain of our subsidiaries (Guarantor Subsidiaries) on a joint and
several unsecured senior basis. The senior notes include a provision which allows for a Guarantor Subsidiary to be released of any obligation under the subsidiary guarantee under certain conditions. Those conditions include the sale or other
disposition of all or substantially all of the Guarantor Subsidiary’s assets. The Guarantor Subsidiaries include all of our existing and future 100% owned domestic restricted subsidiaries. The Guarantor Subsidiaries and the subsidiaries that do
not guarantee the senior notes (the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries) are 100% owned by NewMarket Corporation (the Parent Company). The Guarantor Subsidiaries consist of the following: 
 






Ethyl Corporation
  
Afton Chemical Corporation

Ethyl Asia Pacific LLC
  
Afton Chemical Asia Pacific LLC

Ethyl Canada Holdings, Inc.
  
Afton Chemical Canada Holdings, Inc.

Ethyl Export Corporation
  
Afton Chemical Japan Holdings, Inc.

Ethyl Interamerica Corporation
  
Afton Chemical Additives Corporation

Ethyl Ventures, Inc.
  
NewMarket Services Corporation

Interamerica Terminals Corporation
  
The Edwin Cooper Corporation

Afton Chemical Intangibles LLC
  
Old Town LLC

NewMarket Investment Company
  
NewMarket Development Corporation

Foundry Park I, LLC
  
Foundry Park II, LLC

Gamble’s Hill, LLC
  
Gamble’s Hill Lab, LLC

Gamble’s Hill Landing, LLC
  
Gamble’s Hill Third Street, LLC

Gamble’s Hill Tredegar, LLC
  

 We conduct all of our business through and derive essentially all of our income from our subsidiaries. Therefore, our
ability to make payments on the senior notes or other obligations is dependent on the earnings and the distribution of funds from our subsidiaries. There are no restrictions on the ability of any of our domestic subsidiaries to transfer funds to the
Parent Company.  The following sets forth the Consolidating Statements of Income for the years ended December 31,
2011, December 31, 2010, and December 31, 2009; Consolidating Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010; and Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31,
2011, December 31, 2010, and December 31, 2009 for the Parent Company, the Guarantor Subsidiaries and Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries. The financial information is based on our understanding of the SEC’s interpretation and application
of Rule 3-10 of the SEC Regulation S-X.  The financial information may not necessarily be indicative of results of operations or financial
position had the Guarantor Subsidiaries or Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries operated as independent entities. The Parent Company accounts for investments in these subsidiaries using the equity method. 
During 2011, we made an adjustment to the presentation of previously reported amounts for intercompany activity on the Condensed Consolidating Statements
of Cash Flows. This adjustment did not have an impact on the reported consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, or December 31, 2009. 
  84 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
NewMarket Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Consolidating Statements of Income 
Year Ended December 31, 2011 
 
























  
  
ParentCompany
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
TotalConsolidatingAdjustments
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Revenue:
  



 



  



 



 




 Net sales—product
  
$
0
  
 
$
842,294
  
  
$
1,295,833
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
2,138,127
  

 Rental revenue
  
 
0
  
 
 
11,431
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
11,431
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
0
  
 
 
853,725
  
  
 
1,295,833
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
2,149,558
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Costs:
  



 



  



 



 




 Cost of goods sold—product
  
 
0
  
 
 
460,240
  
  
 
1,125,905
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,586,145
  

 Cost of rental
  
 
0
  
 
 
4,386
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
4,386
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
0
  
 
 
464,626
  
  
 
1,125,905
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,590,531
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
0
  
 
 
389,099
  
  
 
169,928
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
559,027
  

 Selling, general, and administrative expenses
  
 
6,159
  
 
 
108,970
  
  
 
36,473
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
151,602
  

 Research, development, and testing expenses
  
 
0
  
 
 
77,569
  
  
 
27,927
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
105,496
  

 Gain on legal settlement, net
  
 
0
  
 
 
38,656
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
38,656
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating (loss) profit
  
 
(6,159
) 
 
 
241,216
  
  
 
105,528
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
340,585
  

 Interest and financing expenses, net
  
 
14,398
  
 
 
1,266
  
  
 
3,156
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
18,820
  

 Other (expense) income, net
  
 
(18,558
) 
 
 
1,885
  
  
 
(1,375
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(18,048
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 (Loss) income before income taxes and equity income of subsidiaries
  
 
(39,115
) 
 
 
241,835
  
  
 
100,997
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
303,717
  

 Income tax (benefit) expense
  
 
(15,400
) 
 
 
83,348
  
  
 
28,862
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
96,810
  

 Equity income of subsidiaries
  
 
230,622
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
(230,622
) 
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
206,907
  
 
$
158,487
  
  
$
72,135
  
 
$
(230,622
) 
 
$
206,907
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  85 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
NewMarket Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Consolidating Statements of Income 
Year Ended December 31, 2010 
 
























 
  
ParentCompany
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
TotalConsolidatingAdjustments
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Revenue:
  



 



 



  



 




 Net sales—product
  
$
0
  
 
$
744,288
  
 
$
1,041,788
  
  
$
0
  
 
$
1,786,076
  

 Rental revenue
  
 
0
  
 
 
11,316
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
11,316
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
0
  
 
 
755,604
  
 
 
1,041,788
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
1,797,392
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Costs:
  



 



 



  



 




 Cost of goods sold—product
  
 
0
  
 
 
396,483
  
 
 
881,022
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
1,277,505
  

 Cost of rental
  
 
0
  
 
 
4,428
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
4,428
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
0
  
 
 
400,911
  
 
 
881,022
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
1,281,933
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
0
  
 
 
354,693
  
 
 
160,766
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
515,459
  

 Selling, general, and administrative expenses
  
 
5,310
  
 
 
101,495
  
 
 
30,162
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
136,967
  

 Research, development, and testing expenses
  
 
0
  
 
 
69,914
  
 
 
21,274
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
91,188
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating (loss) profit
  
 
(5,310
) 
 
 
183,284
  
 
 
109,330
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
287,304
  

 Interest and financing expenses, net
  
 
12,871
  
 
 
2,032
  
 
 
2,358
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
17,261
  

 Other (expense) income, net
  
 
(10,586
) 
 
 
(93
) 
 
 
632
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
(10,047
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 (Loss) income before income taxes and equity income of subsidiaries
  
 
(28,767
) 
 
 
181,159
  
 
 
107,604
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
259,996
  

 Income tax (benefit) expense
  
 
(11,635
) 
 
 
62,580
  
 
 
31,926
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
82,871
  

 Equity income of subsidiaries
  
 
194,257
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
(194,257
) 
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
177,125
  
 
$
118,579
  
 
$
75,678
  
  
$
(194,257
) 
 
$
177,125
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  86 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
NewMarket Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Consolidating Statements of Income 
Year Ended December 31, 2009 
 
























 
  
ParentCompany
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
TotalConsolidatingAdjustments
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Revenue:
  



 



 



  



 




 Net sales—product
  
$
0
  
 
$
845,285
  
 
$
684,837
  
  
$
0
  
 
$
1,530,122
  

 Rental revenue
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
0
  
 
 
845,285
  
 
 
684,837
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
1,530,122
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Costs:
  



 



 



  



 




 Cost of goods sold—product
  
 
0
  
 
 
455,484
  
 
 
611,378
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
1,066,862
  

 Cost of rental
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
0
  
 
 
455,484
  
 
 
611,378
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
1,066,862
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
0
  
 
 
389,801
  
 
 
73,459
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
463,260
  

 Selling, general, and administrative expenses
  
 
4,886
  
 
 
95,978
  
 
 
14,036
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
114,900
  

 Research, development, and testing expenses
  
 
0
  
 
 
67,356
  
 
 
18,716
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
86,072
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating (loss) profit
  
 
(4,886
) 
 
 
226,467
  
 
 
40,707
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
262,288
  

 Interest and financing expenses (income), net
  
 
12,085
  
 
 
(550
) 
 
 
181
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
11,716
  

 Other (expense) income, net
  
 
(11,398
) 
 
 
85
  
 
 
117
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
(11,196
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 (Loss) income before income taxes and equity income of subsidiaries
  
 
(28,369
) 
 
 
227,102
  
 
 
40,643
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
239,376
  

 Income tax (benefit) expense
  
 
(12,676
) 
 
 
76,673
  
 
 
13,096
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
77,093
  

 Equity income of subsidiaries
  
 
177,976
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
(177,976
) 
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
162,283
  
 
$
150,429
  
 
$
27,547
  
  
$
(177,976
) 
 
$
162,283
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  87 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
NewMarket Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Consolidating Balance Sheets 
December 31, 2011   
























 
 
ParentCompany
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
TotalConsolidatingAdjustments
 
 
Consolidated
 

ASSETS
 



 



 



 



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
17
  
 
$
9,653
  
 
$
40,700
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
50,370
  

 Trade and other accounts receivable, net
 
 
0
  
 
 
122,812
  
 
 
164,432
  
 
 
(8,912
) 
 
 
278,332
  

 Amounts due from affiliated companies
 
 
732,392
  
 
 
1,057,075
  
 
 
17,132
  
 
 
(1,806,599
) 
 
 
0
  

 Inventories
 
 
0
  
 
 
106,278
  
 
 
200,507
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
306,785
  

 Deferred income taxes
 
 
2,790
  
 
 
3,836
  
 
 
635
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
7,261
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
 
 
8,629
  
 
 
25,967
  
 
 
2,387
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
36,983
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
 
 
743,828
  
 
 
1,325,621
  
 
 
425,793
  
 
 
(1,815,511
) 
 
 
679,731
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amounts due from affiliated companies
 
 
0
  
 
 
110,444
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(110,444
) 
 
 
0
  

 Property, plant and equipment, at cost
 
 
0
  
 
 
815,209
  
 
 
219,263
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,034,472
  

 Less accumulated depreciation and amortization
 
 
0
  
 
 
558,177
  
 
 
123,329
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
681,506
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net property, plant, and equipment
 
 
0
  
 
 
257,032
  
 
 
95,934
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
352,966
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investment in consolidated subsidiaries
 
 
989,039
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(989,039
) 
 
 
0
  

 Prepaid pension cost
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
11,494
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
11,494
  

 Deferred income taxes
 
 
43,053
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(7,248
) 
 
 
35,805
  

 Other assets and deferred charges
 
 
42,219
  
 
 
29,166
  
 
 
2,234
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
73,619
  

 Intangibles (net of amortization) and goodwill
 
 
0
  
 
 
30,758
  
 
 
7,289
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
38,047
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
 
$
1,818,139
  
 
$
1,753,021
  
 
$
542,744
  
 
$
(2,922,242
) 
 
$
1,191,662
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 








LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
 



 



 



 



 




 Accounts payable
 
$
11
  
 
$
61,778
  
 
$
41,428
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
103,217
  

 Accrued expenses
 
 
8,093
  
 
 
50,827
  
 
 
19,626
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
78,546
  

 Dividends payable
 
 
8,529
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
8,529
  

 Book overdraft
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,680
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,680
  

 Amounts due to affiliated companies
 
 
944,282
  
 
 
818,452
  
 
 
43,865
  
 
 
(1,806,599
) 
 
 
0
  

 Long-term debt, current portion
 
 
0
  
 
 
2,943
  
 
 
8,023
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
10,966
  

 Income taxes payable
 
 
12,229
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
9,769
  
 
 
(8,912
) 
 
 
13,086
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
 
 
973,144
  
 
 
935,680
  
 
 
122,711
  
 
 
(1,815,511
) 
 
 
216,024
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Long-term debt
 
 
172,000
  
 
 
60,601
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
232,601
  

 Amounts due to affiliated companies
 
 
0
  
 
 
8,025
  
 
 
102,419
  
 
 
(110,444
) 
 
 
0
  

 Other noncurrent liabilities
 
 
123,402
  
 
 
51,663
  
 
 
25,627
  
 
 
(7,248
) 
 
 
193,444
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
 
 
1,268,546
  
 
 
1,055,969
  
 
 
250,757
  
 
 
(1,933,203
) 
 
 
642,069
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Shareholders’ equity:
 



 



 



 



 




 Common stock and paid in capital
 
 
64
  
 
 
388,282
  
 
 
71,322
  
 
 
(459,604
) 
 
 
64
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
 
 
(98,732
) 
 
 
(20,355
) 
 
 
(34,554
) 
 
 
54,909
  
 
 
(98,732
) 

 Retained earnings
 
 
648,261
  
 
 
329,125
  
 
 
255,219
  
 
 
(584,344
) 
 
 
648,261
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total shareholders’ equity
 
 
549,593
  
 
 
697,052
  
 
 
291,987
  
 
 
(989,039
) 
 
 
549,593
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
 
$
1,818,139
  
 
$
1,753,021
  
 
$
542,744
  
 
$
(2,922,242
) 
 
$
1,191,662
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  88 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
NewMarket Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Consolidating Balance Sheets 
December 31, 2010   
























 
 
ParentCompany
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
TotalConsolidatingAdjustments
 
 
Consolidated
 

ASSETS
 



 



 



 



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
17
  
 
$
7,717
  
 
$
41,458
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
49,192
  

 Short-term investments
 
 
300
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
300
  

 Trade and other accounts receivable, net
 
 
4,264
  
 
 
102,158
  
 
 
152,269
  
 
 
(943
) 
 
 
257,748
  

 Amounts due from affiliated companies
 
 
0
  
 
 
135,736
  
 
 
35,974
  
 
 
(171,710
) 
 
 
0
  

 Inventories
 
 
0
  
 
 
95,383
  
 
 
177,832
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
273,215
  

 Deferred income taxes
 
 
2,805
  
 
 
3,332
  
 
 
739
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
6,876
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
 
 
5,455
  
 
 
7,746
  
 
 
2,243
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
15,444
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
 
 
12,841
  
 
 
352,072
  
 
 
410,515
  
 
 
(172,653
) 
 
 
602,775
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amounts due from affiliated companies
 
 
0
  
 
 
57,470
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(57,470
) 
 
 
0
  

 Property, plant and equipment, at cost
 
 
0
  
 
 
787,721
  
 
 
200,459
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
988,180
  

 Less accumulated depreciation and amortization
 
 
0
  
 
 
535,241
  
 
 
118,963
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
654,204
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net property, plant, and equipment
 
 
0
  
 
 
252,480
  
 
 
81,496
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
333,976
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investment in consolidated subsidiaries
 
 
765,787
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(765,787
) 
 
 
0
  

 Prepaid pension cost
 
 
0
  
 
 
660
  
 
 
7,937
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
8,597
  

 Deferred income taxes
 
 
33,142
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(11,168
) 
 
 
21,974
  

 Other assets and deferred charges
 
 
28,157
  
 
 
19,052
  
 
 
1,684
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
48,893
  

 Intangibles (net of amortization) and goodwill
 
 
0
  
 
 
36,795
  
 
 
9,731
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
46,526
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
 
$
839,927
  
 
$
718,529
  
 
$
511,363
  
 
$
(1,007,078
) 
 
$
1,062,741
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 








LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
 



 



 



 



 




 Accounts payable
 
$
219
  
 
$
68,042
  
 
$
40,989
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
109,250
  

 Accrued expenses
 
 
11,253
  
 
 
41,535
  
 
 
18,770
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
71,558
  

 Dividends payable
 
 
5,304
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
5,304
  

 Book overdraft
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,063
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,063
  

 Amounts due to affiliated companies
 
 
88,850
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
82,860
  
 
 
(171,710
) 
 
 
0
  

 Long-term debt, current portion
 
 
0
  
 
 
2,875
  
 
 
1,494
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
4,369
  

 Income taxes payable
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
15,786
  
 
 
(943
) 
 
 
14,843
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
 
 
105,626
  
 
 
113,515
  
 
 
159,899
  
 
 
(172,653
) 
 
 
206,387
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Long-term debt
 
 
154,000
  
 
 
63,544
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
217,544
  

 Amounts due to affiliated companies
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
57,470
  
 
 
(57,470
) 
 
 
0
  

 Other noncurrent liabilities
 
 
88,661
  
 
 
48,331
  
 
 
21,346
  
 
 
(11,168
) 
 
 
147,170
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
 
 
348,287
  
 
 
225,390
  
 
 
238,715
  
 
 
(241,291
) 
 
 
571,101
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Shareholders’ equity:
 



 



 



 



 




 Common stock and paid in capital
 
 
0
  
 
 
385,870
  
 
 
73,734
  
 
 
(459,604
) 
 
 
0
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
 
 
(73,820
) 
 
 
(14,159
) 
 
 
(35,900
) 
 
 
50,059
  
 
 
(73,820
) 

 Retained earnings
 
 
565,460
  
 
 
121,428
  
 
 
234,814
  
 
 
(356,242
) 
 
 
565,460
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total shareholders’ equity
 
 
491,640
  
 
 
493,139
  
 
 
272,648
  
 
 
(765,787
) 
 
 
491,640
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
 
$
839,927
  
 
$
718,529
  
 
$
511,363
  
 
$
(1,007,078
) 
 
$
1,062,741
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  89 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
NewMarket Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows 
Year Ended December 31, 2011 
 
























 
 
ParentCompany
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
TotalConsolidatingAdjustments
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Cash provided from (used in) operating activities
 
$
(16,646
) 
 
$
148,723
  
 
$
52,521
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
184,598
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from investing activities
 



 



 



 



 




 Capital expenditures
 
 
0
  
 
 
(25,190
) 
 
 
(28,325
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(53,515
) 

 Deposits for interest rate swap
 
 
(46,467
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(46,467
) 

 Return of deposits for interest rate swap
 
 
33,600
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
33,600
  

 Payments on settlement of interest rate swap
 
 
(5,148
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(5,148
) 

 Receipts from settlement of interest rate swap
 
 
274
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
274
  

 Proceeds from sale of short-term investment
 
 
300
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
300
  

 Cash dividends from subsidiaries
 
 
2,520
  
 
 
30,228
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(32,748
) 
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash provided from (used in) investing activities
 
 
(14,921
) 
 
 
5,038
  
 
 
(28,325
) 
 
 
(32,748
) 
 
 
(70,956
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from financing activities
 



 



 



 



 




 Net borrowings (repayments) under revolving credit agreement
 
 
18,000
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
18,000
  

 Repayment on Foundry Park I mortgage loan
 
 
0
  
 
 
(2,731
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(2,731
) 

 Net borrowings under lines of credit
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
6,529
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
6,529
  

 Repurchases of common stock
 
 
(98,093
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(98,093
) 

 Dividends paid
 
 
(32,588
) 
 
 
(2,520
) 
 
 
(30,228
) 
 
 
32,748
  
 
 
(32,588
) 

 Debt issuance costs
 
 
(3,233
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(3,233
) 

 Proceeds from exercise of stock options
 
 
70
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
70
  

 Excess tax benefits from stock-based payment arrangements
 
 
1,102
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,102
  

 Payments on the capital lease
 
 
0
  
 
 
(144
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(144
) 

 Financing from affiliated companies
 
 
146,309
  
 
 
(146,309
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash provided from (used in) financing activities
 
 
31,567
  
 
 
(151,704
) 
 
 
(23,699
) 
 
 
32,748
  
 
 
(111,088
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents
 
 
0
  
 
 
(121
) 
 
 
(1,255
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,376
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,936
  
 
 
(758
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,178
  

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
 
 
17
  
 
 
7,717
  
 
 
41,458
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
49,192
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
 
$
17
  
 
$
9,653
  
 
$
40,700
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
50,370
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  90 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
NewMarket Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows 
Year Ended December 31, 2010 
 
























 
 
ParentCompany
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
TotalConsolidatingAdjustments
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Cash provided from (used in) operating activities
 
$
52,328
  
 
$
96,995
  
 
$
14,724
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
164,047
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from investing activities
 



 



 



 



 




 Capital expenditures
 
 
0
  
 
 
(20,804
) 
 
 
(15,602
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(36,406
) 

 Deposits for interest rate swap
 
 
(44,072
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(44,072
) 

 Return of deposits for interest rate swap
 
 
36,180
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
36,180
  

 Payments on settlement of interest rate swap
 
 
(2,574
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(2,574
) 

 Receipts from settlement of interest rate swap
 
 
266
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
266
  

 Acquisition of business (net of cash acquired of $1.8 million in 2010)
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(41,300
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(41,300
) 

 Cash dividends from subsidiaries
 
 
2,800
  
 
 
12,111
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(14,911
) 
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash provided from (used in) investing activities
 
 
(7,400
) 
 
 
(8,693
) 
 
 
(56,902
) 
 
 
(14,911
) 
 
 
(87,906
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from financing activities
 



 



 



 



 




 Net borrowings (repayments) under revolving credit agreement
 
 
4,000
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
4,000
  

 Repayment on Foundry Park I mortgage loan
 
 
0
  
 
 
(2,125
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(2,125
) 

 Net borrowings under lines of credit
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,494
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,494
  

 Repayment of Foundry Park I construction loan
 
 
0
  
 
 
(99,102
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(99,102
) 

 Borrowing under Foundry Park I mortgage loan
 
 
0
  
 
 
68,400
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
68,400
  

 Repurchases of common stock
 
 
(121,517
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(121,517
) 

 Dividends paid
 
 
(22,608
) 
 
 
(2,800
) 
 
 
(12,111
) 
 
 
14,911
  
 
 
(22,608
) 

 Debt issuance costs
 
 
(2,468
) 
 
 
(1,524
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(3,992
) 

 Proceeds from exercise of stock options
 
 
91
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
91
  

 Excess tax benefits from stock-based payment arrangements
 
 
0
  
 
 
711
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
711
  

 Payments on the capital lease
 
 
0
  
 
 
(835
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(835
) 

 Payment for financed intangible asset
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,000
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,000
) 

 Issuance of intercompany note payable
 
 
0
  
 
 
(43,807
) 
 
 
43,807
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Repayment of intercompany note payable
 
 
0
  
 
 
(950
) 
 
 
950
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Financing from affiliated companies
 
 
57,583
  
 
 
(57,583
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash provided from (used in) financing activities
 
 
(84,919
) 
 
 
(140,615
) 
 
 
34,140
  
 
 
14,911
  
 
 
(176,483
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents
 
 
0
  
 
 
(2,173
) 
 
 
(124
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(2,297
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
(39,991
) 
 
 
(54,486
) 
 
 
(8,162
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(102,639
) 

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
 
 
40,008
  
 
 
62,203
  
 
 
49,620
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
151,831
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
 
$
17
  
 
$
7,717
  
 
$
41,458
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
49,192
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  91 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 
NewMarket Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows 
Year Ended December 31, 2009 
 
























 
 
ParentCompany
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
TotalConsolidatingAdjustments
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Cash provided from (used in) operating activities
 
$
(86,987
) 
 
$
256,789
  
 
$
55,873
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
225,675
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from investing activities
 



 



 



 



 




 Capital expenditures
 
 
0
  
 
 
(70,211
) 
 
 
(18,922
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(89,133
) 

 Deposits for interest rate swap
 
 
(38,730
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(38,730
) 

 Return of deposits for interest rate swap
 
 
23,460
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
23,460
  

 Deposits for interest rate lock agreement
 
 
0
  
 
 
(5,000
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(5,000
) 

 Return of deposits for interest rate lock agreement
 
 
0
  
 
 
15,500
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
15,500
  

 Purchase of short-term investment
 
 
(300
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(300
) 

 Foundry Park I deferred leasing costs
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,500
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,500
) 

 Cash dividends from subsidiaries
 
 
221,950
  
 
 
10,796
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(232,746
) 
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash provided from (used in) investing activities
 
 
206,380
  
 
 
(50,415
) 
 
 
(18,922
) 
 
 
(232,746
) 
 
 
(95,703
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from financing activities
 



 



 



 



 




 Net borrowings (repayments) under revolving credit agreement
 
 
(41,900
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(41,900
) 

 Draws on Foundry Park I construction loan
 
 
0
  
 
 
55,603
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
55,603
  

 Dividends paid
 
 
(16,347
) 
 
 
(221,950
) 
 
 
(10,796
) 
 
 
232,746
  
 
 
(16,347
) 

 Debt issuance costs
 
 
(465
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(465
) 

 Proceeds from exercise of stock options
 
 
40
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
40
  

 Payments on the capital lease
 
 
0
  
 
 
(784
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(784
) 

 Payment for financed intangible asset
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,000
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,000
) 

 Issuance of intercompany note payable
 
 
0
  
 
 
(13,402
) 
 
 
13,402
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Repayment of intercompany note payable
 
 
0
  
 
 
13,236
  
 
 
(13,236
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Financing from affiliated companies
 
 
(20,713
) 
 
 
20,713
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash provided from (used in) financing activities
 
 
(79,385
) 
 
 
(147,584
) 
 
 
(10,630
) 
 
 
232,746
  
 
 
(4,853
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents
 
 
0
  
 
 
(995
) 
 
 
5,946
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
4,951
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
40,008
  
 
 
57,795
  
 
 
32,267
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
130,070
  

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
 
 
0
  
 
 
4,408
  
 
 
17,353
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
21,761
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
 
$
40,008
  
 
$
62,203
  
 
$
49,620
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
151,831
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  92 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(tabular amounts in thousands, except per-share amounts) 
 


27.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 
In September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update 2011-08, “Intangibles –
Goodwill and Other (Topic 350) – Testing Goodwill for Impairment” (ASU 2011-08). ASU 2011-08 simplifies goodwill impairment testing by allowing an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not
that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. An entity is no longer required to determine the fair amount of a reporting unit unless it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than carrying value. ASU 2011-08
is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption is permitted. We are evaluating the provisions of ASU 2011-08 and will apply its provisions in our 2012 annual impairment analysis. 
In June 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2011-05, “Comprehensive Income (Topic 220) – Presentation of Comprehensive
Income” (ASU 2011-05). ASU 2011-05 requires that all nonowner changes in stockholders’ equity be presented either in a single continuous consolidated statement of comprehensive income or in two separate, but consecutive, consolidated
statement of net income and statement of comprehensive income. The option to present comprehensive income as part of the consolidated statement of stockholders’ equity has been eliminated. ASU 2011-05 is effective for interim and annual periods
beginning after December 15, 2011 and will be applied retrospectively. Subsequently, in December 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standard Update 2011-12, “Comprehensive Income (Topic 220)—Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments
to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05” (ASU 2011-12). ASU 2011-12 defers certain presentation requirements of ASU 2011-05 to allow further
deliberation by the FASB. The remaining requirements of ASU 2011-05 will become effective as originally issued. We will modify our financial statements beginning with our March 31, 2012 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to adopt the requirements of
ASU 2011-05 and ASU 2011-12.  In May 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2011-04, “Fair Value Measurement
(Topic 820)—Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs” (ASU 2011-04). ASU 2011-04 results in common fair value measurement, as well as disclosure requirements, under U.S.
GAAP and IFRS. The amendments clarify guidance on measuring fair value, but do not require any additional fair value measurements. ASU 2011-04 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. Early application is
not permitted. ASU 2011-04 will not have a significant impact on our financial statements. 
  93 


Table of Contents


ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  None.   


ITEM 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  Evaluation
of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  We maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable, but not
absolute, assurance of the reliability of the financial records and the protection of assets. Our controls and procedures include written policies and procedures, careful selection and training of qualified personnel, and an internal audit program.
We use a third-party firm, separate from our independent registered public accounting firm, to assist with internal audit services.  We work
closely with the business groups, operations personnel, and information technology to ensure transactions are recorded properly. Environmental and legal staff are consulted to determine the appropriateness of our environmental and legal liabilities
for each reporting period. We regularly review the regulations and rule changes that affect our financial disclosures.  Our disclosure control
procedures include signed representation letters from our regional officers, as well as senior management.  We have a Financial Disclosure
Committee, which is made up of the president of Afton, the general counsel of NewMarket, and the controller of NewMarket. The committee, as well as regional management, makes representations with regard to the financial statements that, to the best
of their knowledge, the report does not contain any misstatement of a material fact or omit a material fact that is necessary to make the statements not misleading with respect to the periods covered by the report. 
The committee and the regional management also represent, to the best of their knowledge, that the financial statements and other financial information
included in the report fairly present, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the company as of and for the periods presented in the report. 
Pursuant to Rule 13a-15(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act), we carried out an evaluation, with the participation of our
management, including our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined under Rule 13a-15(e)) under the Exchange Act as of the end of the period covered by
this report. Based upon that evaluation, our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective.  There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act, during the quarter ended December 31, 2011 that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
  94 


Table of Contents
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule
13a-15(f), under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Internal control
over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:   


 
•
 
 pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets;
  


 
•
 
 provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorization of our management and directors; and 
 


 
•
 
 provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a
material effect on the consolidated financial statements.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our
principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in “Internal Control—Integrated Framework” issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation under the framework in “Internal Control—Integrated Framework,” our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting
was effective at the reasonable assurance level as of December 31, 2011. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, as stated in their report, which is included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   


ITEM 9B.
OTHER INFORMATION  None. 
  95 


Table of Contents
PART III   


ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to our definitive Proxy Statement for our 2012 annual meeting of shareholders (Proxy Statement) under the headings entitled
“Election of Directors,” “Committees of Our Board,” “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” and is included in Part I of this Form 10-K
under the heading entitled “Executive Officers of the Registrant.”  We have adopted a Code of Conduct that applies to our directors,
officers, and employees (including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer) and have posted the Code of Conduct on our internet website. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirement under
Item 5.05 of Form 8-K relating to amendments to or waivers from any provision of our Code of Conduct applicable to the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer by posting this information on our
internet website. Our internet website address is www.newmarket.com.  We have filed, as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
the certifications of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer required under Sections 906 and 302 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 to be filed with the SEC regarding the quality of our public disclosure. 
 


ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  The information
required by this item is incorporated by reference to our Proxy Statement under the headings (including the narrative disclosures following a referenced table) entitled “Compensation Discussion and Analysis,” “The Compensation
Committee Report,” “Compensation of Executive Officers,” “Potential Payments upon Termination or Change in Control,” and “Compensation of Directors.” 
 


ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
Except as noted below, the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to our Proxy Statement under the heading “Stock
Ownership.”  The following table presents information as of December 31, 2011 with respect to equity compensation plans under which
shares of our common stock are authorized for issuance.   
















 Plan Category
  
Number ofSecurities to BeIssued uponExercise
ofOutstandingOptions, Warrantsand Rights (a)
 
  
Weighted-AverageExercise Price ofOutstandingOptions,Warrants
andRights
 
  
Number ofSecuritiesRemainingAvailable forFuture IssuanceUnder
EquityCompensationPlans (b)
 

 Equity compensation plans approved by shareholders:
  



  



  




 2004 Incentive Plan
  
 
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
 
1,451,335
  

 1982 Incentive Plan
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
(c) 

 Equity compensation plans not approved by shareholders (d):
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
 
1,451,335
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(a)
There are no outstanding options, rights, or warrants. 


(b)
Amounts exclude any securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options. 
  96 


Table of Contents


(c)
The 1982 Incentive Plan was terminated on March 2, 2004. We cannot make any further grants or awards under this plan. All outstanding options at January 1,
2011, were exercised during 2011. 


(d)
We do not have any equity compensation plans that have not been approved by shareholders. 
 


ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to our Proxy Statement under the headings entitled “Board of Directors” and “Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions.”   


ITEM 14.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to our Proxy Statement under the heading “Ratification of Appointment of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.” 
  97 


Table of Contents
PART IV   


ITEM 15.
EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   








(A)(1)
 
Management’s Report on the Financial Statements





 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm





 
Consolidated Statements of Income for each of the three years in the periods ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009





 
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010





 
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for each of the three years in the periods ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009





 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the periods ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009





 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements




(A)(2)
 
Financial Statement Schedules—none required




(A)(3)
 
Exhibits






 
  3.1  
  
Articles of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Form 10-K (File No. 1-32190) filed March 14, 2005)






 
  3.2  
  
NewMarket Corporation Bylaws Amended and Restated effective April 23, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Form 8-K (File No. 1-32190) filed February 23,
2009)






 
  4.1  
  
Indenture, dated as of December 12, 2006, among NewMarket Corporation, the guarantors listed on the signature pages thereto and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee, (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Form 8-K (File No. 1-32190) filed December 13, 2006)






 
  4.2  
  
First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 7, 2007 among NewMarket Corporation, NewMarket Development Corporation, Foundry Park I, LLC, Foundry Park II, LLC, Gamble’s
Hill, LLC, Gamble’s Hill Tredegar, LLC, Gamble’s Hill Lab, LLC, Gamble’s Hill Landing, LLC and Gamble’s Hill Third Street, LLC, and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to Form 10-K (File
No. 1-32190) filed February 26, 2007)






 
  4.3  
  
Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 19, 2010, among NewMarket Corporation, Polartech Additives, Inc., and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4.1 to Form 10-Q (File No. 1-32190) filed April 28, 2010)






 
  4.4  
  
Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 18, 2011, by and among NewMarket Corporation, the Guarantors listed on the signature pages thereto and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K (File No. 1-32190) filed January 19, 2011)






 
  4.5  
  
Form of 7.125% Senior Notes due 2016 (Included in Exhibit 4.7) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Form 8-K (File No. 1-32190) filed December 13, 2006)






 
  4.6  
  
Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 12, 2006, among NewMarket Corporation, the guarantors listed on the signature pages thereto and Credit Suisse Securities (USA)
LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Form 8-K (File No. 1-32190) filed December 13, 2006)






 
10.1  
  
Credit Agreement dated as of November 12, 2010, by and among the Company, the Foreign Subsidiary Borrowers party thereto; the Lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as
Administrative Agent; J.P. Morgan Securities LLC as Sole Bookrunner and Sole Lead Arranger; and PNC Bank, National Association, Bank of America, N.A. and Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania as Co- Syndication Agents (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.1 to Form 8-K (File No. 1-32190) filed November 18, 2010)
  98 


Table of Contents













  
10.2  
  
International Swap Dealers Association, Inc. Master Agreement dated June 25, 2009, between NewMarket Corporation and Goldman Sachs Bank USA (ISDA Master Agreement) (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K (File No. 1-32190) filed June 30, 2009)






  
10.3  
  
Schedule to the ISDA Master Agreement dated June 25, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Form 8-K (File No. 1-32190) filed June 30, 2009)






  
10.4  
  
Credit Support Annex to the Schedule to the ISDA Master Agreement dated June 25, 2009, between NewMarket Corporation and Goldman Sachs Bank USA (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.3 to Form 8-K (File No. 1-32190) filed June 30, 2009)






  
10.5  
  
Deed of Lease Agreement, dated as of January 11, 2007, by and between Foundry Park I, LLC and MeadWestvaco Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-K
(File No. 1-32190) filed February 26, 2007)






  
10.6  
  
2004 Incentive Compensation and Stock Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-K (File No. 1-32190) filed March 14, 2005)*






  
10.7  
  
Excess Benefit Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Ethyl Corporation’s Form 10-K (File No. 1-5112) filed February 25, 1993)*






  
10.8  
  
Trust Agreement between Ethyl Corporation and Merrill Lynch Trust Company of America (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to Ethyl Corporation’s Registration Statement on
Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-60889) filed August 7, 1998)






  
10.9  
  
NewMarket Corporation and Affiliates Bonus Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Ethyl Corporation’s Form 10-K (File No. 1-5112) filed March 14,
2003)*






  
10.10
  
Indemnification Agreement, dated as of July 1, 2004 by and among NewMarket Corporation, Ethyl Corporation and Afton Chemical Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.5 to Form 10-Q (File No. 1-32190) filed August 5, 2004)






  
10.11
  
Services Agreement, dated as of July 1, 2004, by and between NewMarket Services Corporation and Afton Chemical Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-Q
(File No. 1-32190) filed November 5, 2004)






  
10.12
  
Services Agreement, dated as of July 1, 2004, by and between NewMarket Services Corporation and Ethyl Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q (File
No. 1-32190) filed November 5, 2004)






  
10.13
  
Services Agreement, dated as of July 1, 2004, by and between NewMarket Services Corporation and NewMarket Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-Q
(File No. 1-32190) filed November 5, 2004)






  
10.14
  
Summary of Executive Compensation*






  
10.15
  
Summary of Directors’ Compensation*






  
10.16
  
NewMarket Corporation Additional Benefit Agreement, dated May 1, 2006, between NewMarket Corporation and C.S. Warren Huang (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K
(File No. 1-32190) filed May 2, 2006)*






  
10.17
  
Loan Agreement, dated as of January 28, 2010, among the Foundry Park I, LLC, as Borrower, PB (USA) Realty Corporation, as Lender, and PB Capital Corporation, as Administrative Agent
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K (File No. 1-32190) filed February 4, 2010)






  
10.18
  
Note, dated January 28, 2010, among the Foundry Park I, LLC, as Borrower, PB (USA) Realty Corporation, as Lender, and PB Capital Corporation, as Administrative Agent (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Form 8-K (File No. 1-32190) filed February 4, 2010)
  99 


Table of Contents













  
10.19
  
Deed of Trust, Assignment of Leases and Rents and Security Agreements, dated January 28, 2010, among the Foundry Park I, LLC, as Borrower, PB (USA) Realty Corporation, as Lender,
and PB Capital Corporation as Administrative Agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Form 8-K (File No. 1-32190) filed February 4, 2010)






  
10.20
  
Assignment of Leases and Rents, dated January 28, 2010, between Foundry Park I, LLC and PB Capital Corporation, as Administrative Agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4
to Form 8-K (File No. 1-32190) filed February 4, 2010)






  
10.21
  
Guaranty of Payment – Deed of Trust Loan, dated January 28, 2010, among the Foundry Park I, LLC, as Borrower, PB (USA) Realty Corporation, as Lender, and PB Capital
Corporation, as Administrative Agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Form 8-K (File No. 1-32190) filed February 4, 2010)






  
10.22
  
Indemnity Agreement, dated January 29, 2010, between PB Capital Corporation and Foundry Park I, LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Form 8-K (File No. 1-32190)
filed February 4, 2010)






  
10.23
  
International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. 2002 Master Agreement dated as of January 29, 2010, between PB Capital Corporation and Foundry Park I, LLC (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.7 to Form 8-K (File No. 1-32190) filed February 4, 2010)






  
10.24
  
International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. Schedule to the 2002 Master Agreement dated as of January 29, 2010, between PB Capital Corporation and Foundry Park I, LLC
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Form 8-K (File No. 1-32190) filed February 4, 2010)






  
10.25
  
Swap Transaction Confirmation dated January 29, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Form 8-K (File No. 1-32190) filed February 4, 2010)






  
10.26
  
Form of Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K (File No. 1-32190) filed October 22, 2010)*






  
12
  
Computation of Ratios






  
21
  
Subsidiaries of the Registrant






  
23
  
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm






  
31(a)
  
Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, by Thomas E.
Gottwald






  
31(b)
  
Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, by David A.
Fiorenza






  
32(a)
  
Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, by Thomas E. Gottwald






  
32(b)
  
Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, by David A. Fiorenza






  
101   
  
XBRL Instance Document and Related Items
  


*
Indicates management contracts, compensatory plans or arrangements of the company required to be filed as an exhibit 
 


(B)
Exhibits—The response to this portion of Item 15 is submitted as a separate section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  100



Table of Contents
SIGNATURES  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.   






NEWMARKET CORPORATION




By:
 
/s/    THOMAS E.
GOTTWALD        


 
(Thomas E. Gottwald, President andChief Executive Officer)
 Dated: February 22, 2012  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated as of
February 22, 2012.   






 SIGNATURE
  
 TITLE




 /S/    BRUCE C.
GOTTWALD         (Bruce C. Gottwald)
  
 Chairman of the Board, Chairman of the Executive Committee, and Director




 /S/    THOMAS E.
GOTTWALD         (Thomas E. Gottwald)
  
 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer)




 /S/    D. A.
FIORENZA         (David A. Fiorenza)
  
 Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)




 /S/    WAYNE C.
DRINKWATER         (Wayne C. Drinkwater)
  
 Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)




 /S/    PHYLLIS L.
COTHRAN         (Phyllis L. Cothran)
  
 Director




 /S/    MARK M.
GAMBILL         (Mark M. Gambill)
  
 Director




 /S/    PATRICK D.
HANLEY         (Patrick D. Hanley)
  
 Director




 /S/    J. E.
ROGERS         (James E. Rogers)
  
 Director




 /S/    C. B.
WALKER         (Charles B. Walker)
  
 Director

  101



Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX 
 






Exhibit 10.14
 
Summary of Executive Compensation




Exhibit 10.15
 
Summary of Directors’ Compensation




Exhibit 12
 
Computation of Ratios




Exhibit 21
 
Subsidiaries of the Registrant




Exhibit 23
 
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm




Exhibit 31(a)
 
Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, by Thomas E.
Gottwald




Exhibit 31(b)
 
Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, by David A.
Fiorenza




Exhibit 32(a)
 
Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, by Thomas E. Gottwald




Exhibit 32(b)
 
Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, by David A. Fiorenza




Exhibit 101
 
XBRL Instance Document and Related Items




