
10-K
1
d270168d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549   
  FORM 10-K
  


þ
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011  OR   


¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the Transition Period
From                     to                    
 Commission file number: 001-34666  MaxLinear, Inc.  (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
    
 






Delaware
 
14-1896129

 (State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
 
 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)




 2051 Palomar Airport Road, Suite 100
Carlsbad, California
 
92011

(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(Zip Code)
 (760) 692-0711  (Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)  Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:   






 Title of each class
 
 Name of each exchange on which registered

Class A Common Stock, $0.0001 par value
 
New York Stock Exchange
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None 
   
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes   ¨     No   þ 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.     Yes   ¨     No   þ 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.     Yes   þ     No   ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).     Yes   þ     No   ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   ¨  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
  










Large accelerated filer
 
¨
  
Accelerated filer
 
þ






Non-accelerated filer
 
¨  (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
  
Smaller reporting company
 
¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).    Yes  ¨    No  þ 
The aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock, $0.0001 par value per share, held by non-affiliates of the
registrant on June 30, 2011, the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, was $208 million (based on the closing sales price of the registrant’s Class A common stock on that date).
Shares of the registrant’s Class A or Class B common stock held by each officer and director and each person known to the registrant to own 10% or more of the outstanding voting power of the registrant have been excluded in that such
persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of affiliate status is not a determination for other purposes.  As
of February 29, 2012, the registrant has 22,172,516 shares of Class A common stock, par value $0.0001, and 11,188,001 shares of Class B common stock, par value $0.0001, outstanding. 
   
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  Information required by Part III of this Form 10-K is incorporated by reference to the registrant’s proxy statement (the “Proxy Statement”) for the 2012 annual meeting of
stockholders, which proxy statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K. 
   
 


Table of Contents
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 










 
  
 
  
Page
 


  
Part I
  




 Item 1.
  
Business
  
 
1
  

 Item 1A.
  
Risk Factors
  
 
12
  

 Item 1B.
  
Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
34
  

 Item 2.
  
Properties
  
 
34
  

 Item 3.
  
Legal Proceedings
  
 
35
  

 Item 4.
  
 Mine Safety Disclosures
  
 
35
  


  
Part II
  




 Item 5.
  
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
  
 
36
  

 Item 6.
  
Selected Consolidated Financial Data
  
 
38
  

 Item 7.
  
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  
 
40
  

 Item 7A.
  
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
  
 
51
  

 Item 8.
  
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
51
  

 Item 9.
  
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
 
51
  

 Item 9A.
  
Controls and Procedures
  
 
52
  

 Item 9B.
  
Other Information
  
 
53
  


  
Part III
  




 Item 10.
  
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
54
  

 Item 11.
  
Executive Compensation
  
 
54
  

 Item 12.
  
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
  
 
54
  

 Item 13.
  
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
54
  

 Item 14.
  
Principal Accounting Fees and Services
  
 
54
  


  
Part IV
  




 Item 15.
  
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
  
 
55
  



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
PART I 
Forward-Looking Statements  The information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, or this Form 10-K, contains forward-looking statements and information within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to,
statements concerning our strategy, future operations, future financial position, future revenues, projected costs, prospects and plans and objectives of management. The words “anticipates”, “believes”, “estimates”,
“expects”, “intends”, “may”, “plans”, “projects”, “will”, “would” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking
statements contain these identifying words. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Actual results or
events could differ materially from the plans, intentions and expectations disclosed in the forward-looking statements that we make. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ
materially from those in the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, the risks set forth in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking
statements.   


ITEM 1.
BUSINESS  Corporate Information
 We incorporated in the State of Delaware in September 2003. Our executive offices are located at 2051 Palomar Airport
Road, Suite 100, Carlsbad, California 92011, and our telephone number is (760) 692-0711. In this Form 10-K, unless the context otherwise requires, the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” refer to MaxLinear,
Inc. and its subsidiaries. Our website address is www.MaxLinear.com. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. We provide free of charge through a link on our website access to our Annual Reports on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practical after the reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission, or SEC. The names “MxL” and “digIQ” are our registered trademarks. All other trademarks and trade names appearing in this Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. 
Overview  We are
a provider of highly integrated, radio-frequency analog and mixed-signal semiconductor solutions for broadband communications applications. Our high performance radio-frequency, or RF, receiver products capture and process digital and analog signals
to be decoded for various applications. These products include both RF receivers and RF receiver systems-on-chip, or SoCs, which incorporate our highly integrated radio system architecture and the functionality necessary to demodulate broadband
signals. Our current products enable the reception of broadband data and video content in a wide range of electronic devices, including cable and terrestrial set top boxes, DOCSIS voice and data cable modems, digital televisions, mobile handsets,
personal computers, netbooks and in-vehicle entertainment devices.  We combine our high performance RF and mixed-signal
semiconductor design skills with our expertise in digital communications systems, software and embedded systems to provide highly integrated semiconductor devices that are manufactured using low-cost complementary metal oxide semiconductor, or CMOS,
process technology. In addition, our ability to design analog and mixed-signal circuits in CMOS allows us to efficiently combine analog and digital signal processing functionality in the same integrated circuit. As a result, our RF

  1 


Table of Contents

receivers and RF receiver SoCs have high levels of functional integration and performance, small silicon die size and low power consumption. Moreover, our proprietary CMOS-based radio system
architecture provides to our customers the benefits of superior RF system performance, shorter design cycles, significant design flexibility and low system cost across a wide range of broadband communications applications. 
We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, module makers and original design manufacturers, or ODMs. During 2011,
we sold our products to more than 121 end customers. From inception through December 31, 2011, we shipped 189 million RF receivers and RF receiver SoCs. For the year ended December 31, 2011, our net revenue was $71.9 million as
compared to $68.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2010.  Industry Background 
Technological advances in the broadband data and broadcast TV markets are driving dramatic changes in the way consumers access the
internet and experience multimedia content. These advances include the ongoing worldwide conversion from analog to digital television broadcasting; the increasing availability of high-speed broadband and wireless connectivity; rapid improvements in
display technology; the transition from standard to high definition television; the proliferation of multi-channel digital video recording, or DVR; and the proliferation of multimedia content accessible through terrestrial broadcast digital
television, cable, satellite and telecommunications carrier services. As a result, system designers are adding enhanced television functionality to set top boxes and digital televisions, and expanding voice, video and data access functions and
capabilities to home broadband gateways. We believe that several trends, across multiple target markets, are creating revenue opportunities for providers of RF receivers and RF receiver SoCs. These trends include the following: 
 


 
•
 
 Cable / Broadband Access. Competing cable, satellite and other broadband service providers differentiate their services by providing
consumers with bundled video, voice and broadband data, referred to as triple-play services. These services include advanced features, such as, channel guide information, video-on-demand, multi-channel digital video recording, or DVR, and
picture-in-picture viewing. Many set top boxes, including those used for triple-play services, now enable consumers to simultaneously access, and manage multimedia content from multiple locations in the same house. These advanced features require a
either a home gateway or set top box to simultaneously receive, demodulate and decode multiple signals spread across several channels. Each simultaneously accessed signal requires a dedicated RF receiver. This greatly increases the number of RF
receivers required to be deployed in each set top box. In addition, in order for cable MSO’s to deliver increasing bandwidth to the home, they have deployed DOCSIS 3.0 equipment and services, which enables channel bonding, or the concurrent
reception of multiple channels, resulting in higher aggregate bandwidth available to DOCSIS 3.0 cable subscribers.   


 
•
 
 Consumer / PC. Increasingly, consumers are demanding advanced features in their televisions and are also using non-traditional consumer
electronic devices, such as personal computers, netbooks, tablets, portable media players, and mobile phones to access broadcast television and other multimedia content. In the traditional television market, system designers are introducing cable
and satellite ready televisions equipped with enhanced features such as picture-in-picture and DVR. In addition, advances in display and semiconductor technologies have enabled the adoption of broadcast analog and digital television and other video
display functions in non-traditional TV devices such as netbooks, personal computers, tables, mobile phones, and portable media players.   


 
•
 
 Automotive. The automobile cabin has evolved to provide many of the features and comforts that consumers experience at their homes. In many
automobiles, new technologies such as global positioning system, or GPS, Bluetooth telephony, video game and DVD playback systems have become standard features. Many vehicles now incorporate video screens in the automobile dashboard and in the back
of passenger seats. In areas with more advanced and widespread broadcast digital television transmission, such as Japan, high definition television reception is an available feature in automotive entertainment systems. 
  2 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Mobile. Consumers have shown a desire to have access to the same media content “on-the-go” as they have in a stationary environment
through a personal computer, television and other multimedia devices. At the same time, the multimedia processing and display capabilities of mobile phones have advanced sufficiently to enable video services with high video quality at a modest cost
increase to consumers. Further, the increasing availability of digital TV broadcast worldwide, which is much more robust than analog and resistant to mobile effects such as fading, Doppler conditions and multipath interference, enables mass
deployment of mobile video services to consumers. Recognizing these trends, service providers are targeting mobile video as an important broadband service offering. 
As a result of these trends, RF receiver technology is being deployed in a variety of devices for the cable, consumer, automotive and
mobile markets. The proliferation of applications with advanced features has led to an increase in the number of devices with multiple RF receivers and RF receiver SoCs. RF receivers incorporate RF, digital and analog signal processing functions.
 Challenges Faced by Providers of Systems and RF Receivers 
The stringent performance requirements of broadband communications applications and the distinct technological challenges associated with
the cable, consumer, automotive and mobile markets present significant obstacles to service providers and system designers. In particular, designing and implementing RF receivers to capture broadcast digital television signals is extremely
challenging due in part to the wide frequency band across which broadcast digital television signals are transmitted. As compared to other digital radio technologies, such as cellular, WiFi and Bluetooth, television signals are acquired over a much
wider frequency band and encounter many more sources of interference. As a result, traditionally, design and implementation of these RF receivers have been accomplished using conventional radio system architectures that employ multiple discrete
components and are fabricated using expensive special purpose semiconductor manufacturing processes, such as silicon germanium and gallium arsenide-based process technologies.  The core challenges of capturing and processing high quality broadband communications signals are common to the cable, consumer, automotive and mobile markets. These challenges include: 
 


 
•
 
 Design Challenges of Multiple RF Receivers. System designers and service providers across various markets seek to enhance consumer appeal
through the addition of new features in their products. Incorporating more than one RF receiver in an electronic device enables many of these features and advanced applications that are rapidly becoming a part of the standard offering from device
makers and service providers. For example, in the cable set top box market, it is necessary to support the simultaneous reception of multiple channels for voice, video and data applications in many system designs. In order to meet such requirements,
OEMs must employ multiple RF receivers in their system design. Each additional RF receiver poses new challenges to the system designer, such as increased design complexity, overall cost, circuit board space, power consumption and heat dissipation.
In addition, a high level of integration in multiple-receiver designs is necessary to combat the reliability and signal interference issues arising from the close proximity of sensitive RF elements. 
 


 
•
 
 Signal Clarity Performance Requirements. Television reception requires a robust and clear signal to provide an adequate user experience. One of
the core attributes of system performance is signal clarity, often measured by the signal-to-noise ratio parameter, which measures the strength of the desired signal relative to the combined noise and undesired signal strength in the same channel.
Television reception requires an RF receiver that has a wide dynamic range and the ability to isolate the desired signal from the undesired signals, which include the noise generated by extraneous radio waves and interferers produced by home
networking systems such as wireless local area network, or WLAN, and Bluetooth. Traditional RF receiver implementations utilized expensive discrete components, such as band-pass filters, resonance elements and varactor diodes to meet the stringent
requirements imposed by broadband television reception. In high speed mobile environments, a method known as diversity combining of radio signals, in which the desired signal is captured using multiple RF receivers and reconstructed into a single
signal, has been employed to improve the signal-to-noise ratio. Diversity 
  3 


Table of Contents


 
 
combining of radio signals requires substantial RF, digital signal processing and software expertise. Both the traditional broadband reception and diversity combining of RF signals in mobile
environments are difficult to implement and pose challenges to RF receiver providers.   


 
•
 
 Multiple Standards. Worldwide, there are several regional standards for the transmission and reception of broadband analog and digital TV
signals. Technical performance, feature requirements and the predominance of a particular means of TV transmission vary regionally. Further, each major geographic region has adopted its own TV standard for cable, terrestrial and satellite
transmissions, such as DVB-T/C/S, ATSC, NTSC, ISDB-T, PAL, SECAM, DTMB, CMMB, etc. As a result of these multiple standards, there are region-specific RF receiver requirements and implementations, which make global standards compliance extremely
challenging. Many system designers prefer a multiple standards and protocol compliant solution that was previously not possible. Providers of RF receivers face the design challenge of providing this flexibility to the system designer without any
increase in power consumption, or any loss of performance quality or competitiveness.   


 
•
 
 Power Consumption. Power consumption is an important consideration for consumers and a critical design specification for system designers. For
example, in battery-operated devices such as mobile handsets, netbooks and notebooks, and voice-enabled cable modems, long battery life is a differentiating device attribute. In addition, government sponsored programs, such as Energy Star in the
U.S., induce consumers to purchase more energy efficient products. For example, in September 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency announced that Energy Star compliant televisions would be required to be 40% more energy efficient than their
noncompliant counterparts. The addition of one or more RF receivers to a system in order to enable digital TV functionality significantly increases the overall power consumption. In fact, in some multiple receiver system designs, a majority of the
system’s overall power consumption is attributable to the RF receiver and related components. Providers of RF receivers and RF receiver SoCs are confronted with the design challenge of lowering power consumption while maintaining or improving
device performance.   


 
•
 
 Size. The size of electronic components, such as RF receivers, is a key consideration for system designers and service providers. In the mobile
market, size is a determining factor for whether or not a particular component, such as an RF receiver is designed into the product. In the past, traditional RF receivers were unable to meet the stringent size requirements required in the mobile
market and broadcast television functionality was not incorporated in mobile phones. In the television market, as system designers create thinner flat-screen displays, the size of RF receivers is becoming a significant consideration, especially when
multiple RF receivers are incorporated in a single system.  Limitations of Existing RF Receiver Solutions
 For the past several decades, the RF receiver technology of choice has been the electro-mechanical can tuner. Despite
field-proven performance attributes such as signal clarity, can tuners are often prohibitively large in size and have high power consumption, low reliability and high cost, especially in systems requiring multiple RF receivers in a single device.
Further, can tuners utilize multiple external discrete components that limit the use of a system design to a single region or standard. Regional or standard specific customization can be tedious, time consuming and costly for the system designers.
 Silicon RF receiver solutions eliminate some of the mechanical and discrete electronic components found in can tuners.
However, existing silicon RF receivers typically have been designed using a conventional radio system architecture that employs multiple external discrete components, although fewer than in traditional can-tuners. In addition, these silicon RF
receivers have been fabricated using expensive, special purpose semiconductor manufacturing processes such as gallium arsenide and silicon germanium process technologies. The use of multiple components and exotic semiconductor manufacturing process
technologies increases system design complexity and overall cost. It reduces the feasibility of further integrating digital baseband circuits on the same chip as the RF receiver. We believe that a new RF receiver technology is required to address
the drawbacks of traditional can-tuners and silicon receivers for the cable, consumer, automotive and mobile TV markets. 
  4 


Table of Contents
Our Solution  We are a provider of highly integrated, radio-frequency analog and mixed-signal semiconductor solutions for broadband communications applications. Our products are deployed in a wide range of electronic
devices, including cable and terrestrial set top boxes, digital televisions, DOCSIS 3.0 voice and data cable modems and gateways, mobile handsets, personal computers, netbooks and in-vehicle entertainment devices. We combine our high performance
analog and mixed-signal semiconductor design skills with our expertise in digital communications systems, software and embedded systems to develop RF receivers and RF receiver SoCs. We integrate our RF receivers with digital demodulation and other
communications functions in standard CMOS process technology. Our solutions have the following key features:   


 
•
 
 Proprietary Radio Architecture. Digital signal processing is at the core of our RF receivers and RF receiver SoCs. Using our proprietary
CMOS-based radio architecture, we leverage both analog and digital signal processing to improve system performance across multiple products. The partitioning of the signal processing in the chip between analog and digital domains is designed to
deliver high performance, small die size and low power for a given application. Moreover, our architecture is implemented in standard CMOS process technology, which enables us to realize the integration benefits of analog and digital circuits on the
same integrated circuit. This allows us to predictably scale the on-chip digital circuits in successive advanced CMOS process technology nodes. Our solutions have been designed into products in markets with extremely stringent specifications for
quality, performance and reliability, such as the television and automotive markets. We believe that our success in these markets demonstrates that our solution can be implemented successfully across multiple markets and applications.
  


 
•
 
 High Signal Clarity Performance. We design our RF receivers and RF receiver SoCs to provide high signal clarity performance regardless of the
application in which they are employed. For example, in the set top box market, we deploy our core RF and mixed-signal CMOS process technology platform and radio system architecture to overcome the interference from in-home networks that can degrade
cable broadband signals. We believe that signal clarity is more critical in television compared to other communications applications such as voice and data, because signal loss and interference have a more adverse impact on the end user experience.
  


 
•
 
 Highly Integrated. Our products integrate on a single chip the functionality associated with traditional analog and digital integrated circuits
and other expensive discrete components. This high level of integration has the cost benefits associated with smaller silicon die area, fewer external components and lower power. Our CMOS-based RF receiver SoC eliminates analog interface circuit
blocks and external components situated at the interface between discrete analog and digital demodulator chips and reduces the cost associated with multiple integrated circuit packages and related test costs. We are also able to integrate multiple
RF receivers along with a demodulator onto a single die to create application-specific configurations for our customers. Thus, our highly integrated solution reduces the technical difficulties associated with overcoming the undesired interactions
between multiple discrete analog and digital integrated circuits comprising a single system. Our solutions reduce the technical burden on system designers in deploying enhanced television functionality in their products.
  


 
•
 
 Low Power. Our products enable our customers to reduce power consumption in consumer electronic devices without compromising the stringent
performance requirements of applications such as broadcast television. In addition, our products enable our customers to decrease overall system costs by reducing the power consumption and heat dissipation requirements in their systems. For example,
in cable boxes supporting voice applications, low power consumption may enable a reduction in the number of batteries or battery capacity required to support standby and lifeline telephony. In certain set top boxes, reduced overall power consumption
may allow the system designer to eliminate one or more cooling fans required to dissipate the heat generated by high power consumption. The benefits of low power consumption increase with the number of RF receivers included in a system.
  


 
•
 
 Scalable Platform. Our product families share a highly modular, core radio system architecture, which enables us to offer RF receiver and RF
receiver SoC solutions that meet the requirements of a wide 
  5 


Table of Contents


 
 
variety of geographies, broadcast standards and applications. This is in contrast to legacy solutions that require significant customization to conform to regional standards, technical
performance and feature requirements. Moreover, by leveraging our flexible core architecture platform, our integrated circuit solutions can be deployed across multiple device categories. As a result, our customers can minimize the design resources
required to develop applications for multiple target margets. In addition, our engineering resources can be deployed more efficiently to design products for larger addressable markets. We believe that our core technology platform also can be applied
to other communications markets with similar performance requirements.   


 
•
 
 Space Efficient Solution. Our highly integrated CMOS-based RF receivers and RF receiver SoCs have an extremely small silicon die size, require
minimal external components and consume very little power. This enables our customers to design multi-receiver applications, such as cable modems and set top boxes, in an extremely small form factor. In addition, our products are easily adopted into
space-constrained devices such as flat screen televisions, netbooks, and laptops.  Our Strategy 
Our objective is to be the leading provider of mixed-signal RF receivers and RF receiver SoCs for broadband video and data communications
applications and, in the future, to leverage this core competency to expand into other communications markets with similar performance requirements. The key elements of our strategy are: 
 


 
•
 
 Extend Technology Leadership in RF Receivers and RF Receiver + Demodulator SoCs. We believe that our success has been, and will continue to be,
largely attributable to our RF and mixed-signal design capability, as well as advanced digital design, which we leverage to develop high-performance, low-cost semiconductor solutions for broadband communications applications. The broadband RF
receiver market presents significant opportunities for innovation through the further integration of RF and mixed-signal functionality with digital signal processing capability in CMOS process technology. By doing so, we will be able to deliver
products with lower power consumption, superior performance and increased cost benefits to system designers and service providers. We believe that our core competencies and design expertise in this market will enable us to acquire more customers and
design wins over time. We will continue to invest in this capability and strive to be an innovation leader in this market.   


 
•
 
 Leverage and Expand our Existing Customer Base. We target customers who are leaders in their respective markets. We intend to continue to focus
on sales to customers who are leaders in our current target markets, and to build on our relationships with these leading customers to define and enhance our product roadmap. By solving the specific problems faced by our customers, we can minimize
the risks associated with our customers’ adoption of our new integrated circuit products, and reduce the length of time from the start of product design to customer revenue. Further, our engagements with market leaders will enable us to
participate in emerging technology trends and new industry standards.   


 
•
 
 Target Additional High-Growth Markets. Our core competency is in RF analog and mixed-signal integrated circuit design in CMOS process technology
for broadband communications applications. Several of the technological challenges involved in developing RF solutions for video broadcasting and broadband reception are common to a majority of broadband communication markets. We intend to leverage
our core competency in developing highly integrated RF receiver and RF receiver SoCs in standard CMOS process technology to address additional markets within broadband communication and connectivity markets that we believe offer profitable high
growth potential.   


 
•
 
 Expand Global Presence. Due to the global nature of our supply chain and customer locations, we intend to continue to expand our sales, design
and technical support organization both in the United States and overseas. In particular, we expect to increase the number of employees in Asia, Europe and the United States to provide regional support to our increasing base of customers. We believe
that our customers will increasingly expect this kind of local capability and support. 
  6 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Attract and Retain Top Talent. We are committed to recruiting and retaining highly talented personnel with proven expertise in the design,
development, marketing and sales of communications integrated circuits. We believe that we have assembled a high-quality team in all the areas of expertise required at a semiconductor communications company. We provide an attractive work environment
for all of our employees. We believe that our ability to attract the best engineers is a critical component of our future growth and success in our chosen markets.  Products  Our products are integrated into a wide range of
electronic devices, including cable and terrestrial set top boxes, DOCSIS 3.0 voice and data cable modems and gateways, televisions, mobile handsets, personal computers, netbooks and in-vehicle entertainment devices. We provide customers guidelines
known as reference designs so that they can efficiently use our products in their product designs. We currently provide two types of semiconductors:   


 
•
 
 RF Receivers. These semiconductor products combine RF receiver technology that traditionally required multiple external discrete components,
such as very high frequency, or VHF, and ultra-high frequency, or UHF, tracking filters, surface acoustic wave, or SAW, filters, intermediate-frequency, or IF, amplifiers, low noise amplifiers and transformers. All of these external components have
been either eliminated or integrated into a single semiconductor produced entirely in standard CMOS process technology.   


 
•
 
 RF Receiver SoCs. These semiconductor products combine the functionality of RF receivers, and demodulators in a single chip. In some
configurations, these products may incorporate multiple RF receivers and single or multiple demodulators in a single chip to provide application or market specific solutions to customers. 
Customers  We
sell our products, directly and indirectly, to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, module makers and original design manufacturers, or ODMs. By providing a highly integrated reference design solution that our customers can
incorporate in their products with minimal modifications, we enable our customers to design cost-effective high performance digital RF receiver and RF receiver SoC solutions rapidly. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we sold our
products to more than 121 end customers. The majority of our sales to these and other customers are through distributors based in Asia. Although we actually sell the products to and are paid by the distributors, we refer to these end customers as
our customers.  We currently rely, and expect to continue to rely, on a limited number of customers for a significant portion
of our revenue. During the year ended December 31, 2011 and the year ended December 31, 2010, ten customers accounted for approximately 59% and 71% of our net revenue, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2011, Panasonic and
Arris represented 14% and 11% of revenue, respectively. In 2010, Panasonic and Toshiba represented 16% and 10% of net revenue, respectively. At Panasonic, we sell our products into several applications, including modules for digital TV sets, Blu-ray
Disc players, automotive navigation displays and mobile handsets.  A majority our sales are made to customers outside the
United States, and we anticipate that such sales will continue to be a significant portion of our revenue. Sales to end customers in Asia accounted for 90% of our net revenue in the year ended December 31, 2011 and 97% of our net revenue in the
year ended December 31, 2010. Sales to end customers in Japan accounted for 39% of our net revenue in the year ended December 31, 2011 and 57% of our net revenue in the year ended December 31, 2010. Sales to end customers in China and
Taiwan accounted for 15% and 30%, respectively, of our net revenue in the year ended December 31, 2011. Sales to end customers in China and Taiwan accounted for 24% and 13%, respectively, of our net revenue in the year ended December 31,
2010. Although a significant portion of our sales are to customers in Asia, the end users who 
  7 


Table of Contents

purchase products incorporating our integrated circuits may be in locations different than our own sales destination. See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of total
revenue by geographical region for 2011, 2010 and 2009.  Sales and Marketing 
We sell our products worldwide through multiple channels, using both our direct sales force and a network of domestic and international
distributors. We have direct sales personnel covering the United States, Europe and Asia, and operate customer engineering support offices in Carlsbad and Irvine, California, Tokyo, Japan, Shenzhen, China, and Hsinchu, Taiwan. We also employ a staff
of field applications engineers to provide direct engineering support locally to some of our customers.  Our distributors are
independent entities that assist us in identifying and servicing customers in a particular territory, usually on a non-exclusive basis. Sales through distributors accounted for approximately 71% of our net revenue in the year ended December 31,
2011 and 93% of our net revenue in the year ended December 31, 2010.  In October 2005, we entered into a non-exclusive
distributor agreement with Tomen Electronics Corporation, or Tomen, for distribution of our products in Japan. Our distributor agreement with Tomen is effective for one year, unless it is terminated earlier by either party for any or no reason with
written notice provided three months prior to the expiration of the agreement or by failure of the breaching party to cure a material breach within fifteen days following written notice of such material breach by the non-breaching party. Our
agreement with Tomen will automatically renew for additional successive one-year terms unless at least three months before the end of the then-current term either party provides written notice to the other party that it elects not to renew the
agreement.  In June 2009, we entered into a revised non-exclusive distributor agreement with Moly Tech Limited, or Moly Tech,
for distribution of our products in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Our distributor agreement with Moly Tech is effective for one year, unless it is terminated earlier by either party for any or no reason within sixty days of prior written notice or by
failure to cure a material breach within thirty days following written notice of such material breach by the non-breaching party. Our agreement with Moly Tech will automatically renew for additional successive one-year terms unless at least sixty
days before the end of the then-current term either party provides written notice to the other party that it elects not to renew the agreement.  In August 2009, we entered into a revised non-exclusive distributor agreement with Lestina International Limited, or Lestina, for distribution of our products in China and Taiwan. Our distributor
agreement with Lestina is effective for one year, unless it is terminated earlier by either party for any or no reason within sixty days of prior written notice or by failure to cure a material breach within thirty days following written notice of
such material breach by the non-breaching party. Our agreement with Lestina will automatically renew for additional successive one-year terms unless at least sixty days before the end of the then-current term either party provides written notice to
the other party that it that it elects not to renew the agreement.  In December 2010, we entered into a non-exclusive
distributor agreement with Satori Electric Co. Ltd., or Satori, for distribution of our products Japan. Our distributor agreement with Satori is effective for one year, unless it is terminated earlier by either party for any or no reason within
sixty days of prior written notice or by failure to cure a material breach within thirty days following written notice of such material breach by the non-breaching party. Our agreement with Satori will automatically renew for additional successive
one-year terms unless at least sixty days before the end of the then-current term either party provides written notice to the other party that it that it elects not to renew the agreement. 
In April 2011, we entered into a revised non-exclusive distributor agreement with Asia Fortune Electronic Enterprise Co. Ltd., or AFE,
for distribution of our products Taiwan. Our distributor agreement with AFE is effective for one year, unless it is terminated earlier by either party for any or no reason within sixty days of prior written notice or by failure to cure a material
breach within thirty days following written notice of such material 
  8 


Table of Contents

breach by the non-breaching party. Our agreement with AFE will automatically renew for additional successive one-year terms unless at least sixty days before the end of the then-current term
either party provides written notice to the other party that it that it elects not to renew the agreement.  Our sales cycles
typically require a significant amount of time and a substantial expenditure of resources before we can realize revenue from the sale of products, if any. Our typical sales cycle consists of a multi-month sales and development process involving our
customers’ system designers and management. The typical time from early engagement by our sales force to actual product introduction runs from nine to twelve months for the consumer market, to as much as 18 to 24 months for the cable market. If
successful, this process culminates in a customer’s decision to use our products in its system, which we refer to as a design-win. Volume production may begin within three to nine months after a design-win, depending on the complexity of our
customer’s product and other factors upon which we may have little or no influence. Once our products have been incorporated into a customer’s design, they are likely to be used for the life cycle of the customer’s product. Thus, a
design-win may result in an extended period of revenue generation. Conversely, a design-loss to our competitors, may adversely impact our financial results for an extended period of time. 
We generally receive purchase orders from our customers approximately six to twelve weeks prior to the scheduled product delivery date.
These purchase orders may be cancelled without charge upon notification, so long as notification is received within an agreed period of time in advance of the delivery date. Because of the scheduling requirements of our foundries and assembly and
test contractors, we generally provide our contractors production forecasts and place firm orders for products with our suppliers, up to thirteen weeks prior to the anticipated delivery date, often without a purchase order from our own customers.
Our standard warranty provides that products containing defects in materials, workmanship or product performance may be returned for a refund of the purchase price or for replacement, at our discretion. 
Manufacturing  We
use third-party foundries and assembly and test contractors to manufacture, assemble and test our semiconductor products. This outsourced manufacturing approach allows us to focus our resources on the design, sale and marketing of our products. Our
engineers work closely with our foundries and other contractors to increase yield, lower manufacturing costs and improve product quality.  Wafer Fabrication. We utilize standard CMOS process technology to manufacture our products. We use a variety of process technology nodes ranging from 0.13µ and 0.11µ, down to 65
nanometer and 40 nanometer. We depend on four independent silicon foundry manufacturers located in Asia to support the majority of our wafer fabrication requirements. Our key subcontractors are Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation,
or SMIC, in China, Silterra Malaysia Sdn. Bhd., in Malaysia, and United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC, in Taiwan and Singapore.  Assembly/packaging and Test. Upon completion of the silicon processing at the foundry, we forward the finished silicon wafers to independent assembly/packaging and test service subcontractors. The
majority of our assembly/packaging and test requirements are supported by the following independent subcontractors: Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, or ASE, in Taiwan (assembly/packaging and test), Giga Solution Technology Co., Ltd in Taiwan
(test only), King Yuan Electronics Co., Ltd, or KYEC, in Taiwan (test only), SIGURD Microelectronics Corp. in Taiwan (test only), Siliconware Precision Industries Co. Ltd, or SPIL, in Taiwan (assembly/packaging only) and Unisem (M) Berhad in
China (assembly/packaging only).  Quality Assurance. We have implemented significant quality assurance procedures to
assure high levels of product quality for our customers. We closely monitor the work-in-progress information and production records maintained by our suppliers, and communicate with our third-party contractors to assure high levels of product
quality and an efficient manufacturing time cycle. Upon successful completion of the quality assurance procedures, all of our products are stored and shipped to our customers or distributors directly from our third-party contractors in accordance
with our shipping instructions. 
  9 


Table of Contents
Research and Development 
We believe that our future success depends on our ability to both improve our existing products and to develop new products for both
existing and new markets. We direct our research and development efforts largely to the development of new high performance, mixed-signal semiconductor solutions for broadband communications applications. We target applications that require
stringent overall system performance and low power consumption. As new and challenging communication applications proliferate, we believe that many of these applications may benefit from our SoC solutions combining analog and mixed-signal processing
with digital signal processing functions. We have assembled a team of highly skilled semiconductor and embedded software design engineers with expertise in broadband RF and mixed-signal integrated circuit design, digital signal processing,
communications systems and SoC design. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 188 employees in our research and development group. Our engineering design teams are located in Carlsbad and Irvine in California, Shanghai, China and in
Bangalore, India. Our research and development expense was $40.2 million in 2011, $27.7 million in 2010 and $19.8 million in 2009. 
Competition  We
compete with both established and development-stage semiconductor companies that design, manufacture and market analog and mixed-signal broadband RF receiver products. Our competitors include companies with much longer operating histories, greater
name recognition, access to larger customer bases and substantially greater financial, technical and operational resources. Our competitors may develop products that are similar or superior to ours. We consider our primary competitors to be
companies with a proven track record of supporting market leaders and the technical capability to develop and bring to market competing broadband RF receiver and RF receiver SoC products. Our primary competitors include Silicon Laboratories Inc.,
NXP B.V., Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., RDA Microelectronics, Newport Media Inc., Broadcom Corporation, Entropic Communications, Inc. and Rafael Microelectronics, Inc. In addition, it is quite likely that a number of other public and private
companies, including some of our customers, are developing competing products for digital TV and other broadband communications applications.  The market for analog and mixed-signal semiconductor products is highly competitive, and we believe that it will grow more competitive as a result of continued technological advances. We believe that the
principal competitive factors in our markets include the following:   


 
•
 
 product performance;   


 
•
 
 features and functionality;   


 
•
 
 energy efficiency;   


 
•
 
 size;   


 
•
 
 ease of system design;   


 
•
 
 customer support;   


 
•
 
 product roadmap;   


 
•
 
 reputation;   


 
•
 
 reliability; and   


 
•
 
 price.  We
believe that we compete favorably as measured against each of these criteria. However, our ability to compete in the future will depend upon the successful design, development and marketing of compelling RF and mixed-signal semiconductor integrated
solutions for high growth communications markets. In addition, our competitive position will depend on our ability to continue to attract and retain talent while protecting our intellectual property. 
  10 


Table of Contents
Intellectual Property Rights 
Our success and ability to compete depend, in part, upon our ability to establish and adequately protect our proprietary technology and
confidential information. To protect our technology and confidential information, we rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks. We also protect our proprietary technology and
confidential information through the use of internal and external controls, including contractual protections with employees, contractors, business partners, consultants and advisors. Protecting mask works, or the “topography” or
semiconductor material designs, of our integrated circuit products is of particular importance to our business and we seek to prevent or limit the ability of others to copy, reproduce or distribute our mask works. 
We have five issued patents and 153 patent applications pending in the United States. We also have nine issued foreign patents and 80
other pending foreign patent applications, based on our issued patents and pending patent applications in the United States. The five issued patents in the United States will expire in 2025, 2025, 2026, 2027 and 2027, respectively. The nine issued
foreign patents will expire in 2025.  We are the owner of two registered trademarks in the United States, “MxL” and
“digIQ”, and we claim common law rights in certain other trademarks that are not registered.  We may not gain any
competitive advantages from our patents and other intellectual property rights. Our existing and future patents may be circumvented, designed around, blocked or challenged as to inventorship, ownership, scope, validity or enforceability. It is
possible that we may be provided with information in the future that could negatively affect the scope or enforceability of either our present or future patents. Furthermore, our pending and future patent applications may or may not be granted under
the scope of the claims originally submitted in our patent applications. The scope of the claims submitted or granted may or may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies. Moreover, we have adopted a strategy of seeking
limited patent protection with respect to the technologies used in or relating to our products.  We are a party to a number of
license agreements for various technologies, such as a license agreement with Intel Corporation relating to demodulator technologies that are licensed specifically for use in our products for cable set top boxes. The agreement was originally entered
into with Texas Instruments but was subsequently assigned to Intel Corporation as part of Intel Corporation’s acquisition of Texas Instruments’ cable modem product line in 2010. The license agreement with Intel Corporation has a perpetual
term, but Intel Corporation may terminate the agreement for our uncured material breach or for our bankruptcy. If the agreement is terminated, we would not be able to manufacture or sell products that contain the demodulator technology licensed from
Intel Corporation, and there would be a delay in the shipment of our products containing the technology until we found a replacement for the demodulator technology in the marketplace on commercially reasonable terms or we developed the demodulator
technology itself. We believe we could find a substitute for the currently licensed demodulator technology in the marketplace on commercially reasonable terms or develop the demodulator technology ourselves. In either case, obtaining new licenses or
replacing existing technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, as described in “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—We utilize a significant amount of intellectual property in our business. If we are unable
to protect our intellectual property, our business could be adversely affected.”  The semiconductor industry is
characterized by frequent litigation and other vigorous offensive and protective enforcement actions over rights to intellectual property. Moreover, there are numerous patents in the semiconductor industry, and new patents are being granted rapidly
worldwide. Our competitors may obtain patents that block or limit our ability to develop new technology and/or improve our existing products. If our products were found to infringe any patents or other intellectual property rights held by third
parties, we could be prevented from selling our products or be subject to litigation fees, statutory fines and/or other significant expenses. We may be required to initiate litigation in order to enforce any patents issued to us, or to determine the
scope or validity of a third-party’s patent or other proprietary rights. We may in the future be contacted by 
  11 


Table of Contents

third parties suggesting that we seek a license to intellectual property rights that they may believe we are infringing. In addition, in the future, we may be subject to lawsuits by third parties
seeking to enforce their own intellectual property rights, as described in “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—We may face claims of intellectual property infringement, which could be time-consuming, costly to defend or settle
and result in the loss of significant rights.”  Employees 
As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 256 employees, including 188 in research and development, 32 in sales and marketing, 4
in operations and semiconductor technology and 32 in administration. None of our employees is represented by a labor organization or under any collective bargaining arrangement, and we have never had a work stoppage. We consider our employee
relations to be good.  Backlog  Our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders. Because industry practice allows customers to reschedule, or in some cases, cancel orders on relatively short notice, we do not believe
that backlog is a good indicator of our future sales.  Geographic Information 
During our last three years, substantially all of our revenue was generated within Japan, China and Taiwan, and substantially all of our
long-lived assets are located within the United States.   


ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS This
Annual Report on Form 10-K, or Form 10-K, including any information incorporated by reference herein, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, referred to as the
Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, referred to as the Exchange Act. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as “will,” “should,”
“expect,” “plan,” “intend,” “forecast,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “continue” or the negative of these terms or
other comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and situations that may cause our or our industry’s actual results, level of activity, performance or
achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these statements. These factors include those listed below in this Item 1A and those discussed elsewhere in
this Form 10-K. We encourage investors to review these factors carefully. We may from time to time make additional written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in our filings with the SEC. We do not undertake to
update any forward-looking statement that may be made from time to time by or on behalf of us, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. 
Before you invest in our securities, you should be aware that our business faces numerous financial and market risks, including those
described below, as well as general economic and business risks. The following discussion provides information concerning the material risks and uncertainties that we have identified and believe may adversely affect our business, our financial
condition and our results of operations. Before you decide whether to invest in our securities, you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties, together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K and in our
other public filings. 
  12 


Table of Contents
Risks Related to Our Business 
We face intense competition and expect competition to increase in the future, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue,
revenue growth rate, if any, and market share.  The global semiconductor market in general, and the RF receiver market in
particular, are highly competitive. We compete in different target markets to various degrees on the basis of a number of principal competitive factors, including our products’ performance, features and functionality, energy efficiency, size,
ease of system design, customer support, product roadmap, reputation, reliability and price, as well as on the basis of our customer support, the quality of our product roadmap and our reputation. We expect competition to increase and intensify as
more and larger semiconductor companies as well as the internal resources of large, integrated original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, enter our markets. Increased competition could result in price pressure, reduced profitability and loss of
market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, revenue, revenue growth rates and operating results.  As our products are integrated into a variety of stationary and mobile electronic devices, we compete with suppliers of both can tuners and traditional silicon RF receivers. Our competitors range from
large, international companies offering a wide range of semiconductor products to smaller companies specializing in narrow markets and internal engineering groups within mobile device, television and STB manufacturers, some of which may be our
customers. Our primary competitors include Silicon Laboratories Inc., NXP B.V., Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., RDA Microelectronics, Newport Media Inc., Broadcom Corporation, Entropic Communications, Inc. and Rafael Microelectronics, Inc. It is
quite likely that competition in the markets in which we participate will increase in the future as existing competitors improve or expand their product offerings. In addition, it is quite likely that a number of other public and private companies
are in the process of developing competing products for digital television and other broadband communication applications. Because our products often are building block semiconductors which provide functions that in some cases can be integrated into
more complex integrated circuits, we also face competition from manufacturers of integrated circuits, some of which may be existing customers that develop their own integrated circuit products. If we cannot offer an attractive solution for
applications where our competitors offer more fully integrated tuner/demodulator/video processing products, we may lose significant market share to our competitors. Certain of our competitors have fully integrated tuner/demodulator/video processing
solutions targeting high performance cable or DTV applications, and thereby potentially provide customers with smaller and cheaper solutions.  Our ability to compete successfully depends on elements both within and outside of our control, including industry and general economic trends. During past periods of downturns in our industry,
competition in the markets in which we operate intensified as manufacturers of semiconductors reduced prices in order to combat production overcapacity and high inventory levels. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other
resources with which to withstand similar adverse economic or market conditions in the future. Moreover, the competitive landscape is changing as a result of consolidation within our industry as some of our competitors have merged with or been
acquired by other competitors, and other competitors have begun to collaborate with each other. These developments may materially and adversely affect our current and future target markets and our ability to compete successfully in those markets.
 We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, and the loss of, or a significant
reduction in orders from, one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results.  During the year ended December 31, 2011, Panasonic and Arris accounted for 14% and 11%, respectively, of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 59% of our net
revenue. Our operating results for the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers and on the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our RF receivers or RF receiver SoCs. In the
future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, may purchase fewer products 
  13 


Table of Contents

than they did in the past, or may defer or cancel purchases or otherwise alter their purchasing patterns. Factors that could affect our revenue from these large customers include the following:
  


 
•
 
 substantially all of our sales to date have been made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product
purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty; and   


 
•
 
 some of our customers have sought or are seeking relationships with current or potential competitors which may affect their purchasing decisions.
 In addition, delays in development could impair our relationships with our strategic customers and
negatively impact sales of the products under development. Moreover, it is possible that our customers may develop their own product or adopt a competitor’s solution for products that they currently buy from us. If that happens, our sales would
decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.  Our
relationships with some customers may deter other potential customers who compete with these customers from buying our products. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer these customers favorable prices on our products. In
that event, our average selling prices and gross margins would decline. The loss of a key customer, a reduction in sales to any key customer or our inability to attract new significant customers could seriously impact our revenue and materially and
adversely affect our results of operations.  A significant portion of our revenue is attributable to demand for our
products in markets for cable and terrestrial set-top box applications.  Prior to fiscal 2010, sales of our products to
customers in the mobile electronic device market accounted for a significant portion of our revenue in prior periods; however, revenue derived from mobile electronic devices has declined since fiscal 2010 and is no longer an area of focus for the
Company. For fiscal 2010, revenue directly attributable to cable and terrestrial set-top box applications accounted for approximately 39% of our net revenue. For fiscal 2011, revenue directly attributable to cable and terrestrial set-top box
applications accounted for approximately 56% of our net revenue. We currently expect this trend to continue in fiscal 2012. Delays in the development of, or unexpected developments in, the cable and terrestrial set-top box application markets could
have an adverse effect on order activity by manufacturers in these markets and, as a result, on our business, revenue, operating results and financial condition.  We may be unable to make the substantial and productive research and development investments which are required to remain competitive in our business. 
The semiconductor industry requires substantial investment in research and development in order to develop and bring to market new and
enhanced technologies and products. Many of our products originated with our research and development efforts and have provided us with a significant competitive advantage. Our research and development expense was $40.2 million in 2011, $27.7
million in 2010 and $19.8 million in 2009. In 2011, we continued to increase our research and development expenditures as compared to prior periods as part of our strategy of devoting focused research and development efforts on the development of
innovative and sustainable product platforms. We are committed to investing in new product development internally in order to stay competitive in our markets and plan to maintain research and development and design capabilities for new solutions in
advanced semiconductor process nodes such as 40nm and beyond. We do not know whether we will have sufficient resources to maintain the level of investment in research and development required to remain competitive as semiconductor process nodes
continue to shrink and become increasingly complex. In addition, we cannot assure you that the technologies which are the focus of our research and development expenditures will become commercially successful. 
  14 


Table of Contents
Average selling prices of our products could decrease rapidly, which could have a
material adverse effect on our revenue and gross margins.  We may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in
future operating results due to the erosion of our average selling prices. From time to time, we have reduced the average unit price of our products due to competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors, and for
other reasons, and we expect that we will have to do so again in the future. If we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes or introducing new products with higher margins, our revenue and
gross margins will suffer. To support our gross margins, we must develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis and continually reduce our and our customers’ costs. Failure to do so would cause our revenue and
gross margins to decline.  If we fail to develop and introduce new or enhanced products on a timely basis, our ability to
attract and retain customers could be impaired and our competitive position could be harmed.  We operate in a dynamic
environment characterized by rapidly changing technologies and industry standards and technological obsolescence. To compete successfully, we must design, develop, market and sell new or enhanced products that provide increasingly higher levels of
performance and reliability and meet the cost expectations of our customers. The introduction of new products by our competitors, the market acceptance of products based on new or alternative technologies, or the emergence of new industry standards
could render our existing or future products obsolete. Our failure to anticipate or timely develop new or enhanced products or technologies in response to technological shifts could result in decreased revenue and our competitors winning more
competitive bid processes, known as “design wins.” In particular, we may experience difficulties with product design, manufacturing, marketing or certification that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new
or enhanced products. If we fail to introduce new or enhanced products that meet the needs of our customers or penetrate new markets in a timely fashion, we will lose market share and our operating results will be adversely affected. 
If we fail to penetrate new markets, our revenue, revenue growth rate, if any, and financial condition could be materially and
adversely affected.  Currently, we sell most of our products to manufacturers of applications for digital television,
cable modems and gateways and cable set-top boxes, automotive TV display, and to Chinese manufacturers of set top boxes for sale in various markets worldwide. Our future revenue growth, if any, will depend in part on our ability to expand beyond
these markets with our RF receivers and RF receiver SoCs. Each of these markets presents distinct and substantial risks. If any of these markets does not develop as we currently anticipate, or if we are unable to penetrate them successfully, it
could materially and adversely affect our revenue and revenue growth rate, if any.  We expect cable modems and set top boxes
to represent our largest North American target market. The North American cable set top box market is dominated by only a few OEMs, including Motorola Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Arris Group, Inc. and Technicolor S.A. These OEMs are large,
multinational corporations with substantial negotiating power relative to us. Securing design wins with any of these companies requires a substantial investment of our time and resources. Even if we succeed, additional testing and operational
certifications will be required by the OEMs’ customers, which include large cable television companies such as Comcast Corporation and Time Warner Cable Inc. In addition, our products will need to be compatible with other components in our
customers’ designs, including components produced by our competitors or potential competitors. There can be no assurance that these other companies will support or continue to support our products. 
Finally, the markets for IPTV and PCTV are nascent and relatively small. We have sold limited quantities of our products into these
markets and cannot predict how, or to what extent, demand for our products in these markets will develop. 
  15 


Table of Contents
If we fail to penetrate these or other new markets upon which we target our resources, our
revenue and revenue growth rate, if any, likely will decrease over time and our financial condition could suffer.  Our
business, revenue and revenue growth, if any, will depend in part on the timing and development of the global transition from analog to digital television, which is subject to numerous regulatory and business risks outside our control.
 For the year ended December 31, 2011, sales of our RF receiver products used in digital terrestrial television
applications, or DTT, including digital televisions, automotive navigation displays, PCTV, IPTV, and terrestrial set top boxes, and modems and gateways for cable represented a significant portion of our revenues. We expect a significant portion of
our revenue in future periods to continue to depend on the demand for DTT applications. In contrast to the United States, where the transition from analog to digital television occurred on a national basis in June 2009, in Europe and other parts of
the world, the digital transition is being phased in on a local and regional basis and is expected to occur over many years. Most countries in Western Europe are expected to convert completely to digital television by the end of 2012, with the
transition in Eastern Europe expected to continue through 2015. As a result, our future revenue will depend in part on government mandates requiring conversion from analog to digital television and on the timing and implementation of those mandates.
If the transition to digital TV standards does not take place or is substantially delayed in Europe or other international markets, our business, revenue, operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. If
during the transition to digital TV standards, consumers disproportionately purchase TV’s with digital or hybrid tuning capabilities, this could diminish the size of the market for our digital-to-analog converter set-top box solutions, and as
result our business, revenue, operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected.  We are
subject to U.S. export control and economic sanctions laws relating to the sale of our products. Although we did not intend to do so, we may have violated certain of these laws in the past, and we cannot currently assess with certainty the nature
and extent of fines or other penalties, if any, that U.S. governmental agencies may impose against us, our management, or other employees for these potential violations. Any fines, if materially different from our current estimates, and any other
penalties that regulatory authorities may seek to impose could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.  As noted in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 7, 2012, in the first quarter of 2012, we determined that we may have taken actions that could constitute facilitation (within the meaning of
applicable sanctions and export control laws) of shipments of foreign produced products to Iran or taken other actions that may be in violation of U.S. export control and economic sanctions laws. Specifically, certain of our tuner products, which
are foreign produced and not subject to U.S. export controls, were included in set-top converter boxes produced by set-top box manufacturers in Asia to permit conversion of digital television signals to analog signals in international markets,
including Iran, using the DVB-T, or Digital Video Broadcasting – Terrestrial, broadcast standard. The DVB-T standard is used in most of Europe, Asia (excluding China), Australia, and Africa as well as in parts of the Middle East, including
Iran. While the underlying shipment of our tuners into Iran by foreign manufacturers of these set-top boxes may have been lawful, we may have violated applicable sanctions and export control laws without the proper U.S. Government authorization.
 We initially identified these potential violations internally, rather than as a result of a third-party audit or government
investigation, and upon learning of these potential violations, our audit committee promptly retained outside counsel to conduct a review of our sanctions and export control compliance. On February 7, 2012, we made voluntary initial filings with the
Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of the Treasury, or OFAC, and with the Bureau of Industry and Security of the United States Department of Commerce, or BIS, notifying these regulatory agencies that we were conducting
a review of export control matters and that we would submit any supplemental voluntary self disclosures once our internal review was complete. The initial stage of the review was concluded in March 2012. Among other matters, our audit committee
determined that our management team lacked sufficient familiarity with and understanding of export control and sanctions laws and 
  16 


Table of Contents

their applicability to our products and services. Our audit committee concluded that our management team did not intentionally or knowingly violate applicable sanctions and export control laws.
 Outside counsel is now preparing the final voluntary disclosures to be submitted to OFAC and BIS. OFAC and BIS may conclude
that our actions resulted in violations that warrant the imposition of penalties that could include fines, termination of our ability to export our products, and/or referral for criminal prosecution. Penalties and potential criminal enforcement
actions could be imposed against us and/or our management and certain of our employees. We cannot predict when OFAC or BIS will complete their reviews of our submissions, and resolution of these matters with the government could take substantial
time and require substantial expenditure and management resources, either of which could be harmful to our business and operating results.  Any fines that OFAC or BIS may impose on us could be material to our operating results in the period in which they are imposed and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The
maximum civil monetary penalty for each violation is up to $250,000 or twice the value of the transaction, whichever is greater. Based upon facts known to us to date, we recorded an expense of $0.8 million, reflected in selling, general, and
administrative expense, in the fourth quarter of 2011 for this export compliance matter, representing management’s estimated exposure for fines in accordance with applicable accounting literature. Should additional facts be discovered in the
future and/or should actual fines or other penalties differ from our estimates, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and negatively affected. In that regard, we cannot guarantee that either OFAC or BIS will
agree with our assessments of the quantity and nature of the potential violations. As a result, OFAC or BIS could seek to impose higher fines and penalties than those we have estimated to date. As a result of increased awareness relative to U.S.
export control and economic sanction laws relating to the sale of our products, we are in the process of implementing an export control compliance management system and undertaking remedial measures to reduce the risk of similar events occurring in
the future.  Continued adverse U.S. and international economic conditions, including factors that adversely affect consumer
spending for the products that incorporate our integrated circuits, could adversely affect our revenues, margins, and operating results.  Since September 2008, the global credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse
or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from U.S. and foreign governments. Recently, the credit crisis has reemerged in Europe with threats of credit default by certain member countries of the European
Union, and by substantial budgetary and fiscal constraints, including proposals for severe budget reductions in larger European Union countries such as Germany and the United Kingdom. Our products are incorporated in numerous consumer devices, and
demand for our products will ultimately be driven by consumer demand for products such as televisions, automobiles, cable modems, and set top boxes. Many of these purchases are discretionary. In addition, our recent revenue growth has been
attributable in large part to purchases of digital-to-analog set top converter boxes in various geographies including Europe. Partially in response to economic and political developments, Greece recently extended the date for its deadline for
switching to exclusive digital television broadcasts. Similar extensions in other European countries could adversely affect our revenue and growth. These events, together with the current adverse economic conditions facing the broader economy and,
in particular, the semiconductor and communications industries, have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our business, particularly to the extent that consumers decrease their discretionary spending for devices deploying our
products.  We rely on a limited number of third parties to manufacture, assemble and test our products, and the failure to
manage our relationships with our third-party contractors successfully could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products.  We do not have our own manufacturing facilities. We operate an outsourced manufacturing business model that utilizes third-party foundry and assembly and test capabilities. As a result, we rely on
third-party foundry 
  17 


Table of Contents

wafer fabrication and assembly and test capacity, including sole sourcing for many components or products. Currently, all of our products are manufactured by UMC, Silterra Malaysia Sdn. Bhd, and
SMIC, at foundries in Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia, and China. We also use third-party contractors for all of our assembly and test operations.  Relying on third party manufacturing, assembly and testing presents significant risks to us, including the following:   


 
•
 
 failure by us, our customers, or their end customers to qualify a selected supplier; 
 


 
•
 
 capacity shortages during periods of high demand;   


 
•
 
 reduced control over delivery schedules and quality;   


 
•
 
 shortages of materials;   


 
•
 
 misappropriation of our intellectual property;   


 
•
 
 limited warranties on wafers or products supplied to us; and 
 


 
•
 
 potential increases in prices.  The ability and willingness of our third-party contractors to perform is largely outside our control. If one or more of our contract manufacturers or other outsourcers fails to perform its obligations in
a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring products to market and our reputation could suffer. For example, in the event that manufacturing capacity is reduced or eliminated at one or more facilities, including as a
response to the recent worldwide decline in the semiconductor industry, manufacturing could be disrupted, we could have difficulties fulfilling our customer orders and our net revenue could decline. In addition, if these third parties fail to
deliver quality products and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our customer orders, our net revenue could decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely
affected.  Additionally, our manufacturing capacity may be similarly reduced or eliminated at one or more facilities due to
the fact that our fabrication and assembly and test contractors are all located in the Pacific Rim region, principally in Taiwan, Singapore and Malaysia. The risk of earthquakes in these geographies is significant due to the proximity of major
earthquake fault lines, and Taiwan in particular is also subject to typhoons and other Pacific storms. Earthquakes, fire, flooding, or other natural disasters in Taiwan or the Pacific Rim region, or political unrest, war, labor strikes, work
stoppages or public health crises, such as outbreaks of H1N1 flu, in countries where our contractors’ facilities are located could result in the disruption of our foundry, assembly or test capacity. Any disruption resulting from these events
could cause significant delays in shipments of our products until we are able to shift our manufacturing, assembly or test from the affected contractor to another third-party vendor. There can be no assurance that alternative capacity could be
obtained on favorable terms, if at all.  We do not have any long-term supply contracts with our contract manufacturers or
suppliers, and any disruption in our supply of products or materials could have a material adverse affect on our business, revenue and operating results.  We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our third-party vendors, including UMC, Silterra and SMIC. We make substantially all of our purchases on a purchase order basis, and neither
UMC nor our other contract manufacturers are required to supply us products for any specific period or in any specific quantity. Foundry capacity may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. Availability of foundry capacity has in
the past been reduced from time to time due to strong demand. Foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies’ products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that foundry customers that are larger and
better financed than we are, or that have long-term agreements with our foundry, may induce our foundry to reallocate capacity to them. This reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of components that we need. We expect that it
would take approximately nine to twelve months 
  18 


Table of Contents

to transition performance of our foundry or assembly services to new providers. Such a transition would likely require a qualification process by our customers or their end customers. We
generally place orders for products with some of our suppliers approximately four to five months prior to the anticipated delivery date, with order volumes based on our forecasts of demand from our customers. Accordingly, if we inaccurately forecast
demand for our products, we may be unable to obtain adequate and cost-effective foundry or assembly capacity from our third-party contractors to meet our customers’ delivery requirements, or we may accumulate excess inventories. On occasion, we
have been unable to adequately respond to unexpected increases in customer purchase orders and therefore were unable to benefit from this incremental demand. None of our third-party contractors has provided any assurance to us that adequate capacity
will be available to us within the time required to meet additional demand for our products.  To address capacity
considerations, we are in the process of qualifying additional semiconductor fabricators. Qualification will not occur if we identify a defect in a fabricator’s manufacturing process or if our customers choose not to invest the time and expense
required to qualify the proposed fabricator. If full qualification of a fabricator does not occur, we may not be able to sell all of the materials produced by this fabricator or to fulfill demand for our products, which would adversely affect our
business, revenue and operating results. In addition, the resulting write-off of unusable inventories would have an adverse effect on our operating results.  Due to our limited operating history, we may have difficulty accurately predicting our future revenue and appropriately budgeting our expenses. 
We have only a limited operating history from which to predict future revenue. This limited operating experience, combined with the
rapidly evolving nature of the markets in which we sell our products, substantial uncertainty concerning how these markets may develop and other factors beyond our control, reduces our ability to accurately forecast quarterly or annual revenue. We
are currently expanding our staffing and increasing our expense levels in anticipation of future revenue growth. If our revenue does not increase as anticipated, we could incur significant losses due to our higher expense levels if we are not able
to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall in future revenue.  We may not sustain our growth rate,
and we may not be able to manage future growth effectively.  We have experienced significant growth in a short period of
time. Our net revenue increased from approximately $51.4 million in 2009 to approximately $68.7 million in 2010 and approximately $71.9 million in 2011. We may not achieve similar growth rates in future periods. You should not rely on our operating
results for any prior quarterly or annual periods as an indication of our future operating performance. If we are unable to maintain adequate revenue growth, our financial results could suffer and our stock price could decline. 
To manage our growth successfully and handle the responsibilities of being a public company, we believe we must effectively, among other
things:   


 
•
 
 recruit, hire, train and manage additional qualified engineers for our research and development activities, especially in the positions of design
engineering, product and test engineering and applications engineering;   


 
•
 
 add sales personnel and expand customer engineering support offices; 
 


 
•
 
 implement and improve our administrative, financial and operational systems, procedures and controls; and 
 


 
•
 
 enhance our information technology support for enterprise resource planning and design engineering by adapting and expanding our systems and tool
capabilities, and properly training new hires as to their use.  If we are unable to manage our growth
effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities or develop new products and we may fail to satisfy customer requirements, maintain product quality, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures. 
  19 


Table of Contents
Our customers require our products and our third-party contractors to undergo a lengthy
and expensive qualification process which does not assure product sales.  Prior to purchasing our products, our customers
require that both our products and our third-party contractors undergo extensive qualification processes, which involve testing of the products in the customer’s system and rigorous reliability testing. This qualification process may continue
for six months or more. However, qualification of a product by a customer does not assure any sales of the product to that customer. Even after successful qualification and sales of a product to a customer, a subsequent revision to the RF receiver
or RF receiver SoC, changes in our customer’s manufacturing process or our selection of a new supplier may require a new qualification process, which may result in delays and in us holding excess or obsolete inventory. After our products are
qualified, it can take six months or more before the customer commences volume production of components or devices that incorporate our products. Despite these uncertainties, we devote substantial resources, including design, engineering, sales,
marketing and management efforts, to qualifying our products with customers in anticipation of sales. If we are unsuccessful or delayed in qualifying any of our products with a customer, sales of this product to the customer may be precluded or
delayed, which may impede our growth and cause our business to suffer.  We are subject to risks associated with our
distributors’ product inventories and product sell-through. Should any of our distributors cease or be forced to stop distributing our products, our business would suffer. 
We currently sell a majority of our products to customers through our distributors, who maintain their own inventories of our products.
Sales to distributors accounted for 71% of our net revenue in the year ended December 31, 2011. If our distributors are unable to sell an adequate amount of their inventories of our products in a given quarter to manufacturers and end users or
if they decide to decrease their inventories of our products for any reason, our sales to these distributors and our revenue may decline. In addition, if some distributors decide to purchase more of our products than are required to satisfy end
customer demand in any particular quarter, inventories at these distributors would grow in that quarter. These distributors likely would reduce future orders until inventory levels realign with end customer demand, which could adversely affect our
product revenue in a subsequent quarter.  Our reserve estimates with respect to the products stocked by our distributors are
based principally on reports provided to us by our distributors, typically on a weekly basis. To the extent that this resale and channel inventory data is inaccurate or not received in a timely manner, we may not be able to make reserve estimates
for future periods accurately or at all.  We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties, and differences between our
estimates of customer demand and product mix and our actual results could negatively affect our inventory levels, sales and operating results.  Our revenue is generated on the basis of purchase orders with our customers rather than long-term purchase commitments. In addition, our customers can cancel purchase orders or defer the shipments of our
products under certain circumstances. Our products are manufactured using a silicon foundry according to our estimates of customer demand, which requires us to make separate demand forecast assumptions for every customer, each of which may introduce
significant variability into our aggregate estimate. We have limited visibility into future customer demand and the product mix that our customers will require, which could adversely affect our revenue forecasts and operating margins. Moreover,
because our target markets are relatively new, many of our customers have difficulty accurately forecasting their product requirements and estimating the timing of their new product introductions, which ultimately affects their demand for our
products. Historically, because of this limited visibility, actual results have been different from our forecasts of customer demand. Some of these differences have been material, leading to excess inventory or product shortages and revenue and
margin forecasts above those we were actually able to achieve. These differences may occur in the future, and the adverse impact of 
  20 


Table of Contents

these differences between forecasts and actual results could grow if we are successful in selling more products to some customers. In addition, the rapid pace of innovation in our industry could
render significant portions of our inventory obsolete. Excess or obsolete inventory levels could result in unexpected expenses or increases in our reserves that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.
Conversely, if we were to underestimate customer demand or if sufficient manufacturing capacity were unavailable, we could forego revenue opportunities, potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, any
significant future cancellations or deferrals of product orders or the return of previously sold products due to manufacturing defects could materially and adversely impact our profit margins, increase our write-offs due to product obsolescence and
restrict our ability to fund our operations.  Winning business is subject to lengthy competitive selection processes that
require us to incur significant expenditures. Even if we begin a product design, a customer may decide to cancel or change its product plans, which could cause us to generate no revenue from a product and adversely affect our results of operations.
 We are focused on securing design wins to develop RF receivers and RF receiver SoCs for use in our customers’
products. These selection processes typically are lengthy and can require us to incur significant design and development expenditures and dedicate scarce engineering resources in pursuit of a single customer opportunity. We may not win the
competitive selection process and may never generate any revenue despite incurring significant design and development expenditures. These risks are exacerbated by the fact that some of our customers’ products likely will have short life cycles.
Failure to obtain a design win could prevent us from offering an entire generation of a product, even though this has not occurred to date. This could cause us to lose revenue and require us to write off obsolete inventory, and could weaken our
position in future competitive selection processes.  After securing a design win, we may experience delays in generating
revenue from our products as a result of the lengthy development cycle typically required. Our customers generally take a considerable amount of time to evaluate our products. The typical time from early engagement by our sales force to actual
product introduction runs from nine to twelve months for the consumer market, to as much as 12 to 36 months for the automotive TV display market. The delays inherent in these lengthy sales cycles increase the risk that a customer will decide to
cancel, curtail, reduce or delay its product plans, causing us to lose anticipated sales. In addition, any delay or cancellation of a customer’s plans could materially and adversely affect our financial results, as we may have incurred
significant expense and generated no revenue. Finally, our customers’ failure to successfully market and sell their products could reduce demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results
of operations. If we were unable to generate revenue after incurring substantial expenses to develop any of our products, our business would suffer.  Our operating results are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors that could adversely affect our business and our stock
price.  Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. These
fluctuations may occur on a quarterly and on an annual basis and are due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: 
 


 
•
 
 changes in end-user demand for the products manufactured and sold by our customers; 
 


 
•
 
 the receipt, reduction or cancellation of significant orders by customers; 
 


 
•
 
 fluctuations in the levels of component inventories held by our customers; 
 


 
•
 
 the gain or loss of significant customers;   


 
•
 
 market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis; 
 


 
•
 
 the timing and extent of product development costs; 
  21 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 new product announcements and introductions by us or our competitors; 
 


 
•
 
 incurrence of research and development and related new product expenditures; 
 


 
•
 
 seasonality or cyclical fluctuations in our markets;   


 
•
 
 currency fluctuations;   


 
•
 
 fluctuations in IC manufacturing yields;   


 
•
 
 significant warranty claims, including those not covered by our suppliers; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in our product mix or customer mix;   


 
•
 
 intellectual property disputes;   


 
•
 
 loss of key personnel or the shortage of available skilled workers; and 
 


 
•
 
 the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products. 
The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially adversely affect our quarterly or
annual operating results. We typically are required to incur substantial development costs in advance of a prospective sale with no certainty that we will ever recover these costs. A substantial amount of time may pass between a design win and the
generation of revenue related to the expenses previously incurred, which can potentially cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from period to period. In addition, a significant amount of our operating expenses are relatively fixed
in nature due to our significant sales, research and development costs. Any failure to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for a revenue shortfall could magnify its adverse impact on our results of operations. 
Our business would be adversely affected by the departure of existing members of our senior management team. 
Our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our senior management team, in particular, the services of Kishore
Seendripu, Ph.D., our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Curtis Ling, Ph.D., our Chief Technical Officer and a Director, and Madhukar Reddy, Ph.D., our Vice President, IC and RF Systems Engineering. None of our senior management team
is bound by written employment contracts to remain with us for a specified period. In addition, we have not entered into non-compete agreements with members of our senior management team. The loss of any member of our senior management team could
harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. 
If we are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, especially our design and technical personnel, we may not be able
to execute our business strategy effectively.  Our future success depends on our ability to retain, attract and motivate
qualified personnel, including our management, sales and marketing and finance, and especially our design and technical personnel. We do not know whether we will be able to retain all of these personnel as we continue to pursue our business
strategy. Historically, we have encountered difficulties in hiring and retaining qualified engineers because there is a limited pool of engineers with the expertise required in our field. Competition for these personnel is intense in the
semiconductor industry. As the source of our technological and product innovations, our design and technical personnel represent a significant asset. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees, especially our key design and
technical personnel, or our inability to retain, attract and motivate qualified design and technical personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  22 


Table of Contents
The complexity of our products could result in unforeseen delays or expenses caused by
undetected defects or bugs, which could reduce the market acceptance of our new products, damage our reputation with current or prospective customers and adversely affect our operating costs. 
Highly complex products like our RF receivers and RF receiver SoCs may contain defects and bugs when they are first introduced or as new
versions are released. Due to our limited operating history, defects and bugs that may be contained in our products may not yet have manifested. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, defects and bugs. If any of our
products contains defects or bugs, or has reliability, quality or compatibility problems, we may not be able to successfully correct these problems. Consequently, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our products,
which could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers, and our financial results. In addition, these defects or bugs could interrupt or delay sales to our customers. If any of these problems
are not found until after we have commenced commercial production of a new product, we may be required to incur additional development costs and product recall, repair or replacement costs, and our operating costs could be adversely affected. These
problems may also result in warranty or product liability claims against us by our customers or others that may require us to make significant expenditures to defend these claims or pay damage awards. In the event of a warranty claim, we may also
incur costs if we compensate the affected customer. We maintain product liability insurance, but this insurance is limited in amount and subject to significant deductibles. There is no guarantee that our insurance will be available or adequate to
protect against all claims. We also may incur costs and expenses relating to a recall of one of our customers’ products containing one of our devices. The process of identifying a recalled product in devices that have been widely distributed
may be lengthy and require significant resources, and we may incur significant replacement costs, contract damage claims from our customers and reputational harm. Costs or payments made in connection with warranty and product liability claims and
product recalls could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations.  We may face claims of
intellectual property infringement, which could be time-consuming, costly to defend or settle and result in the loss of significant rights.  The semiconductor industry is characterized by companies that hold large numbers of patents and other intellectual property rights and that vigorously pursue, protect and enforce intellectual property
rights. From time to time, third parties may assert against us and our customers and distributors their patent and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. 
Claims that our products, processes or technology infringe third-party intellectual property rights, regardless of their merit or
resolution, could be costly to defend or settle and could divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. In addition, many of our customer and distributor agreements require us to indemnify and defend our customers or
distributors from third-party infringement claims and pay damages in the case of adverse rulings. Claims of this sort also could harm our relationships with our customers or distributors and might deter future customers from doing business with us.
We do not know whether we will prevail in these proceedings given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If any pending or future proceedings result in an adverse outcome, we could be required
to:   


 
•
 
 cease the manufacture, use or sale of the infringing products, processes or technology; 
 


 
•
 
 pay substantial damages for infringement;   


 
•
 
 expend significant resources to develop non-infringing products, processes or technology; 
 


 
•
 
 license technology from the third-party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all;
  


 
•
 
 cross-license our technology to a competitor to resolve an infringement claim, which could weaken our ability to compete with that competitor; or
  


 
•
 
 pay substantial damages to our customers or end users to discontinue their use of or to replace infringing technology sold to them with non-infringing
technology. 
  23 


Table of Contents
Any of the foregoing results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations.  We utilize a significant amount of intellectual property in our business. If we are
unable to protect our intellectual property, our business could be adversely affected.  Our success depends in part upon
our ability to protect our intellectual property. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets in the United States and in selected foreign countries where
we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. Effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in some countries. Some of our products and technologies are not covered by any
patent or patent application. We cannot guarantee that:   


 
•
 
 any of our present or future patents or patent claims will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or abandoned;
  


 
•
 
 our intellectual property rights will provide competitive advantages to us; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to assert our intellectual property rights against potential competitors or to settle current or future disputes will not be limited by our
agreements with third parties;   


 
•
 
 any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought; 
 


 
•
 
 our intellectual property rights will be enforced in jurisdictions where competition may be intense or where legal protection may be weak;
  


 
•
 
 any of the trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights that we presently employ in our business will not lapse or be
invalidated, circumvented, challenged or abandoned; or   


 
•
 
 we will not lose the ability to assert our intellectual property rights against or to license our technology to others and collect royalties or other
payments.  In addition, our competitors or others may design around our protected patents or technologies.
Effective intellectual property protection may be unavailable or more limited in one or more relevant jurisdictions relative to those protections available in the United States, or may not be applied for in one or more relevant jurisdictions. If we
pursue litigation to assert our intellectual property rights, an adverse decision in any of these legal actions could limit our ability to assert our intellectual property rights, limit the value of our technology or otherwise negatively impact our
business, financial condition and results of operations.  Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is
difficult and costly. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property may have occurred or may occur in the future. Although we have taken steps to minimize the risk of this occurring, any such failure to identify unauthorized use and otherwise
adequately protect our intellectual property would adversely affect our business. Moreover, if we are required to commence litigation, whether as a plaintiff or defendant, not only would this be time-consuming, but we would also be forced to incur
significant costs and divert our attention and efforts of our employees, which could, in turn, result in lower revenue and higher expenses.  We also rely on customary contractual protections with our customers, suppliers, distributors, employees and consultants, and we implement security measures to protect our trade secrets. We cannot assure
you that these contractual protections and security measures will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any such breach or that our suppliers, employees or consultants will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of
such contracts.  In addition, we have a number of third-party patent and intellectual property license agreements. Some of
these license agreements require us to make one-time payments or ongoing royalty payments. Also, a few of our license agreements contain most-favored nation clauses or other price restriction clauses which may effect the amount we may charge for our
products, processes or technology. We cannot guarantee that the third-party 
  24 


Table of Contents

patents and technology we license will not be licensed to our competitors or others in the semiconductor industry. In the future, we may need to obtain additional licenses, renew existing license
agreements or otherwise replace existing technology. We are unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed or the technology can be replaced on acceptable terms, or at all. 
In connection with settling a trademark dispute with Linear Technology Corporation, we agreed not to register the “MAXLINEAR”
mark or any other marks containing the term “LINEAR”. We may continue to use “MAXLINEAR” as a corporate identifier, including to advertise our products and services, but may not use that mark on our products. The
agreement does not affect our ability to use our registered trademark “MxL”, which we use on our products. Due to our agreement not to register the “MAXLINEAR” mark, our ability to effectively prevent third parties from using the
“MAXLINEAR” mark in connection with similar products or technology may be affected. If we are unable to protect our trademarks, we may experience difficulties in achieving and maintaining brand recognition and customer loyalty. 
The use of open source software in our products, processes and technology may expose us to additional risks and harm our intellectual
property.  Our products, processes and technology sometimes utilize and incorporate software that is subject to an open
source license. Open source software is typically freely accessible, usable and modifiable. Certain open source software licenses require a user who intends to distribute the open source software as a component of the user’s software to
disclose publicly part or all of the source code to the user’s software. In addition, certain open source software licenses require the user of such software to make any derivative works of the open source code available to others on
unfavorable terms or at no cost. This can subject previously proprietary software to open source license terms.  While we
monitor the use of all open source software in our products, processes and technology and try to ensure that no open source software is used in such a way as to require us to disclose the source code to the related product, processes or technology
when we do not wish to do so, such use could inadvertently occur. Additionally, if a third party software provider has incorporated certain types of open source software into software we license from such third party for our products, processes or
technology, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to disclose the source code to our products, processes or technology. This could harm our intellectual property position and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition.  We rely on third parties to provide services and technology necessary for the
operation of our business. Any failure of one or more of our partners, vendors, suppliers or licensors to provide these services or technology could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
We rely on third-party vendors to provide critical services, including, among other things, services related to accounting, billing,
human resources, information technology, network development, network monitoring, in-licensing and intellectual property that we cannot or do not create or provide ourselves. We depend on these vendors to ensure that our corporate infrastructure
will consistently meet our business requirements. The ability of these third-party vendors to successfully provide reliable and high quality services is subject to technical and operational uncertainties that are beyond our control. While we may be
entitled to damages if our vendors fail to perform under their agreements with us, our agreements with these vendors limit the amount of damages we may receive. In addition, we do not know whether we will be able to collect on any award of damages
or that these damages would be sufficient to cover the actual costs we would incur as a result of any vendor’s failure to perform under its agreement with us. Any failure of our corporate infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition and results of operations. Upon expiration or termination of any of our agreements with third-party vendors, we may not be able to replace the services provided to us in a timely manner or on terms and conditions,
including service levels and cost, that are favorable to us and a transition from one vendor to another vendor could subject us to operational delays and inefficiencies until the transition is complete. 
  25 


Table of Contents
Additionally, we incorporate third-party technology into and with some of our products, and
we may do so in future products. The operation of our products could be impaired if errors occur in the third-party technology we use. It may be more difficult for us to correct any errors in a timely manner if at all because the development and
maintenance of the technology is not within our control. There can be no assurance that these third parties will continue to make their technology, or improvements to the technology, available to us, or that they will continue to support and
maintain their technology. Further, due to the limited number of vendors of some types of technology, it may be difficult to obtain new licenses or replace existing technology. Any impairment of the technology or our relationship with these third
parties could have a material adverse effect on our business.  Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect
our future results.  Since we operate in different countries and are subject to taxation in different jurisdictions, our
future effective tax rates could be impacted by changes in such countries’ tax laws or their interpretations. Both domestic and international tax laws are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation,
evolution of regulation and court rulings. The application of these tax laws and related regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. Recently, U.S. President Barack Obama’s administration proposed
significant changes to the U.S. international tax laws that could limit U.S. deductions for expenses related to un-repatriated foreign-source income, and modify the U.S. foreign tax credit and “check-the-box” rules. We cannot determine
whether these proposals will be enacted into law or what, if any, changes may be made to such proposals prior to their being enacted into law. If the U.S. tax laws change in a manner that increases our tax obligation, it could result in a material
adverse impact on our net income and our financial position.  Our future effective tax rate could be unfavorably affected by
unanticipated changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Changes in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our net deferred tax
assets to the amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider historical levels of income, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and
ongoing prudent and practical tax planning strategies. On a periodic basis we evaluate our deferred tax asset balance for realizability. To the extent we believe it is more likely than not that some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be
realized, we will increase the valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset. Realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent primarily upon future U.S. taxable income. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we established a full
valuation allowance on our net federal deferred tax assets.  Our business, financial condition and results of operations
could be adversely affected by the political and economic conditions of the countries in which we conduct business and other factors related to our international operations. 
We sell our products throughout the world. Sales to end customers in Asia accounted for 90% our net revenue in the year ended
December 31, 2011. Sales to end customers in Japan accounted for 39% of our net revenue in the year ended December 31, 2011. In addition, approximately 24% of our employees are located outside of the United States. All of our products are
manufactured, assembled and tested in Asia, and all of our major distributors are located in Asia. Multiple factors relating to our international operations and to particular countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations. These factors include:   


 
•
 
 changes in political, regulatory, legal or economic conditions; 
 


 
•
 
 restrictive governmental actions, such as restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds and foreign investments and trade protection measures,
including export duties and quotas and customs duties and tariffs;   


 
•
 
 disruptions of capital and trading markets;   


 
•
 
 changes in import or export licensing requirements; 
  26 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 transportation delays;   


 
•
 
 civil disturbances or political instability;   


 
•
 
 geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism, war or political or military coups; 
 


 
•
 
 public health emergencies;   


 
•
 
 differing employment practices and labor standards;   


 
•
 
 limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual property; 
 


 
•
 
 local business and cultural factors that differ from our customary standards and practices; 
 


 
•
 
 nationalization and expropriation;   


 
•
 
 changes in tax laws;   


 
•
 
 currency fluctuations relating to our international operating activities; and 
 


 
•
 
 difficulty in obtaining distribution and support.  In addition to a significant portion of our wafer supply coming from Taiwan, substantially all of our products undergo packaging and final test in Taiwan. Any conflict or uncertainty in this country,
including due to natural disaster or public health or safety concerns, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the government of any country in which our products are
manufactured or sold sets technical standards for products manufactured in or imported into their country that are not widely shared, it may lead some of our customers to suspend imports of their products into that country, require manufacturers in
that country to manufacture products with different technical standards and disrupt cross-border manufacturing relationships which, in each case, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 We also are subject to risks associated with international political conflicts involving the U.S. government. For example, in
2008 we were instructed by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to cease using Polar Star International Company Limited, a distributor based in Hong Kong, that delivered third-party products, to a political group that the U.S. government did not
believe should have been provided with the products in question. As a result, we immediately ceased all business operations with that distributor. The loss of Polar Star as a distributor did not materially delay shipment of our products because
Polar Star was a non-exclusive distributor and we had in place alternative distribution arrangements. However, we cannot provide assurances that similar disruptions of distribution arrangements in the future will not result in delayed shipments
until we are able to identify alternative distribution channels, which could include a requirement to increase our direct sales efforts. Loss of a key distributor under similar circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business, revenues and
operating results.  If we suffer losses to our facilities or distribution system due to catastrophe, our operations could
be seriously harmed.  Our facilities and distribution system, and those of our third-party contractors, are subject to
risk of catastrophic loss due to fire, flood or other natural or man-made disasters. A number of our facilities and those of our contract manufacturers are located in areas with above average seismic activity. The foundries that manufacture all of
our wafers are located in Taiwan, Singapore and Malaysia, and all of the third-party contractors who assemble and test our products also are located in Asia. In addition, our headquarters are located in Southern California. The risk of an earthquake
in the Pacific Rim region or Southern California is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines. For example, in 2002 and 2003, major earthquakes occurred in Taiwan. Any catastrophic loss to any of these facilities would likely
disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in significant expenses to repair or replace the facility. In particular, any catastrophic loss at the Carlsbad and Irvine, California, Taiwan, Singapore or Shanghai
facilities would materially and adversely affect our business. 
  27 


Table of Contents
Our net revenues could be adversely affected by the recent earthquake, tsunami, and
nuclear crisis in Japan and flooding in Thailand.  In March 2011, a major earthquake struck northeastern Japan, triggering
a tsunami that together with the earthquake resulted in unprecedented damage to infrastructure and substantial loss of life. From a business and financial perspective, these events have led to substantial uncertainty about the direction of the
Japanese economy, including the automotive and consumer electronics industries from which we realize substantial revenues. 
For fiscal 2010, revenue directly attributable to Japan, which includes revenues attributable to the sale of integrated circuits into the
Japanese automotive industry and sales of integrated circuits for electronic devices destined for Japanese consumer and mobile markets, accounted for approximately 57% of our net revenue. For fiscal 2011, Japanese-derived revenue declined to 39% of
our net revenue as sales of our cable products increased relative to other products. We currently expect this trend to continue in fiscal 2012. Nevertheless, Japan will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenues, and our
ability to achieve our financial forecasts will depend in large part on trends in Japanese automotive and consumer markets. In particular, our net revenue in 2012 could be adversely affected by continued manufacturing shut-downs in Japan, whether
due to power shortages, disruptions in manufacturing supply chains, or other reasons. In addition, net revenues attributable to Japanese consumer and mobile markets will depend on the reaction of Japanese consumers to these events, including trends
in consumer confidence and spending and the general pace and trend of recovery from the earthquake, tsunami, and nuclear crisis. We have limited ability to predict the impact of these events on our net revenues, particularly when depleted
inventories could begin to have a material effect on the availability of components if automotive and consumer electronic supply chains have not recovered by that time.  In October 2011, many areas of Thailand sustained massive damage from flooding which may disrupt the global supply chain for hard disk drives and components manufactured in Thailand that may be included
in the end user products of our customers. Due to cross dependencies, supply chain disruptions stemming from the flooding in Thailand could negatively impact the demand for our products, including, for example, if our customers are unable to obtain
sufficient supply of other components required for their end product. We have limited ability to predict the impact of these events on our net revenues, particularly when depleted inventories could begin to have a material effect on the availability
of hard disk drives and components if supply chains have not recovered by that time.  Our business is subject to various
governmental regulations, and compliance with these regulations may cause us to incur significant expenses. If we fail to maintain compliance with applicable regulations, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and
distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties.  Our business is subject to various international
and U.S. laws and other legal requirements, including packaging, product content, labor and import/export regulations. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have generally become more stringent over time. We may be required to incur
significant costs to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations. Any failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could result in cessation of our operations or portions of our operations, product recalls or impositions
of fines and restrictions on our ability to conduct our operations. In addition, because many of our products are regulated or sold into regulated industries, we must comply with additional regulations in marketing our products. 
Our products and operations are also subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, like the International Standards Organization,
as well as regulation by other agencies, such as the U.S. Federal Communications Commission. If we fail to adequately address any of these rules or regulations, our business could be harmed. 
  28 


Table of Contents
We must conform the manufacture and distribution of our semiconductors to various laws and
adapt to regulatory requirements in all countries as these requirements change. If we fail to comply with these requirements in the manufacture or distribution of our products, we could be required to pay civil penalties, face criminal prosecution
and, in some cases, be prohibited from distributing our products in commerce until the products or component substances are brought into compliance.  Investor confidence may be adversely impacted if we are unable to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and as a result, our stock price could decline. 
We are subject to rules adopted by the Securities Exchange Commission, or SEC, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which require us to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K our management’s report on, and assessment of the effectiveness of, our internal controls over financial reporting. 
If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, there is a risk that we will not comply with all of the requirements
imposed by Section 404. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. Any of these
possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements and could result in investigations or sanctions by the SEC, the New
York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, or other regulatory authorities or in stockholder litigation. Any of these factors ultimately could harm our business and could negatively impact the market price of our securities. Ineffective control over financial
reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.  Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives. However, our management, including our principal executive officer and principal
financial officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the
objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations
in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected.  We are subject to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry.  The
semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and
demand. The industry is experiencing a significant downturn during the current global recession. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average
selling prices. The current downturn and any future downturns could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Furthermore, any upturn in the semiconductor industry could result in increased competition for access to
third-party foundry and assembly capacity. We are dependent on the availability of this capacity to manufacture and assemble our RF receivers and RF receiver SoCs. None of our third-party foundry or assembly contractors has provided assurances that
adequate capacity will be available to us in the future.  Our products must conform to industry standards in order to be
accepted by end users in our markets.  Generally, our products comprise only a part of a communications device. All
components of these devices must uniformly comply with industry standards in order to operate efficiently together. We depend on companies that provide other components of the devices to support prevailing industry standards. Many of these companies
are significantly larger and more influential in driving industry standards than we are. Some industry standards 
  29 


Table of Contents

may not be widely adopted or implemented uniformly, and competing standards may emerge that may be preferred by our customers or end users. If larger companies do not support the same industry
standards that we do, or if competing standards emerge, market acceptance of our products could be adversely affected, which would harm our business.  Products for communications applications are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. Our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance
with these evolving industry standards. The emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by other suppliers. As a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur
significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. If our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards for a significant period of time, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial
design wins. We may not be successful in developing or using new technologies or in developing new products or product enhancements that achieve market acceptance. Our pursuit of necessary technological advances may require substantial time and
expense.  Risks Relating to Our Class A Common Stock  The dual class structure of our common stock as contained in our charter documents will have the effect of allowing our founders, executive officers, employees and directors and their affiliates to
limit your ability to influence corporate matters that you may consider unfavorable.  We sold Class A common stock in
our initial public offering. Our founders, executive officers, directors and their affiliates and employees hold shares of our Class B common stock, which is not publicly traded. Until March 29, 2017, the dual class structure of our common
stock will have the following effects with respect to the holders of our Class A common stock:   


 
•
 
 allows the holders of our Class B common stock to have the sole right to elect two management directors to the Board of Directors;
  


 
•
 
 with respect to change of control matters, allows the holders of our Class B common stock to have ten votes per share compared to the holders of our
Class A common stock who will have one vote per share on these matters; and   


 
•
 
 with respect to the adoption of or amendments to our equity incentive plans, allows the holders of our Class B common stock to have ten votes per share
compared to the holders of our Class A common stock who will have one vote per share on these matters, subject to certain limitations.  Thus, our dual class structure will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our stockholders do not view as beneficial, which may adversely affect the
market price of our Class A common stock.  The concentration of our capital stock ownership with our founders,
executive officers, employees and our directors and their affiliates will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and their interests may differ from other stockholders. 
As of December 31, 2011, our founders, executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially owned, in the aggregate,
approximately 41% of our outstanding capital, representing approximately 84% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock with respect to change of control matters and the adoption of or amendment to our equity incentive plans. In
particular, our founders and our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Seendripu, together control approximately 22% of our outstanding capital stock, representing approximately 45% of the voting power of our outstanding capital
stock with respect to change of control matters and the adoption of or amendment to our equity incentive plans. Additionally, approximately 10% of our outstanding common stock is collectively owned by investment funds affiliated with U.S. Venture
Partners. A representative of U.S. Venture Partners is a director of MaxLinear. Together with these funds, 
  30 


Table of Contents

Dr. Seendripu and the other founders therefore have significant influence over the management and affairs of the Company and over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the
election of two Class B directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our Company or its assets, for the foreseeable future.  Our management team may invest or spend the proceeds from our initial public offering in ways with which you may not agree or in ways which may not yield a return. 
The net proceeds from our initial public offering may be used for general corporate purposes, including working capital. We may also use
a portion of the net proceeds to acquire complementary businesses, products, services or technologies. However, we do not have any agreements or commitments for any specific acquisitions at this time. Our management will have considerable discretion
in the application of the net proceeds, and you will not have the opportunity, as part of your investment decision, to assess whether the proceeds are being used appropriately. The net proceeds may be used for corporate purposes that do not increase
our operating results or market value. Until the net proceeds are used, they may be placed in investments that do not produce significant income or that may lose value.  Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us more difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management
and limit the market price of our Class A common stock.  Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws,
as amended and restated, may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions provide for the following: 
 


 
•
 
 authorize our Board of Directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, up to 25,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock;
  


 
•
 
 require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent;
  


 
•
 
 specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our Board of Directors, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President
of the Company or by unanimous written consent of our directors appointed by the holders of Class B common stock;   


 
•
 
 establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder approvals to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders, including proposed
nominations of persons for election to our Board of Directors;   


 
•
 
 establish that our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, Class I, Class II and Class III, with each class serving staggered terms and with
one Class B director being elected to each of Classes II and III;   


 
•
 
 provide for a dual class common stock structure, which provides our founders, current investors, executives and employees with significant influence
over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our Company or its assets; 
 


 
•
 
 provide that our directors may be removed only for cause; 
 


 
•
 
 provide that vacancies on our Board of Directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum, other
than any vacancy in the two directorships reserved for the designees of the holders of Class B common stock, which may be filled only by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding Class B common stock or by the remaining
director elected by the Class B common stock (with the consent of founders holding a majority in interest of the Class B common stock over which the founders then exercise voting control); 
  31 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 specify that no stockholder is permitted to cumulate votes at any election of directors; and 
 


 
•
 
 require supermajority votes of the holders of our common stock to amend specified provisions of our charter documents. 
These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more
difficult for stockholders to replace members of our Board of Directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203
of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any “interested” stockholder for a period of three years following the date on
which the stockholder became an “interested” stockholder.  Our share price may be volatile as a result of limited
trading volume and other factors.  Our shares of Class A common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange in
March 2010. An active public market for our shares on the New York Stock Exchange may not be sustained. In particular, limited trading volumes and liquidity may limit the ability of stockholders to purchase or sell our common stock in the
amounts and at the times they wish. Trading volume in our Class A common stock tends to be modest relative to our total outstanding shares, and the price of our Class A common stock may fluctuate substantially (particularly in
percentage terms) without regard to news about us or general trends in the stock market. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital to continue to fund operations by selling shares and may impair our ability to acquire other
companies or technologies by using our shares as consideration.  In addition, the trading price of our Class A common
stock could become highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include those discussed in this “Risk Factors” section of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K and others such as:   


 
•
 
 actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results; 
 


 
•
 
 overall conditions in the semiconductor market;   


 
•
 
 addition or loss of significant customers;   


 
•
 
 changes in laws or regulations applicable to our products; 
 


 
•
 
 actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our competitors; 
 


 
•
 
 announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; 
 


 
•
 
 announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;
  


 
•
 
 additions or departures of key personnel;   


 
•
 
 competition from existing products or new products that may emerge; 
 


 
•
 
 issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts; 
 


 
•
 
 fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; 
 


 
•
 
 disputes or other developments related to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain intellectual property
protection for our technologies;   


 
•
 
 announcement or expectation of additional financing efforts; 
 


 
•
 
 sales of our Class A or Class B common stock by us or our stockholders; 
 


 
•
 
 share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; and
 


 
•
 
 general economic and market conditions. 
  32 


Table of Contents
Furthermore, the stock markets recently have experienced extreme price and volume
fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and
industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our Class A common stock. In the
past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result
in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business.  If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish negative reports about our business, especially due to our dual-class voting structure, our share
price and trading volume could decline.  The trading market for our Class A common stock depends in part on the
research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business, especially with respect to our unique dual-class voting structure as to the election of directors, change of control matters and matters related to our
equity incentive plans. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our shares or change their opinion of our shares, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts
cease coverage of our Company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. 
Future sales of our Class A common stock in the public market could cause our share price to decline. 
Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might
occur, could depress the market price of our Class A common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. As of December 31, 2011, we had 19.1 million shares of Class A
common stock and 14.1 million shares of Class B common stock outstanding.  All shares of Class A common stock are
freely tradable without restrictions or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, except for any shares held by our affiliates as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. 
The holders of 3.3 million shares of Class B common stock, or 10% of our total outstanding Class A and Class B common stock,
are entitled to rights with respect to registration of these shares under the Securities Act pursuant to a registration rights agreement. Shares of our Class B common stock automatically will convert into shares of our Class A common stock upon
any sale or transfer, whether or not for value, except for certain transfers described in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. If these holders of our Class B common stock, by exercising their registration rights, sell a large
number of shares, they could adversely affect the market price for our Class A common stock. If we file a registration statement for the purposes of selling additional shares to raise capital and are required to include shares held by these
holders pursuant to the exercise of their registration rights, our ability to raise capital may be impaired. We filed registration statements on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register 11.6 million shares of our Class A common stock
for issuance under our 2010 Equity Incentive Plan and 2010 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. These shares may be freely sold in the public market upon issuance and once vested, subject to other restrictions provided under the terms of the applicable
plan and/or the option agreements entered into with option holders.  The requirements of being a public company may strain
our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. 
As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange
Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the listing requirements of the NYSE and other applicable securities rules and regulations. None of our senior executives has managed a public company prior to 
  33 


Table of Contents

our becoming a public company in March 2010. Compliance with these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs, made some activities more difficult,
time-consuming or costly and increased the demand on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The
Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and
internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we have already hired additional staff to comply with these requirements, we may need to hire more employees in the future, which will increase our costs and
expenses.  In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are
creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack
of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs
necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a
diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies
due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed.  We also expect that being a newly public company and these new rules and regulations will make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept
reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee and
compensation committee, and qualified executive officers.  We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.
 We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the
foreseeable future. We anticipate that we will retain all of our future earnings for use in the development of our business and for general corporate purposes. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board
of Directors. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their Class A common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investments. 
 


ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  None.   


ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES  Our corporate
headquarters occupy approximately 29,000 square feet in Carlsbad, California under a lease that expires in August 2014. All of our business and engineering functions are represented at our corporate headquarters, including three laboratories for
research and development and manufacturing operations. In addition to our principal office space in Carlsbad, we have leased facilities for use as design centers in Irvine, California, Shanghai, China and Bangalore, India. We also have engineering
support offices in Shenzhen, China, Tokyo, Japan and Hsinchu, Taiwan. We believe that our current facilities are adequate to meet our ongoing needs and that additional facilities are available for lease to meet our future needs. 
  34 


Table of Contents


ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  We are
not currently a party to any material litigation, and we are not aware of any pending or threatened litigation against us that we believe would adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition or cash flows. The semiconductor
industry is characterized by frequent claims and litigation, including claims regarding patent and other intellectual property rights as well as improper hiring practices. As a result, in the future, we may be involved in various legal proceedings
from time to time.   


ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES  Not applicable. 
  35 


Table of Contents
PART II 
 


ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
Market Information and Holders  In March 2010, we completed the initial public offering of our Class A common stock. Our Class A common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, under the symbol MXL. The
following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sale prices for our Class A common stock as reported by the NYSE:   












 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 First Quarter (January 1, 2011 to March 31, 2011)
  
$
12.83
  
  
$
7.32
  

 Second Quarter (April 1, 2011 to June 30, 2011)
  
$
9.68
  
  
$
7.70
  

 Third Quarter (July 1, 2011 to September 30, 2011)
  
$
9.26
  
  
$
4.86
  

 Fourth Quarter (October 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011)
  
$
6.41
  
  
$
4.13
  




 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

 
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 First Quarter (March 24, 2010 to March 31, 2010)
  
$
19.50
  
  
$
17.56
  

 Second Quarter (April 1, 2010 to June 30, 2010)
  
$
18.36
  
  
$
13.01
  

 Third Quarter (July 1, 2010 to September 30, 2010)
  
$
14.71
  
  
$
9.65
  

 Fourth Quarter (October 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010)
  
$
11.50
  
  
$
9.30
  
 On December 31, 2011, the last reported sales price of our common stock was $4.75 and, according to
our transfer agent, as of February 29, 2012, there were 13 record holders of our Class A common stock and 77 record holders of our Class B common stock.  Our Class B common stock is not publicly traded. Each share of Class B common stock is convertible at any time at the option of the holder into one share of Class A common stock and in most
instances automatically converts upon sale or other transfer.  Dividend Policy 
We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future
earnings for use in the operation of our business and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any future determination to declare dividends will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and
will depend on our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant.  Stock Performance Graph  Notwithstanding any statement to the
contrary in any of our previous or future filings with the SEC, the following information relating to the price performance of our common stock shall not be deemed “filed” with the SEC or “Soliciting Material” under the Exchange
Act, or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C, or to liabilities of Section 18 of the Exchange Act except to the extent we specifically request that such information be treated as soliciting material or to the extent we specifically incorporate
this information by reference.  The graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder return on our Class A
common stock with the cumulative total return on The NYSE Composite Index and The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index. The period shown commences on March 23, 2010 and ends on December 31, 2011, the end of our last fiscal year. The graph

  36 


Table of Contents

assumes an investment of $100 on March 23, 2010, and the reinvestment of any dividends. In addition, the graph assumes the value of our common stock on March 23, 2010 was the initial
public offering price of $14.00 per share.  The comparisons in the graph below are required by the Securities and Exchange
Commission and are not intended to forecast or be indicative of possible future performance of our common stock.   


 Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities 
In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, we issued an aggregate of 1 million shares of our Class B common stock to certain
employees upon the exercise of options awarded under our 2004 Stock Plan. We received aggregate proceeds of approximately $1.5 million in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 as a result of the exercise of these options. We believe these
transactions were exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in reliance on Rule 701 thereunder as transactions pursuant to compensatory benefit plans and contracts relating to compensation as provided under Rule 701. As of
December 31, 2011, options to purchase an aggregate of 2.7 million shares of our Class B common stock remain outstanding. All issuances of shares of our Class B common stock pursuant to the exercise of these options will be made in
reliance on Rule 701. All option grants made under the 2004 Stock Plan were made prior to the effectiveness of our initial public offering. No further option grants will be made under our 2004 Stock Plan. 
None of the foregoing transactions involved any underwriters, underwriting discounts or commissions, or any public offering. 
Each share of our Class B common stock is convertible at any time at the option of the holder into one share of our Class A common
stock. In addition, each share of our Class B common stock will convert automatically into one share of Class A common stock upon any transfer, whether or not for value, except for certain transfers described in our certificate of
incorporation.  Use of Proceeds  Our initial public offering of Class A common stock was effected through a Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333- 162947) that was declared effective by the Securities and
Exchange Commission on 
  37 


Table of Contents

March 23, 2010. From the effective date of the registration statement through December 31, 2011, we have used the net proceeds of the offering for working capital purposes, including
expenditures for inventory, personnel costs, equipment and acquired intellectual property, and other operating expenses.   


ITEM 6.
SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA  We have derived the selected consolidated statement of operations data for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31,
2011 and 2010 from our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. We have derived the statement of operations data for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 and the balance sheet
data as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 from our audited consolidated financial statements not included in this report. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. The following
selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included
elsewhere in this report.   
























 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 
 
(in thousands, except per share amounts)
 

 Consolidated Statement of Operations Data:
 



 



 



 



 




 Net revenue
 
$
71,937
  
 
$
68,701
  
 
$
51,350
  
 
$
31,331
  
 
$
9,696
  

 Cost of net revenue
 
 
26,616
  
 
 
21,560
  
 
 
17,047
  
 
 
12,675
  
 
 
4,896
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
 
 
45,321
  
 
 
47,141
  
 
 
34,303
  
 
 
18,656
  
 
 
4,800
  

 Operating expenses:
 



 



 



 



 




 Research and development
 
 
40,156
  
 
 
27,725
  
 
 
19,790
  
 
 
14,310
  
 
 
9,924
  

 Selling, general and administrative
 
 
20,178
  
 
 
15,912
  
 
 
9,921
  
 
 
6,356
  
 
 
4,296
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
 
 
60,334
  
 
 
43,637
  
 
 
29,711
  
 
 
20,666
  
 
 
14,220
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from operations
 
 
(15,013
) 
 
 
3,504
  
 
 
4,592
  
 
 
(2,010
) 
 
 
(9,420
) 

 Interest income
 
 
292
  
 
 
326
  
 
 
51
  
 
 
179
  
 
 
654
  

 Interest expense
 
 
(69
) 
 
 
(29
) 
 
 
(52
) 
 
 
(74
) 
 
 
(78
) 

 Other income (expense), net
 
 
(241
) 
 
 
(58
) 
 
 
(32
) 
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
135
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income taxes
 
 
(15,031
) 
 
 
3,743
  
 
 
4,559
  
 
 
(1,914
) 
 
 
(8,709
) 

 Provision (benefit) for income taxes
 
 
6,993
  
 
 
(6,371
) 
 
 
230
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
 
 
(22,024
) 
 
 
10,114
  
 
 
4,329
  
 
 
(1,914
) 
 
 
(8,709
) 

 Net income allocable to preferred stockholders
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,215
)(1) 
 
 
(3,691
)(1) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders
 
$
(22,024
) 
 
$
8,899
  
 
$
638
  
 
$
(1,914
) 
 
$
(8,709
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) per share attributable to common stockholders:
 



 



 



 



 




 Basic
 
$
(0.68
) 
 
$
0.33
  
 
$
0.06
  
 
$
(0.19
) 
 
$
(0.93
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted
 
$
(0.68
) 
 
$
0.30
  
 
$
0.06
  
 
$
(0.19
) 
 
$
(0.93
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Shares used to compute net income (loss) per share attributable to common stockholders:
 



 



 



 



 




 Basic
 
 
32,573
  
 
 
26,743
  
 
 
10,129
  
 
 
9,861
  
 
 
9,364
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted
 
 
32,573
  
 
 
29,478
  
 
 
11,512
  
 
 
9,861
  
 
 
9,364
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Please see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for an explanation of the method used to calculate net income allocable to preferred stockholders and net
income (loss) attributable to common stockholders, including the method used to calculate the number of shares used in the computation of the per share amounts. 
  38 


Table of Contents
























 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data:
  



  



  



 



 




 Cash, cash equivalents and short- and long-term investments, available-for-sale
  
$
85,736
  
  
$
94,486
  
  
$
17,921
  
 
$
9,720
  
 
$
8,973
  

 Working capital
  
 
76,585
  
  
 
95,444
  
  
 
11,029
  
 
 
8,406
  
 
 
10,292
  

 Total assets
  
 
112,376
  
  
 
118,918
  
  
 
35,773
  
 
 
16,723
  
 
 
14,603
  

 Capital lease obligations, net of current portion
  
 
2
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
115
  
 
 
238
  
 
 
301
  

 Convertible preferred stock(1)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
35,351
  
 
 
35,351
  
 
 
35,351
  

 Total stockholders’ equity (deficit)
  
 
93,025
  
  
 
104,897
  
  
 
(19,475
) 
 
 
(25,363
) 
 
 
(23,914
) 
  


(1)
Upon certain change in control events that may be outside of our control, including our liquidation, sale or transfer of control, holders of the convertible preferred
stock could cause its redemption. Accordingly, these shares were considered contingently redeemable and were classified as temporary equity on our balance sheets instead of in stockholders’ equity (deficit). We adjusted the carrying values of
the convertible preferred stock to their liquidation values at the date of issuance. 
  39 


Table of Contents


ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of our operations should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed below.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below, and those discussed in the section titled “Risk Factors” included elsewhere in this report. 
Overview  We are
a provider of highly integrated, radio-frequency analog and mixed-signal semiconductor solutions for broadband communications applications. Our high performance radio-frequency, or RF, receiver products capture and process digital and analog
broadband signals to be decoded for various applications. These products include both RF receivers and RF receiver systems-on-chip, or SoCs, which incorporate our highly integrated radio system architecture and the functionality necessary to
demodulate broadband signals. Our current products enable the display of broadband video content in a wide range of electronic devices, including cable and terrestrial set top boxes, digital televisions, mobile handsets, personal computers, netbooks
and in-vehicle entertainment devices.  Our net revenue has grown from approximately $600,000 in fiscal 2006 to $71.9 million
in fiscal 2011. In 2010 and 2011, our net revenue was derived from sales of global digital RF receiver products for digital set top box applications, automotive navigation displays, mobile handsets, cable modems and gateways and digital televisions.
Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend, among other factors, on our ability to further penetrate existing markets; our ability to expand our target addressable markets by developing new and innovative products; and our
ability to obtain design wins with device manufacturers, in particular manufacturers of set top boxes and cable modems and gateways for the cable industry.  Substantially all of our sales have been to customers outside the United States. Sales to customers in Asia accounted for 90%, 97% and 99% of net revenue in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009, respectively. The majority of our sales to these and other customers are through distributors based in Asia. Although we actually sell the products to and are paid by the distributors, we refer to these end customers as our customers.
Because many of our customers or their OEM manufacturers are located in Asia, we anticipate that a majority of our revenue will continue to come from sales to customers in that region. Although a large percentage of our sales are made to customers
in Asia, we believe that a significant number of the systems designed by these customers and incorporating our semiconductor products are then sold to end users outside Asia. For example, we believe revenue generated from sales of our digital
terrestrial set top box products during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 related principally to sales to Asian set top box manufacturers delivering products into European markets. To date, all of our sales have been denominated in
United States dollars.  A significant portion of our net revenue has historically been generated by a limited number of
customers. Our three largest customers collectively represented 32% of net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011. For certain customers, we sell multiple products into disparate end user applications such as modules for televisions,
in-vehicle or automotive applications and mobile handsets.  Our business depends on winning competitive bid selection
processes, known as design wins, to develop semiconductors for use in our customers’ products. These selection processes are typically lengthy, and as a result, our sales cycles will vary based on market served, whether the design-win is with
an existing or a new customer and whether our product being designed in our customer’s device is a first generation or subsequent generation product. Our customers’ products can be complex and, if our engagement results in a design win,
can require significant time to define, design and result in volume production. Because the sales cycle for our 
  40 


Table of Contents

products is long, we can incur significant design and development expenditures in circumstances where we do not ultimately recognize any revenue. We do not have any long-term purchase commitments
with any of our customers, all of whom purchase our products on a purchase order basis. Once one of our products is incorporated into a customer’s design, however, we believe that our product is likely to remain a component of the
customer’s product for its life cycle because of the time and expense associated with redesigning the product or substituting an alternative chip. Product life cycles in our target markets will vary by application. For example, in the digital
set top box market a design-in can have a product life cycle of 18 to 24 months. In the automotive sector, the product life cycle of a design-in can range from 36 to 60 months. In the mobile television sector, the product life cycle can range from
12 to 36 months.  In March 2010, we completed the initial public offering, or IPO, of our Class A common stock in
which we sold and issued 5.9 million shares of Class A common stock, including 0.8 million shares related to the exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment, at an issue price of $14.00 per share. We raised a total of
$82.9 million in gross proceeds in the IPO, or approximately $72.9 million in net proceeds after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $5.8 million and other offering costs of $4.2 million. Immediately prior to the
closing of the IPO, all shares of our then-outstanding convertible preferred stock outstanding automatically converted into 14.5 million shares of our Class B common stock.  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  Management’s
discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles that are generally accepted in the United States. The
preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We continually evaluate our estimates and judgments, the most critical of which are those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts,
inventory valuation, income taxes and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Materially different results can occur as
circumstances change and additional information becomes known.  We believe that the following accounting policies involve a
greater degree of judgment and complexity than our other accounting policies. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations.
 Revenue Recognition  Revenue is generated from sales of our integrated circuits. We recognize revenue when all of the following criteria are met: 1) there is persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists,
2) delivery of goods has occurred, 3) the sales price is fixed or determinable and 4) collectibility is reasonably assured. Title to product transfers to customers either when it is shipped to or received by the customer, based on the
terms of the specific agreement with the customer. We record revenue based on the facts at the time of sale. Amounts that are
not probable of collection once the product has shipped and title has transferred to the customer are deferred until the amount that is probable of collection can be determined. Items that are considered when determining the amounts that will be
ultimately collected are: a customer’s overall creditworthiness and payment history, customer rights to return unsold product, customer rights to price protection, customer payment terms conditioned on sale or use of product by the customer, or
extended payment terms granted to a customer.  For distributor transactions, revenue is not recognized until product is
shipped to the end customer and the amount that will ultimately be collected is determinable. Upon shipment of product to these distributors, title to the inventory transfers to the distributor and the distributor is invoiced, generally with 30 day
terms. On 
  41 


Table of Contents

shipments where revenue is not recognized, we record a trade receivable for the selling price as there is a legally enforceable right to payment, relieving the inventory for the carrying value of
goods shipped since legal title has passed to the distributor, and record the corresponding gross profit in our consolidated balance sheet as a component of deferred revenue and deferred profit, representing the difference between the receivable
recorded and the cost of inventory shipped.  We record reductions in revenue for estimated pricing adjustments related to
price protection and unit rebate agreements, in the same period that the related revenue is recorded. Price protection pricing adjustments are recorded at the time of sale as a reduction to revenue and an increase in our accrued liabilities. We may
enter into unit rebate agreements with end customers based on volume purchases. We estimate that all of the unit rebates will be achieved based on the history of these programs, reduce the average selling price of the product sold under the rebate
program and defer revenue for the difference between the amount billed to the customer and the adjusted average selling price. Once the targeted level is achieved, the deferred revenue is recognized as revenue as rebated products are shipped to the
end customer. Deferred revenue associated with rebate programs is included in deferred revenue and deferred profit in the consolidated balance sheet. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts  We perform ongoing credit evaluations of
our customers and adjust credit limits based on each customers’ credit worthiness, as determined by our review of current credit information. We continuously monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain an allowance for
doubtful accounts based upon our historical experience, our anticipation of uncollectible accounts receivable and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. While our credit losses have historically been insignificant, we may
experience higher credit loss rates in the future than we have in the past. Our receivables are concentrated in relatively few customers. Therefore, a significant change in the liquidity or financial position of any one significant customer could
make collection of our accounts receivable more difficult, require us to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and negatively affect our working capital.  Inventory Valuation  We continually assess the recoverability of our
inventory based on assumptions about demand and market conditions. Forecasted demand is determined based on historical sales and expected future sales. We value our inventory at the lower of standard cost (which approximates actual cost on a
first-in, first-out basis) or its current estimated market value. We reduce our inventory to the estimated lower of cost or market value on a part-by-part basis to account for its obsolescence or lack of marketability. Reductions are calculated as
the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory
write-downs may be required that may adversely affect our operating results. If actual market conditions are more favorable, we may have higher gross profits when products are sold. 
Intangible Assets  Technologies acquired or licensed from other companies are capitalized and amortized over the greater of the terms of the agreement, or estimated useful life, not to exceed three years. 
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets  We regularly review the carrying amount of our long-lived assets, as well as the useful lives, to determine whether indicators of impairment may exist which warrant adjustments to carrying values or
estimated useful lives. An impairment loss would be recognized when the sum of the expected future undiscounted net cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the asset. Should impairment exist, the impairment loss would be measured based on the
excess of the carrying amount of the asset over the asset’s fair value. 
  42 


Table of Contents
Income Taxes 
We provide for income taxes utilizing the asset and liability approach of accounting for income taxes. Under this approach, deferred
taxes represent the future tax consequences expected to occur when the reported amounts of assets and liabilities are recovered or paid. The provision for income taxes generally represents income taxes paid or payable for the current year plus the
change in deferred taxes during the year. Deferred taxes result from the differences between the financial and tax bases of our assets and liabilities and are adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. Valuation
allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when a judgment is made that is considered more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. A decision to record a valuation allowance results in an increase in income tax expense or
a decrease in income tax benefit. If the valuation allowance is released in a future period, income tax expense will be reduced accordingly.  The calculation of tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex global tax regulations. The impact of an uncertain income tax position is recognized at the largest
amount that is “more likely than not” to be sustained upon audit by the relevant taxing authority. An uncertain income tax position will not be recognized if it has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. If the estimate of tax
liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result.  In assessing the
realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of
future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. We will continue to assess the need for a valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset by evaluating both positive and negative evidence that may
exist. Any adjustment to the net deferred tax asset valuation allowance would be recorded in the income statement for the period that the adjustment is determined to be required. 
Stock-Based Compensation  We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for equity incentive awards, including stock options, employee stock purchase rights and restricted stock units, based on the grant date fair
value of the award. We use the Black-Scholes valuation model to calculate the fair value of stock options and employee stock purchase rights granted to employees. We calculate the fair value of restricted stock units based on the fair market value
of our Class A common stock on the grant date. Stock-based compensation expense is recognized over the period during which the employee is required to provide services in exchange for the award, which is usually the vesting period. We recognize
compensation expense over the vesting period using the straight-line method and classify these amounts in the statements of operations based on the department to which the related employee reports. 
We account for stock options issued to non-employees in accordance with authoritative guidance for equity based payments to
non-employees. Stock options issued to non-employees are accounted for at their estimated fair value determined using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The fair value of options granted to non-employees is re-measured as they vest, and the
resulting increase in value, if any, is recognized as expense during the period the related services are rendered. We calculate the fair value of restricted stock units issued to non-employees based on the fair market value of our Class A
common stock on the grant date and the resulting stock-based compensation expense is recognized over the period during which the non-employee is required to provide services in exchange for the award, which is usually the vesting period. 
Results of Operations  The following describes the line items set forth in our consolidated statements of operations.  Net Revenue. Net revenue is generated from sales of our RF receivers and RF receiver SoCs. A majority of our end customers purchase products indirectly from us through distributors. Although we
actually sell the products to and are paid by the distributors, we refer to these end customers as our customers. 
  43 


Table of Contents
Cost of Net Revenue. Cost of net revenue includes the cost of finished silicon wafers
processed by third-party foundries; costs associated with our outsourced packaging and assembly, test and shipping; costs of personnel, including stock-based compensation, and equipment associated with manufacturing support, logistics and quality
assurance; amortization of certain production mask costs; cost of production load boards and sockets; and an allocated portion of our occupancy costs.  Research and Development. Research and development expense includes personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, new product engineering mask costs, prototype integrated circuit
packaging and test costs, computer-aided design software license costs, intellectual property license costs, reference design development costs, development testing and evaluation costs, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. Research
and development activities include the design of new products, refinement of existing products and design of test methodologies to ensure compliance with required specifications. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred.
 Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expense includes personnel-related expenses,
including stock-based compensation, distributor and other third-party sales commissions, field application engineering support, travel costs, professional and consulting fees, legal fees, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs.
 Interest Income. Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and investment balances.
 Interest Expense. Interest expense consists primarily of imputed interest on i) the purchase of licensed technology
and ii) property and equipment capital leases. Other Income (expense). Other income (expense) generally consists of
income (expense) generated from minor non-operating transactions.  Provision for Income Taxes. Income tax expense is
primarily due to the establishment of a valuation allowance on the net federal deferred tax asset in the third quarter of 2011. The income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2010 includes the reversal of our valuation allowance
previously offsetting our federal deferred tax assets. Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 relates to current federal alternative minimum tax and California income taxes. Due to net operating loss limitations, the
Company’s net operating losses did not fully offset the federal alternative minimum taxes and California income taxes. 
The following table sets forth our consolidated statement of operations data as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated.
  
















 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net revenue
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 

 Cost of net revenue
 
 
37
  
 
 
31
  
 
 
33
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
 
 
63
  
 
 
69
  
 
 
67
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating expenses:
 



 



 




 Research and development
 
 
56
  
 
 
41
  
 
 
39
  

 Selling, general and administrative
 
 
28
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
19
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
 
 
84
  
 
 
64
  
 
 
58
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from operations
 
 
(21
) 
 
 
5
  
 
 
9
  

 Interest income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Interest expense
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other expense, net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income taxes
 
 
(21
) 
 
 
5
  
 
 
8
  

 Provision (benefit) for income taxes
 
 
10
  
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
—  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
 
 
(31
)% 
 
 
15
% 
 
 
8
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  44 


Table of Contents
Comparison of the Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
Net Revenue   
























 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 
  
% Change
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Net revenue
  
$
71,937
  
  
$
68,701
  
  
$
51,350
  
  
 
5
% 
 
 
34
% 
 Net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased by $3.2 million from 2010 primarily due
to increase in sales revenue from cable products, offset by decrease in revenue derived from consumer terrestrial TV set-top box and mobile handset applications. We expect sales of our cable products to account for a substantial portion of our
revenue growth, if any, in 2012. The demand for our terrestrial and cable TV products will depend on several factors, including the rate of worldwide transition from analog-to-digital terrestrial and cable TV broadcast, and the growth in demand, if
any, for high speed broadband connectivity and multimedia content and services.  Net revenue for the year ended
December 31, 2010 increased by $17.4 million from 2009 primarily due to an increase in shipments of our RF receiver products used in televisions, automotive navigation displays, PCs and set top box devices for digital terrestrial television,
digital cable and IPTV applications. These gains were offset by a decrease in shipments and revenue from our mobile digital television RF receiver products for the Japanese handset market. In particular, these increases were primarily attributable
to shipments and related revenue for digital televisions, PCTV, and automotive markets in Japan, and digital terrestrial TV set top boxes destined for end markets in Europe.  Cost of Net Revenue and Gross Profit   
























 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
% Change
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Cost of net revenue
  
$
26,616
  
 
$
21,560
  
 
$
17,047
  
 
 
23
% 
 
 
26
% 

 % of net revenue
  
 
37
% 
 
 
31
% 
 
 
33
% 
 



 




 Gross profit
  
$
45,321
  
 
$
47,141
  
 
$
34,303
  
 
 
(4
)% 
 
 
37
% 

 % of net revenue
  
 
63
% 
 
 
69
% 
 
 
67
% 
 



 



 Cost of net revenue increased by $5.1 million from 2010 to 2011. Gross profit decreased by $1.8 million
from 2010 to 2011, reflecting a decrease in gross profit as a percentage of revenue from 69% to 63%. The decreases in both absolute gross profit and the gross profit percentage of net revenue were primarily due to decreases in average selling prices
of several products whose average manufacturing costs decreased proportionally to a lesser extent than their average selling prices. Changes in product mix driven by significant declines in our higher margin mobile handset applications also
contributed to the declines in gross margin as a percentage of revenue. We currently expect that gross profit percentage will fluctuate in the future, from quarter-to-quarter, based on changes in product mix, average selling prices, and average
manufacturing costs.  Cost of net revenue and gross profit increased by $4.5 million and $12.8 million, respectively, from
2009 to 2010. These increases in cost of net revenue were principally due to increased sales of our second-generation global digital terrestrial television RF receiver product. The rise in shipments and, to a lesser extent, the reduction in per unit
manufacturing cost of the second-generation global digital terrestrial television RF receiver products, resulted in the increases in both the absolute gross profit, and the gross profit percentage of net revenue in 2010. 
  45 


Table of Contents
Research and Development 
 
























 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
% Change
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Research and development
  
$
40,156
  
 
$
27,725
  
 
$
19,790
  
 
 
45
% 
 
 
40
% 

 % of net revenue
  
 
56
% 
 
 
41
% 
 
 
39
% 
 



 



 Research and development expense for 2011 was $40.2 million, an increase of $12.4
million, or 45%, from 2010. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase in the number of new RF receiver SoC product development and existing product enhancement initiatives. The increase in research and development expense also includes
a new initiative to develop MoCA®, or Multimedia over Coax Alliance, solutions for inside-the-home data, and
video network connectivity. Investments in intellectual property and software related to connectivity technologies, including the acquisition of certain MoCA® intellectual property and connectivity-related software licenses, increased by $4.2 million compared to the prior year. Salary and benefits expense (including
stock-based compensation) increased $5.8 million compared to the prior year. The increase in salary and benefits is primarily due to an increase in our average full-time-equivalent employee headcount compared to the prior year. Also contributing to
the increases, compared to the prior year, were additional expenses for computer-aided design and related software license costs, new product engineering mask costs, supplies, travel and other costs. Entering into new technology licenses is a
strategic decision made by management on a case by case basis. We cannot predict whether we will acquire more of these types of licenses, or the magnitude or timing of any such license acquisitions. Absent these types of licensing events, we expect
our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to focus on expanding our product portfolio and enhancing existing products.  Research and development expense for 2010 was $27.7 million, an increase of $7.9 million, or 40%, from 2009. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase in the overall number of new product
development and existing product enhancement initiatives. These projects and initiatives related primarily to our RF receiver SoC products. Salary and benefits accounted for the largest portion of the increase at $6.7 million for 2010 (including
stock-based compensation), reflecting growth in our average full-time-equivalent employee headcount compared to the prior year. Also contributing to the increases were additional expenses for supplies, travel and other costs, offset by decreases in
acquired intellectual property and facility-related costs compared to the prior year.  Selling, General and
Administrative   
























 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
% Change
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Selling, general and administrative
  
$
20,178
  
 
$
15,912
  
 
$
9,921
  
 
 
27
% 
 
 
60
% 

 % of net revenue
  
 
28
% 
 
 
23
% 
 
 
19
% 
 



 



 Selling, general and administrative expense for 2011 was $20.2 million, an increase of $4.3 million, or
27%, from 2010. This increase was primarily attributable to increase in costs associated with the need for larger scale operations to support the increase in demand for our products, and increased expenses associated with regulatory compliance
initiatives, including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Specifically, the increase was attributable in part to an additional $2.4 million of incremental salary and benefit expenses in 2011 (including stock-based compensation). Also
contributing to the increases were incremental legal, accounting and other professional expenses, consulting expenses, travel-related costs, and occupancy expenses. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute
dollars in the future as we expand our sales and marketing organization to enable expansion into existing and new markets, as we continue to build our international administrative infrastructure and as a result of the export compliance review.

  46 


Table of Contents
Selling, general and administrative expense for 2010 was $15.9 million, an increase of $6.0
million, or 60%, from 2009. This increase was primarily attributable to costs associated with the need for larger scale operations as a result of increased demand for our products and increased expenses as we prepared to become a public reporting
company. Specifically, more than half of the increase was attributable to an additional $3.2 million of incremental salary and benefit expenses in 2010 (including stock-based compensation). Also contributing to the increase were incremental legal,
accounting and other professional expenses associated with becoming a public company, distributor and sales representative commissions driven by increased sales of our products, consulting expenses, and additional travel, supplies, and
facility-related costs.  Interest and Other Income (Expense) 
 
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Interest income
  
$
292
  
 
$
326
  
 
$
51
  

 Interest expense
  
 
(69
) 
 
 
(29
) 
 
 
(52
) 

 Other expense, net
  
 
(241
) 
 
 
(58
) 
 
 
(32
) 
 Interest income decreased in 2011 compared to 2010 due to lower investment balances, principally due to a
change in the composition of cash equivalents and investments. Interest income increased in 2010 compared to 2009 due to higher cash and investment balances, principally due to the investment of the proceeds from our March 2010 IPO.
Interest expense increased in 2011 compared to 2010 related to an accrued technology license agreement with extended payment terms.
Interest expense decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 due to lower outstanding debt balances.  Other expense, net in 2011
consisted primarily of losses on foreign currency transactions, investment management fees and lease settlement charges. Other expense, net in 2010 consisted primarily of losses on foreign currency transactions and investment management fees. Other
expense, net in 2009 consisted primarily of the write-off of the carrying value of leasehold improvements in connection with vacating certain leased facilities.  Provision for Income Taxes   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Provision for income taxes
  
$
6,993
  
  
$
(6,371
) 
 
$
230
  
 The provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $7.0 million or
approximately (46.5)% of pre-tax loss compared to a benefit for income taxes of $6.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in the effective tax rate in the current year is primarily due to the establishment of a valuation
allowance on the net federal deferred tax asset in the third quarter of 2011. In the third quarter of 2011, we evaluated our net deferred income taxes, which included an assessment of the cumulative income or loss over the prior three-year period
and future periods, to determine if a valuation allowance is required. After considering our recent history of losses and management’s expectations of additional near-term losses, we recorded a valuation allowance on our net federal deferred
tax assets, with a corresponding charge to our income tax provision of approximately $6.7 million during 2011. In addition, we continue to maintain a valuation allowance to offset the California deferred tax assets as realization of such assets does
not meet the more-likely-than-not threshold required under accounting guidelines. We will continue to assess the need for a valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets by evaluating positive and negative evidence that may exist. 
  47 


Table of Contents
The income tax benefit of $6.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 includes the
reversal of our valuation allowance previously offsetting our federal deferred tax assets. The provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2009 relates to current federal alternative minimum tax and California income taxes.
 Subsequent Events  In the first quarter of 2012, we became aware that we may have taken actions that could constitute facilitation (within the meaning of applicable sanctions and export control laws) of shipments of foreign
produced products to Iran or taken other actions that may be in violation of U.S. export control and economic sanctions laws. The potential violations related to the sale of certain of our tuner products to set-top box manufacturers in Asia to
permit conversion of digital television signals to analog signals in international markets using the DVB-T broadcast standard. The DVB-T standard is used in most of Europe, Asia (excluding China), Australia, and Africa as well as in parts of the
Middle East, including Iran. While the underlying shipment of our tuners into Iran by foreign manufacturers of these set-top boxes may have been lawful, our potential facilitation may have resulted in violation of applicable sanctions and export
control laws without the proper U.S. Government authorization. Upon learning of these potential violations, which were discovered internally, our audit committee retained outside counsel to conduct a review of our sanctions and export control
compliance. On February 7, 2012, we made voluntary initial filings with the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of the Treasury (OFAC) and with the Bureau of Industry and Security of the United States Department of
Commerce (BIS), notifying these regulatory agencies that we were conducting a review of export control matters and that we would submit any supplemental voluntary self disclosures once the internal review was complete. The initial stage of the
review was concluded in March 2012. Outside counsel is now preparing the final voluntary disclosures to be submitted to OFAC and BIS. Based upon the facts known to us to date, we recorded an expense of $0.8 million, reflected in selling, general,
and administrative expense, in the fourth quarter of 2011 for this export compliance matter, representing management’s estimated exposure for civil penalties and fines in accordance with applicable accounting literature. 
As we have voluntarily self-disclosed, OFAC or BIS could conduct their own investigation. Should additional facts be discovered in the
future and/or should actual fines or other penalties differ from our estimates, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and negatively affected. In that regard, we cannot guarantee that either OFAC or BIS will
agree with our assessments of the quantity and nature of the potential violations. As a result, OFAC or BIS could seek to impose higher fines and penalties than those we have estimated to date. The maximum civil monetary penalty for each violation
is up to $250,000 or twice the value of the transaction, whichever is greater.  Liquidity and Capital Resources 
In March 2010, we received net proceeds from our IPO of approximately $72.9 million (after underwriters’ discounts of
$5.8 million and additional offering related costs of approximately $4.2 million). Prior to the IPO, our primary sources of cash were, historically, proceeds from issuances of convertible preferred stock and cash collections from
customers. As of December 31, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents of $28.0 million, short-term investments of $47.2 million, long-term investments of $10.5 million and net accounts receivable of $10.4 million. 
Our primary uses of cash are to fund operating expenses, purchases of inventory and the acquisition of property and equipment. Cash used
to fund operating expenses excludes the impact of non-cash items such as depreciation and stock-based compensation and is impacted by the timing of when we pay these expenses as reflected in the change in our outstanding accounts payable and accrued
expenses.  Our primary sources of cash are cash receipts on accounts receivable from our shipment of products to distributors
and direct customers. Aside from the growth in amounts billed to our customers, net cash collections of accounts receivable are impacted by the efficiency of our cash collections process, which can vary from period to period depending on the payment
cycles of our major distributor customers. 
  48 


Table of Contents
Following is a summary of our working capital and cash and cash equivalents for the periods
indicated:   












 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
        2011        

 
  
      2010        
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Working capital
  
$
76,585
  
  
$
95,444
  

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
 
28,026
  
  
 
21,563
  
 Following is a summary of our cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities, investing activities
and financing activities for the periods indicated:   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
$
(7,109
) 
 
$
4,838
  
 
$
9,860
  

 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
  
 
10,818
  
 
 
(78,375
) 
 
 
391
  

 Net cash provided (used in) by financing activities
  
 
2,733
  
 
 
77,170
  
 
 
(250
) 

 Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents
  
 
21
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
1
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
  
$
6,463
  
 
$
3,642
  
 
$
10,002
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Cash Flows from Operating Activities 
Net cash used in operating activities in 2011 was $7.1 million. Net cash used in operating activities primarily consisted of a net
loss of $22.0 million and $3.6 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities, offset by $18.5 million in non-cash operating expenses. Included in the changes in operating assets and liabilities was a $7.4 million increase in
accounts receivable due to significantly greater shipments in the last month of the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the last month of the year ended December 31, 2010 and the timing of cash receipts from customers and an increase
in our accounts payable and accrued expenses related to our accrued technology license payments and estimated fines and penalties related to export compliance matters. Non-cash items included in net loss for the year ended December 31, 2011
included depreciation and amortization expense of $3.2 million, amortization of investment premiums, net of $1.2 million, stock-based compensation of $7.4 million, write down of long-lived assets of $0.1 million and a decrease in deferred
income taxes of $6.6 million related to the recording of a valuation allowance on net federal deferred tax assets. Net cash
provided by operating activities in 2010 was $4.8 million. Net cash provided by operating activities primarily consisted of net income of $10.1 million and $0.7 million in non-cash operating expenses, offset by $6.0 million in changes in operating
assets and liabilities. Our deferred income taxes increased in 2010 as a result of the release of our valuation allowance. Our increase in inventory and decreases in accounts receivable and deferred revenue and profit were due to a reduction in
shipments to distributors in the second half of 2010 as customers either reduced the amount of purchase orders within lead time or requested rescheduling of shipments.  Net cash provided by operating activities in 2009 was $9.9 million. Net cash provided by operating activities primarily consisted of net income of $4.3 million, $1.8 million in non-cash operating expenses
and $3.7 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities. Our accounts receivable increased as a result of significantly higher distributor shipments in 2009 and our inventory decreased as a result of sales and production being more closely
matched in 2009. Our accounts payable and accrued expenses increased in 2009 in support of our increased production volumes and overall operational growth. Deferred revenue and deferred profit increased as our revenue grew and our distributors
carried higher inventory balances.  Cash Flows from Investing Activities 
Net cash provided by investing activities in 2011 was $10.8 million. Net cash provided by investing activities primarily consisted
of $125.4 million in maturities of securities, offset by $111.4 million in purchases 
  49 


Table of Contents

of securities, $3.0 million in purchases of property and equipment and $0.2 million in purchases of intangibles. Net cash used in investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2010
consisted of $111.8 million in purchases of securities, $3.0 million in purchases of property and equipment and $1.3 million in purchases of intangibles, offset by $37.7 million in maturities of securities. Net cash provided by investing activities
during the year ended December 31, 2009 consisted of sales of investment securities, net of purchases, of $1.8 million. Purchases of property and equipment accounted for $1.4 million in 2009. 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities  Net cash provided by financing activities in 2011 was $2.7 million. Net cash provided by financing activities consisted primarily of proceeds from issuance of common stock of $2.8 million offset
by payments on capital leases of $0.1 million.  Net cash provided by financing activities during the year ended
December 31, 2010 was primarily due to the net cash provided from our IPO of $75.6 million. Net cash used in financing
activities during the year ended December 31, 2009 consisted of $0.1 million for the repayment of equipment financing and $0.8 million for costs paid in connection with our initial public offering, offset by $0.6 million of net proceeds from
the exercise of stock options.  Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies
The following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations as of December 31, 2011: 
 




























 
  
Payments Due by Period
 

 
  
Total
 
  
2012
 
  
2013
 
  
2014
 
  
2015
 
  
2016 andThereafter
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Capital lease obligations (including interest)
  
$
36
  
  
$
33
  
  
$
3
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  

 Operating lease obligations
  
 
3,044
  
  
 
1,015
  
  
 
979
  
  
 
638
  
  
 
299
  
  
 
113
  

 Other obligations
  
 
5,846
  
  
 
3,689
  
  
 
2,028
  
  
 
129
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Inventory purchase obligations
  
 
2,767
  
  
 
2,767
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total contractual obligations
  
$
11,693
  
  
$
7,504
  
  
$
3,010
  
  
$
767
  
  
$
299
  
  
$
113
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Other obligations represent purchase commitments for software licensing agreements, information systems
infrastructure and other commitments made in the ordinary course of business.  We are unable to make a reasonably reliable
estimate as to when or if cash settlement with taxing authorities will occur for our unrecognized tax benefits. Therefore, our unrecognized tax benefits of $3 million are not included in the table above.
Warranties and Indemnifications  In connection with the sale of products in the ordinary course of business, we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe on the intellectual property
rights of others, and agree to indemnify customers against third-party claims for such infringement. Further, our by-laws require us to indemnify our officers and directors against any action that may arise out of their services in that capacity,
and we have also entered into indemnification agreements with respect to all of our directors. We have not been subject to any material liabilities under such provisions and therefore believe that our exposure for these indemnification obligations
is minimal. Accordingly, we have no liabilities recorded for these indemnity agreements as of December 31, 2011. 
  50 


Table of Contents
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
As part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or
financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, or SPEs, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or
limited purposes. As of December 31, 2011, we were not involved in any unconsolidated SPE transactions.  Recent Accounting
Pronouncements  For additional information regarding recently adopted and issued accounting pronouncements, see Note 1
of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained within this Form 10-K.   


ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  Foreign Currency Risk  To date, our international customer and
vendor agreements have been denominated almost exclusively in United States dollars. Accordingly, we have limited exposure to foreign currency exchange rates and do not enter into foreign currency hedging transactions. The functional currency of
certain foreign subsidiaries is the local currency. Accordingly, the effects of exchange rate fluctuations on the net assets of these foreign subsidiaries’ operations are accounted for as translation gains or losses in accumulated other
comprehensive income within stockholders’ equity. We do not believe that a change of 10% in such foreign currency exchange rates would have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. 
Interest Rate Sensitivity  We had cash and cash equivalents of $28.0 million at December 31, 2011, which was held for working capital purposes. We do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes. We do not
believe that we have any material exposure to changes in the fair value of these investments as a result of changes in interest rates due to their short-term nature. Declines in interest rates, however, will reduce future investment income.
 Investments Risk  Our investments, consisting of U.S. Treasury and agency obligations and corporate notes and bonds, are stated at cost, adjusted for amortization of premiums and discounts to maturity. In the event
that there are differences between fair value and cost in any of our available-for-sale securities, unrealized gains and losses on these investments are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). 
Investments in fixed rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their market
value adversely impacted due to rising interest rates. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates. 
 


ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  The financial statements and supplementary data required by this item are included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report. 
 


ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
None. 
  51 


Table of Contents


ITEM 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  Evaluation
of Disclosure and Procedures  We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that
information required to be disclosed in our periodic reports filed with the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC and that such information is accumulated and
communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer, as appropriate, to allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure. In designing and evaluating the
disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and no evaluation of controls
and procedures can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within a company have been detected. Management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls
and procedures.  As required by Rule 13a-15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, prior
to filing this Form 10-K, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer, of the effectiveness
of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) as of the end of the period covered by this Form 10-K. Based on their evaluation, our principal executive
officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this Form 10-K. 
Management’s Annual Report on Internal Controls over Financial Reporting 
Our management, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer, is responsible
for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act. Our management, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer
and principal accounting officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based upon that evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2011 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, and Ernst & Young LLP has issued a report on our internal control over financial reporting, as stated within their report which is
included herein.  Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
An evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer,
principal financial officer and principal accounting officer, to determine whether any change in our internal control over financial reporting occurred during the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011 that materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. We did not identify any change in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011 that materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
  52 


Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
MaxLinear, Inc.  We have audited MaxLinear,
Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the
COSO criteria). MaxLinear, Inc.’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the
accompanying Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  A company’s internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  In our opinion, MaxLinear, Inc. maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the COSO criteria.  We also have audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of MaxLinear, Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of
operations, convertible preferred stock and stockholders’ equity (deficit), and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 of MaxLinear, Inc. and our report dated March 14, 2012 expressed an
unqualified opinion thereon.   




/s/    Ernst & Young LLP
 San Diego, California  March 14, 2012   


ITEM 9B.
OTHER INFORMATION  None.

  53 


Table of Contents
PART III 
 


ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  The information required by Item 10 with respect to our directors and executive officers is incorporated by reference from the information set forth under the captions “Proposal Number 1
— Election of Class III Director By Class A and Class B Common Stock” and “Executive Officers” in our Definitive Proxy Statement to be filed in connection with our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, or the 2012 Proxy
Statement, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after December 31, 2011.  Item 405 of Regulation S-K calls for disclosure of any known late filing or failure by an insider to file a report required by Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act. This information is contained
under the caption “Related Person Transactions and Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in the 2012 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.  Code of Conduct  We have adopted a code of ethics and employee conduct
that applies to our board of directors and all of our employees, including our chief executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer.  Our code of conduct is available at our website by visiting www.maxlinear.com and clicking through “Investors,” “Corporate Governance,” and “Code of Conduct.” When
required by the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, or the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, we will disclose any future amendment to, or waiver of, any provision of the code of conduct for our chief executive officer, principal
financial officer, or principal accounting officer or any member or members of our board of directors on our website within four business days following the date of such amendment or waiver. 
The information required by Item 10 with respect to our audit committee is incorporated by reference from the information set forth
under the caption “Corporate Governance and Board of Directors — Board Committees” in the 2012 Proxy Statement.   


ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
The information required by Item 11 is incorporated by reference from the information set forth under the captions
“Compensation of Non-Employee Directors” and “Executive Compensation,” in our 2012 Proxy Statement.   


ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
The information required by Item 12 is incorporated by reference from the information set forth under the captions “Executive
Compensation — Equity Compensation Plan Information” and “Security Ownership,” in our 2012 Proxy Statement.   


ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE  The information required by Item 13 is incorporated by reference from the information set forth under the captions “Corporate Governance and Board of Directors — Director Independence”
and “Related Person Transactions and Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,” in our 2012 Proxy Statement.   


ITEM 14.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  The information required by Item 14 is incorporated by reference from the information set forth under the caption “Proposal Number V — Ratification of Selection of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm,” in our 2012 Proxy Statement. 
  54 


Table of Contents
PART IV 
 


ITEM 15.
EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
a) Documents filed as part of the report  1. Financial Statements  Our consolidated financial statements are attached
hereto and listed on the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
2. Financial Statement Schedules  Schedule II. Valuation and Qualifying Accounts—Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009  All other schedules are omitted as the required information is inapplicable, or the information is presented in the financial statements or related notes. 
SCHEDULE II – VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS (in thousands): 
 




















 Classification
  
Balance atbeginning of year
 
  
Additions chargedto expenses
 
  
(Deductions)
 
 
Balance at end of year
 

 Inventory reserves
  



  



  



 




 2011
  
$
148
  
  
$
61
  
  
$
(92
) 
 
$
117
  

 2010
  
 
120
  
  
 
85
  
  
 
(57
) 
 
 
148
  

 2009
  
 
43
  
  
 
90
  
  
 
(13
) 
 
 
120
  
 3. Exhibits   






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Exhibit Title

      3.1
  
Registrant’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on March 29, 2010 (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 3.5 of the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 and all amendments thereto (File No. 333-162947)).




      3.2
  
Registrant’s Amended and Restated Bylaws (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.8 of the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 and all amendments
thereto (File No. 333-162947)).




      4.1
  
Specimen common stock certificate of Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 and all amendments
thereto (File No. 333-162947)).




  +10.1
  
Form of Director and Executive Officer Indemnification Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 and
all amendments thereto (File No. 333-162947)).




  +10.2
  
Form of Director and Controlling Person Indemnification Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1
and all amendments thereto (File No. 333-162947)).




  +10.3
  
2004 Stock Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 and all amendments thereto (File
No. 333-162947)).




  +10.4
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement under the 2004 Stock Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 and all
amendments thereto (File No. 333-162947)).
  55 


Table of Contents






 ExhibitNumber
 
 Exhibit Title




    +10.5
 
Amendment No. 1 to the form of Stock Option Agreement under the 2004 Stock Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Registrant’s Registration Statement on
Form S-1 and all amendments thereto (File No. 333-162947)).




    +10.6
 
2010 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 and all amendments thereto (File
No. 333-162947)).




    +10.7
 
Form of Agreement under the 2010 Equity Incentive (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on July 28,
2011 (File No. 001-34666)).




  *+10.8
 
2010 Employee Stock Purchase Plan.




    +10.9
 
Employment Offer Letter, dated December 20, 2010, between the Registrant and Adam C. Spice (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on
Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on December 28, 2010).




    +10.10
 
Employment Offer Letter, dated June 24, 2011, between the Registrant and Brian Sprague (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 of the Registrant’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q filed on July 28, 2011 (File No. 001-34666)).




    +10.11
 
Employment Offer Letter, dated September 12, 2008, between the Registrant and Michael Kastner (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 of the Registrant’s
Registration Statement on Form S-1 and all amendments thereto (File No. 333-162947)).




    +10.11.1
 
Employment Offer Letter, dated December 8, 2009, between the Registrant and Patrick E. McCready (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11.1 of the Registrant’s
Registration Statement on Form S-1 and all amendments thereto (File No. 333-162947)).




    +10.12
 
Form of Change in Control Agreement for Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 of the Registrant’s Registration
Statement on Form S-1 and all amendments thereto (File No. 333-162947)).




    +10.13
 
Form of Change in Control Agreement for Executive Officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 and all
amendments thereto (File No. 333-162947)).




      10.14
 
Lease Agreement, dated May 18, 2009, between the Registrant and JCCE – Palomar, LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 of the Registrant’s Registration
Statement on Form S-1 and all amendments thereto (File No. 333-162947)).




      10.15
 
Sublease Agreement, dated May 9, 2009, between the Registrant and CVI Laser, LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 of the Registrant’s Registration
Statement on Form S-1 and all amendments thereto (File No. 333-162947)).




    †10.16
 
Intellectual Property License Agreement, dated June 18, 2009, between the Registrant and Intel Corporation, (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 of the
Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 and all amendments thereto (File No. 333-162947)).




      10.17
 
(Removed and Reserved)




    †10.18
 
Distributor Agreement, dated June 5, 2009, between the Registrant and Moly Tech Limited (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 of the Registrant’s Registration
Statement on Form S-1 and all amendments thereto (File No. 333-162947)).




    †10.19
 
Distributor Agreement, dated October 3, 2005, between the Registrant and Tomen Electronics Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.19 of the Registrant’s
Registration Statement on Form S-1 and all amendments thereto (File No. 333-162947)).
  56 


Table of Contents






 ExhibitNumber
 
 Exhibit Title




    †10.20
 
Distributor Agreement, dated August 19, 2009, between the Registrant and Lestina International Ltd. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 of the
Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 and all amendments thereto (File No. 333-162947)).




    +10.21
 
MaxLinear, Inc. Executive Bonus Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 of the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 and all amendments thereto
(File No. 333-162947)).




  *+10.22
 
Employment Offer Letter, dated April 22, 2011, between the Registrant and Michael LaChance.




    *11.1
 
Statement re computation of income (loss) per share (included on page F-14 of this Form 10-K).




      21.1
 
Subsidiaries of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 21.1 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on November 1, 2011 (File No.
001-34666)).




    *23.1
 
Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.




    *24.1
 
Power of Attorney (included on the signature page of this Form 10-K).




    *31.1
 
Certification of Principal Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




    *31.2
 
Certification of Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




    *32.1
 
Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




**101.INS
 
XBRL Instance Document




**101.SCH
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document




**101.CAL
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document




**101.DEF
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document




**101.LAB
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document




**101.PRE
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document
  


*
Filed herewith. 


**
In accordance with Rule 402 of Regulation S-T, the information in these exhibits shall not be deemed to be “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the
Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set
forth by specific reference in such filing. 


+
Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan. 


†
Confidential treatment has been requested and received for certain portions of these exhibits.  (b) Exhibits  The exhibits filed as part of this report are listed
in Item 15(a)(3) of this Form 10-K.  (c) Schedules 
The financial statement schedules required by Regulation S-X and Item 8 of this form are listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this
Form 10-K. 
  57 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 
 






MAXLINEAR, INC.



(Registrant)




By:
 
 /s/    KISHORE SEENDRIPU, PH.D.


 
Kishore Seendripu, Ph.D.


 
President and Chief Executive Officer


 
(Principal Executive Officer)
 Date: March 14, 2012  POWER OF ATTORNEY  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person
whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Kishore Seendripu, Ph.D., and Adam C. Spice, and each of them, his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, to sign any and all
amendments (including post-effective amendments) to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto each of
said attorneys-in-fact and agents, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person,
hereby ratifying and confirming all that each of said attorneys-in-facts and agents, or his substitute or substitutes, or any of them, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf
of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:   








 Signature
  
 Title
 
 Date





 /s/ KISHORE SEENDRIPU, PH.D.
Kishore Seendripu, Ph.D.
  
 President and Chief Executive Officer
(Principal Executive Officer)
 
March 14, 2012





 /s/ ADAM C. SPICE
Adam C. Spice
  
 Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer)
 
March 14, 2012





 /s/ THOMAS E. PARDUN
Thomas E. Pardun
  
Lead Director
 
March 14, 2012





 /s/ STEVEN C. CRADDOCK
Steven C. Craddock
  
Director
 
March 14, 2012





 /s/ DAVID LIDDLE, PH.D.
David Liddle, Ph.D
  
Director
 
March 14, 2012





 /s/ CURTIS LING Curtis Ling, Ph.D
  
Director
 
March 14, 2012





 /s/ ALBERT J. MOYER
Albert J. Moyer
  
Director
 
March 14, 2012





 /s/ DONALD E. SCHROCK
Donald E. Schrock
  
Director
 
March 14, 2012

  58 


Table of Contents
MaxLinear, Inc. 
Index to Consolidated Financial Statements   








 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
F-2
  

 Consolidated Balance Sheets
  
 
F-3
  

 Consolidated Statements of Operations
  
 
F-4
  

 Consolidated Statements of Convertible Preferred Stock and Stockholders’ Equity
(Deficit)
  
 
F-5
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
  
 
F-6
  

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
F-7
  

  F-1



Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 The Board of Directors and Stockholders of  MaxLinear, Inc.  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of MaxLinear, Inc.
(the Company) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, convertible preferred stock and stockholders’ equity (deficit), and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2011. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a)(2). These consolidated financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and schedule based on our audits.  We conducted our audits in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  In
our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the consolidated results of its operations and
its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to
the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.  We also have
audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal
Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated March 14, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
 




 /s/    Ernst & Young LLP
 San Diego, California  March 14, 2012 
  F-2



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
(in thousands, except par amounts) 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Assets
  



 




 Current assets:
  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
28,026
  
 
$
21,563
  

 Short-term investments, available-for-sale
  
 
47,156
  
 
 
72,923
  

 Accounts receivable
  
 
10,421
  
 
 
3,047
  

 Inventory
  
 
8,082
  
 
 
7,425
  

 Deferred income taxes, prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
 
1,394
  
 
 
4,232
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
95,079
  
 
 
109,190
  

 Property and equipment, net
  
 
5,494
  
 
 
4,535
  

 Long-term investments, available-for-sale
  
 
10,554
  
 
 
—  
  

 Intangible assets
  
 
1,021
  
 
 
980
  

 Deferred income taxes and other long-term assets
  
 
228
  
 
 
4,213
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
112,376
  
 
$
118,918
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Liabilities and stockholders’ equity (deficit)
  



 




 Current liabilities:
  



 




 Accounts payable
  
$
4,936
  
 
$
2,877
  

 Deferred revenue and deferred profit
  
 
4,029
  
 
 
5,322
  

 Accrued expenses
  
 
7,403
  
 
 
1,558
  

 Accrued compensation
  
 
2,094
  
 
 
2,145
  

 Amounts due to related party
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,746
  

 Current portion of capital lease obligations
  
 
32
  
 
 
98
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
18,494
  
 
 
13,746
  

 Other long-term liabilities
  
 
855
  
 
 
257
  

 Capital lease obligations, net of current portion
  
 
2
  
 
 
18
  

 Commitments and contingencies
  



 




 Stockholders’ equity:
  



 




 Preferred stock, $0.0001 par value; 25,000 shares authorized, no shares issued or outstanding
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Common stock, $0.0001 par value; 550,000 shares authorized, no shares issued or outstanding
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Class A common stock, $0.0001 par value; 500,000 shares authorized, 19,107 and 13,170 shares issued and outstanding at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively
  
 
2
  
 
 
1
  

 Class B common stock, $0.0001 par value; 500,000 shares authorized, 14,143 and 18,720 shares issued and outstanding at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively
  
 
1
  
 
 
2
  

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
126,695
  
 
 
116,512
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive income
  
 
14
  
 
 
45
  

 Accumulated deficit
  
 
(33,687
) 
 
 
(11,663
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total stockholders’ equity
  
 
93,025
  
 
 
104,897
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity
  
$
112,376
  
 
$
118,918
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying notes. 
  F-3



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
(in thousands, except per share data) 
 
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net revenue
  
$
71,937
  
 
$
68,701
  
 
$
51,350
  

 Cost of net revenue
  
 
26,616
  
 
 
21,560
  
 
 
17,047
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
45,321
  
 
 
47,141
  
 
 
34,303
  

 Operating expenses:
  



 



 




 Research and development
  
 
40,156
  
 
 
27,725
  
 
 
19,790
  

 Selling, general and administrative
  
 
20,178
  
 
 
15,912
  
 
 
9,921
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
  
 
60,334
  
 
 
43,637
  
 
 
29,711
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from operations
  
 
(15,013
) 
 
 
3,504
  
 
 
4,592
  

 Interest income
  
 
292
  
 
 
326
  
 
 
51
  

 Interest expense
  
 
(69
) 
 
 
(29
) 
 
 
(52
) 

 Other expense, net
  
 
(241
) 
 
 
(58
) 
 
 
(32
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income taxes
  
 
(15,031
) 
 
 
3,743
  
 
 
4,559
  

 Provision (benefit) for income taxes
  
 
6,993
  
 
 
(6,371
) 
 
 
230
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
 
(22,024
) 
 
 
10,114
  
 
 
4,329
  

 Net income allocable to preferred stockholders
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,215
) 
 
 
(3,691
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders
  
$
(22,024
) 
 
$
8,899
  
 
$
638
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) per share attributable to common stockholders(1):
  



 



 




 Basic
  
$
(0.68
) 
 
$
0.33
  
 
$
0.06
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted
  
$
(0.68
) 
 
$
0.30
  
 
$
0.06
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Shares used to compute net income (loss) per share attributable to common stockholders:
  



 



 




 Basic
  
 
32,573
  
 
 
26,743
  
 
 
10,129
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted
  
 
32,573
  
 
 
29,478
  
 
 
11,512
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
 


(1)
As a result of the conversion of the Company’s preferred stock into 14,526 shares of its Class B common stock immediately prior to the completion of the
Company’s initial public offering in March 2010, there is a lack of comparability in the basic and diluted net income (loss) per share amounts between the periods presented herein and any historical or future periods. 
See accompanying notes. 
  F-4



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (DEFICIT)
 (in thousands)   




























































 
 
Series APreferredStock
 
 
Series BPreferredStock
 
 
CommonStock
 
 
Class ACommonStock
 
 
Class BCommonStock
 
 
AdditionalPaid-InCapital
 
 
AccumulatedOtherCompreh-ensiveIncome

 
 
AccumulatedDeficit
 
 
TotalStock-holders’Equity(Deficit
 )
 

 
 
Shares
 
 
Amount
 
 
Shares
 
 
Amount
 
 
Shares
 
 
Amount
 
 
Shares
 
 
Amount
 
 
Shares
 
 
Amount
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Balance at December 31, 2008
 
 
7,554
  
 
$
15,351
  
 
 
6,972
  
 
$
20,000
  
 
 
9,900
  
 
$
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
737
  
 
$
5
  
 
$
(26,106
) 
 
$
(25,363
) 

 Common stock issued upon exercise of stock options
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
837
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
605
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
605
  

 Stock-based compensation
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
959
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
959
  

 Comprehensive income:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Unrealized loss on investments
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2
) 

 Foreign currency translation adjustments
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(3
) 

 Net income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,329
  
 
 
4,329
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,324
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
 
 
7,554
  
 
 
15,351
  
 
 
6,972
  
 
 
20,000
  
 
 
10,737
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,301
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(21,777
) 
 
 
(19,475
) 

 Conversion of Series A and B preferred stock to Class A and B common stock
 
 
(7,554
) 
 
 
(15,351
) 
 
 
(6,972
) 
 
 
(20,000
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,491
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
13,035
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
35,350
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
35,351
  

 Conversion of common stock to Class B common stock
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(10,737
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
10,737
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Conversion of Class B common stock to Class A common stock
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,680
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(5,680
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 IPO gross proceeds, net of costs
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,920
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
72,903
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
72,904
  

 Common stock issued upon exercise of stock options
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
628
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,043
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,043
  

 Employee stock purchase plan
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
79
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
700
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
700
  

 Stock-based compensation
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,215
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,215
  

 Comprehensive income:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
—  
  
 




 Unrealized gain on investments, net of tax
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
28
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
28
  

 Foreign currency translation adjustments
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
17
  

 Net income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
10,114
  
 
 
10,114
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
10,159
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
13,170
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
18,720
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
116,512
  
 
 
45
  
 
 
(11,663
) 
 
 
104,897
  

 Conversion of Class B common stock to Class A common stock
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,557
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
(5,557
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Common stock issued pursuant to equity awards, net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
133
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
980
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,469
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,469
  

 Employee stock purchase plan
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
247
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,346
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,346
  

 Stock-based compensation
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7,368
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7,368
  

 Comprehensive loss:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Unrealized loss on investments
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(62
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(62
) 

 Foreign currency translation adjustments
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
31
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
31
  

 Net loss
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(22,024
) 
 
 
(22,024
) 


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive loss
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(22,055
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
 
 
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
 
19,107
  
 
$
2
  
 
 
14,143
  
 
$
1
  
 
$
126,695
  
 
$
14
  
 
$
(33,687
) 
 
$
93,025
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 See accompanying notes. 
  F-5



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC.  
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
(in thousands)   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Operating Activities
  



 



 




 Net income (loss)
  
$
(22,024
) 
 
$
10,114
  
 
$
4,329
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to cash provided by (used in) operating activities:
  



 



 




 Amortization and depreciation
  
 
3,159
  
 
 
1,873
  
 
 
841
  

 Amortization of investment premiums, net
  
 
1,179
  
 
 
1,258
  
 
 
(1
) 

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
7,368
  
 
 
4,215
  
 
 
959
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
6,668
  
 
 
(6,668
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Gain on sale of available-for-sale securities
  
 
(9
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Write down of long-lived assets
  
 
150
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
32
  

 Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
  



 



 




 Accounts receivable
  
 
(7,374
) 
 
 
6,660
  
 
 
(8,356
) 

 Inventory
  
 
(657
) 
 
 
(4,575
) 
 
 
825
  

 Prepaid and other assets
  
 
155
  
 
 
(1,458
) 
 
 
(1,680
) 

 Accounts payable and accrued expenses
  
 
6,768
  
 
 
(1,937
) 
 
 
2,902
  

 Amounts due to related party
  
 
(1,746
) 
 
 
(762
) 
 
 
2,168
  

 Accrued compensation
  
 
(51
) 
 
 
424
  
 
 
1,220
  

 Deferred revenue and deferred profit
  
 
(1,293
) 
 
 
(4,528
) 
 
 
6,550
  

 Other long-term liabilities
  
 
598
  
 
 
186
  
 
 
71
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
  
 
(7,109
) 
 
 
4,838
  
 
 
9,860
  

 Investing Activities
  



 



 




 Purchase of property and equipment
  
 
(2,962
) 
 
 
(2,960
) 
 
 
(1,409
) 

 Purchases of intangibles
  
 
(201
) 
 
 
(1,275
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Purchases of available-for-sale securities
  
 
(111,369
) 
 
 
(111,807
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Maturities of available-for-sale securities
  
 
125,350
  
 
 
37,667
  
 
 
1,800
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
  
 
10,818
  
 
 
(78,375
) 
 
 
391
  

 Financing Activities
  



 



 




 Payments on capital leases
  
 
(82
) 
 
 
(123
) 
 
 
(108
) 

 Proceeds from issuance of common stock
  
 
2,815
  
 
 
1,743
  
 
 
605
  

 Proceeds from initial public offering, net of costs
  
 
—  
  
 
 
75,550
  
 
 
(747
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
  
 
2,733
  
 
 
77,170
  
 
 
(250
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents
  
 
21
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
1
  

 Increase in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
6,463
  
 
 
3,642
  
 
 
10,002
  

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
  
 
21,563
  
 
 
17,921
  
 
 
7,919
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
  
$
28,026
  
 
$
21,563
  
 
$
17,921
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:
  



 



 




 Cash paid for interest
  
$
9
  
 
$
29
  
 
$
45
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash paid for income taxes
  
$
—  
  
 
$
382
  
 
$
411
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental disclosures of non cash investing and financing information:
  



 



 




 Unrealized gain (loss) on available-for-sale securities
  
$
(20
) 
 
$
42
  
 
$
(2
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Accrued purchase of property and equipment
  
$
708
  
 
$
554
  
 
$
359
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying notes. 
  F-6



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(in thousands, except per share amounts and percentage data) 
1. Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
Description of Business  MaxLinear, Inc. (the Company) was incorporated in Delaware in September 2003. The Company is a provider of highly integrated, radio-frequency analog and mixed-signal semiconductor solutions for broadband
communications applications whose customers include module makers, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and original design manufacturers, or ODMs, who incorporate the Company’s products in a wide range of stationary and mobile electronic
devices including mobile handsets, cable and terrestrial set top boxes, televisions, personal computers and netbooks and automotive entertainment applications. The Company is a fabless semiconductor company focusing its resources on the design,
sales and marketing of its products.  Initial Public Offering  
In March 2010, the Company completed the initial public offering, or IPO, of its Class A common stock in which it sold and
issued 5,920 shares of Class A common stock at an issue price of $14.00 per share. The Company raised a total of $82.9 million in gross proceeds in the IPO, or approximately $72.9 million in net proceeds after deducting underwriting
discounts and commissions of $5.8 million and other offering costs of $4.2 million. Immediately prior to the closing of the IPO, all shares of the Company’s then-outstanding convertible preferred stock automatically converted into 14,526
shares of Class B common stock.  Basis of Presentation and Principles of Consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MaxLinear, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany
transactions and investments have been eliminated in consolidation.  The functional currency of certain foreign subsidiaries
is the local currency. Accordingly, assets and liabilities of these foreign subsidiaries are translated at the current exchange rate at the balance sheet date and historical rates for equity. Revenue and expense components are translated at weighted
average exchange rates in effect during the period. Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency translation are included as a component of stockholders’ equity. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are included in the results of
operations and, to date, have not been significant.  Use of Estimates 
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 
Stock Split  On
July 16, 2009, the Company effected a four-for-three forward stock split of the Company’s outstanding common and preferred stock. On March 5, 2010, the Company effected a 1.5484-for-1 reverse stock split of the Company’s
outstanding common and preferred stock. The accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements give retroactive effect to the stock splits for all periods presented. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents  The Company considers all liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. Cash equivalents are recorded at cost, which approximates market value.

  F-7



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (in thousands, except per share amounts and percentage data)   
Accounts Receivable 
The Company monitors collections and payments from its customers. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010 the Company did not have an
allowance for doubtful accounts based on no historical experience, anticipation of uncollectible accounts receivable nor any specific customer collection issues that are identified.  Inventory  Inventory is stated at the lower of cost (first-in,
first-out) or market and includes materials and manufacturing overhead. The Company periodically reviews inventory for evidence of slow-moving or obsolete parts on a part-by-part basis, and the estimated reserve is based on management’s reviews
of inventory on hand, compared to estimated future usage and sales, and assumptions about the likelihood of obsolescence. Once established, these adjustments are considered permanent and are not revised until the related inventory is sold or
disposed of.  Newly developed products are generally not valued until they have been qualified for manufacturing and success
in the marketplace has been demonstrated through sales and backlog, among other factors.  Investments, Available-for-Sale
 The Company classifies all investments as available-for-sale, as the sale of such investments may be required prior to
maturity to implement management strategies. These investments are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses reported as accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until realized. The cost of debt securities is adjusted for
amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Such amortization and accretion, as well as interest and dividends, are included in interest income. Realized gains and losses from the sale of available-for-sale investments, if any,
are determined on a specific identification basis and are also included in interest income.  Fair Value of Financial Instruments
 The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses and
compensation are considered to be representative of their respective fair value because of the short-term nature of these items. Investment securities, available-for-sale, are carried at fair value. Based on the borrowing rates currently available
to the Company for loans with similar terms, the Company believes the fair value of long-term capital lease obligations approximates its carrying value.  Property and Equipment  Property and equipment is carried at cost
and depreciated over the estimated useful lives of the assets, ranging from two to five years, using the straight-line method. Leasehold improvements are stated at cost and amortized over the shorter of the estimated useful lives of the assets or
the lease term.  Impairment of Long-Lived Assets  The Company regularly reviews the carrying amount of its long-lived assets, as well as the useful lives, to determine whether indicators of impairment may exist which warrant adjustments to carrying
values or estimated useful lives. An impairment loss would be recognized when the sum of the expected future undiscounted net cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the asset. Should impairment exist, the impairment loss would be measured
based on the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over the asset’s fair value. 
  F-8



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (in thousands, except per share amounts and percentage data)   
Intangible Assets  Technologies acquired or licensed from other companies are capitalized and amortized over the greater of the terms of the agreement, or estimated useful life, not to exceed three years. 
Revenue Recognition  Revenue is generated from sales of the Company’s integrated circuits. The Company recognizes revenue when all of the following criteria are met: 1) there is persuasive evidence that an
arrangement exists, 2) delivery of goods has occurred, 3) the sales price is fixed or determinable and 4) collectibility is reasonably assured. Title to product transfers to customers either when it is shipped to or received by the
customer, based on the terms of the specific agreement with the customer.  Revenue is recorded based on the facts at the time
of sale. Amounts that are not probable of collection once the product has shipped and title has transferred to the customer are deferred until the amount that is probable of collection can be determined. Items that are considered when determining
the amounts that will be ultimately collected are: a customer’s overall creditworthiness and payment history, customer rights to return unsold product, customer rights to price protection, customer payment terms conditioned on sale or use of
product by the customer, or extended payment terms granted to a customer.  For distributor transactions, revenue is not
recognized until product is shipped to the end customer and the amount that will ultimately be collected is determinable. Upon shipment of product to these distributors, title to the inventory transfers to the distributor and the distributor is
invoiced, generally with 30 day terms. On shipments where revenue is not recognized, the Company records a trade receivable for the selling price as there is a legally enforceable right to payment, relieving the inventory for the carrying value of
goods shipped since legal title has passed to the distributor, and records the corresponding gross profit in the consolidated balance sheet as a component of deferred revenue and deferred profit, representing the difference between the receivable
recorded and the cost of inventory shipped.  The Company records reductions in revenue for estimated pricing adjustments
related to price protection and unit rebate agreements, in the same period that the related revenue is recorded. Price protection pricing adjustments are recorded at the time of sale as a reduction to revenue and an increase in the Company’s
accrued liabilities. The Company may enter into unit rebate agreements with end customers based on volume purchases. The Company estimates that all of the unit rebates will be achieved based on the history of these programs, reduces the average
selling price of the product sold under the rebate program and defers revenue for the difference between the amount billed to the customer and the adjusted average selling price. Once the targeted level is achieved, the deferred revenue is
recognized as revenue as rebated products are shipped to the end customer. Deferred revenue associated with rebate programs is included in deferred revenue and deferred profit in the consolidated balance sheet.
Warranty  The
Company generally provides a warranty on its products for a period of one year. The Company makes estimates of product return rates and expected costs to replace the products under warranty at the time revenue is recognized based on historical
warranty experience and any known product warranty issues. If actual return rates and/or replacement costs differ significantly from these estimates, adjustments to recognize additional cost of net revenue may be required in future periods. At
December 31, 2011 and 2010, no accrual for warranty costs was recorded based on the Company’s analysis. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, warranty costs incurred totaled $3, $2 and $40, respectively. 
  F-9



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (in thousands, except per share amounts and percentage data)   
Segment Information 
The Company operates in one segment related to the design, development and sale of RF analog and mixed-signal semiconductor solutions for
broadband communications applications. The Company’s chief operating decision-maker is its chief executive officer, who reviews operating results on an aggregate basis and manages the Company’s operations as a single operating segment.
 Concentration of Credit Risk and Significant Customers  Financial instruments, which potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk, consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. The Company limits its exposure to
credit loss by placing its cash with high credit quality financial institutions. At times, such deposits may be in excess of insured limits. The Company has not experienced any losses on its deposits of cash and cash equivalents. 
The Company markets its products and services to consumer electronics and communications companies throughout the world. The Company
makes periodic evaluations of the credit worthiness of its customers and does not require collateral for credit sales. The Company has not had any bad debt expense since inception. 
Customers directly invoiced by the Company representing greater than 10% of net revenue for each of the periods are as follows:
  
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Percentage of total net revenue
  



 



 




 Tomen Electronics Corp.
  
 
38
% 
 
 
57
% 
 
 
54
% 

 Asia Fortune Electronics Enterprise
  
 
17
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
*
  

 Unihan Corporation
  
 
11
  
 
 
*
  
 
 
*
  

 Lestina International Ltd.
  
 
*
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
27
  

 Moly Tech, Limited
  
 
*
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
11
  
  


*
Represents less than 10% of the net revenue for the respective period.  Revenues by country representing greater than 10% of net revenue for each of the periods are as follows:   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Percentage of total net revenue
  



 



 




 Japan
  
 
39
% 
 
 
57
% 
 
 
54
% 

 Taiwan
  
 
30
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
*
  

 China
  
 
15
  
 
 
24
  
 
 
39
  
  


*
Represents less than 10% of the net revenue for the respective period. 
  F-10



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (in thousands, except per share amounts and percentage data)   
Customers whose balance represents greater than 10% of accounts receivable is as
follows:   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Percentage of gross accounts receivable:
  



 




 Asia Fortune Electronics Enterprise
  
 
20
% 
 
 
25
% 

 Moly Tech Limited
  
 
19
  
 
 
*
  

 Unihan Corporation
  
 
12
  
 
 
*
  

 Tomen Electronics Corp.
  
 
*
  
 
 
32
  

 Lestina International Ltd.
  
 
*
  
 
 
16
  

 Jabil Industrial do Brasil Ltda
  
 
*
  
 
 
10
  
  


*
Represents less than 10% of the gross accounts receivable for the respective period end. 
Net revenue to customers in foreign countries, substantially all in Asia, is as follows: 
 
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Percentage of total net revenue
  



 



 




 Net revenue to customers in foreign countries
  
 
99
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
99
% 
 The determination of which country a particular sale is allocated to is based on the destination of the
product shipment.  Stock-based Compensation  The Company measures the cost of employee services received in exchange for equity incentive awards, including stock options, employee stock purchase rights and restricted stock units, based on the grant
date fair value of the award. The Company uses the Black-Scholes valuation model to calculate the fair value of stock options and employee stock purchase rights granted to employees. The Company calculates the fair value of restricted stock units
based on the fair market value of its Class A common stock on the grant date. Stock-based compensation expense is recognized over the period during which the employee is required to provide services in exchange for the award, which is usually
the vesting period. The Company recognizes compensation expense over the vesting period using the straight-line method and classifies these amounts in the statements of operations based on the department to which the related employee reports.
 The Company accounts for stock options issued to non-employees in accordance with authoritative guidance for equity based
payments to non-employees. Stock options issued to non-employees are accounted for at their estimated fair value determined using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The fair value of options granted to non-employees is re-measured as they vest,
and the resulting increase in value, if any, is recognized as expense during the period the related services are rendered. The Company calculates the fair value of restricted stock units issued to non-employees based on the fair market value of our
Class A common stock on the grant date and the resulting stock-based compensation expense is recognized over the period during which the non-employee is required to provide services in exchange for the award, which is usually the vesting
period.  Research and Development  Costs incurred in connection with the development of the Company’s technology and future products are charged to research and development expense as incurred. 
  F-11



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (in thousands, except per share amounts and percentage data)   
Income Taxes  The Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method to compute the differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and the related financial amounts, using currently
enacted tax rates.  The Company has deferred tax assets, which are subject to periodic recoverability assessments. Valuation
allowances are established, when necessary, to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that more likely than not will be realized. 
Comprehensive Income (Loss)   Comprehensive income (loss) is defined as the change in equity during a period from transactions and other events and circumstances from non-owner sources. Other comprehensive income (loss) income
includes certain changes in equity that are excluded from net income (loss), such as unrealized holding gains and losses on available-for-sale investments, net of tax, and translation gains and losses. 
Net Income (Loss) per Share  Basic net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) attributable to the Company by the weighted average number of shares of Class A and Class B common stock outstanding during
the period. For diluted net income (loss) per share, net income attributable to the Company is divided by the sum of the weighted average number of shares of Class A and Class B common stock outstanding and the potential number of shares of
dilutive Class A and Class B common stock outstanding during the period. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
Effective January 1, 2011, the Company adopted the deferred provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s, or FASB,
updated guidance related to fair value measurements and disclosures, which require disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements relating to Level 3 measurements. The Company’s adoption of the deferred provisions did not have an
impact on its consolidated financial statements.  Effective January 1, 2011, the Company adopted the FASB’s new
standards for revenue recognition with multiple deliverables. These new standards impact the determination of when the individual deliverables included in a multiple-element arrangement may be treated as separate units of accounting. Additionally,
these new standards modify the manner in which the transaction consideration is allocated across the separately identified deliverables by no longer permitting the residual method of allocating arrangement consideration. The Company’s adoption
of the new standards did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.  Effective January 1, 2011,
the Company adopted the FASB’s new standards for the accounting for certain revenue arrangements that include software elements. These new standards amend the scope of pre-existing software revenue guidance by removing from the guidance
non-software components of tangible products and certain software components of tangible products. The Company’s adoption of the new standards did not have an impact on its consolidated financial statements. 
In May 2011, the FASB issued updated guidance on fair value measurements that clarifies the application of existing guidance and
disclosure requirements, changes certain fair value measurement principles and requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements. The updated guidance is effective on a prospective basis for the Company beginning in the first quarter of
fiscal year 2012. The Company does not expect this additional guidance to significantly impact its consolidated financial statements. 
  F-12



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (in thousands, except per share amounts and percentage data)   
In June 2011, the FASB issued a new standard regarding the presentation of
comprehensive income. The new standard requires the presentation of comprehensive income, the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two
separate but consecutive statements. The new standard also requires presentation on the face of the financial statements of reclassification adjustments for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the statement
where the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income are presented. This new standard is effective on a retrospective basis for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, however early
adoption is permitted. The Company does not expect this new standard to significantly impact its consolidated financial statements. 
2. Net Income (Loss) per Share 
Prior to the Company’s IPO, net income (loss) per share was computed as required by provisions within the
accounting standard for earnings per share, which established guidance regarding the computation of earnings per share, or EPS, by companies that have issued securities other than common stock that contractually entitle the holder to participate in
dividends and earnings of the Company. The accounting standard for earnings per share requires earnings for the period, after deduction of preferred stock dividends, to be allocated between the common and preferred stockholders based on their
respective rights to receive dividends, whether or not declared. Basic net income (loss) per share is then calculated by dividing income (loss) attributable to common stockholders (after the reduction for any preferred stock dividends assuming
current income for the period had been distributed) by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period, net of shares subject to repurchase by the Company. The accounting standard for earnings per share does not
require the presentation of basic and diluted net income (loss) per share for securities other than common stock; therefore, the following net income (loss) per share amounts only pertain to the Company’s common stock. The Company calculated
diluted net income (loss) per share under the as-if-converted method unless the conversion of the preferred stock was anti-dilutive to basic net income (loss) per share. To the extent preferred stock was anti-dilutive, the Company calculated diluted
net income (loss) per share under the two-class method.  Subsequent to the Company’s IPO, net income (loss) per share
continued to be computed as required by provisions within the accounting standard for earnings per share. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares
outstanding for the period, without consideration for common stock equivalents. Diluted EPS is computed by dividing the net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period
and the weighted-average number of dilutive common stock equivalents outstanding for the period determined using the treasury-stock method. For purposes of this calculation, common stock options are considered to be common stock equivalents and are
only included in the calculation of diluted EPS when their effect is dilutive.  Subsequent to its IPO, the Company has two
classes of stock outstanding, Class A common stock and Class B common stock. The economic rights of the Class A common stock and Class B common stock, including rights in connection with dividends and payments upon a liquidation or merger
are identical, and the Class A common stock and Class B common stock will be treated equally, identically and ratably, unless differential treatment is approved by the Class A common stock and Class B common stock, each voting separately
as a class. The Company computes basic earnings per share by dividing net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of Class A and Class B common stock outstanding during the period. For diluted
earnings per share, the Company divides net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders by the sum of the weighted average number of shares of Class A and Class B common stock outstanding and the potential number of shares of dilutive
Class A and Class B common stock outstanding during the period. 
  F-13



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (in thousands, except per share amounts and percentage data)   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Historical
  



 



 




 Numerator:
  



 



 




 Net income (loss)
  
$
(22,024
) 
 
$
10,114
  
 
$
4,329
  

 Net income allocable to preferred stockholders
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,215
) 
 
 
(3,691
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders
  
$
(22,024
) 
 
$
8,899
  
 
$
638
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Denominator:
  



 



 




 Weighted average common shares outstanding—basic
  
 
32,573
  
 
 
26,743
  
 
 
10,129
  

 Common equivalent shares from options to purchase common stock
  
 
—  
  
 
 
2,735
  
 
 
1,383
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average common shares outstanding—diluted
  
 
32,573
  
 
 
29,478
  
 
 
11,512
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) per share attributable to common stockholders:
  



 



 




 Basic
  
$
(0.68
) 
 
$
0.33
  
 
$
0.06
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted
  
$
(0.68
) 
 
$
0.30
  
 
$
0.06
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The following table presents a summary of the Company’s weighted average, common equivalent shares
of potentially dilutive securities not included in the calculation of diluted net income per share due to its anti-dilutive nature:   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Preferred stock
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
14,526
  

 Common stock options
  
 
4,151
  
  
 
1,341
  
  
 
1,639
  

 Restricted stock units
  
 
972
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
5,123
  
  
 
1,341
  
  
 
16,165
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

3. Financial Instruments 
The composition of financial instruments is as follows: 
 




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 

  
AmortizedCost

 
 
Gross Unrealized
 
 
FairValue
 

  
 
 

 
  
 
Gains
 
  
Losses
 
 

 Money market funds
  
$
14,372
  
 
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
14,372
  

 Government debt securities
  
 
15,966
  
 
 
3
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
15,969
  

 Corporate debt securities
  
 
41,764
  
 
 
7
  
  
 
(30
) 
 
 
41,741
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
72,102
  
 
 
10
  
  
 
(30
) 
 
 
72,082
  

 Less amounts included in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(14,372
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(14,372
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
57,730
  
 
$
10
  
  
$
(30
) 
 
$
57,710
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-14



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (in thousands, except per share amounts and percentage data)   




















 
  
December 31, 2010
 

  
AmortizedCost

 
 
Gross Unrealized
 
 
FairValue
 

  
 
Gains
 
  
Losses
 
 

 
  
 
  
 

 Money market funds
  
$
208
  
 
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
208
  

 Government debt securities
  
 
37,068
  
 
 
12
  
  
 
(3
) 
 
 
37,077
  

 Corporate debt securities
  
 
39,316
  
 
 
38
  
  
 
(5
) 
 
 
39,349
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
76,592
  
 
 
50
  
  
 
(8
) 
 
 
76,634
  

 Less amounts included in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(3,712
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
1
  
 
 
(3,711
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
72,880
  
 
$
50
  
  
$
(7
) 
 
$
72,923
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 As of December 31, 2011, the Company held 14 corporate debt securities with an aggregate fair value
of $28,936 that were in an unrealized loss position for less than 12 months. The gross unrealized losses of $30 represent a temporary impairment on the corporate debt securities related to multiple issuers, and were primarily caused by fluctuations
in U.S. interest rates. The Company has determined that the gross unrealized losses on these securities at December 31, 2011 are temporary in nature. The Company evaluates securities for other-than-temporary impairment on a quarterly basis.
Impairment is evaluated considering numerous factors, and their relative significance varies depending on the situation. Factors considered include the length of time and extent to which fair value has been less than the cost basis, the financial
condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and our intent and ability to hold the security in order to allow for an anticipated recovery in fair value.  All of the Company’s long-term available-for-sale securities were due between one and two years as of December 31, 2011.  The fair values of the Company’s financial instruments are the amounts that would be received in an asset sale or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between unaffiliated market
participants and are recorded using a hierarchal disclosure framework based upon the level of subjectivity of the inputs used in measuring assets and liabilities. The levels are described below: 
Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for assets or liabilities. 
Level 2: Observable prices that are based on inputs not quoted on active markets, but corroborated by market data. 
Level 3: Unobservable inputs are used when little or no market data is available. 
The Company classifies its financial instruments within Level 1 or Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. This is because the Company
values financial instruments using quoted market prices or alternate pricing sources and models utilizing market observable inputs. The Company held no Level 3 financial instruments as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
  F-15



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (in thousands, except per share amounts and percentage data)   
The following table presents a summary of the Company’s financial instruments that
are measured on a recurring basis:   




















 
  
 
 
  
Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Balance atDecember 31,2011
 
  
Quoted Prices inActive Markets forIdentical Assets(Level
1)
 
  
SignificantOtherObservableInputs
(Level 2)
 
  
SignificantUnobservableInputs
(Level 3)
 

 Money market funds
  
$
14,372
  
  
$
14,372
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  

 Government debt securities
  
 
15,969
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
15,969
  
  
 
—  
  

 Corporate debt securities
  
 
41,741
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
41,741
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
72,082
  
  
$
14,372
  
  
$
57,710
  
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 





 
  
 
 
  
Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Balance atDecember 31,2010
 
  
Quoted Prices inActive Markets forIdentical Assets(Level 1)
 
  
SignificantOtherObservableInputs(Level 2)
 
  
SignificantUnobservableInputs
(Level 3)
 

 Money market funds
  
$
208
  
  
$
208
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  

 Government debt securities
  
 
37,077
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
37,077
  
  
 
—  
  

 Corporate debt securities
  
 
39,349
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
39,349
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
76,634
  
  
$
208
  
  
$
76,426
  
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 There were no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 or Level 3 securities in the year ended December 31,
2011. 
4. Balance Sheet Details 
Inventory consists of the following:   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Work-in-process
  
$
3,641
  
  
$
5,691
  

 Finished goods
  
 
4,441
  
  
 
1,734
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
8,082
  
  
$
7,425
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Property and equipment consist of the following: 
 














 
  
Useful Life(in
Years)
  
December 31,
 

 
  
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Furniture and fixtures
  
5
  
$
305
  
 
$
275
  

 Machinery and equipment
  
3 -5
  
 
6,875
  
 
 
4,762
  

 Masks and production equipment
  
2
  
 
3,249
  
 
 
2,486
  

 Software
  
3
  
 
558
  
 
 
543
  

 Leasehold improvements
  
4 -5
  
 
489
  
 
 
151
  

 Construction in progress
  
N/A
  
 
6
  
 
 
144
  


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  

  
 
11,482
  
 
 
8,361
  

 Less accumulated depreciation and amortization
  

  
 
(5,988
) 
 
 
(3,826
) 


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  

  
$
5,494
  
 
$
4,535
  


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-16



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (in thousands, except per share amounts and percentage data)   
The net book value of property and equipment acquired under capital leases totaled $21
and $94 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Intangible assets consist of the following: 
 
















 
  
WeightedAverageAmortizationPeriod(in Years)
 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Licensed technology
  
 
3
  
  
$
1,865
  
 
$
1,275
  

 Less accumulated amortization
  



  
 
(844
) 
 
 
(295
) 


  



  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  



  
$
1,021
  
 
$
980
  


  



  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The following table presents future amortization of the Company’s intangible assets at
December 31, 2011:   








 
  
Amortization
 

 2012
  
$
746
  

 2013
  
 
275
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
1,021
  


  
  
  
 
 Deferred revenue and deferred profit consist of the following: 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Deferred revenue—rebates
  
$
190
  
 
$
492
  

 Deferred revenue—distributor transactions
  
 
5,606
  
 
 
6,535
  

 Deferred cost of net revenue—distributor transactions
  
 
(1,767
) 
 
 
(1,705
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
4,029
  
 
$
5,322
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Accrued expenses consist of the following: 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Accrued software license payments
  
$
214
  
  
$
362
  

 Accrued technology license payments
  
 
2,794
  
  
 
25
  

 Accrued professional fees
  
 
203
  
  
 
236
  

 Accrued price protection liability
  
 
2,856
  
  
 
456
  

 Estimated export compliance fines and penalties
  
 
750
  
  
 
—  
  

 Other
  
 
586
  
  
 
479
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
7,403
  
  
$
1,558
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-17



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (in thousands, except per share amounts and percentage data)   
Other long-term liabilities consist of the following: 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Accrued technology license payments
  
$
371
  
  
$
—  
  

 Deferred rent
  
 
248
  
  
 
257
  

 Other
  
 
236
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
855
  
  
$
257
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

5. Commitments and Contingencies 
The Company has capital leases for certain equipment with lease terms ranging from 36 to 60 months at interest rates
ranging from 12% to 18%.  During May 2009, the Company entered into two lease agreements for office facilities to replace the
office facilities being leased at December 31, 2008. In connection with vacating the facilities, the Company wrote off the carrying value of leasehold improvements at June 30, 2009 totaling $32. The Company did not incur any additional
expenses as a result of terminating the leases. One lease commenced on June 1, 2009 and expires on January 22, 2014. The second lease commenced on September 1, 2009 and expires on August 31, 2014. The lease which expires on
August 31, 2014 has an option to extend the lease beyond the initial term for three years. The terms of these leases provide for rental payments on a monthly basis with periodic rent escalations over the term of the lease. During January 2010,
the Company entered into a five-year noncancelable operating lease agreement for a research and development facility in Irvine, CA. The lease is subject to rent holidays and rent increases and commenced in April 2010 with an option to extend the
lease for an additional five years. During February and August 2011, the Company entered into amendments to its existing operating lease agreement for a research and development facility in Irvine, CA. The amended operating lease calls for an
expansion in the amount of space occupied and an extension to April 2016. The Company recognizes rent expense on a straight-line basis over the lease period and has accrued for rent expense incurred but not paid. In addition, incentives were
granted, including discounted rental payments and inducements. As such, these allowances have been recorded as deferred rent and these items are being recognized as reductions to rental expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
 At December 31, 2011, future minimum annual payments under the equipment and the non-cancelable operating leases and
other obligations are as follows:   
















 
  
CapitalLeases
 
 
OperatingLeases
 
  
OtherObligations
 

 2012
  
$
33
  
 
$
1,015
  
  
$
3,689
  

 2013
  
 
3
  
 
 
979
  
  
 
2,028
  

 2014
  
 
—  
  
 
 
638
  
  
 
129
  

 2015
  
 
—  
  
 
 
299
  
  
 
—  
  

 2016
  
 
—  
  
 
 
113
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total minimum lease payments
  
 
36
  
 
$
3,044
  
  
$
5,846
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Less amounts representing interest
  
 
(2
) 
 



  





  
  
  
 
 



  




 Net present value of capital lease obligations
  
 
34
  
 



  




 Less current portion of capital lease obligations
  
 
(32
) 
 



  





  
  
  
 
 



  




 Capital lease obligations, net of current portion
  
$
2
  
 



  





  
  
  
 
 



  



 Total rent expense for 2011, 2010 and 2009, was $983, $652 and $614, respectively. 
  F-18



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (in thousands, except per share amounts and percentage data)   
Two of the Company’s executive officers have personally guaranteed the
Company’s performance under certain capital leases with remaining payments totaling $16 at December 31, 2011.  Other
obligations represent purchase commitments for software licensing arrangements, information systems infrastructure and other commitments made in the ordinary course of business. 
The Company had firm purchase order commitments for the acquisition of inventory as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 of $2,767 and
$1,367, respectively.  From time to time, the Company may be involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of its
operations. The Company is not a party to any legal proceedings that are expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or operating results. 
6. Stock-Based Compensation and Employee Benefit Plans 
Common Stock  At December 31, 2011, the Company had 500 million authorized shares of Class A common stock and 500 million authorized shares of Class B common stock. Holders of the
Company’s Class A and Class B common stock have identical voting rights, except that holders of Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share and holders of Class B common stock are entitled to ten votes per share with
respect to transactions that would result in a change of control of the Company or that relate to the Company’s equity incentive plans. In addition, holders of Class B common stock have the exclusive right to elect two member of the
Company’s Board of Directors, each referred to as a Class B Director. The shares of Class B common stock are not publicly traded. Each share of Class B common stock is convertible at any time at the option of the holder into one share
of Class A common stock and in most instances automatically converts upon sale or other transfer.  Employee Benefit Plans
 At December 31, 2011, the Company had stock-based compensation awards outstanding under the following plans: the
2004 Stock Plan, the 2010 Equity Incentive Plan and the 2010 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Upon the closing of the initial public offering in March 2010, all stock awards are issued under the 2010 Equity Incentive Plan and are no longer issued under
the 2004 Stock Plan.  2010 Equity Incentive Plan 
The 2010 Plan provides for the grant of incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, restricted stock awards, restricted stock
unit awards, stock appreciation rights, performance-based stock awards, and other forms of equity compensation, or collectively, stock awards. The aggregate number of shares of Class A common stock that may be issued pursuant to stock awards
under the 2010 Plan will increase by any shares subject to stock options or other awards granted under the 2004 Stock Plan that expire or otherwise terminate without having been exercised in full and shares issued pursuant to awards granted under
the 2004 Stock Plan that are forfeited to or repurchased by the Company. In addition, the number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance will automatically increase on the first day of each fiscal year, equal to the lesser of: 2,583,311
shares of the Company’s Class A common stock; four percent (4%) of the outstanding shares of the Company’s Class A common stock and Class B common stock on the last day of the immediately preceding fiscal year; or such
lesser amount as the Company’s board of directors may determine. The exercise price for an incentive or a nonstatutory stock option cannot be less than 100% of the fair market value of the Company’s Class A common stock on the date of
grant. Options granted will generally vest over a four-year period and the term can be from seven to ten years. 
  F-19



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (in thousands, except per share amounts and percentage data)   
2010 Employee Stock Purchase Plan 
The ESPP authorizes the issuance of shares of the Company’s Class A common stock pursuant to purchase rights granted to the
Company’s employees. The number of shares of the Company’s common stock reserved for issuance will automatically increase on the first day of each fiscal year, equal to the least of: 968,741 shares of the Company’s Class A common
stock; one and a quarter percent (1.25%) of the outstanding shares of the Company’s Class A common stock and Class B common stock on the first day of the fiscal year; or such lesser amount as may be determined by our board of
directors or a committee appointed by our board of directors to administer the ESPP. The ESPP is implemented through a series of offerings of purchase rights to eligible employees. Under the ESPP, the Company may specify offerings with a duration of
not more than 27 months, and may specify shorter purchase periods within each offering. Each offering will have one or more purchase dates on which shares of the Company’s common stock will be purchased for employees participating in the
offering. An offering may be terminated under certain circumstances. Generally, all regular employees, including executive officers, employed by the Company may participate in the ESPP and may contribute up to 10% of their earnings, subject to
certain limitations, for the purchase of the Company’s common stock under the ESPP. Beginning with the offering period commencing in May 2011, employees may contribute up to 15% of their earnings for the purchase of the Company’s common
stock under the ESPP. Unless otherwise determined by the Company’s board of directors, Class A common stock will be purchased for accounts of employees participating in the ESPP at a price per share equal to the lower of (a) 85% of
the fair market value of a share of the Company’s Class A common stock on the first date of an offering or (b) 85% of the fair market value of a share of the Company’s Class A common stock on the date of purchase.
 Stock-Based Compensation  The Company recognized stock-based compensation in the statements of operations as follows:   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Cost of net revenue
  
$
54
  
  
$
80
  
  
$
—  
  

 Research and development
  
 
4,434
  
  
 
2,589
  
  
 
583
  

 Selling, general and administrative
  
 
2,880
  
  
 
1,546
  
  
 
376
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
7,368
  
  
$
4,215
  
  
$
959
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock options as of December 31, 2011
was $8.6 million, and the weighted average period over which these equity awards are expected to vest is 2.57 years. The total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested restricted stock units as of December 31, 2011 was $12.0 million,
and the weighted average period over which these equity awards are expected to vest is 3.44 years.  The Company records equity
instruments issued to non-employees as expense at their fair value over the related service period as determined in accordance with the authoritative guidance and periodically revalues the equity instruments as they vest. Stock-based compensation
expense related to non-employee consultants totaled $174, $208 and $35 for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Stock
Options The Company uses the Black-Scholes valuation model to calculate the fair value of stock options and employee
stock purchase rights granted to employees. Stock-based compensation expense is recognized over the vesting period using the straight-line method and is classified in the consolidated statements of operations based on the department to which the
related employee reports. 
  F-20



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (in thousands, except per share amounts and percentage data)   
The fair values of stock options and employee stock purchase rights were estimated at
their respective grant date using the following assumptions:  Stock Options 
 
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Weighted-average grant date fair value per share
  
$
4.15
  
 
$
6.89
  
 
$
3.36
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Risk-free interest rate
  
 
1.95
% 
 
 
2.51
% 
 
 
2.68
% 

 Dividend yield
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Expected life (years)
  
 
5.02
  
 
 
6.06
  
 
 
6.18
  

 Volatility
  
 
52.00
% 
 
 
55.00
% 
 
 
56.00
% 
 Employee Stock Purchase Rights 
 
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Weighted-average grant date fair value per share
  
$
1.89 – $2.46
  
 
$
3.18 – $8.38
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Risk-free interest rate
  
 
0.05 – 0.07
% 
 
 
0.14 – 1.14
% 
 
 
—  
  

 Dividend yield
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Expected life (years)
  
 
0.5
  
 
 
0.5 – 2.10
  
 
 
—  
  

 Volatility
  
 
45.70 – 72.84
% 
 
 
30.43 – 60.03
% 
 
 
—  
  
 The risk-free interest rate assumption was based on the United States Treasury’s rates for
U.S. Treasury zero-coupon bonds with maturities similar to those of the expected term of the award being valued. The assumed dividend yield was based on the Company’s expectation of not paying dividends in the foreseeable future. The
weighted-average expected life of options was calculated using the simplified method as prescribed by guidance provided by the Securities and Exchange Commission. This decision was based on the lack of relevant historical data due to the
Company’s limited historical experience. In addition, due to the Company’s limited historical data, the estimated volatility incorporates the historical volatility of comparable companies whose share prices are publicly available.
 A summary of the Company’s stock option activity is as follows: 
 




















 
  
Number ofOptions
 
 
Weighted-AverageExercisePrice
 
  
Weighted-AverageContractualTerm (inYears)
 
  
AggregateIntrinsicValue
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2010
  
 
4,732
  
 
$
5.03
  
  



  




 Granted
  
 
1,503
  
 
 
8.88
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
(980
) 
 
 
1.56
  
  



  




 Canceled
  
 
(589
) 
 
 
7.16
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  



  




 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
  
 
4,666
  
 
$
6.73
  
  
 
7.0
  
  
$
4,444
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Vested and expected to vest at December 31, 2011
  
 
4,499
  
 
$
6.66
  
  
 
7.0
  
  
$
4,437
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Exercisable at December 31, 2011
  
 
2,108
  
 
$
4.47
  
  
 
6.4
  
  
$
4,141
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-21



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (in thousands, except per share amounts and percentage data)   
The exercise price for all stock options granted prior to the Company’s initial
public offering is at or above the estimated fair value of the underlying common stock as determined contemporaneously on the date of grant by the Company’s Board of Directors with assistance from valuation information provided the
Company’s management. Given the absence of an active market for the Company’s common stock, the Company’s Board of Directors was required to estimate the fair value of the Company’s common stock at the time of each grant. The
Company’s Board of Directors, which includes members who are experienced in valuing the securities of early-stage technology companies, considered objective and subjective factors in determining the estimated fair value of the Company’s
common stock on each option grant date.  The intrinsic value of stock options exercised during 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $6,674,
$5,226 and $3,723, respectively.  The fair value of options which vested during 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $3,727, $2,096 and
$656, respectively.  Restricted Stock Units  The Company calculates the fair value of restricted stock units based on the fair market value of our Class A common stock on the grant date. Stock-based compensation expense is recognized over the
vesting period using the straight-line method and is classified in the consolidated statements of income based on the department to which the related employee reports.  A summary of the Company’s restricted stock unit activity is as follows:   












 
  
Number ofShares
 
 
Weighted-AverageGrant-DateFair Valueper Share
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2010
  
 
—  
  
 
$
—  
  

 Granted
  
 
2,174
  
 
 
7.99
  

 Vested
  
 
(133
) 
 
 
8.55
  

 Canceled
  
 
(221
) 
 
 
8.63
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
  
 
1,820
  
 
$
7.87
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The fair value of restricted stock units which vested during 2011 was $1,139. No restricted stock units
vested during 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Shares Reserved for Future Issuance 
Common stock reserved for future issuance is as follows:   








 
  
December 
31,2011
 

 Stock options outstanding
  
 
4,666
  

 Restricted stock units outstanding
  
 
1,820
  

 Authorized for future grants under 2010 Equity Incentive Plan
  
 
7,319
  

 Authorized for future issuance under 2010 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
  
 
719
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
14,524
  


  
  
  
 

  F-22



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (in thousands, except per share amounts and percentage data)   
7. Income Taxes 
Income tax provision (benefit) consists of the following: 
 
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Current:
  



 



 




 Federal
  
$
236
  
 
$
126
  
 
$
110
  

 State
  
 
20
  
 
 
163
  
 
 
120
  

 Foreign
  
 
69
  
 
 
22
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current
  
 
325
  
 
 
311
  
 
 
230
  

 Deferred:
  



 



 




 Federal
  
 
(5,183
) 
 
 
1,336
  
 
 
1,312
  

 State
  
 
(1,731
) 
 
 
(104
) 
 
 
479
  

 Foreign
  
 
685
  
 
 
(685
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Change in valuation allowance
  
 
12,897
  
 
 
(7,229
) 
 
 
(1,791
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred
  
 
6,668
  
 
 
(6,682
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total income tax provision (benefit)
  
$
6,993
  
 
$
(6,371
) 
 
$
230
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The actual income tax provision (benefit) differs from the amount computed using the federal statutory
rate as follows:   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Provision at statutory rate
  
$
(5,111
) 
 
$
1,273
  
 
$
1,550
  

 State income taxes (net of federal benefit)
  
 
24
  
 
 
336
  
 
 
162
  

 Research and development credits
  
 
(3,320
) 
 
 
(1,078
) 
 
 
(890
) 

 Foreign rate differential
  
 
1,182
  
 
 
262
  
 
 
292
  

 Stock compensation
  
 
974
  
 
 
959
  
 
 
282
  

 Foreign dividend
  
 
94
  
 
 
46
  
 
 
—  
  

 Tax attribute reduction
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
572
  

 Estimated export compliance fines and penalties
  
 
255
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Foreign tax credit
  
 
(236
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Permanent and other
  
 
260
  
 
 
(940
) 
 
 
53
  

 Valuation allowance
  
 
12,871
  
 
 
(7,229
) 
 
 
(1,791
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total provision (benefit) for income taxes
  
$
6,993
  
 
$
(6,371
) 
 
$
230
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-23



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (in thousands, except per share amounts and percentage data)   
The components of the deferred income tax assets are as follows: 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  



 




 Net operating loss carryforwards
  
$
6,155
  
 
$
3,042
  

 Research and development credits
  
 
8,077
  
 
 
4,518
  

 Accrued expenses and other
  
 
644
  
 
 
2,641
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
1,685
  
 
 
534
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
16,561
  
 
 
10,735
  

 Less valuation allowance
  
 
(16,029
) 
 
 
(3,132
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
532
  
 
 
7,603
  

 Deferred tax liability:
  



 




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
(532
) 
 
 
(935
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax assets
  
$
—  
  
 
$
6,668
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 At December 31, 2011, the Company had federal and state tax net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $21,791 and $14,317, respectively. These amounts include share-based compensation for federal and state of $6,919 and $1,891, that will be recorded to contributed capital when realized. The federal and state tax loss carryforwards will
begin to expire in 2026 and 2018, respectively, unless previously utilized.  At December 31, 2011, the Company had
federal and state tax credit carryforwards of approximately $5,208 and $5,163, respectively. The federal tax credit carryforward will begin to expire in 2024, unless previously utilized. The state tax credits do not expire. In addition, the Company
has federal alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards of $227 that can be carried forward indefinitely.  The Company has
not provided for U.S. income and foreign withholding taxes on undistributed earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries as these earnings are indefinitely invested outside the U.S. It is not practicable for the Company to determine the total amount of
unrecognized deferred U.S. income tax liability.  Pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 382 and 383, use of the
Company’s net operating loss and credit carryforwards may be limited if a cumulative change in ownership of more than 50% occurs within a three-year period. The Company has had two changes of ownership in April and November of 2004 resulting in
an annual net operating loss and credit limitation. The annual limitations will not cause a loss of net operating loss or credit carryforwards. Additional limitations on the use of these tax attributes could occur in the event of possible disputes
arising in examinations from various taxing authorities. Currently, the Company’s 2008 and 2009 tax returns are under examination by the California Franchise Tax Board.  The Company evaluated its net deferred income taxes, which included an assessment of the cumulative income or loss over the prior three-year period and future periods, to determine if a valuation
allowance is required. After considering its recent history of losses and management’s expectations of additional near-term losses, the Company recorded a valuation allowance on its net federal deferred tax assets, with a corresponding charge
to its income tax provision of approximately $6.7 million during 2011. In addition, the Company continues to maintain a valuation allowance to offset the California deferred tax assets as realization of such assets does not meet the
more-likely-than-not threshold required under accounting guidelines. The Company will continue to assess the need for a valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets by evaluating positive and negative evidence that may exist. 
  F-24



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (in thousands, except per share amounts and percentage data)   
At December 31, 2011, the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits totaled $3,020,
$2,308 ,of which, if recognized at a time when the valuation allowance no longer exists, would affect the effective tax rate. The Company will recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax
expense. At December 31, 2011, the Company had no accrual for interest and penalties. The Company does not expect any significant increases or decreases to its unrecognized tax benefits within twelve months. 
The following table summarizes the changes to the unrecognized tax benefits during 2011, 2010 and 2009: 
 








 Balance as of December 31, 2008
  
$
 582
  

 Additions based on tax positions related to the current year
  
 
290
  

 Additions based on tax positions of prior year
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 

 Balance as of December 31, 2009
  
 
872
  

 Additions based on tax positions related to the current year
  
 
287
  

 Additions based on tax positions of prior year
  
 
25
  


  
  
  
 

 Balance as of December 31, 2010
  
 
1,184
  

 Additions based on tax positions related to the current year
  
 
1,018
  

 Additions based on tax positions of prior year
  
 
818
  


  
  
  
 

 Balance as of December 31, 2011
  
$
3,020
  


  
  
  
 
 The Company is subject to federal and California income tax in the United States and is also subject to
income tax in certain other foreign tax jurisdictions. At December 31, 2011, the Company is no longer subject to federal, California or Chinese income tax examinations for the years before 2008, 2007 and 2008, respectively. However, to the
extent allowed by law, the tax authorities may have the right to examine prior periods where net operating losses or tax credits were generated and carried forward, and make adjustments up to the amount of the net operating loss or credit
carryforward amount. 
8. Employee Retirement Plan 
The Company has a 401(k) defined contribution retirement plan (the 401(k) Plan) covering all eligible employees.
Participants may voluntarily contribute on a pre-tax basis an amount not to exceed a maximum contribution amount pursuant to Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. The Company is not required to contribute, nor has it contributed, to the
401(k) Plan for any of the periods presented. 
9. Related-Party Transactions 
Transactions with an affiliate of one of the Company’s stockholders identified as related-party transactions in
the prior year were not deemed to be related-party transactions for the year ended December 31, 2011 as the stockholder is no longer a beneficial owner of the Company. For 2010 and 2009, the Company recorded charges of $15,776 and $10,541,
respectively, related to wafer inventory purchased from and research and development expenses incurred with an affiliate of one of the Company’s stockholders. Accounts payable to this stockholder at December 31, 2010 were $1,746.

10. Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) 
The following table presents the Company’s unaudited quarterly financial data for each of the eight quarters in
the period ended December 31, 2011. In management’s opinion, this information has been presented on the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements included in a separate section of this report, and all

  F-25



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (in thousands, except per share amounts and percentage data)   

necessary adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, have been included in the amounts below to present fairly the unaudited quarterly results when read in conjunction with the
audited consolidated financial statements and related notes. The operating results for any quarter should not be relied upon as necessarily indicative of results for any future period. 
 




















 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
  
FirstQuarter
 
 
SecondQuarter
 
 
ThirdQuarter
 
 
FourthQuarter
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Net revenue
  
$
16,908
  
 
$
18,094
  
 
$
17,639
  
 
$
19,296
  

 Gross profit
  
 
10,831
  
 
 
11,435
  
 
 
11,332
  
 
 
11,723
  

 Net loss
  
 
(1,148
) 
 
 
(4,796
) 
 
 
(11,388
) 
 
 
(4,692
) 

 Net loss attributable to common stockholders
  
 
(1,148
) 
 
 
(4,796
) 
 
 
(11,388
) 
 
 
(4,692
) 

 Net loss per share attributable to common stockholders:
  



 



 



 




 Basic
  
$
(0.04
) 
 
$
(0.15
) 
 
$
(0.35
) 
 
$
(0.14
) 

 Diluted
  
$
(0.04
) 
 
$
(0.15
) 
 
$
(0.35
) 
 
$
(0.14
) 




 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

 
  
FirstQuarter
 
 
SecondQuarter
 
 
ThirdQuarter
 
 
FourthQuarter
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Net revenue
  
$
16,137
  
 
$
18,176
  
 
$
18,523
  
 
$
15,865
  

 Gross profit
  
 
10,979
  
 
 
12,705
  
 
 
13,036
  
 
 
10,421
  

 Net income
  
 
1,334
  
 
 
1,766
  
 
 
1,352
  
 
 
5,662
  

 Net income attributable to common stockholders
  
 
119
  
 
 
1,766
  
 
 
1,352
  
 
 
5,662
  

 Net income per share attributable to common stockholders:
  



 



 



 




 Basic
  
$
0.01
  
 
$
0.06
  
 
$
0.04
  
 
$
0.18
  

 Diluted
  
$
0.01
  
 
$
0.05
  
 
$
0.04
  
 
$
0.17
  

11. Subsequent Events 
In the first quarter of 2012, the Company became aware that it may have taken actions that could constitute
facilitation (within the meaning of applicable sanctions and export control laws) of shipments of foreign produced products to Iran or taken other actions that may be in violation of U.S. export control and economic sanctions laws. The potential
violations related to the sale of certain of the Company’s tuner products to set-top box manufacturers in Asia to permit conversion of digital television signals to analog signals in international markets using the DVB-T broadcast standard. The
DVB-T standard is used in most of Europe, Asia (excluding China), Australia, and Africa as well as in parts of the Middle East, including Iran. While the underlying shipment of the Company’s tuners into Iran by foreign manufacturers of these
set-top boxes may have been lawful, the Company’s potential facilitation may have resulted in violation of applicable sanctions and export control laws without the proper U.S. Government authorization. Upon learning of these potential
violations, which were discovered internally, the Company’s audit committee retained outside counsel to conduct a review of the Company’s sanctions and export control compliance. On February 7, 2012, the Company made voluntary initial
filings with the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of the Treasury (OFAC) and with the Bureau of Industry and Security of the United States Department of Commerce (BIS), notifying these regulatory agencies that the
Company was conducting a review of export control matters and that it would submit any supplemental voluntary self disclosures once the internal review was complete. The initial stage of the review was concluded in March 2012. Outside counsel is now
preparing the final voluntary disclosures to be 
  F-26



Table of Contents
MAXLINEAR, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (in thousands, except per share amounts and percentage data)   

submitted to OFAC and BIS. Based upon the facts known to the Company to date, the Company recorded an expense of $0.8 million, reflected in selling, general, and administrative expense, in the
fourth quarter of 2011 for this export compliance matter, representing management’s estimated exposure for civil penalties and fines in accordance with applicable accounting literature. 
As the Company has voluntarily self-disclosed, OFAC or BIS could conduct their own investigation. Should additional facts be discovered
in the future and/or should actual fines or other penalties differ from the Company’s estimates, its business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and negatively affected. In that regard, the Company cannot guarantee
that either OFAC or BIS will agree with its assessments of the quantity and nature of the potential violations. As a result, OFAC or BIS could seek to impose higher fines and penalties than those that the Company has estimated to date. The maximum
civil monetary penalty for each violation is up to $250,000 or twice the value of the transaction, whichever is greater. 
  F-27




