
10-K
1
a2207592z10-k.htm
10-K







Use these links to rapidly review the document
  Table of Contents 
  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data









 
Table of Contents 

 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549  





 
FORM 10-K  











(Mark One)
 
 


ý
 
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011


 OR


o
 
 TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


 For the transition period
from                    to                    .





 Commission File Number: 001-32269  
EXTRA SPACE STORAGE INC. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 








Maryland
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
 
 20-1076777
(I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.)


 2795 East Cottonwood Parkway, Suite 400
Salt Lake City, Utah 84121
(Address of principal executive offices and zip code)




         Registrant's
telephone number, including area code: (801) 365-4600
         Securities
Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 








Title of Each Class 
 
Name of exchange on which registered 


Common Stock, $0.01 par value
 
New York Stock Exchange, Inc.



         Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
         Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Yes ý    No o 
         Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
Yes o    No ý 
         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes ý    No o 
         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files). Yes ý    No o 
         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment of
this Form 10-K. ý 
         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 















Large accelerated filer ý
 
Accelerated filer o
 
Non-accelerated filer o (Do not check if a
smaller reporting company)
 
Smaller reporting company o




         Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
Yes o    No ý. 
         The aggregate market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $1,864,609,793 based upon the closing price on the New York
Stock Exchange on June 30, 2011, the last business day of the registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter. This calculation does not reflect a determination that persons whose
shares are excluded from the computation are affiliates for any other purpose. 
         The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's common stock, $0.01 par value per share, as of February 15, 2012 was 94,809,906.
Documents Incorporated by Reference  
         Portions of the registrant's definitive proxy statement to be issued in connection with the registrant's annual stockholders' meeting to be held in 2012 are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

 




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  EXTRA SPACE STORAGE INC.     
    Table of Contents     

 
















  PART I
 
 
3
 


 Item 1.
 
 Business
 
 
3
 


 Item 1A.
 
 Risk Factors
 
 
7
 


 Item 1B.
 
 Unresolved Staff Comments
 
 
21
 


 Item 2.
 
 Properties
 
 
21
 


 Item 3.
 
 Legal Proceedings
 
 
24
 


 Item 4.
 
 Mine Safety Disclosures
 
 
24
 


  PART II
 
 
25
 


 Item 5.
 
 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 
 
25
 


 Item 6.
 
 Selected Financial Data
 
 
25
 


 Item 7.
 
 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 
27
 


 Item 7A.
 
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
 
 
45
 


 Item 8.
 
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
 
47
 


 Item 9.
 
 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
 
 
103
 


 Item 9A.
 
 Controls and Procedures
 
 
103
 


 Item 9B.
 
 Other Information
 
 
105
 


  PART III
 
 
105
 


 Item 10.
 
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
 
 
105
 


 Item 11.
 
 Executive Compensation
 
 
106
 


 Item 12.
 
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
 
 
106
 


 Item 13.
 
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
 
 
106
 


 Item 14.
 
 Principal Accountant Fees and Services
 
 
106
 


  PART IV
 
 
107
 


 Item 15.
 
 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
 
 
107
 


  SIGNATURES
 
 
111
 





1




 










Table of Contents 
 Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information  
        Certain information set forth in this report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the
federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements include statements concerning our plans, objectives, goals, strategies, future events, future revenues or performance, capital expenditures,
financing needs, plans or intentions relating to acquisitions and other information that is not historical information. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such
as "believes," "expects," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "anticipates," or "intends" or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy. We may also
make additional forward-looking statements from time to time. All such subsequent forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, by us or on our behalf, are also expressly qualified by these
cautionary statements.
        All forward-looking statements, including without limitation, management's examination of historical operating trends and estimates of future earnings, are based
upon our current expectations and various assumptions. Our expectations, beliefs and projections are expressed in good faith and we believe there is a reasonable basis for them, but there can be no
assurance that management's expectations, beliefs and projections will result or be achieved. All forward-looking statements apply only as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to publicly
update or revise forward-looking statements which may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
        There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained in or
contemplated by this report. Any forward-looking statements should be considered in light of the risks referenced in "Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors" below. Such factors include, but are
not limited to:


•adverse changes in general economic conditions, the real estate industry and in the markets in
which we operate;
•the effect of competition from new and existing self-storage facilities or other
storage alternatives, which could cause rents and occupancy rates to decline;
•difficulties in our ability to evaluate, finance, complete and integrate acquisitions and
developments successfully and to lease up those properties, which could adversely affect our profitability;
•potential liability for uninsured losses and environmental
contamination;
•the impact of the regulatory environment as well as national, state, and local laws and
regulations including, without limitation, those governing Real Estate Investment Trusts ("REITs"), which could increase our expenses and reduce our cash available for
distribution;
•disruptions in credit and financial markets and resulting difficulties in raising capital or
obtaining credit at reasonable rates or at all, which could impede our ability to grow;
•increased interest rates and operating costs;
•reductions in asset valuations and related impairment
charges;
•the failure of our joint venture partners to fulfill their obligations to us or their pursuit of
actions that are inconsistent with our objectives;
•the failure to maintain our REIT status for federal income tax
purposes;
•economic uncertainty due to the impact of war or terrorism, which could adversely affect our
business plan; and
•difficulties in our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and management
members.

        The forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and expectations of our future performance, taking into account all information currently
available to us. These beliefs, assumptions and  
2



 
Table of Contents
 expectations are subject to risks and uncertainties and can change as a result of many possible events or factors, not all of which are known to us. If a change occurs, our business, financial
condition, liquidity and results of operations may vary materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider these risks before you make an investment
decision with respect to our securities.
        We disclaim any duty or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect
new information, future events or otherwise.
 PART I  
 
   Item 1.    Business     
 General  
        Extra Space Storage Inc. ("we," "our," "us" or the "Company") is a self-administered and self-managed
real estate investment trust ("REIT") formed as a Maryland corporation on April 30, 2004, to own, operate, manage, acquire, develop and redevelop professionally managed self-storage
facilities. We closed our initial public offering ("IPO") on August 17, 2004. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "EXR." 
        We
were formed to continue the business of Extra Space Storage LLC and its subsidiaries (the "Predecessor"), which had engaged in the self-storage business since 1977.
These companies were reorganized after the consummation of our IPO and various formation transactions. As of December 31, 2011, we held ownership interests in 697 operating properties. Of these
operating properties, 356 are wholly-owned, and 341 are owned in joint venture partnerships. An additional 185 operating properties are owned by franchisees or third parties and operated by us in
exchange for a management fee, bringing the total number of operating properties which we own and/or manage to 882. These operating properties are located in 34 states and Washington, D.C. and contain
approximately 64 million square feet of net rentable space in approximately 585,000 units and currently serve a customer base of over 448,000 tenants. 
        We
operate in three distinct segments: (1) property management, acquisition and development; (2) rental operations; and (3) tenant reinsurance. Our property
management, acquisition and development activities include managing, acquiring, developing, redeveloping and selling self-storage facilities. In June 2009, we announced the
wind-down of our development activities. As of December 31, 2011, there was one development project in process. We expect to complete this project by the end of the first quarter of
2012. Our rental operations activities include rental operations
of self-storage facilities. Tenant reinsurance activities include the reinsurance of risks relating to the loss of goods stored by tenants in the Company's self storage facilities. 
        Substantially
all of our business is conducted through Extra Space Storage LP (the "Operating Partnership"). Our primary assets are general partner and limited partner interests
in the Operating Partnership. This structure is commonly referred to as an umbrella partnership REIT, or UPREIT. We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the "Internal Revenue Code"). To the extent we continue to qualify as a REIT we will not be subject to tax, with certain exceptions, on our net taxable income that is distributed to our
stockholders. 
        We
file our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those
reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). You may obtain copies of these documents by visiting the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C.
20549, by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or by accessing the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. In addition, as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials
are furnished to the SEC, we make copies of these documents available to the public free of charge through our website at www.extraspace.com, or by contacting our Secretary at our principal offices, 
3



 
Table of Contents
which
are located at 2795 East Cottonwood Parkway, Suite 400, Salt Lake City, Utah 84121, telephone number (801) 365-4600. 
 Management  
        Members of our executive management team have significant experience in all aspects of the self-storage industry. The
senior management team has collectively acquired and/or developed 595 properties since our IPO. Our executive management team and their years of industry experience are as follows: Spencer F. Kirk,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, 14 years; P. Scott Stubbs, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, 11 years; Charles L. Allen, Executive Vice President and Chief
Legal Officer, 14 years; and Karl Haas, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, 24 years. 
        Members
of the executive management team have guided the Company through substantial growth, developing and acquiring over $4.4 billion in assets since 1996. This growth has been
funded through
public equity offerings and private equity capital. This private equity capital has come primarily from sophisticated, high net-worth individuals and institutional investors such as
affiliates of Prudential Financial, Inc. and Fidelity Investments. 
        Our
executive management and board of directors have a significant ownership position in the Company with executive officers and directors owning approximately 6,480,191 shares or 6.8%
of our outstanding common stock as of February 15, 2012. 
 Industry & Competition  
        Self-storage facilities refers to properties that offer month-to-month storage space rental for
personal or business use. Self-storage offers a cost-effective and flexible storage alternative. Tenants rent fully enclosed spaces that can vary in size according to their
specific needs and to which they have unlimited, exclusive access. Tenants have responsibility for moving their items into and out of their units. Self-storage unit sizes typically range
from five feet by five feet to 20 feet by 20 feet, with an interior height of eight to 12 feet. Properties generally have on-site managers who supervise and run the
day-to-day operations, providing tenants with assistance as needed. 
        Self-storage
provides a convenient way for individuals and businesses to store their possessions due to life changes, or simply because of a need for storage space. The mix
of residential tenants using a self-storage property is determined by a property's local demographics and often includes people who are looking to downsize their living space or others who
are not yet settled into a permanent residence. Items that residential tenants place in self-storage properties range from cars, boats and recreational vehicles, to furniture, household
items and appliances. Commercial tenants tend to include small business owners who require easy and frequent access to their goods, records, inventory or storage for seasonal goods. 
        Our
research has shown that tenants choose a self-storage property based primarily on the convenience of the site to their home or business, making high-density,
high-traffic population centers ideal locations for self-storage properties. A property's perceived security and the general professionalism of the site managers and staff are
also contributing factors to a site's ability to successfully secure rentals. Although most self-storage properties are leased to tenants on a month-to-month basis,
tenants tend to continue their leases for extended periods of time. 
        There
are seasonal fluctuations in occupancy rates for self-storage properties. Based on our experience, generally, there is increased leasing activity at
self-storage properties
during the spring and summer months. The highest level of occupancy is typically at the end of July, while the lowest level of occupancy is seen in late February and early March. 
4



 
Table of Contents
        Since
inception in the early 1970's, the self-storage industry has experienced significant growth. In the past few years, there has been even greater growth. According to the
Self-Storage Almanac (the "Almanac"), in 2001 there were only 33,833 self-storage properties in the United States, with an average occupancy rate of 86.1% of net rentable
square feet, compared to 50,048 self-storage properties in 2011 with an average occupancy rate of 79.7% of net rentable square feet. 
        We
have encountered competition when we have sought to acquire properties, especially for brokered portfolios. Aggressive bidding practices have been commonplace between both public and
private entities, and this competition will likely continue. 
        The
industry is also characterized by fragmented ownership. According to the Almanac, the top ten self-storage companies in the United States owned approximately 11.1% of
total U.S. self-storage properties, and the top 50 self-storage companies owned approximately 15.1% of the total U.S. properties as of December 31, 2011. We believe this
fragmentation will contribute to continued consolidation at some level in the future. We also believe that we are well positioned to compete for acquisitions given our historical reputation for
closing deals. 
        We
are the second largest self-storage operator in the United States. We are one of four public self-storage REITs along with Public Storage Inc., Sovran
Self-Storage, Inc., and CubeSmart. 
 Long-Term Growth and Investment Strategies  
        Our primary business objectives are to maximize cash flow available for distribution to our stockholders and to achieve sustainable
long-term growth in cash flow per share in order to maximize long-term stockholder value. We continue to evaluate a range of growth initiatives and opportunities, including the
following: 


•Maximize the performance of properties through strategic, efficient and
proactive management.  We pursue revenue-generating and expense minimizing opportunities in our operations. Our revenue management team
seeks to maximize revenue by responding to changing market conditions through our technology system's ability to provide real-time, interactive rental rate and discount management. Our
size allows us greater ability than most of our competitors to implement national, regional and local marketing programs, which we believe attract more customers to our stores at a lower net cost.  
•Acquire self-storage properties from strategic partners and
third parties.  Our acquisitions team continues to pursue the acquisition of single properties and multi-property portfolios that we
believe can provide stockholder value. We have established a reputation as a reliable, ethical buyer, which we believe enhances our ability to negotiate and close acquisitions. In addition, we believe
our status as an UPREIT enables flexibility when structuring deals.   
•Expand our management
business.  Our management business enables us to generate increased revenues through management fees and expand our geographic footprint.
This expanded footprint enables us to reduce our operating costs through economies of scale. In addition, we see our management business as a future acquisition pipeline. We pursue strategic
relationships with owners that strengthen our acquisition pipeline through agreements which typically give us first right of refusal to purchase the managed property in the event of a potential sale. 

5



 
Table of Contents
 Financing of Our Long-Term Growth Strategies  


•Acquisition and Development Financing

The
following table sets forth information on our lines of credit (the "Credit Lines") for the periods indicated (amounts in thousands): 




























 
 
As of December 31, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Line of Credit



 
Amount
Drawn 
 
Capacity 
 
Interest
Rate 
 
Origination
Date 
 
Maturity 
 
Basis Rate 
 
Notes 


 Credit Line 1
 
$
100,000
 
$
100,000
 
 
1.3
%
10/19/2007
 
10/31/2012
 
LIBOR plus 1.00% - 2.10%
 
(5)


 Credit Line 2
 
 
40,000
 
 
74,000
 
 
2.4
%
2/13/2009
 
2/13/2014
 
LIBOR plus 2.15%
 
(1)(4)(5)


 Credit Line 3
 
 
40,000
 
 
72,000
 
 
2.5
%
6/4/2010
 
5/31/2013
 
LIBOR plus 2.20%
 
(2)(4)(5)


 Credit Line 4
 
 
25,000
 
 
40,000
 
 
2.5
%
11/16/2010
 
11/16/2013
 
LIBOR plus 2.20%
 
(3)(4)(5)


 Credit Line 5
 
 
10,000
 
 
50,000
 
 
2.4
%
4/29/2011
 
5/1/2014
 
LIBOR plus 2.15%
 
(3)(4)(5)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
215,000
 
$
336,000
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)One
year extension available
(2)One
two-year extension available
(3)Two
one-year extensions available
(4)Guaranteed
by the Company
(5)Secured
by mortgages on certain real estate assets 



We
expect to maintain a flexible approach in financing new property acquisitions. We plan to finance future acquisitions and development through a combination of cash, borrowings under the Credit
Lines, traditional secured mortgage financing, joint ventures and additional equity offerings. 


•Joint Venture Financing



We
own 336 of our stabilized properties and five of our lease-up properties through joint ventures with third parties, including affiliates of Prudential Financial, Inc. In each
joint venture, we generally manage the day-to-day operations of the underlying properties and have the right to participate in major decisions relating to sales of properties
or financings by the applicable joint venture. Our joint venture partners typically provide most of the equity capital required for the operation of the respective business. Under the operating
agreements for the joint ventures, we typically maintain the right to receive between 2.0% and 60.0% of the available cash flow from operations after our joint venture partners and the Company have
received a predetermined return, and between 17.0% and 50.0% of the available cash flow from capital transactions after our joint venture partners and the Company have received a return of their
capital plus such predetermined return. Most joint venture agreements include buy-sell rights, as well as rights of first refusal in connection with the sale of properties by the joint
venture. 


•Disposition of Properties

We
will continue to review our portfolio for properties or groups of properties that are not strategically located and determine whether to dispose of these properties to fund other growth. 


6








 










Table of Contents 
 Regulation  
        Generally, self-storage properties are subject to various laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating
to lien sale rights and procedures. Changes in any of these laws or regulations, as well as changes in laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response and Compensation Liability Act, which
increase the potential liability for environmental conditions or circumstances existing or created by tenants or others on properties, or laws affecting development, construction, operation, upkeep,
safety and taxation may result in significant unanticipated expenditures, loss of self-storage sites or other impairments to operations, which would adversely affect our financial
position, results of operations or cash flows. 
        Under
the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the "ADA"), places of public accommodation are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled
persons. These requirements became effective in 1992. A number of additional U.S. federal, state and local laws also exist that may require modifications to the properties, or restrict further
renovations thereof, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and also could
result in an order to correct any non-complying feature, thereby requiring substantial capital expenditures. To
the extent our properties are not in compliance, we are likely to incur additional costs to comply with the ADA. 
        Insurance
activities are subject to state insurance laws and regulations as determined by the particular insurance commissioner for each state in accordance with the McCarran-Ferguson
Act, and are subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the privacy regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission pursuant thereto. 
        Property
management activities are often subject to state real estate brokerage laws and regulations as determined by the particular real estate commission for each state. 
        Changes
in any of the laws governing our conduct could have an adverse impact on our ability to conduct our business or could materially affect our financial position, results of
operations or cash flows. 
 Employees  
        As of February 15, 2012, we had 2,239 employees and believe our relationship with our employees is good. Our employees are not
represented by a collective bargaining agreement.  
 
   Item 1A.    Risk Factors     
        An investment in our securities involves various risks. All investors should carefully consider the following risk factors in
conjunction with the other information contained in this Annual Report before trading in our securities. If any of the events set forth in the following risks actually occur, our business, operating
results, prospects and financial condition could be harmed. 
        Our
performance is subject to risks associated with real estate investments. We are a real estate company that derives our income from operation of our properties. There are a number of
factors that may adversely affect the income that our properties generate, including the following: 
 Risks Related to Our Properties and Operations  
 Adverse economic or other conditions in the markets in which we do business could negatively affect our occupancy levels and rental rates and therefore our operating
results.  
        Our operating results are dependent upon our ability to maximize occupancy levels and rental rates in our self-storage
properties. Adverse economic or other conditions in the markets in which we operate may lower our occupancy levels and limit our ability to increase rents or require us to offer 
7



 
Table of Contents
rental
discounts. If our properties fail to generate revenues sufficient to meet our cash requirements, including operating and other expenses, debt service and capital expenditures, our net income,
funds from operations ("FFO"), cash flow, financial condition, ability to make cash distributions to stockholders and the trading price of our securities could be adversely affected. The following
factors, among others, may adversely affect the operating performance of our properties:


•the national economic climate and the local or regional economic climate in the markets in which we operate, which may be
adversely impacted by, among other factors, industry slowdowns, relocation of businesses and changing demographics; 
•periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates, or declining demand for self-storage or the
public perception that any of these events may occur could result in a general decline in rental rates or an increase in tenant defaults; 
•a decline or worsening of the current economic environment; 
•local or regional real estate market conditions such as competing properties, the oversupply of self-storage
or a reduction in demand for self-storage in a particular area; 
•perceptions by prospective users of our self-storage properties of the safety, convenience and attractiveness
of our properties and the neighborhoods in which they are located; 
•increased operating costs, including the need for capital improvements, insurance premiums, real estate taxes and
utilities; 
•the impact of environmental protection laws; 
•earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters, terrorist acts, civil disturbances or acts of war which may result in
uninsured or underinsured losses; and 
•changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws. 

        Recent
U.S. and international market and economic conditions have been challenging, with tighter credit conditions and slower growth. Turbulence in U.S. and international markets may
adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the financial condition of our customers. If these market conditions continue, they may result in an adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations. 
 If we are unable to promptly re-let our units or if the rates upon such re-letting are significantly lower than expected, our business and results of
operations would be adversely affected.  
        Virtually all of our leases are on a month-to-month basis. Any delay in re-letting units as
vacancies arise would reduce our revenues and harm our operating results. In addition, lower than expected rental rates upon re-letting could adversely affect our revenues and impede our
growth. 
 We depend upon our on-site personnel to maximize tenant satisfaction at each of our properties, and any difficulties we encounter in hiring, training and
maintaining skilled field personnel may harm our operating performance.  
        We had 1,884 field personnel as of February 15, 2012 in the management and operation of our properties. The general
professionalism of our site managers and staff are contributing factors to a site's ability to successfully secure rentals and retain tenants. We also rely upon our field personnel to maintain clean
and secure self-storage properties. If we are unable to successfully recruit, train and retain qualified field personnel, the quality of service we strive to provide at our properties
could be adversely affected which could lead to decreased occupancy levels and reduced operating performance. 
8



 
Table of Contents
 Uninsured losses or losses in excess of our insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition and our cash flow.  
        We maintain comprehensive liability, fire, flood, earthquake, wind (as deemed necessary or as required by our lenders), extended
coverage and rental loss insurance with respect to our properties. Certain types of losses, however, may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable, such as losses due to earthquakes,
hurricanes, tornadoes, riots, acts of war or terrorism. Should an uninsured loss occur, we could lose both our investment in and anticipated profits and cash flow from a property. In addition, if any
such loss is insured, we may be required to pay significant amounts on any claim for recovery of such a loss prior to our insurer being obligated to reimburse us for the loss, or the amount of the
loss may exceed our coverage for the loss. As a result, our operating results may be adversely affected. 
 Increases in taxes and regulatory compliance costs may reduce our income.  
        Costs resulting from changes in real estate tax laws generally are not passed through to tenants directly and will affect us. Increases
in income, property or other taxes generally are not passed through to tenants under leases and may reduce our net income, FFO, cash flow, financial condition, ability to pay or refinance our debt
obligations, ability to make cash distributions to stockholders, and the trading price of our securities. Similarly, changes in laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions
existing on properties or increasing the restrictions on discharges or other conditions may result in significant unanticipated expenditures, which could similarly adversely affect our business and
results of operations. 
 Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with operating our properties may affect our results of operations.  
        Under various U.S. federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, owners and operators of real estate may be liable for the
costs of investigating and remediating certain hazardous substances or other regulated materials on or in such property. Such laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or
operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such substances or materials. The presence of such substances or materials, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may
adversely affect the owner's or operator's ability to lease, sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous
substances or other regulated materials may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substances at a disposal or treatment facility, whether or not such facility is owned or operated
by such person. Certain environmental laws impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties
for personal injury associated with asbestos-containing materials. 
        Certain
environmental laws also impose liability, without regard to knowledge or fault, for removal or remediation of hazardous substances or other regulated materials upon owners and
operators of contaminated property even after they no longer own or operate the property. Moreover, the past or present owner or operator from which a release emanates could be liable for any personal
injuries or property damages that may result from such releases, as well as any damages to natural resources that may arise from such releases. 
        Certain
environmental laws impose compliance obligations on owners and operators of real property with respect to the management of hazardous materials and other regulated substances.
For example, environmental laws govern the management of asbestos-containing materials and lead-based paint. Failure to comply with these laws can result in penalties or other sanctions. 
        No
assurances can be given that existing environmental studies with respect to any of our properties reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner or operator of our
properties did 
9



 
Table of Contents
not
create any material environmental condition not known to us, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one or more of our properties. There also exists the risk
that material environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns may have arisen after the review was completed or may arise in the future. Finally, future laws, ordinances or regulations
and future interpretations of existing laws, ordinances or regulations may impose additional material environmental liability. 
 Costs associated with complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 may result in unanticipated expenses.  
        Under the ADA, places of public accommodation are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled
persons. These requirements became effective in 1992. A number of additional U.S. federal, state and local laws may also require modifications to our properties, or restrict certain further
renovations of the properties, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and
also could result in an order to correct any non-complying feature, which could result in substantial capital expenditures. We have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our
properties to determine our compliance and we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. If one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ADA or
other legislation, then we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the facility into compliance. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA or other legislation, our financial
condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our securities and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to make cash distributions to our stockholders could
be adversely affected. 
 We face competition for the acquisition of self-storage properties and other assets, which may impede our ability to make future acquisitions or may increase the
cost of these acquisitions.  
        We compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities for acquisitions of self-storage
properties and other assets, including national,
regional and local operators and developers of self-storage properties. These competitors may drive up the price we pay for self-storage properties or other assets we seek to
acquire or may succeed in acquiring those properties or assets themselves. In addition, our potential acquisition targets may find our competitors to be more attractive suitors because they may have
greater resources, may be willing to pay more or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment
properties may increase. This competition would result in increased demand for these assets and therefore increased prices paid for them. Because of an increased interest in single- property
acquisitions among tax-motivated individual purchasers, we may pay higher prices if we purchase single properties in comparison with portfolio acquisitions. If we pay higher prices for
self-storage properties or other assets, our profitability will be reduced. 
 We may not be successful in identifying and consummating suitable acquisitions that meet our criteria, which may impede our growth.  
        Our ability to expand through acquisitions is integral to our business strategy and requires us to identify suitable acquisition
candidates or investment opportunities that meet our criteria and are compatible with our growth strategy. We may not be successful in identifying suitable properties or other assets that meet our
acquisition criteria or in consummating acquisitions or investments on satisfactory terms or at all. Failure to identify or consummate acquisitions will slow our growth, which could in turn adversely
affect our stock price. 
10



 
Table of Contents
        Our
ability to acquire properties on favorable terms and successfully integrate and operate them may be constrained by the following significant
risks:


•competition from local investors and other real estate investors with significant capital, including other publicly-traded
REITs and institutional investment funds; 
•competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase the purchase price which could reduce our
profitability; 
•the inability to achieve satisfactory completion of due diligence investigations and other customary closing conditions;  
•failure to finance an acquisition on favorable terms or at all; 
•we may spend more than the time and amounts budgeted to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties;
and 
•we may acquire properties subject to liabilities without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to
unknown liabilities such as liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by persons dealing with the former owners of the properties and claims for
indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. 

        In
addition, strategic decisions by us, such as acquisitions, may adversely affect the price of our securities. 
 We may not be successful in integrating and operating acquired properties.  
        We expect to make future acquisitions of self-storage properties. If we acquire any self-storage properties, we
will be required to integrate them into our existing portfolio. The acquired properties may turn out to be less compatible with our growth strategy than originally anticipated, may cause disruptions
in our operations or may divert management's attention away from day-to-day operations, which could impair our operating results as a whole. 
 We do not always obtain independent appraisals of our properties, and thus the consideration paid for these properties may exceed the value that may be indicated by
third-party appraisals.  
        We do not always obtain third-party appraisals in connection with our acquisition of properties and the consideration being paid by us
in exchange for those properties may exceed the value determined by third-party appraisals. In such cases, the value of the properties were determined by our senior management team. 
 Our investments in development and redevelopment projects may not yield anticipated returns, which would harm our operating results and reduce the amount of funds available
for distributions.  
        In June 2009, we announced the wind-down of our development activities. To the extent that we engage in development and
redevelopment activities, we will be subject to the following risks normally associated with these projects:


•we may be unable to obtain financing for these projects on favorable terms or at all;  
•we may not complete development projects on schedule or within budgeted amounts;  
•we may encounter delays or refusals in obtaining all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy and other required
governmental permits and authorizations; and 

11



 
Table of Contents


•occupancy rates and rents at newly developed or redeveloped properties may fluctuate depending on a number of factors,
including market and economic conditions, and may result in our investment not being profitable. 

        In
deciding whether to develop or redevelop a particular property, we make certain assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. We may underestimate the costs
necessary to bring the property up to the standards established for its intended market position or may be unable to increase occupancy at a newly developed property as quickly as expected or at all.
Any substantial unanticipated delays or expenses could adversely affect the investment returns from these development or redevelopment projects and harm our operating results, liquidity and financial
condition, which could result in a decline in the value of our securities. 
        We
may rely on the investments of our joint venture partners for funding certain of our development and redevelopment projects. If our reputation in the self-storage industry
changes or the number of investors considering us an attractive strategic partner is otherwise reduced, our ability to develop or redevelop properties could be affected, which would limit our growth. 
 Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure  
 Our business could be harmed if key personnel with long-standing business relationships in the self-storage industry terminate their employment with
us.  
        Our success depends on the continued services of members of our executive management team. Our executive management team has
substantial experience in the self-storage industry. In addition, our ability to acquire or develop properties in the future depends on the significant relationships our executive
management team has developed with our institutional joint venture partners such as affiliates of Prudential Financial, Inc. There is no guarantee that any of them will remain employed by us.
We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our officers. The loss of services of one or more members of our executive management team could harm our business and our prospects. 
 We may change our investment and financing strategies and enter into new lines of business without stockholder consent, which may subject us to different risks.  
        We may change our investment and financing strategies and enter into new lines of business at any time without the consent of our
stockholders, which could result in our making investments and engaging in business activities that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments and businesses described in this
document. A change in our investment strategy or our entry into new lines of business may increase our exposure to other risks or real estate market fluctuations. 
 If other self-storage companies convert to an UPREIT structure or if tax laws change, we may no longer have an advantage in competing for potential acquisitions.  
        Because we are structured as an UPREIT, we are a more attractive acquirer of properties to tax-motivated sellers than our
competitors that are not structured as UPREITs. However, if other self-storage companies restructure their holdings to become UPREITs, this competitive advantage will disappear. In
addition, new legislation may be enacted or new interpretations of existing legislation may be issued by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"), or the U.S. Treasury Department that could affect the
attractiveness of our UPREIT structure so that it may no longer assist us in competing for acquisitions. 
 Tax indemnification obligations may require the Operating Partnership to maintain certain debt levels.  
        We have provided certain tax protections to various third parties in connection with their property contributions to the Operating
Partnership upon acquisition by the Company, including making 
12



 
Table of Contents
available
the opportunity to (1) guarantee debt or (2) enter into a special loss allocation and deficit restoration obligation. We have agreed to these provisions in order to assist
these contributors in preserving their tax position after their contributions. These obligations may require us to maintain certain indebtedness levels that we would not otherwise require for our
business. 
 Our joint venture investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority.  
        As of December 31, 2011, we held interests in 341 operating properties through joint ventures. Some of these arrangements could
be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on co-venturers financial conditions and disputes between us and our co-venturers. We expect
to continue our joint venture strategy by entering into more joint ventures for the purpose of developing new self-storage properties and acquiring existing properties. In such event, we
would not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. The decision-making authority regarding the properties we
currently hold through joint ventures is either vested exclusively with our joint venture partners, is subject to a majority vote of the joint venture partners or equally shared by us and the joint
venture partners. In addition, investments in partnerships, joint ventures or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the
possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Partners or co-venturers may have economic or
other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments may
also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture.
Disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time
and efforts on our business. Consequently, actions by or disputes with partners or co-venturers might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to
additional risk. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners or co-venturers, which could harm our financial condition. 
 Spencer F. Kirk, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Charles L. Allen, Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, and other members of our senior management team
have outside business interests which could divert their time and attention away from us, which could harm our business.  
        Spencer F. Kirk, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, as well as certain other members of our senior management team, have outside
business interests. These business interests include the ownership of a self-storage property located in Pico Rivera, California. Other than this property, the members of our senior
management are not currently engaged in any other self-storage activities outside the Company. These outside business interests could interfere with their ability to devote time to our
business and affairs and, as a result, our business could be harmed. 
 Conflicts of interest could arise as a result of our relationship with our Operating Partnership.  
        Conflicts of interest could arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, and our Operating
Partnership or any partner thereof. Our directors and officers have duties to our Company under applicable Maryland law in connection with their management of our Company. At the same time, we,
through our wholly-owned subsidiary, have fiduciary duties, as a general partner, to our Operating Partnership and to the limited partners under Delaware law in connection with the management of our
Operating Partnership. Our duties, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, as a general partner to our Operating Partnership and its partners may come into conflict with the duties of our directors and
officers to our Company. The partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership does not require us to resolve such conflicts in favor of either our Company or the limited partners in 
13



 
Table of Contents
our
Operating Partnership. Unless otherwise provided for in the relevant partnership agreement, Delaware law generally requires a general partner of a Delaware limited partnership to adhere to
fiduciary duty standards under which it owes its limited partners the highest duties of good faith, fairness, and loyalty and which generally prohibit such general partner from taking any action or
engaging in any transaction as to which it has a conflict of interest. 
        Additionally,
the partnership agreement expressly limits our liability by providing that neither we, our direct wholly-owned Massachusetts business trust subsidiary, as the general
partner of the Operating Partnership, nor any of our or their trustees, directors or officers, will be liable or accountable in damages to our Operating Partnership, the limited partners or assignees
for errors in judgment, mistakes of fact or law or for any act or omission if we, or such trustee, director or officer, acted in good faith. In addition, our Operating Partnership is required to
indemnify us, our affiliates and each of our respective trustees, officers, directors, employees and agents to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law against any and all losses, claims,
damages, liabilities (whether joint or several), expenses (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees and other legal fees and expenses), judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts arising
from any and all claims, demands, actions, suits or proceedings, civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, that relate to the operations of the Operating Partnership, provided that our
Operating Partnership will not indemnify for (1) willful misconduct or a knowing violation of the law, (2) any transaction for which such person received an improper personal benefit in
violation or breach of any provision of the partnership agreement, or (3) in the case of a criminal proceeding, the person had reasonable cause to believe the act or omission was unlawful. 
        The
provisions of Delaware law that allow the common law fiduciary duties of a general partner to be modified by a partnership agreement have not been resolved in a court of law, and we
have not obtained an opinion of counsel covering the provisions set forth in the partnership agreement that
purport to waive or restrict our fiduciary duties that would be in effect under common law were it not for the partnership agreement. 
 We may pursue less vigorous enforcement of terms of contribution and other agreements because of conflicts of interest with certain of our officers.  
        Spencer F. Kirk, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Charles L. Allen, Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, other
members of our senior management team and Kenneth M. Woolley, Director, had direct or indirect ownership interests in certain properties that were contributed to our Operating Partnership in the
formation transactions. Following the completion of the formation transactions, we, under the agreements relating to the contribution of such interests, became entitled to indemnification and damages
in the event of breaches of representations or warranties made by the contributors. None of these contribution and non-competition agreements was negotiated at an arm's-length basis. We
may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under these contribution and non-competition agreements because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationships
with the individuals party to these agreements. 
 Certain provisions of Maryland law and our organizational documents, including the stock ownership limit imposed by our charter, may inhibit market activity in our stock and
could prevent or delay a change in control transaction.  
        Our charter, subject to certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve
our qualification as a REIT and to limit any person to actual or constructive ownership of no more than 7.0% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding common
stock or 7.0% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding capital stock. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from
the ownership limit. However, our board of directors may not grant 
14



 
Table of Contents
an
exemption from the ownership limit to any proposed transferee whose ownership could jeopardize our qualification as a REIT. These restrictions on ownership will not apply if our board of directors
determines that it is no longer in our best interests to attempt to qualify, or to continue to qualify, as a REIT. The ownership limit may delay or impede a transaction or a change of control that
might involve a premium price for our securities or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Different ownership limits apply to the family of Kenneth M. Woolley, certain of his
affiliates, family members and estates and trusts formed for the benefit of the foregoing and Spencer F. Kirk, certain of his
affiliates, family members and estates and trusts formed for the benefit of the foregoing and certain designated investment entities (as defined in our charter). 
 Our board of directors has the power to issue additional shares of our stock in a manner that may not be in the best interest of our stockholders.  
        Our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and
to increase the aggregate number of authorized shares or the number of shares of any class or series without stockholder approval. In addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any
unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Our board of directors could issue additional shares of our
common stock or establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or other transaction that might involve a premium price for
our securities or otherwise not be in the best interests of our stockholders. 
 Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited.  
        Maryland law provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good
faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition,
our charter eliminates our directors' and officers' liability to us and our stockholders for money damages except for liability resulting from actual receipt of an improper benefit in money, property
or services or active and deliberate dishonesty established by a final judgment and which is material to the cause of action. Our bylaws require us to indemnify our directors and officers for
liability resulting from actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our
directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. 
 To the extent our distributions represent a return of capital for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our stockholders could recognize an increased capital gain upon a
subsequent sale of common stock.  
        Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits and not treated by us as a dividend will not be taxable to
a U.S. stockholder under current U.S. federal income tax law to the extent those distributions do not exceed the stockholder's adjusted tax basis in his, her, or its common stock, but instead will
constitute a return of capital and will reduce
such adjusted basis. If distributions result in a reduction of a stockholder's adjusted basis in such holder's common stock, subsequent sales of such holder's common stock will result in recognition
of an increased capital gain or decreased capital loss due to the reduction in such adjusted basis. 
15




 










Table of Contents 
 Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry  
 Our primary business involves the ownership and operation of self-storage properties.  
        Our current strategy is to own, operate, manage, acquire, develop and redevelop only self-storage properties. Consequently,
we are subject to risks inherent in investments in a single industry. Because investments in real estate are inherently illiquid, this strategy makes it difficult for us to diversify our investment
portfolio and to limit our risk when economic conditions change. Decreases in market rents, negative tax, real estate and zoning law changes and changes in environmental protection laws may also
increase our costs, lower the value of our investments and decrease our income, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 
 Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties.  
        Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in our portfolio in
response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing,
interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us or
whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a
property. 
        We
may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those
defects or to make those improvements. In acquiring a property, we may agree to transfer restrictions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other
restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These transfer restrictions would impede our ability to sell a property even if we deem it
necessary or appropriate. 
 Any investments in unimproved real property may take significantly longer to yield income-producing returns, if at all, and may result in additional costs to us to comply
with re-zoning restrictions or environmental regulations.  
        We have invested in the past, and may invest in the future, in unimproved real property. Unimproved properties generally take longer to
yield income-producing returns based on the typical time required for development. Any development of unimproved property may also expose us to the risks and uncertainties associated with
re-zoning the land for a higher use or development and environmental concerns of governmental entities and/or community groups. Any unsuccessful investments or delays in realizing an
income-producing return or increased costs to develop unimproved real estate could restrict our ability to earn our targeted rate of return on an investment or adversely affect our ability to pay
operating expenses which would harm our financial condition and operating results. 
 Any negative perceptions of the self-storage industry generally may result in a decline in our stock price.  
        To the extent that the investing public has a negative perception of the self-storage industry, the value of our securities
may be negatively impacted, which could result in our securities trading below the inherent value of our assets. 
16



 
Table of Contents
 Risks Related to Our Debt Financings  
 Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain debt financing on reasonable terms and have other adverse effects on us.  
        In recent years, the U.S. and international credit markets have experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions.
Uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional debt financing or to refinance existing debt maturities on favorable terms (or at all), which may negatively
affect our ability to make acquisitions and fund development projects. A prolonged downturn in the credit markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and
may require us to adjust our business plan accordingly. In addition, these factors may make it more difficult for us to sell properties or may adversely affect the price we receive for properties that
we do sell, as prospective buyers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. 
 Required payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash to operate our properties or to pay the distributions currently contemplated or
necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT and may expose us to the risk of default under our debt obligations.  
        As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $1.4 billion of outstanding indebtedness. We may incur additional debt in
connection with future acquisitions and development. We may borrow under our Credit Lines or borrow new funds to finance these future properties. Additionally, we do not anticipate that our internally
generated cash flow will be adequate to repay our existing indebtedness upon maturity and, therefore, we expect to repay our indebtedness through refinancings and equity and/or debt offerings.
Further, we may need to borrow funds in order to make cash distributions to maintain our qualification as a REIT or to make our expected distributions. 
        If
we are required to utilize our Credit Lines for purposes other than acquisition activity, this will reduce the amount available for acquisitions and could slow our growth. Therefore,
our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements could have significant adverse consequences, including the following:


•our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments;  
•we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms, including to make acquisitions or to continue
to make distributions required to maintain our qualification as a REIT; 
•we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms
of our original indebtedness; 
•because a portion of our debt bears interest at variable rates, an increase in interest rates could materially increase
our interest expense; 
•we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms;  
•after debt service, the amount available for cash distributions to our stockholders is reduced;  
•our debt level could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt;  
•we may experience increased vulnerability to economic and industry downturns, reducing our ability to respond to changing
business and economic conditions; 
•we may default on our obligations and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties that secure their loans
and receive an assignment of rents and leases; 

17



 
Table of Contents


•we may default on our obligations and the lenders or mortgages may enforce our guarantees;  
•we may violate restrictive covenants in our loan documents, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate our debt
obligations; and 
•our default under any one of our mortgage loans with cross-default or cross-collateralization provisions could result in a
default on other indebtedness or result in the foreclosures of other properties. 

 We could become highly leveraged in the future because our organizational documents contain no limitation on the amount of debt we may incur.  
        Our organizational documents contain no limitations on the amount of indebtedness that we or our Operating Partnership may incur. We
could alter the balance between our total outstanding indebtedness and the value of our portfolio at any time. If we become more highly leveraged, then the resulting increase in debt service could
adversely affect our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness and to pay our anticipated cash distributions and/or to continue to make cash distributions to maintain our REIT
qualification, and could harm our financial condition. 
 Increases in interest rates may increase our interest expense and adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and make cash distributions to
our stockholders.  
        As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $1.4 billion of debt outstanding, of which approximately
$332.9 million or 24.5% was subject to variable interest rates (excluding debt with interest rate swaps). This variable rate debt had a weighted average interest rate of approximately 2.7% per
annum. Increases in interest rates on this variable rate debt would increase our interest expense, which could harm our cash flow and our ability to pay cash distributions. For example, if market
rates of interest on this variable rate debt increased by 100 basis points (excluding variable rate debt with interest rate floors), the increase in interest expense would decrease future earnings and
cash flows by approximately $2.6 million annually. 
 Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations.  
        In certain cases we may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements. Hedging
involves risks, such as the risk that the counterparty may fail to honor its obligations under an arrangement. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our
financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders. 
 Risks Related to Qualification and Operation as a REIT  
 To maintain our qualification as a REIT, we may be forced to borrow funds on a short-term basis during unfavorable market conditions.  
        To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our net taxable income each year, excluding net
capital gains, and we are subject to regular corporate income taxes to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income each year. In addition, we are subject to a 4%
nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions made by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100%
of our undistributed income from prior years. While historically we have satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to our stockholders, a REIT is permitted to satisfy
these requirements by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, its own stock. For distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before
December 31, 2011, recent Internal Revenue Service guidance allows us to satisfy up to 90% of the 
18



 
Table of Contents
distribution
requirements discussed above through the distribution of shares of our stock, if certain conditions are met. Assuming we continue to satisfy these distributions requirements with cash, we
may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis, or possibly long-term, to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the then prevailing market conditions are not
favorable for these borrowings. These borrowing needs could result from a difference in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or the
effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt amortization payments. 
 Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for reduced tax rates.  
        The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for dividends paid by domestic corporations to individual U.S. stockholders is 15% (through
2012). Dividends paid by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. The more favorable rates applicable to regular
corporate dividends could cause stockholders who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations
that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our securities. 
        In
addition, the relative attractiveness of real estate in general may be adversely affected by the favorable tax treatment given to corporate dividends, which could negatively affect
the value of our properties. 
 Possible legislative or other actions affecting REITs could adversely affect our stockholders.  
        The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by
the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department. Changes to tax laws (which changes may have retroactive application) could adversely affect our stockholders. It cannot be predicted whether, when, in what
forms, or with what effective dates, the tax laws applicable to us or our stockholders will be changed. 
 The power of our board of directors to revoke our REIT election without stockholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our stockholders.  
        Our charter provides that our board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our
stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to qualify as a REIT, we would become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our
taxable income and would no longer be required to distribute most of our net taxable income to our stockholders, which may have adverse consequences on the total return to our stockholders. 
 Our failure to qualify as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our stock.  
        We believe we operate in a manner that allows us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue
Code. If we fail to qualify as a REIT or lose our qualification as a REIT at any time, we will face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution for
each of the years involved because:


•we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject
to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; 
•we also could be subject to the U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and  
•unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four
taxable years following a year during which we were disqualified. 

19



 
Table of Contents
        In
addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders, and all distributions to stockholders will be subject to tax as regular
corporate dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. This means that our U.S. individual stockholders would be taxed on our dividends at capital gains rates, and our
U.S. corporate stockholders would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject, in each case, to applicable limitations under the Internal Revenue Code. If
we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and are able to avail ourselves of one or more of the relief provisions under the Internal Revenue Code in order to maintain our REIT
status, we may nevertheless be required to pay penalty taxes of $50,000 or more for each such failure. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability
to expand our business and raise capital, and could adversely affect the value of our securities. 
        Qualification
as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative
interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable Treasury regulations that have been promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code is greater in the case of a REIT that, like
us, holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In order to
qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the composition of our assets, the sources of our gross income and the owners of our stock. Our ability to
satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the fair market value of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent
appraisals. Also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our net taxable income, excluding capital gains, and we will be subject to income tax at regular
corporate rates to the extent we distribute
less than 100% of our net taxable income including capital gains. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our investors, our
ability to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes or the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. Although we believe that we have been organized and have
operated in a manner that is intended to allow us to qualify for taxation as a REIT, we can give no assurance that we have qualified or will continue to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes. We have not
requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service regarding our qualification as a REIT. 
 We will pay some taxes.  
        Even though we qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay some U.S. federal, state and local
taxes on our income and property. Extra Space Management, Inc. manages self-storage properties for our joint venture properties and properties owned by third parties. We, jointly
with Extra Space Management, Inc., elected to treat Extra Space Management, Inc. as a taxable REIT subsidiary ("TRS") of our Company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A taxable REIT
subsidiary is a fully taxable corporation, and may be limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to us. ESM Reinsurance Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Extra Space
Management, Inc., generates income from insurance premiums that are subject to federal income tax and state insurance premiums tax. In addition, we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on
certain amounts if the economic arrangements among our tenants, our taxable REIT subsidiary and us are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties or if we receive payments for
inventory or property held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Also, if we sell property as a dealer (i.e., to customers in the ordinary course of our trade or business),
we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on any gain arising from such sales. While we don't intend to sell properties as a dealer, the IRS could take a contrary position. To the extent that we are or
our taxable REIT subsidiary is required to pay U.S. federal, state or local taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to stockholders. 
20



 
Table of Contents
 Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities.  
        To qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the
sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to
forego attractive business or investment
opportunities. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may adversely affect our ability to operate solely to maximize profits.  
 
    Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments     
        None.  
 
    Item 2.    Properties     
        As of December 31, 2011, we owned or had ownership interests in 697 operating self-storage properties. Of these
properties, 356 are wholly-owned and 341 are held in joint ventures. In addition, we managed an additional 185 properties for franchisees or third parties bringing the total number of properties which
we own and/or manage to 882. These properties are located in 34 states and Washington, D.C. We receive a management fee generally equal to approximately 6% of cash collected from total revenues to
manage the joint venture, third party and franchise sites. As of December 31, 2011, we owned and/or managed approximately 64 million square feet of rentable space configured in
approximately 585,000 separate storage units. Approximately 77% of our properties are clustered around large population centers, such as Atlanta, Baltimore/Washington, D.C., Boston, Chicago, Dallas,
Houston, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Miami, New York City, Orlando, Philadelphia, Phoenix, St. Petersburg/Tampa and San Francisco/Oakland. These markets contain above-average population and income
demographics for new self-storage properties. The clustering of assets around these population centers enables us to reduce our operating costs through economies of scale. Our acquisitions
have given us an increased scale in many core markets as well as a foothold in many markets where we had no previous presence. 
        We
consider a property to be in the lease-up stage after it has been issued a certificate of occupancy, but before it has achieved stabilization. We consider a property to be
stabilized once it has achieved either an 80% occupancy rate for a full year measured as of January 1, or has been open for three years. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, over 448,000 tenants were leasing storage units at the 882 operating properties that we own and/or manage, primarily on a
month-to-month basis, providing the flexibility to increase rental rates over time as market conditions permit. Although leases are short-term in duration, the
typical tenant tends to remain at our properties for an extended period of time. For properties that were stabilized as of December 31, 2011, the average length of stay was approximately
13 months. The average annual rent per square foot at these
stabilized properties was approximately $13.67 at December 31, 2011, compared to $13.49 at December 31, 2010. 
        Our
property portfolio is made up of different types of construction and building configurations depending on the site and the municipality where it is located. Most often sites are what
we consider "hybrid" facilities, a mix of both drive-up buildings and multi-floor buildings. We have a number of multi-floor buildings with elevator access only, and a number of facilities
featuring ground-floor access only. 
        The
following table sets forth additional information regarding the occupancy of our stabilized properties on a state-by-state basis as of December 31,
2011 and 2010. The information as of December 31, 2010, is on a pro forma basis as though all the properties owned at December 31, 2011, were under our control as of December 31,
2010. 
21



 
Table of Contents
 Stabilized Property Data Based on Location  































 
 
 
 
Company 
 
Pro forma 
 
Company 
 
Pro forma 
 
Company 
 
Pro forma 
 


Location



 
Number
of
Properties 
 
Number of
Units as of
December 31,
2011(1) 
 
Number of
Units as of
December 31,
2010 
 
Net Rentable
Square Feet as of
December 31,
2011(2) 
 
Net Rentable
Square Feet as of
December 31,
2010 
 
Square Foot
Occupancy %
December 31,
2011 
 
Square Foot
Occupancy %
December 31,
2010 
 


 Wholly-owned properties
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Alabama
 
 
3
 
 
1,395
 
 
1,372
 
 
172,779
 
 
174,019
 
 
75.4
%
 
76.4
%


 Arizona
 
 
5
 
 
2,789
 
 
2,795
 
 
356,520
 
 
356,720
 
 
84.0
%
 
87.9
%


 California
 
 
65
 
 
48,642
 
 
48,730
 
 
5,034,552
 
 
5,041,932
 
 
83.2
%
 
81.0
%


 Colorado
 
 
10
 
 
4,519
 
 
4,497
 
 
569,886
 
 
569,914
 
 
86.0
%
 
86.3
%


 Connecticut
 
 
3
 
 
1,964
 
 
1,980
 
 
178,050
 
 
177,985
 
 
89.5
%
 
86.6
%


 Florida
 
 
30
 
 
19,652
 
 
19,831
 
 
2,120,505
 
 
2,127,182
 
 
87.2
%
 
82.9
%


 Georgia
 
 
12
 
 
6,419
 
 
6,425
 
 
836,418
 
 
837,248
 
 
86.8
%
 
84.5
%


 Hawaii
 
 
2
 
 
2,796
 
 
2,815
 
 
138,084
 
 
145,815
 
 
85.7
%
 
81.8
%


 Illinois
 
 
9
 
 
6,004
 
 
6,016
 
 
656,722
 
 
657,732
 
 
88.2
%
 
82.4
%


 Indiana
 
 
8
 
 
4,334
 
 
4,362
 
 
511,034
 
 
511,034
 
 
87.2
%
 
83.0
%


 Kansas
 
 
1
 
 
505
 
 
506
 
 
50,340
 
 
50,310
 
 
89.5
%
 
89.0
%


 Kentucky
 
 
4
 
 
2,155
 
 
2,159
 
 
254,065
 
 
254,241
 
 
89.2
%
 
86.4
%


 Louisiana
 
 
2
 
 
1,413
 
 
1,412
 
 
150,165
 
 
150,035
 
 
88.5
%
 
84.4
%


 Maryland
 
 
14
 
 
10,492
 
 
10,487
 
 
1,141,916
 
 
1,140,311
 
 
87.9
%
 
86.5
%


 Massachusetts
 
 
29
 
 
17,494
 
 
17,588
 
 
1,792,111
 
 
1,792,969
 
 
88.7
%
 
84.3
%


 Michigan
 
 
2
 
 
1,022
 
 
1,018
 
 
135,042
 
 
134,954
 
 
87.4
%
 
85.6
%


 Missouri
 
 
6
 
 
3,156
 
 
3,152
 
 
374,912
 
 
374,962
 
 
88.5
%
 
84.6
%


 Nevada
 
 
2
 
 
967
 
 
967
 
 
129,214
 
 
129,214
 
 
68.0
%
 
68.7
%


 New Hampshire
 
 
2
 
 
1,005
 
 
1,007
 
 
124,873
 
 
125,473
 
 
90.3
%
 
87.3
%


 New Jersey
 
 
27
 
 
22,305
 
 
22,331
 
 
2,149,112
 
 
2,150,593
 
 
89.5
%
 
86.3
%


 New Mexico
 
 
1
 
 
536
 
 
541
 
 
71,555
 
 
71,575
 
 
91.6
%
 
86.9
%


 New York
 
 
12
 
 
10,783
 
 
10,812
 
 
829,552
 
 
829,445
 
 
88.8
%
 
83.7
%


 Ohio
 
 
14
 
 
8,276
 
 
8,275
 
 
994,129
 
 
993,889
 
 
81.2
%
 
81.3
%


 Oregon
 
 
1
 
 
769
 
 
770
 
 
103,050
 
 
103,130
 
 
92.4
%
 
89.5
%


 Pennsylvania
 
 
9
 
 
5,726
 
 
5,789
 
 
655,710
 
 
655,785
 
 
90.2
%
 
84.7
%


 Rhode Island
 
 
2
 
 
1,181
 
 
1,204
 
 
130,756
 
 
131,831
 
 
84.2
%
 
81.9
%


 South Carolina
 
 
4
 
 
2,154
 
 
2,173
 
 
253,396
 
 
253,406
 
 
87.4
%
 
86.0
%


 Tennessee
 
 
3
 
 
1,608
 
 
1,620
 
 
214,260
 
 
215,260
 
 
84.7
%
 
82.2
%


 Texas
 
 
18
 
 
11,481
 
 
11,484
 
 
1,329,891
 
 
1,328,570
 
 
87.2
%
 
85.1
%


 Utah
 
 
7
 
 
3,189
 
 
3,210
 
 
409,223
 
 
410,513
 
 
85.7
%
 
83.9
%


 Virginia
 
 
6
 
 
4,293
 
 
4,301
 
 
416,227
 
 
416,552
 
 
85.4
%
 
86.5
%


 Washington
 
 
4
 
 
2,524
 
 
2,543
 
 
308,015
 
 
308,015
 
 
83.5
%
 
71.7
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total Wholly-Owned Stabilized 
 
 
317
 
 
211,548
 
 
212,172
 
 
22,592,064
 
 
22,620,614
 
 
86.3
%
 
83.5
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




22



 
Table of Contents
































 
 
 
 
Company 
 
Pro forma 
 
Company 
 
Pro forma 
 
Company 
 
Pro forma 
 


Location



 
Number
of
Properties 
 
Number of
Units as of
December 31,
2011(1) 
 
Number of
Units as of
December 31,
2010 
 
Net Rentable
Square Feet as of
December 31,
2011(2) 
 
Net Rentable
Square Feet as of
December 31,
2010 
 
Square Foot
Occupancy %
December 31,
2011 
 
Square Foot
Occupancy %
December 31,
2010 
 


 Joint-venture properties
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Alabama
 
 
3
 
 
1,707
 
 
1,705
 
 
205,713
 
 
205,588
 
 
83.9
%
 
86.6
%


 Arizona
 
 
10
 
 
6,398
 
 
6,402
 
 
728,830
 
 
728,894
 
 
89.4
%
 
86.3
%


 California
 
 
81
 
 
58,614
 
 
58,680
 
 
6,047,219
 
 
6,022,553
 
 
88.1
%
 
85.2
%


 Colorado
 
 
2
 
 
1,316
 
 
1,318
 
 
158,513
 
 
158,523
 
 
82.3
%
 
84.8
%


 Connecticut
 
 
8
 
 
5,985
 
 
5,990
 
 
691,688
 
 
692,632
 
 
89.5
%
 
85.3
%


 Delaware
 
 
1
 
 
585
 
 
581
 
 
71,680
 
 
71,740
 
 
93.7
%
 
88.8
%


 Florida
 
 
24
 
 
19,604
 
 
19,697
 
 
1,964,253
 
 
1,964,436
 
 
85.7
%
 
84.7
%


 Georgia
 
 
3
 
 
1,852
 
 
1,848
 
 
240,021
 
 
240,701
 
 
80.6
%
 
77.6
%


 Illinois
 
 
7
 
 
4,944
 
 
4,937
 
 
502,328
 
 
502,830
 
 
87.8
%
 
83.9
%


 Indiana
 
 
6
 
 
2,416
 
 
2,416
 
 
315,166
 
 
315,311
 
 
89.1
%
 
86.0
%


 Kansas
 
 
2
 
 
838
 
 
837
 
 
108,905
 
 
108,905
 
 
82.2
%
 
80.7
%


 Kentucky
 
 
4
 
 
2,281
 
 
2,275
 
 
269,845
 
 
269,545
 
 
87.1
%
 
87.6
%


 Maryland
 
 
15
 
 
11,844
 
 
11,843
 
 
1,159,102
 
 
1,158,077
 
 
88.1
%
 
87.8
%


 Massachusetts
 
 
15
 
 
7,822
 
 
7,844
 
 
893,653
 
 
896,711
 
 
86.6
%
 
85.0
%


 Michigan
 
 
9
 
 
5,446
 
 
5,444
 
 
729,413
 
 
730,498
 
 
88.7
%
 
85.8
%


 Missouri
 
 
1
 
 
530
 
 
531
 
 
61,275
 
 
61,075
 
 
90.8
%
 
84.8
%


 Nevada
 
 
8
 
 
5,329
 
 
5,364
 
 
692,958
 
 
692,743
 
 
82.5
%
 
84.4
%


 New Hampshire
 
 
3
 
 
1,310
 
 
1,305
 
 
137,314
 
 
136,994
 
 
87.2
%
 
87.8
%


 New Jersey
 
 
20
 
 
14,883
 
 
14,898
 
 
1,559,273
 
 
1,561,636
 
 
88.0
%
 
84.1
%


 New Mexico
 
 
9
 
 
4,646
 
 
4,657
 
 
542,685
 
 
539,430
 
 
85.4
%
 
83.7
%


 New York
 
 
20
 
 
20,054
 
 
20,051
 
 
1,617,800
 
 
1,617,907
 
 
89.8
%
 
87.5
%


 Ohio
 
 
12
 
 
5,398
 
 
5,451
 
 
786,354
 
 
798,054
 
 
88.3
%
 
80.9
%


 Oregon
 
 
2
 
 
1,291
 
 
1,292
 
 
136,590
 
 
136,920
 
 
94.4
%
 
88.1
%


 Pennsylvania
 
 
10
 
 
7,991
 
 
8,002
 
 
799,911
 
 
800,361
 
 
88.9
%
 
88.2
%


 Tennessee
 
 
23
 
 
12,519
 
 
12,591
 
 
1,668,533
 
 
1,668,913
 
 
84.5
%
 
84.4
%


 Texas
 
 
19
 
 
11,702
 
 
11,761
 
 
1,526,701
 
 
1,535,674
 
 
87.9
%
 
85.0
%


 Virginia
 
 
17
 
 
12,020
 
 
12,016
 
 
1,268,369
 
 
1,267,628
 
 
87.5
%
 
86.8
%


 Washington
 
 
1
 
 
548
 
 
546
 
 
62,730
 
 
62,730
 
 
87.6
%
 
84.4
%


 Washington, DC
 
 
1
 
 
1,529
 
 
1,533
 
 
101,989
 
 
102,003
 
 
89.1
%
 
91.7
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total Stabilized Joint-Ventures 
 
 
336
 
 
231,402
 
 
231,815
 
 
25,048,811
 
 
25,049,012
 
 
87.5
%
 
85.3
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Managed properties
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Arizona
 
 
1
 
 
578
 
 
580
 
 
67,300
 
 
67,350
 
 
54.8
%
 
37.1
%


 California
 
 
38
 
 
25,049
 
 
25,078
 
 
3,103,318
 
 
3,102,918
 
 
69.7
%
 
68.5
%


 Colorado
 
 
5
 
 
2,049
 
 
2,045
 
 
229,525
 
 
229,355
 
 
73.1
%
 
69.7
%


 Connecticut
 
 
1
 
 
489
 
 
489
 
 
61,360
 
 
61,360
 
 
72.8
%
 
72.8
%


 Florida
 
 
15
 
 
7,150
 
 
7,184
 
 
885,614
 
 
873,353
 
 
76.7
%
 
71.8
%


 Georgia
 
 
1
 
 
931
 
 
929
 
 
107,660
 
 
106,810
 
 
77.5
%
 
73.5
%


 Hawaii
 
 
3
 
 
3,516
 
 
3,516
 
 
202,429
 
 
202,429
 
 
57.1
%
 
57.1
%


 Illinois
 
 
6
 
 
3,329
 
 
3,357
 
 
342,093
 
 
345,004
 
 
68.6
%
 
64.9
%


 Indiana
 
 
3
 
 
1,693
 
 
1,706
 
 
184,754
 
 
183,289
 
 
78.4
%
 
76.6
%


 Kansas
 
 
4
 
 
1,975
 
 
1,974
 
 
334,750
 
 
335,710
 
 
77.9
%
 
76.2
%


 Kentucky
 
 
1
 
 
526
 
 
525
 
 
66,100
 
 
66,100
 
 
91.2
%
 
84.0
%


 Louisiana
 
 
1
 
 
1,015
 
 
1,009
 
 
135,315
 
 
135,970
 
 
65.7
%
 
63.4
%


 Maryland
 
 
12
 
 
7,416
 
 
7,476
 
 
854,717
 
 
855,543
 
 
82.4
%
 
78.4
%


 Massachusetts
 
 
2
 
 
2,089
 
 
2,109
 
 
189,834
 
 
189,899
 
 
83.9
%
 
76.8
%


 Missouri
 
 
5
 
 
2,741
 
 
2,751
 
 
455,334
 
 
455,434
 
 
75.6
%
 
77.6
%


 Nevada
 
 
2
 
 
1,566
 
 
1,574
 
 
170,375
 
 
170,375
 
 
78.4
%
 
80.2
%


 New Jersey
 
 
3
 
 
1,657
 
 
1,656
 
 
178,198
 
 
177,998
 
 
77.4
%
 
71.8
%


 New Mexico
 
 
2
 
 
1,105
 
 
1,106
 
 
132,262
 
 
132,282
 
 
87.5
%
 
85.9
%


 North Carolina
 
 
5
 
 
3,524
 
 
3,599
 
 
376,204
 
 
378,054
 
 
78.1
%
 
69.6
%


 Ohio
 
 
4
 
 
1,061
 
 
1,075
 
 
156,360
 
 
158,160
 
 
73.0
%
 
66.6
%


 Pennsylvania
 
 
18
 
 
7,368
 
 
7,413
 
 
901,985
 
 
902,890
 
 
79.7
%
 
72.1
%


 South Carolina
 
 
2
 
 
1,161
 
 
1,175
 
 
162,212
 
 
162,337
 
 
77.9
%
 
67.5
%


 Tennessee
 
 
3
 
 
1,491
 
 
1,500
 
 
205,225
 
 
205,415
 
 
86.4
%
 
86.6
%


 Texas
 
 
7
 
 
3,541
 
 
3,554
 
 
456,024
 
 
456,373
 
 
81.4
%
 
78.7
%


 Virginia
 
 
2
 
 
1,303
 
 
1,303
 
 
114,316
 
 
114,316
 
 
86.6
%
 
88.2
%


 Washington
 
 
1
 
 
464
 
 
464
 
 
56,590
 
 
56,590
 
 
82.9
%
 
82.9
%


 Washington, DC
 
 
2
 
 
1,263
 
 
1,263
 
 
112,459
 
 
112,459
 
 
89.0
%
 
86.2
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total Stabilized Managed Properties 
 
 
149
 
 
86,050
 
 
86,410
 
 
10,242,313
 
 
10,237,773
 
 
75.4
%
 
72.2
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total Stabilized Properties 
 
 
802
 
 
529,000
 
 
530,397
 
 
57,883,188
 
 
57,907,399
 
 
84.9
%
 
82.3
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Represents
unit count as of December 31, 2011, which may differ from December 31, 2010, unit count due to unit conversions or expansions.
(2)Represents
net rentable square feet as of December 31, 2011, which may differ from December 31, 2010, net rentable square feet due to unit
conversions or expansions. 

23




 










Table of Contents 
        The following table sets forth additional information regarding the occupancy of our lease-up properties on a state-by-state
basis as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. The information as of December 31, 2010, is on a pro forma basis as though all the properties owned at December 31, 2011, were under our
control as of December 31, 2010. 
 Lease-up Property Data Based on Location  































Location



 
Number of
Properties 
 
Number of
Units as of
December 31,
2011(1) 
 
Number of
Units as of
December 31,
2010 
 
Net Rentable
Square Feet
as of
December 31,
2011(2) 
 
Net Rentable
Square Feet
as of
December 31,
2010 
 
Square Foot
Occupancy %
December 31,
2011 
 
Square Foot
Occupancy %
December 31,
2010 
 


 Wholly-owned properties
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Arizona
 
 
1
 
 
636
 
 
—
 
 
71,355
 
 
—
 
 
36.0
%
 
—
 


 California
 
 
13
 
 
9,143
 
 
8,570
 
 
1,018,006
 
 
933,627
 
 
74.6
%
 
53.8
%


 Florida
 
 
8
 
 
6,523
 
 
5,002
 
 
645,255
 
 
492,325
 
 
55.5
%
 
32.9
%


 Georgia
 
 
4
 
 
1,986
 
 
1,995
 
 
252,766
 
 
252,986
 
 
75.6
%
 
65.6
%


 Illinois
 
 
2
 
 
1,372
 
 
1,403
 
 
151,020
 
 
151,005
 
 
74.0
%
 
59.4
%


 Maryland
 
 
3
 
 
2,448
 
 
1,629
 
 
241,895
 
 
156,870
 
 
54.2
%
 
38.3
%


 Massachusetts
 
 
1
 
 
615
 
 
605
 
 
74,025
 
 
72,225
 
 
63.8
%
 
63.1
%


 New Jersey
 
 
2
 
 
1,230
 
 
1,254
 
 
126,355
 
 
127,030
 
 
78.2
%
 
58.8
%


 New York
 
 
1
 
 
665
 
 
674
 
 
42,476
 
 
42,551
 
 
82.5
%
 
64.8
%


 Oregon
 
 
1
 
 
717
 
 
730
 
 
75,950
 
 
76,120
 
 
77.3
%
 
44.9
%


 Tennessee
 
 
1
 
 
505
 
 
505
 
 
68,750
 
 
69,550
 
 
68.9
%
 
67.2
%


 Texas
 
 
2
 
 
1,054
 
 
1,087
 
 
152,610
 
 
156,050
 
 
69.8
%
 
60.1
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total Wholly-Owned Lease up 
 
 
39
 
 
26,894
 
 
23,454
 
 
2,920,463
 
 
2,530,339
 
 
67.5
%
 
51.5
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Joint-venture properties
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 California
 
 
3
 
 
2,381
 
 
2,337
 
 
216,383
 
 
216,618
 
 
80.6
%
 
57.7
%


 Illinois
 
 
2
 
 
1,307
 
 
1,306
 
 
131,418
 
 
131,809
 
 
68.2
%
 
52.4
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total Lease up Joint-Ventures 
 
 
5
 
 
3,688
 
 
3,643
 
 
347,801
 
 
348,427
 
 
75.9
%
 
55.7
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Managed properties
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 California
 
 
2
 
 
1,742
 
 
1,740
 
 
236,369
 
 
236,289
 
 
71.7
%
 
63.9
%


 Colorado
 
 
1
 
 
572
 
 
572
 
 
59,259
 
 
59,259
 
 
54.2
%
 
54.2
%


 Florida
 
 
9
 
 
6,477
 
 
6,611
 
 
621,987
 
 
623,978
 
 
60.4
%
 
42.9
%


 Georgia
 
 
5
 
 
2,752
 
 
2,784
 
 
447,408
 
 
448,828
 
 
62.8
%
 
49.0
%


 Illinois
 
 
3
 
 
1,928
 
 
1,940
 
 
160,670
 
 
161,053
 
 
69.6
%
 
51.6
%


 Maryland
 
 
1
 
 
955
 
 
—
 
 
88,200
 
 
—
 
 
12.1
%
 
—
 


 Massachusetts
 
 
3
 
 
2,202
 
 
1,198
 
 
207,307
 
 
123,048
 
 
44.7
%
 
47.9
%


 New Jersey
 
 
1
 
 
845
 
 
850
 
 
78,295
 
 
78,295
 
 
82.9
%
 
73.5
%


 New York
 
 
1
 
 
904
 
 
906
 
 
46,197
 
 
46,197
 
 
58.6
%
 
39.6
%


 North Carolina
 
 
2
 
 
643
 
 
643
 
 
103,655
 
 
103,655
 
 
81.8
%
 
81.8
%


 Pennsylvania
 
 
2
 
 
1,984
 
 
1,991
 
 
173,059
 
 
173,019
 
 
70.3
%
 
58.1
%


 Rhode Island
 
 
1
 
 
969
 
 
985
 
 
91,075
 
 
90,995
 
 
42.4
%
 
29.3
%


 South Carolina
 
 
1
 
 
734
 
 
755
 
 
76,435
 
 
76,435
 
 
65.4
%
 
34.7
%


 Texas
 
 
2
 
 
1,594
 
 
934
 
 
172,377
 
 
103,350
 
 
26.8
%
 
18.8
%


 Utah
 
 
1
 
 
656
 
 
654
 
 
75,751
 
 
75,601
 
 
93.7
%
 
79.3
%


 Virginia
 
 
1
 
 
457
 
 
459
 
 
63,644
 
 
63,709
 
 
84.8
%
 
64.0
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total Lease up Managed Properties 
 
 
36
 
 
25,414
 
 
23,022
 
 
2,701,688
 
 
2,463,711
 
 
60.4
%
 
50.6
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total Lease up Properties 
 
 
80
 
 
55,996
 
 
50,119
 
 
5,969,952
 
 
5,342,477
 
 
64.8
%
 
51.4
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Represents
unit count as of December 31, 2011, which may differ from December 31, 2010, unit count due to unit conversions or expansions.
(2)Represents
net rentable square feet as of December 31, 2011, which may differ from December 31, 2010, net rentable square feet due to unit
conversions or expansions. 

 
    Item 3.   Legal Proceedings     
        We are involved in various litigation and legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business. We are not a party to any material
litigation or legal proceedings, or to the best of our knowledge, any threatened litigation or legal proceedings which, in the opinion of management, will have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition or results of operations either individually or in the aggregate.  
 
    Item 4.    Mine Safety Disclosures     
        Not Applicable. 
24



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  PART II     
 
    Item 5.    Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     
 Market Information  
        Our common stock has been traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "EXR" since our IPO on August 17,
2004. Prior to that time there was no public market for our common stock. 
        The
following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales price for our common stock as reported by the NYSE and the per share dividends declared: 





















 
 
 
 
Range 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
Dividends
Declared 
 


Year



 
Quarter 
 
High 
 
Low 
 


 



 2010
 
1st
 
$
13.35
 
$
10.78
 
$
0.10
 


 



 
2nd
 
 
16.32
 
 
12.52
 
 
0.10
 


 



 
3rd
 
 
17.10
 
 
12.94
 
 
0.10
 


 



 
4th
 
 
17.70
 
 
15.39
 
 
0.10
 


 2011
 
 1st
 
 

20.92
 
 

17.39
 
 

0.14
 


 
 
2nd
 
 
22.22
 
 
19.27
 
 
0.14
 


 
 
3rd
 
 
22.44
 
 
17.81
 
 
0.14
 


 
 
4th
 
 
24.68
 
 
17.29
 
 
0.14
 




        On
February 15, 2012, the closing price of our common stock as reported by the NYSE was $26.40. At February 15, 2012, we had 266 holders of record of our common stock.
Certain shares of the Company are held in "street" name and accordingly, the number of beneficial owners of such shares is not known or included in the foregoing number. 
        Holders
of shares of common stock are entitled to receive distributions when declared by our board of directors out of any assets legally available for that purpose. As a REIT, we are
required to distribute at least 90% of our "REIT taxable income," which is generally equivalent to our net taxable ordinary income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid to our
stockholders annually in order to maintain our REIT qualification for U.S. federal income tax purposes. 
        Information
about our equity compensation plans is incorporated by reference in Item 12 of Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities  
        None.  
 
    Item 6.    Selected Financial Data     
        The following table sets forth the selected financial data and should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and notes
thereto included in Item 8, "Financial Statements and 
25



 
Table of Contents
Supplementary
Data" and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in this Form 10-K. (Amounts in thousands, except share
and per share data.) 

























 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
2008 
 
2007 
 


 Revenues:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property rental
 
$
268,725
 
$
232,447
 
$
238,256
 
$
235,695
 
$
206,315
 


 Fees, tenant reinsurance and other income
 
 
61,105
 
 
49,050
 
 
41,890
 
 
37,036
 
 
31,647
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenues
 
 
329,830
 
 
281,497
 
 
280,146
 
 
272,731
 
 
237,962
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property operations
 
 
95,481
 
 
86,165
 
 
88,935
 
 
84,522
 
 
73,070
 


 Tenant reinsurance
 
 
6,143
 
 
6,505
 
 
5,461
 
 
5,066
 
 
4,710
 


 Unrecovered development and acquisition costs, loss on sublease and severance
 
 
5,033
 
 
3,235
 
 
21,236
 
 
1,727
 
 
765
 


 General and administrative
 
 
49,683
 
 
44,428
 
 
40,224
 
 
39,388
 
 
35,818
 


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
58,014
 
 
50,349
 
 
52,403
 
 
49,566
 
 
39,801
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total expenses
 
 
214,354
 
 
190,682
 
 
208,259
 
 
180,269
 
 
154,164
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income from operations
 
 
115,476
 
 
90,815
 
 
71,887
 
 
92,462
 
 
83,798
 


 Interest expense
 
 
(69,062
)
 
(65,780
)
 
(69,818
)
 
(68,671
)
 
(64,045
)


 Interest income
 
 
5,877
 
 
5,748
 
 
6,432
 
 
8,249
 
 
10,417
 


 Gain on repurchase of exchangeable senior notes
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
27,928
 
 
6,311
 
 
—
 


 Loss on investments available for sale
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(1,415
)
 
(1,233
)


 Fair value adjustment of obligation associated with Preferred Operating Partnership units
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1,054
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income before equity in earnings of real estate ventures and income tax expense
 
 
52,291
 
 
30,783
 
 
36,429
 
 
36,936
 
 
29,991
 


 Equity in earnings of real estate ventures
 
 
7,287
 
 
6,753
 
 
6,964
 
 
6,932
 
 
5,300
 


 Income tax expense
 
 
(1,155
)
 
(4,162
)
 
(4,300
)
 
(519
)
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
 
58,423
 
 
33,374
 
 
39,093
 
 
43,349
 
 
35,291
 


 Noncontrolling interests in Operating Partnership and other
 
 
(7,974
)
 
(7,043
)
 
(7,116
)
 
(7,568
)
 
(3,562
)


 Fixed distribution paid to Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(1,510
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income attributable to common stockholders
 
$
50,449
 
$
26,331
 
$
31,977
 
$
35,781
 
$
30,219
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income per common share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic
 
$
0.55
 
$
0.30
 
$
0.37
 
$
0.46
 
$
0.47
 


 Diluted
 
$
0.54
 
$
0.30
 
$
0.37
 
$
0.46
 
$
0.46
 


 Weighted average number of shares
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic
 
 
92,097,008
 
 
87,324,104
 
 
86,343,029
 
 
76,966,754
 
 
64,900,713
 


 Diluted
 
 
96,683,508
 
 
92,050,453
 
 
91,082,834
 
 
82,352,988
 
 
70,715,640
 


 Cash dividends paid per common share
 
$
0.56
 
$
0.40
 
$
0.38
 
$
1.00
 
$
0.93
 


 Balance Sheet Data
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
$
2,516,250
 
$
2,249,820
 
$
2,407,566
 
$
2,291,008
 
$
2,054,075
 


 Total notes payable, notes payable to trusts, exchangeable senior notes and lines of credit
 
$
1,363,656
 
$
1,246,918
 
$
1,402,977
 
$
1,286,820
 
$
1,299,997
 


 Noncontrolling interests
 
$
54,814
 
$
57,670
 
$
62,040
 
$
68,023
 
$
66,217
 


 Total stockholders' equity
 
$
1,018,947
 
$
881,401
 
$
884,179
 
$
878,770
 
$
638,461
 


 Other Data
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by operating activities
 
$
144,164
 
$
104,815
 
$
81,165
 
$
98,391
 
$
102,096
 


 Net cash used in investing activities
 
$
(251,919
)
$
(83,706
)
$
(104,410
)
$
(244,481
)
$
(254,344
)


 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
 
$
87,489
 
$
(106,309
)
$
91,223
 
$
172,685
 
$
98,824
 




26




 










Table of Contents 
 
    Item 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     
        The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto
appearing elsewhere in this report. We make statements in this section that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. For a complete discussion of forward-
looking statements, see the section in this Form 10-K entitled "Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information." Certain risk factors may cause actual results, performance or
achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the following discussion. For a discussion of such risk factors, see the section in this Form 10-K entitled
"Risk Factors." (Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data.)
 Overview  
        We are a fully integrated, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, formed to
continue the business commenced in 1977 by our predecessor companies to own, operate, manage, acquire, develop and redevelop professionally managed self-storage properties. Since our IPO,
our fully integrated development and acquisition teams have completed the development or acquisition of 595 self-storage properties. 
        At
December 31, 2011, we owned, had ownership interests in, or managed 882 operating properties in 34 states and Washington, D.C. Of these 882 operating properties, 356 were
wholly-owned, we held joint venture interests in 341 properties, and our taxable REIT subsidiary, Extra Space Management, Inc., operated an additional 185 properties that are owned by
franchisees or third parties in exchange for a management fee. These operating properties contain approximately 64 million square feet of rentable space in approximately 585,000 units and
currently serve a customer base of over 448,000 tenants. 
        Our
properties are generally situated in convenient, highly visible locations clustered around large population centers such as Atlanta, Baltimore/Washington, D.C., Boston, Chicago,
Dallas, Houston, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Miami, New York City, Orlando, Philadelphia, Phoenix, St. Petersburg/Tampa and San Francisco/Oakland. These areas all enjoy above average
population growth and income levels. The clustering of our assets around these population centers enables us to reduce our operating costs through economies of scale. We consider a property to be in
the lease-up stage after it has been issued a certificate of occupancy, but before it has achieved stabilization. A property is considered to be stabilized once it has achieved an 80%
occupancy rate for a full year measured as of January 1, or has been open for three years. 
        To
maximize the performance of our properties, we employ a state-of-the-art, web-based tracking and yield management technology called
STORE. Developed by our management team, STORE enables us to analyze, set and adjust rental rates in real time across our portfolio in order to respond to changing market conditions. In addition, we
also have an industry-leading revenue management system. We believe that the combination of STORE's yield management capabilities and the systematic processes developed by our team using our revenue
management system allows us to more proactively manage revenues. 
        We
derive substantially all of our revenues from rents received from tenants under existing leases at each of our self-storage properties, from management fees on the
properties we manage for joint-venture partners, franchisees and unaffiliated third parties and from our tenant reinsurance program. Our management fee is generally equal to approximately 6% of cash
collected from total revenues generated by the managed properties. We also receive an asset management fee of 0.5% of the total asset value from one of our joint ventures. 
        We
operate in competitive markets, often where consumers have multiple self-storage properties from which to choose. Competition has impacted, and will continue to impact our
property results. We experience seasonal fluctuations in occupancy levels, with occupancy levels generally higher in the 
27



 
Table of Contents
summer
months due to increased moving activity. Our operating results depend materially on our ability to lease available self-storage units, to actively manage unit rental rates, and on
the ability of our tenants to make required rental payments. We believe that we are able to respond quickly and effectively to changes in local, regional and national economic conditions by adjusting
rental rates through the use of STORE, and through the use of our revenue management system. 
        We
continue to evaluate and implement a range of new initiatives and opportunities in order to enable us to maximize stockholder value. Our strategies to maximize stockholder value
include the following: 


•Maximize the performance of properties through strategic, efficient and
proactive management.  We pursue revenue-generating and expense minimizing opportunities in our operations. Our revenue management team
seeks to maximize revenue by responding to changing market conditions through our technology system's ability to provide real-time, interactive rental rate and discount management. Our
size allows us greater ability than most of our competitors to implement national, regional and local marketing programs, which we believe attract more customers to our stores at a lower net cost.  
•Acquire self-storage properties from strategic partners and
third parties.  Our acquisitions team continues to pursue the acquisition of single properties and multi-property portfolios that we
believe can provide stockholder value. We have established a reputation as a reliable, ethical buyer, which we believe enhances our ability to negotiate and close acquisitions. In addition, we believe
our status as an UPREIT enables flexibility when structuring deals.   
•Expand our management
business.  Our management business enables us to generate increased revenues through management fees and expand our geographic footprint.
This expanded footprint enables us to reduce our operating costs through economies of scale. In addition, we see our management business as a future acquisition pipeline. We pursue strategic
relationships with owners that strengthen our acquisition pipeline through agreements which typically give us first right of refusal to purchase the managed property in the event of a potential sale. 

        During
2011, we acquired 55 wholly-owned properties and completed the development of five wholly-owned properties, all in our core markets. We have one wholly-owned development property,
which is scheduled for completion by the end of the first quarter of 2012. 
 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES  
        Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these
financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues
and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions, including those that impact our most critical accounting policies. We base our estimates and
assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe the following are
our most critical accounting policies: 
        CONSOLIDATION:    Arrangements that are not controlled through voting or similar rights are accounted for as variable interest entities
("VIEs"). An
enterprise is required to consolidate a VIE if it is the primary beneficiary of the VIE. 
        A
VIE is created when (i) the equity investment at risk is not sufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from
other parties, or (ii) the entity's equity holders as a group either: (a) lack the power, through voting or similar rights, to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly
impact the entity's economic performance, (b) are not obligated to absorb expected losses of the entity if they occur, or (c) do not have the right to receive 
28



 
Table of Contents
expected
residual returns of the entity if they occur. If an entity is deemed to be a VIE, the enterprise that is deemed to have a variable interest, or combination of variable interests, that
provides the enterprise with a controlling financial interest in the VIE is considered the primary beneficiary and must consolidate the VIE. 
        We
have concluded that under certain circumstances when we (1) enter into option agreements for the purchase of land or facilities from an entity and pay a
non-refundable deposit, or (2) enter into arrangements for the formation of joint ventures, a VIE may be created under condition (i), (ii) (b) or (c) of
the previous paragraph. For each VIE created, we have performed a qualitative analysis, including considering which party, if any, has the power to direct the activities most significant to the
economic performance of each VIE and whether that party has the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could be significant to the VIE. If we are
determined to be the primary beneficiary of the VIE, the assets, liabilities and operations of the VIE are consolidated with our financial statements. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had
no consolidated VIEs. Additionally, our Operating Partnership has notes payable to three trusts that are VIEs under condition (ii)(a) above. Since the Operating Partnership is not the primary
beneficiary of the trusts, these VIEs are not consolidated. 
         REAL ESTATE ASSETS:    Real estate assets are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation. Direct and allowable internal costs
associated with the
development, construction, renovation, and improvement of real estate assets are capitalized. Interest, property taxes, and other costs associated with development incurred during the construction
period are capitalized. 
        Expenditures
for maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. Major replacements and betterments that improve or extend the life of the asset are capitalized and
depreciated over their estimated useful lives. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the buildings and improvements, which are
generally between five and 39 years. 
        In
connection with our acquisition of properties, the purchase price is allocated to the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities acquired based on their fair values, which are
estimated using significant unobservable inputs. The value of the tangible assets, consisting of land and buildings, are determined as if vacant. Intangible assets, which represent the value of
existing tenant relationships, are recorded at their fair values based on the avoided cost to replace the current leases. We measure the value of tenant relationships based on the rent lost due to the
amount of time required to replace existing customers which is based on our historical experience with turnover in our facilities. Debt assumed as part of an acquisition is recorded at fair value
based on current interest rates compared to contractual rates. Acquisition-related transaction costs are expensed as incurred. 
        Intangible
lease rights include: (1) purchase price amounts allocated to leases on two properties that cannot be classified as ground or building leases; these rights are
amortized to expense over the term of the leases and (2) intangibles related to ground leases on four properties where the ground leases were assumed by the Company at rates that were different
than the current market rates for similar leases. The value associated with these assumed leases were recorded as intangibles, which will be amortized over the lease terms. 
         EVALUATION OF ASSET IMPAIRMENT:    We evaluate long lived assets held for use when events or circumstances indicate that there may be
impairment. We
review each property at least annually to determine if any such events or circumstances have occurred or exist. We focus on properties where occupancy and/or rental income have decreased by a
significant amount. For these properties, we determine whether the decrease is temporary or permanent and whether the property will likely recover the lost occupancy and/or revenue in the short term.
In addition, we carefully review properties in the lease-up stage and compare actual operating results to original projections. 
29



 
Table of Contents
        When
we determine that an event that may indicate impairment has occurred, we compare the carrying value of the related long-lived assets to the undiscounted future net
operating cash flows attributable to the assets. An impairment loss is recorded if the net carrying value of the assets exceeds the undiscounted future net operating cash flows attributable to the
assets. The impairment loss recognized equals the excess of net carrying value over the related fair value of the assets. 
        When
real estate assets are identified as held for sale, we discontinue depreciating the assets and estimate the fair value of the assets, net of selling costs. If the estimated fair
values, net of selling costs, of the assets that have been identified for sale are less than the net carrying value of the assets, a valuation allowance is established. The operations of assets held
for sale or sold during the period are generally presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented. 
        FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS:    The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, receivables, other financial
instruments
included in other assets, accounts payable and accrued expenses, variable rate notes payable, lines of credit and other liabilities reflected in the consolidated balance sheets at December 31,
2011 and 2010, approximate fair value. The fair values of our notes receivable, our fixed rate notes payable and notes payable to trusts and exchangeable senior notes are as follows: 






















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Fair
Value 
 
Carrying
Value 
 
Fair
Value 
 
Carrying
Value 
 


 Note receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder
 
$
104,049
 
$
100,000
 
$
115,696
 
$
100,000
 


 Fixed rate notes payable and notes payable to trusts
 
$
1,008,039
 
$
938,681
 
$
777,575
 
$
731,588
 


 Exchangeable senior notes
 
$
92,265
 
$
87,663
 
$
118,975
 
$
87,663
 




         INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE VENTURES:    Our investments in real estate joint ventures where we have significant influence but not control,
and joint
ventures which are VIEs in which we are not the primary beneficiary, are recorded under the equity method of accounting on the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 
        Under
the equity method, our investment in real estate ventures is stated at cost and adjusted for our share of net earnings or losses and reduced by distributions. Equity in earnings of
real estate ventures is generally recognized based on our ownership interest in the earnings of each of the unconsolidated real estate ventures. For the purposes of presentation in the statement of
cash flows, we follow the "look through" approach for classification of distributions from joint ventures. Under this approach, distributions are reported under operating cash flow unless the facts
and circumstances of a specific distribution clearly indicate that it is a return of capital (e.g., a liquidating dividend or distribution of the proceeds from the joint venture's sale of
assets) in which case it is reported as an investing activity. 
        Our
management assesses annually whether there are any indicators that the value of our investments in unconsolidated real estate ventures may be impaired and when events or
circumstances indicate that there may be impairment. An investment is impaired if management's estimate of the fair value of the investment, using significant unobservable inputs, is less than its
carrying value. To the extent impairment has occurred and is considered to be other than temporary, the loss is measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over the fair value of
the investment. 
         DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES:    The accounting for changes in the fair value of derivatives depends on the intended use
of the
derivative and the resulting designation. Derivatives used to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset, liability or firm commitment attributable to a particular risk, are
considered fair value hedges. Derivatives used to 
30



 
Table of Contents
hedge
the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. 
        For
derivatives designated as fair value hedges, changes in the fair value of the derivative and the hedged item related to the hedged risk are recognized in earnings. For derivatives
designated as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is initially reported in other comprehensive income, outside of earnings and subsequently
reclassified to earnings when the hedged transaction affects earnings. 
         CONVERSION OF OPERATING PARTNERSHIP UNITS:    Conversions of Operating Partnership units to common stock, when converted under the
original provisions
of the Operating Partnership agreement, are accounted for by reclassifying the underlying net book value of the units from noncontrolling interest to our equity. The difference between the fair value
of the consideration paid
and the adjustment to the carrying amount of the noncontrolling interest is recognized as additional paid in capital of the Company. 
        REVENUE AND EXPENSE RECOGNITION:    Rental revenues are recognized as earned based upon amounts that are currently due from tenants. Leases
are
generally on month-to-month terms. Prepaid rents are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the leases. Promotional discounts are recognized as a
reduction to rental income over the promotional period. Late charges, administrative fees, merchandise sales and truck rentals are recognized in income when earned. Management and franchise fee
revenues are recognized monthly as services are performed and in accordance with the terms of the related management agreements. Tenant reinsurance premiums are recognized as revenues over the period
of insurance coverage. Equity in earnings of real estate entities is recognized based on our ownership interest in the earnings of each of the unconsolidated real estate entities. Interest income is
recognized as earned. 
        Property
expenses, including utilities, property taxes, repairs and maintenance and other costs to manage the facilities are recognized as incurred. We accrue for property tax expense
based upon invoice amounts, estimates and historical trends. If these estimates are incorrect, the timing of expense recognition could be affected. 
         REAL ESTATE SALES:    In general, sales of real estate and related profits/losses are recognized when all consideration has changed hands
and risks and
rewards of ownership have been transferred. Certain types of continuing involvement preclude sale treatment and related profit recognition; other forms of continuing involvement allow for sale
recognition but require deferral of profit recognition. 
         INCOME TAXES:    We have elected to be treated as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code. In order to
maintain our
qualification as a REIT, among other things, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders and meet certain tests regarding the nature of our income and
assets. As a REIT, we are not subject to federal income tax with respect to that portion of our income which meets certain criteria and is distributed annually to our stockholders. We plan to continue
to operate so that we meet the requirements for taxation as a REIT. Many of these requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. If we were to fail to meet these requirements, we would be
subject to federal income tax. We are subject to certain state and local taxes. Provision for such taxes has been included in income tax expense in our consolidated statements of operations. 
        We
have elected to treat one of our corporate subsidiaries, Extra Space Management, Inc., as a taxable REIT subsidiary ("TRS"). In general, our TRS may perform additional services
for tenants and
generally may engage in any real estate or non-real estate related business (except for the operation or management of health care facilities or lodging facilities or the provision to any
person, under a franchise, license or otherwise, of rights to any brand name under which any lodging facility or health care facility is operated). A TRS is subject to corporate federal income tax.
Deferred tax assets and 
31



 
Table of Contents
liabilities
are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Interest and penalties relating to uncertain tax positions will be recognized in
income tax expense when incurred. 
        STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION:    The measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards to employees and
directors are
based on estimated fair values. Awards are valued at fair value and recognized on a straight line basis over the service periods of each award. 
 RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS  
        In June 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2011-05,
"Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income," which is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after
December 15, 2011. This guidance eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of stockholders' equity. In addition, items of other
comprehensive income that are reclassified to profit or loss are required to be presented separately on the face of the financial statements. This guidance is intended to increase the prominence of
other comprehensive income in financial statements by requiring that such amounts be presented either in a single continuous statement of income and comprehensive income or separately in consecutive
statements of income and comprehensive income. The Company's adoption of ASU 2011-05 is not expected to have a material impact on its financial condition or results of operations. 
        In
May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in
U.S. GAAP and IFRSs ("ASU No. 2011-04"). ASU No. 2011-04 updates and further clarifies requirements in U.S. GAAP for measuring fair value and for
disclosing information about fair value measurements. Additionally, ASU No. 2011-04 clarifies the FASB's
intent about the application of existing fair value measurements. ASU No. 2011-04 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011 and is applied
prospectively. The Company does not expect that the adoption of ASU No. 2011-04 will have a material impact to its consolidated financial statements. 
 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  
 Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2011 to the Year Ended December 31, 2010  
 Overview  
        Results for the year ended December 31, 2011, included the operations of 697 properties (357 of which were consolidated and 340
of which were in joint ventures accounted for using the equity method) compared to the results for the year ended December 31, 2010, which included operations of 660 properties (296 of which
were consolidated and 364 of which were in joint ventures accounted for using the equity method). 
32




 







 
Table of Contents 
 Revenues  
        The following table sets forth information on revenues earned for the years indicated: 






















 
 
For the Year Ended
December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
$ Change 
 
% Change 
 


 Revenues:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property rental
 
$
268,725
 
$
232,447
 
$
36,278
 
 
15.6
%


 Management and franchise fees
 
 
29,924
 
 
23,122
 
 
6,802
 
 
29.4
%


 Tenant reinsurance
 
 
31,181
 
 
25,928
 
 
5,253
 
 
20.3
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenues
 
$
329,830
 
$
281,497
 
$
48,333
 
 
17.2
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




         Property Rental—The increase in property rental revenues consists primarily of an
increase of $20,303 associated with acquisitions completed in 2011 and 2010, an increase of $9,934 resulting from increases in occupancy and rental rates to existing customers at our stabilized
properties and an increase of $6,961 related to increases in occupancy at our lease up properties. This is offset by a decrease of $920 related to the sale of 19 properties to a joint venture with
Harrison Street Real Estate Capital LLC ("Harrison Street") in January 2010. 
        Management and Franchise Fees—Our taxable REIT subsidiary, Extra Space Management, Inc., manages properties owned by our joint ventures,
franchisees and third parties. Management fees generally represent 6% of cash collected from properties owned by third parties, franchisees and unconsolidated joint ventures. The Company also earns an
asset management fee from the Storage Portfolio I ("SPI") joint venture, equal to 0.50% multiplied by the total asset value, provided certain conditions are met. 
        During
2011, it was discovered that the asset management fee owed to the Company by the SPI joint venture had not been recorded by either party for the five-year period ended
December 31, 2010. The annual asset management fee for this period was $885. After determining that the amounts were not material either in the prior periods or the current year for restatement
purposes, $4,425 of asset management fees earned during the five-year period ended December 31, 2010, was recorded in the current year. Additionally, asset management fees earned
during the year ended December 31, 2011, of $812 were also recorded. The remainder of the increase in management and franchise fees is related to the increase in third-party properties under
management during 2011 compared to the prior year. We managed 185 third-party properties as of December 31, 2011, compared to 160 as of December 31, 2010. 
        Tenant Reinsurance—The increase in tenant reinsurance revenues was partially due to the increase in overall customer participation to 63% at
December 31, 2011, compared to approximately 60% at December 31, 2010. In addition, we operated 882 properties at December 31, 2011, compared to 820 at December 31, 2010. 
33



 
Table of Contents
 Expenses  
        The following table sets forth information on expenses for the years indicated: 






















 
 
For the Year Ended
December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
$ Change 
 
% Change 
 


 Expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property operations
 
$
95,481
 
$
86,165
 
$
9,316
 
 
10.8
%


 Tenant reinsurance
 
 
6,143
 
 
6,505
 
 
(362
)
 
(5.6
)%


 Unrecovered development and acquisition costs
 
 
2,896
 
 
1,235
 
 
1,661
 
 
134.5
%


 Loss on sublease
 
 
—
 
 
2,000
 
 
(2,000
)
 
(100.0
)%


 Severance costs
 
 
2,137
 
 
—
 
 
2,137
 
 
100.0
%


 General and administrative
 
 
49,683
 
 
44,428
 
 
5,255
 
 
11.8
%


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
58,014
 
 
50,349
 
 
7,665
 
 
15.2
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total expenses
 
$
214,354
 
$
190,682
 
$
23,672
 
 
12.4
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




         Property Operations—The increase in property operations expense consists primarily of increases of $8,481 related to acquisitions completed in 2011
and 2010, and $1,781 related to increases in expenses at our lease-up properties. These increases were offset by a decrease of $946 resulting from lower expenses at our stabilized
properties, which relates mainly to decreases in property taxes, advertising and utilities expenses. 
        Tenant Reinsurance—Tenant reinsurance expense represents the costs that are incurred to provide tenant reinsurance. 
         Unrecovered Development and Acquisition Costs—These costs relate to acquisition activities during the periods indicated. The increases were related to
increased acquisition activity when compared to the prior year. During 2011, we acquired 55 properties, compared to only 15 during the year ended December 31, 2010. 
        Loss on Sublease—This expense is a result of a $2,000 charge recorded in the year ended
December 31, 2010, relating to the bankruptcy of a tenant subleasing office space from us in Memphis, TN. The Memphis, TN office lease is a liability assumed as part of the Storage, USA
acquisition in July 2005. There were no such losses recorded for the year ended December 31, 2011. 
         Severance Costs—The severance costs recorded during the year ended December 31, 2011, relate to severance granted to our former Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer, Kent Christensen, who left the Company on December 7, 2011. There were no severance costs incurred during the year ended December 31, 2010. 
         General and Administrative—General and administrative expenses increased primarily as a result of the additional costs related to the management of
additional properties. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we purchased 55 properties, 40 of which we did not previously manage. In addition, we managed 185 third-party properties at
December 31, 2011, compared to 160 at December 31, 2010. Also included in general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011, is an expense of $1,800 related
to litigation matters. There were no such expenses incurred during the year ended December 31, 2010. 
        Depreciation and Amortization—Depreciation and amortization expense increased as a result of the acquisition and development of new properties. We
acquired 55 properties and completed the development of five properties during the year ended December 31, 2011. 
34



 
Table of Contents
 Other Income and Expenses  
        The following table sets forth information on other income and expenses for the years indicated: 






















 
 
For the Year Ended
December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
$ Change 
 
% Change 
 


 Other income and expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest expense
 
$
(67,301
)
$
(64,116
)
$
(3,185
)
 
5.0
%


 Non-cash interest expense related to amortization of discount on exchangeable senior notes
 
 
(1,761
)
 
(1,664
)
 
(97
)
 
5.8
%


 Interest income
 
 
1,027
 
 
898
 
 
129
 
 
14.4
%


 Interest income on note receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder
 
 
4,850
 
 
4,850
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Equity in earnings of real estate ventures
 
 
7,287
 
 
6,753
 
 
534
 
 
7.9
%


 Income tax expense
 
 
(1,155
)
 
(4,162
)
 
3,007
 
 
(72.2
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total other expense, net
 
$
(57,053
)
$
(57,441
)
$
388
 
 
(0.7
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




         Interest Expense—The increase in interest expense was primarily the result of costs associated with prepaying certain loans and an increase in the
average amount of debt outstanding when compared to the prior year. 
         Non-cash Interest Expense Related to Amortization of Discount on Exchangeable Senior Notes—Represents the amortization of the discount on
exchangeable senior notes, which reflects the effective interest rate relative to the carrying amount of the liability. 
         Interest Income—Interest income represents amounts earned on cash and cash equivalents deposited with financial institutions. The increase in interest
income is due to slightly higher cash balances during the year ended December 31, 2011, primarily as a result of the cash proceeds received from the stock offering in May 2011. 
         Interest Income on Note Receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership Unit Holder —Represents interest on a $100,000 loan to the holder of the
Series A Participating Redeemable Preferred units of our Operating Partnership (the "Preferred OP units"). 
         Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Ventures—The increase in equity in earnings of real estate ventures was due primarily to an increase in revenues at
joint ventures resulting from increases in occupancy and rental rates to new and existing customers. This increase was offset by a reduction of approximately $1,300 from the SPI joint venture as a
result of the asset management fee expense recorded by the joint venture. 
        During
2011, it was discovered that the asset management fee owed to us by the SPI joint venture had not been recorded by either party for the five-year period ended
December 31, 2010. The annual asset management fee for this period was $885, offset by an annual reduction of $221 of equity in earnings of SPI. The total prior period adjustment for the years
2006 through 2010, increased asset management fee revenues by $4,425, and decreased equity in earnings by $1,106 and was recorded in the current year. The remaining reduction to equity in earnings
related to the net effect of the current year asset management fee of $203. 
         Income Tax Expense—The decrease in income tax expense relates primarily to solar tax credits. The decrease related to the credit was partially offset
by increased taxes resulting from increased tenant reinsurance income earned by our taxable REIT subsidiary. 
35



 
Table of Contents
 Net Income Allocated to Noncontrolling Interests  
        The following table sets forth information on net income allocated to noncontrolling interests for the years indicated: 






















 
 
For the Year Ended
December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
$ Change 
 
% Change 
 


 Net income allocated to noncontrolling interests:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership noncontrolling interests
 
$
(6,289
)
$
(6,048
)
$
(241
)
 
4.0
%


 Net income allocated to Operating Partnership and other noncontrolling interests
 
 
(1,685
)
 
(995
)
 
(690
)
 
69.3
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total income allocated to noncontrolling interests:
 
$
(7,974
)
$
(7,043
)
$
(931
)
 
13.2
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




         Net Income Allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership Noncontrolling Interests —Income allocated to the Preferred Operating Partnership equals the
fixed distribution paid to the Preferred OP unit holder plus approximately 1.0% and 1.1% of the remaining net income allocated after the adjustment for the fixed distribution paid for the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The amount allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership noncontrolling interest was higher in 2011 than in 2010 as our net income was higher in 2011
than it was in 2010. 
        Net Income Allocated to Operating Partnership and Other Noncontrolling Interests —Income allocated to the Operating Partnership represents
approximately 3.2% and 3.8% of net income after the allocation of the fixed distribution paid to the Preferred OP unit holder for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
Losses allocated to other noncontrolling interests represents the losses allocated to partners in consolidated joint ventures. 
 Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2010 to the Year Ended December 31, 2009  
 Overview  
        Results for the year ended December 31, 2010, included the operations of 660 properties (296 of which were consolidated and 364
of which were in joint ventures accounted for using the equity method) compared to the results for the year ended December 31, 2009, which included operations of 642 properties (298 of which
were consolidated and 344 of which were in joint ventures accounted for using the equity method). 
 Revenues  
        The following table sets forth information on revenues earned for the years indicated: 






















 
 
For the Year Ended
December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
$ Change 
 
% Change 
 


 Revenues:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property rental
 
$
232,447
 
$
238,256
 
$
(5,809
)
 
(2.4
)%


 Management and franchise fees
 
 
23,122
 
 
20,961
 
 
2,161
 
 
10.3
%


 Tenant reinsurance
 
 
25,928
 
 
20,929
 
 
4,999
 
 
23.9
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenues
 
$
281,497
 
$
280,146
 
$
1,351
 
 
0.5
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




         Property Rental—the decrease in property rental revenues relates primarily to a decrease of $15,669 associated with the sale of 19 properties to an
unconsolidated joint venture with Harrison 
36



 
Table of Contents
Street
on January 21, 2010. There was an additional decrease in revenue of $1,682 relating to the deconsolidation of five properties as a result of our adoption of amended accounting guidance
in ASC 810 effective January 1, 2010. These decreases were offset by increases in revenues of $5,852 relating to increases in occupancy at our lease-up properties, $3,319
relating to increases in occupancy and rental rates to new and existing customers at our stabilized properties, and $2,371 associated with acquisitions completed in 2010 and 2009. 
         Management and Franchise Fees—Our taxable REIT subsidiary, Extra Space Management, Inc., manages properties owned by our joint ventures,
franchisees and third parties. Management fees generally represent 6% of cash collected from properties owned by third parties, franchisees and unconsolidated joint ventures. The increase in
management and franchise fees is related to additional fees earned from the joint venture with Harrison Street and to the increase in third-party properties managed by us compared to the prior year.
We managed 160 third-party properties as of December 31, 2010, compared with 124 as of December 31, 2009. 
         Tenant Reinsurance—The increase in tenant reinsurance revenues is due to the fact that during the year ended December 31, 2010, we successfully
increased overall customer participation to approximately 60% at December 31, 2010, compared to approximately 54% at December 31, 2009. In addition we operated 820 properties at
December 31, 2010, compared to 766 at December 31, 2009. 
 Expenses  
        The following table sets forth information on expenses for the years indicated: 






















 
 
For the Year Ended
December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
$ Change 
 
% Change 
 


 Expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property operations
 
$
86,165
 
$
88,935
 
$
(2,770
)
 
(3.1
)%


 Tenant reinsurance
 
 
6,505
 
 
5,461
 
 
1,044
 
 
19.1
%


 Unrecovered development and acquisition costs
 
 
1,235
 
 
19,011
 
 
(17,776
)
 
(93.5
)%


 Loss on sublease
 
 
2,000
 
 
—
 
 
2,000
 
 
100.0
%


 Severance costs
 
 
—
 
 
2,225
 
 
(2,225
)
 
(100.0
)%


 General and administrative
 
 
44,428
 
 
40,224
 
 
4,204
 
 
10.5
%


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
50,349
 
 
52,403
 
 
(2,054
)
 
(3.9
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total expenses
 
$
190,682
 
$
208,259
 
$
(17,577
)
 
(8.4
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




         Property Operations—The decrease in property operations expense was primarily due to decreases of $5,695 related to the sale of 19 properties to an
unconsolidated joint venture with Harrison Street on January 21, 2010, and $692 related to the deconsolidation of five properties as a result of our adoption of amended accounting guidance in
ASC 810 effective January 1, 2010. These decreases were partially offset by increases of $2,762 related to our stabilized and lease up properties and $855 associated with acquisitions completed
in 2010 and 2009. 
        Tenant Reinsurance—Tenant reinsurance expense represents the costs that are incurred to provide tenant reinsurance. The increase in tenant reinsurance
expense is related to the increase in overall customer participation in the tenant reinsurance program to approximately 60% at December 31, 2010, compared to approximately 54% at
December 31, 2009. In addition we operated 820 properties at December 31, 2010, compared to 766 at December 31, 2009. 
         Unrecovered Development and Acquisition Costs—These costs relate to unsuccessful development and acquisition activities during the periods indicated.
On June 2, 2009, the Company announced that 
37



 
Table of Contents
it
had begun a wind-down of its development program. As a result of this decision, the Company recorded $18,883 of one-time impairment charges in order to write down the
carrying value of undeveloped land, development projects that will be completed and investments in development projects to their estimated fair values less cost to sell. 
        Loss on Sublease—This expense is a result of a $2,000 charge relating to the bankruptcy of a tenant subleasing office space from us in Memphis, TN.
The Memphis, TN office lease is a liability assumed as part of the Storage, USA acquisition in July 2005. 
         Severance Costs—On June 2, 2009, the Company announced that it had begun a wind-down of its development program. As a result of
this decision, the Company recorded severance costs of $1,400. In December 2009, the Company began the closure of its marketing office in Memphis, TN. As a result of this closure, the Company recorded
severance costs of $825. There were no severance costs incurred during the year ended December 31, 2010. 
        General and Administrative—General and administrative expenses increased primarily as a result of the additional costs related to the management of
additional third-party properties. We operated 820 properties at December 31, 2010, compared to 766 at December 31, 2009. 
         Depreciation and Amortization—Depreciation and amortization expense decreased primarily as a result of the sale of 19 properties to an unconsolidated
joint venture with Harrison Street on January 21, 2010. This decrease was partially offset by the additional depreciation on new properties added through acquisition and development during 2010
and 2009. 
 Other Revenue and Expenses  
        The following table sets forth information on other revenue and expenses for the years indicated: 






















 
 
For the Year Ended
December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
$ Change 
 
% Change 
 


 Other revenue and expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest expense
 
$
(64,116
)
$
(67,579
)
$
3,463
 
 
(5.1
)%


 Non-cash interest expense related to amortization of discount on exchangeable senior notes
 
 
(1,664
)
 
(2,239
)
 
575
 
 
(25.7
)%


 Interest income
 
 
898
 
 
1,582
 
 
(684
)
 
(43.2
)%


 Interest income on note receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder
 
 
4,850
 
 
4,850
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Gain on repurchase of exchangeable senior notes
 
 
—
 
 
27,928
 
 
(27,928
)
 
(100.0
)%


 Equity in earnings of real estate ventures
 
 
6,753
 
 
6,964
 
 
(211
)
 
(3.0
)%


 Income tax expense
 
 
(4,162
)
 
(4,300
)
 
138
 
 
(3.2
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total other revenue (expense)
 
$
(57,441
)
$
(32,794
)
$
(24,647
)
 
75.2
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




         Interest Expense—The decrease in interest expense was primarily the result of a decrease of $5,120 relating to the deconsolidation of the debt related
to the 19 properties sold to an unconsolidated joint venture with Harrison Street on January 21, 2010, and a decrease of $694 related to the deconsolidation of five properties as a result of
our adoption of amended accounting guidance in ASC 810 effective January 1, 2010. These decreases were partially offset as a result of higher interest rates on new loans obtained in 2010
and 2009. 
38




 










Table of Contents 
         Non-cash Interest Expense Related to Amortization of Discount on Exchangeable Senior Notes—The decrease in non-cash interest
expense related to amortization of discount on exchangeable senior notes for the year ended December 31, 2010 when compared to the prior year was due to the repurchase of a total principal
amount of $122,000 of our notes during 2009. The discount associated with the repurchase of the notes was written off as a result of these repurchases, which decreased the ongoing amortization of the
discount in 2010 when compared to 2009. 
         Interest Income—The decrease in interest income is primarily due to a decrease in the average interest rate on our invested cash when compared to the
same period in the prior year, along with a decrease in the average cash balance. 
         Interest Income on Note Receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership Unit Holder —Represents interest on a $100,000 loan to the holder of the
Series A Participating Redeemable Preferred units of our Operating Partnership (the "Preferred OP units"). 
         Gain on Repurchase of Exchangeable Senior Notes—This amount represents the gain on the repurchase of $122,000 total principal amount of our
exchangeable senior notes during 2009. We did not repurchase any of our exchangeable senior notes during the year ended December 31, 2010. 
         Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Ventures—The decrease is related primarily to additional losses allocated to equity in earnings of real estate
ventures due to the deconsolidation of five lease-up properties as a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance in ASC 810 effective January 1, 2010. 
         Income Tax Expense—The decrease in income tax expense relates primarily to a $832 solar tax credit that was partially offset by increased taxes
resulting from increased tenant reinsurance income earned by our taxable REIT subsidiary. 
 Net Income Allocated to Noncontrolling Interests  
        The following table sets forth information on net income allocated to noncontrolling interests for the years indicated: 






















 
 
For the Year Ended
December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
$ Change 
 
% Change 
 


 Net income allocated to noncontrolling interests:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership noncontrolling interests
 
$
(6,048
)
$
(6,186
)
$
138
 
 
 (2.2
)%


 Net income allocated to Operating Partnership and other noncontrolling interests
 
 
(995
)
 
(930
)
 
(65
)
 
7.0
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total income allocated to noncontrolling interests:
 
$
(7,043
)
$
(7,116
)
$
73
 
 
 (1.0
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




         Net Income Allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership Noncontrolling Interests —Income allocated to the Preferred Operating Partnership equals the
fixed distribution paid to the Preferred OP unit holder plus approximately 1.1% of the remaining net income allocated after the adjustment for the fixed distribution paid for the years ended
December 31, 2010 and 2009. The amount allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership noncontrolling interest was lower in 2010 than in 2009 as our net income was lower in 2010 than it was in
2009. 
        Net Income Allocated to Operating Partnership and Other Noncontrolling Interests —Income allocated to the Operating Partnership represents
approximately 3.8% and 4.4% of net income after the allocation of the fixed distribution paid to the Preferred OP unit holder for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The
loss allocated to the other noncontrolling interests was 
39



 
Table of Contents
lower
than the prior year due mainly to the deconsolidation of five lease-up properties with other noncontrolling interests effective January 1, 2010 as a result of the adoption of
new accounting guidance in ASC 810. 
 FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS  
        FFO provides relevant and meaningful information about our operating performance that is necessary, along with net income and cash
flows, for an understanding of our operating results. We believe FFO is a meaningful disclosure as a supplement to net earnings. Net earnings assume that the values of real estate assets diminish
predictably over time as reflected through depreciation and amortization expenses. The values of real estate assets fluctuate due to market conditions and we believe FFO more accurately reflects the
value of our real estate assets. FFO is defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, Inc. ("NAREIT") as net income computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles ("GAAP"), excluding gains or losses on sales of operating properties and impairment write-downs of depreciable real estate assets, plus depreciation and amortization and after
adjustments to record unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures on the same basis. We believe that to further understand our performance, FFO should be considered along with the reported net
income and cash flows in accordance with GAAP, as presented in the consolidated financial statements. 
        The
computation of FFO may not be comparable to FFO reported by other REITs or real estate companies that do not define the term in accordance with the current NAREIT definition or that
interpret the current NAREIT definition differently. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP, and should not be considered as an alternative
to net income as an indication of our performance, as an alternative to net cash flow from operating activities as a measure of our liquidity, or as an indicator of our ability to make cash
distributions. The following table sets forth the calculation of FFO for the periods indicated: 



















 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Net income attributable to common stockholders
 
$
50,449
 
$
26,331
 
$
31,977
 


 Adjustments:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Real estate depreciation
 
 
52,647
 
 
47,063
 
 
48,417
 


 Amortization of intangibles
 
 
2,375
 
 
650
 
 
1,647
 


 Joint venture real estate depreciation and amortization
 
 
7,931
 
 
8,269
 
 
5,805
 


 Joint venture loss on sale of properties
 
 
185
 
 
65
 
 
175
 


 Distributions paid on Preferred Operating Partnership units
 
 
(5,750
)
 
(5,750
)
 
(5,750
)


 Income allocated to Operating Partnership noncontrolling interests
 
 
7,978
 
 
7,096
 
 
8,012
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Funds from operations
 
$
115,815
 
$
83,724
 
$
90,283
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 SAME-STORE STABILIZED PROPERTY RESULTS  
        We consider our same-store stabilized portfolio to consist of only those properties which were wholly-owned at the
beginning and at the end of the applicable periods presented and that have achieved stabilization as of the first day of such period. The following table sets forth operating data for our
same-store portfolio. We consider the following same-store presentation to be meaningful in 
40



 
Table of Contents
regards
to the properties shown below. These results provide information relating to property level operating changes without the effects of acquisitions and completed developments. 




























 
 
For the Three
Months
Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
For the Year Ended
December 31, 
 
 
 


 
 
Percent
Change 
 
Percent
Change 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Same-store rental and tenant reinsurance revenues
 
$
61,395
 
$
58,026
 
 
5.8
%
$
241,001
 
$
229,785
 
 
4.9
%


 Same-store operating and tenant reinsurance expenses
 
 
19,387
 
 
19,593
 
 
(1.1
)%
 
78,892
 
 
79,098
 
 
(0.3
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Same-store net operating income
 
$
42,008
 
$
38,433
 
 
9.3
%
$
162,109
 
$
150,687
 
 
7.6
%


 Non same-store rental and tenant reinsurance revenues
 
$
20,357
 
$
9,062
 
 
124.6
%
$
58,905
 
$
28,590
 
 
106.0
%


 Non same-store operating and tenant reinsurance expenses
 
$
7,318
 
$
4,430
 
 
65.2
%
$
22,732
 
$
13,572
 
 
67.5
%


 Total rental and tenant reinsurance revenues
 
$
81,752
 
$
67,088
 
 
21.9
%
$
299,906
 
$
258,375
 
 
16.1
%


 Total operating and tenant reinsurance expenses
 
$
26,705
 
$
24,023
 
 
11.2
%
$
101,624
 
$
92,670
 
 
9.7
%


 Same-store square foot occupancy as of quarter end
 
 
87.8
%
 
84.7
%
 
 
 
 
87.8
%
 
84.7
%
 
 
 


 Properties included in same-store
 
 
253
 
 
253
 
 
 
 
 
253
 
 
253
 
 
 
 




 




























 
 
For the Three
Months
Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
For the Year Ended
December 31, 
 
 
 


 
 
Percent
Change 
 
Percent
Change 
 


 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Same-store rental and tenant reinsurance revenues
 
$
56,720
 
$
54,897
 
 
3.3
%
$
224,826
 
$
220,101
 
 
2.1
%


 Same-store operating and tenant reinsurance expenses
 
 
19,114
 
 
19,181
 
 
(0.3
)%
 
77,075
 
 
77,924
 
 
(1.1
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Same-store net operating income
 
$
37,606
 
$
35,716
 
 
5.3
%
$
147,751
 
$
142,177
 
 
3.9
%


 Non same-store rental and tenant reinsurance revenues
 
$
10,368
 
$
10,548
 
 
(1.7
)%
$
33,549
 
$
39,084
 
 
(14.2
)%


 Non same-store operating and tenant reinsurance expenses
 
$
4,909
 
$
3,763
 
 
30.5
%
$
15,595
 
$
16,472
 
 
(5.3
)%


 Total rental and tenant reinsurance revenues
 
$
67,088
 
$
65,445
 
 
2.5
%
$
258,375
 
$
259,185
 
 
(0.3
)%


 Total operating and tenant reinsurance expenses
 
$
24,023
 
$
22,944
 
 
4.7
%
$
92,670
 
$
94,396
 
 
(1.8
)%


 Same-store square foot occupancy as of quarter end
 
 
84.8
%
 
82.9
%
 
 
 
 
84.8
%
 
82.9
%
 
 
 


 Properties included in same-store
 
 
246
 
 
246
 
 
 
 
 
246
 
 
246
 
 
 
 




 Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2011 to the Year Ended December 31, 2010  
        The increase in same-store rental revenues was primarily due to increased rental rates to incoming and existing customers
and increased occupancy. Occupancy increased 310 basis points over the prior year. The decreases in same-store operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011, were
primarily due to lower utility costs, a decrease in yellow page advertising and lower than anticipated snow removal costs. 
41



 
Table of Contents
 Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2010 to the Year Ended December 31, 2009  
        The increase in same-store rental revenues was primarily due to increased rental rates to incoming and existing customers
and increased occupancy. The decreases in same-store operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2010 were primarily due to decreases in utilities, office expenses, property
taxes and insurance. 
 CASH FLOWS  
 Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2011 to the Year Ended December 31, 2010  
        Cash flows provided by operating activities were $144,164 and $104,815 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. The increase when compared to the prior year was primarily due to an increase in net income. There was also a decrease in the amount of cash used to pay accounts payable and accrued
expenses. These increases were offset by a decrease in cash received from affiliated joint ventures and related parties during 2011 compared to 2010. 
        Cash
used in investing activities was $251,919 and $83,706 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase in 2011 was primarily the result of $125,371
more cash being used to acquire new properties in 2011 compared to 2010. The Company also paid $51,000 to purchase a note receivable, which was offset by $860 of principal payments received in 2011,
compared to $0 in 2010. Additionally, the Company received $15,750 in proceeds from the sale of 19 properties to a joint venture in 2010, compared to $0 in 2011. These increases were offset by a
decrease of $29,002 in the amount of cash used to fund development activities in 2011 compared to 2010. 
        Cash
provided by financing activities was $87,489 for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to cash used in financing activities of $106,309 for the year ended
December 31, 2010. The increase in cash provided was the result of $112,349 of net cash proceeds generated from the sale of common stock in the current year, compared with $0 in 2010, along
with an increase of $284,425 in cash proceeds received from notes payable and lines of credit in 2011 when compared to 2010. These increases of cash were offset by the increase of $199,947 of cash
used for principal repayments on notes payable and lines of credit during 2011 when compared to 2010. 
 Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2010 to the Year Ended December 31, 2009  
        Cash flows provided by operating activities were $104,815 and $81,165 for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. The increase when compared to the prior year was due mainly to an increase in cash received from affiliated joint ventures and related parties during 2010 compared to 2009 to repay
receivables from related parties and affiliated real estate joint ventures. The decrease in net income in the current year when compared to the prior year was offset by a gain on the repurchase of
exchangeable senior notes and a loss relating to the wind-down of our development program in 2009. 
        Cash
used in investing activities was $83,706 and $104,410 for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The decrease in 2010 was primarily the result of $31,239
less cash being used to fund
development activities in 2010 compared to 2009. Additionally, the Company received $15,750 in proceeds from the sale of 19 properties to a joint venture in 2010, compared to $0 in 2009. The decrease
in cash used and proceeds from the sales of properties were offset by an increase of $31,403 in cash used to acquire new properties in 2010 compared to 2009. 
        Cash
used in financing activities was $106,309 for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to cash provided by financing activities of $91,223 for the year ended
December 31, 2009. The decrease in cash provided in 2010 when compared to the prior year was primarily the result of a decrease of $251,498 in the net proceeds from notes payable and lines of
credit in 2010 when compared to 2009, and $39,885 more cash paid for principal payments on notes payable and lines of credit in 2010 when 
42



 
Table of Contents
compared
to 2009. These decreases were partially offset by $87,734 less cash being used to repurchase exchangeable senior notes in 2010 compared to 2009. 
 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  
        As of December 31, 2011, we had $26,484 available in cash and cash equivalents. We intend to use this cash to repay debt
scheduled to mature in 2012 and for general corporate purposes. We are required to distribute at least 90% of our net taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to our stockholders on an annual
basis to maintain our qualification as a REIT. 
        Our
cash and cash equivalents are held in accounts managed by third party financial institutions and consist of invested cash and cash in our operating accounts. During 2011, we
experienced no loss or lack of access to our cash or cash equivalents; however, there can be no assurance that access to our cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the
financial markets. 
        The
following table sets forth information on our lines of credit for the periods indicated: 


























 
 
As of December 31, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Line of Credit



 
Amount
Drawn 
 
Capacity 
 
Interest
Rate 
 
Origination
Date 
 
Maturity 
 
Basis Rate 
 
Notes 


 Credit Line 1
 
$
100,000
 
$
100,000
 
 
1.3
%
10/19/2007
 
10/31/2012
 
LIBOR plus 1.00% - 2.10%
 
(5)


 Credit Line 2
 
 
40,000
 
 
74,000
 
 
2.4
%
2/13/2009
 
2/13/2014
 
LIBOR plus 2.15%
 
(1)(4)(5)


 Credit Line 3
 
 
40,000
 
 
72,000
 
 
2.5
%
6/4/2010
 
5/31/2013
 
LIBOR plus 2.20%
 
(2)(4)(5)


 Credit Line 4
 
 
25,000
 
 
40,000
 
 
2.5
%
11/16/2010
 
11/16/2013
 
LIBOR plus 2.20%
 
(3)(4)(5)


 Credit Line 5
 
 
10,000
 
 
50,000
 
 
2.4
%
4/29/2011
 
5/1/2014
 
LIBOR plus 2.15%
 
(3)(4)(5)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
215,000
 
$
336,000
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)One
year extension available
(2)One
two-year extension available
(3)Two
one-year extensions available
(4)Guaranteed
by the Company
(5)Secured
by mortgages on certain real estate assets 

        As
of December 31, 2011, we had $1,359,254 of debt, resulting in a debt to total capitalization ratio of 36.2%. As of December 31, 2011, the ratio of total fixed rate debt
and other instruments to total debt was 75.5% (including $342,427 on which we have interest rate swaps that have been included as fixed-rate debt). The weighted average interest rate of
the total of fixed and variable rate debt at December 31, 2011 was 4.7%. Certain of our real estate assets are pledged as collateral for our debt. We are subject to certain restrictive
covenants relating to our outstanding debt. We were in compliance with all financial covenants at December 31, 2011. 
        We
expect to fund our short-term liquidity requirements, including operating expenses, recurring capital expenditures, dividends to stockholders, distributions to holders of
OP units and interest on our outstanding indebtedness out of our operating cash flow, cash on hand and borrowings under our Credit Lines. In addition, we are pursuing additional term loans secured by
unencumbered properties. 
        Our
liquidity needs consist primarily of cash distributions to stockholders, property acquisitions, principal payments under our borrowings and non-recurring capital
expenditures. We may from time to time seek to repurchase or redeem our outstanding debt, shares of common stock or other securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or
otherwise. Such repurchases or redemptions, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual 
43



 
Table of Contents
restrictions
and other factors. In addition, we evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the merits of strategic acquisitions and other relationships, which may require us to raise additional funds. We do not
expect that our operating cash flow will be sufficient to fund our liquidity needs and instead expect to fund such needs out of additional borrowings of secured or unsecured indebtedness, joint
ventures with third parties, and from the proceeds of public and private offerings of equity and debt. Additional capital may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. Any additional
issuance of equity or equity-linked securities may result in dilution to our stockholders. In addition, any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to holders of
our common stock. We may also use OP units as currency to fund acquisitions from self-storage owners who desire tax-deferral in their exiting transactions. 
 OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS  
        Except as disclosed in the notes to our financial statements, we do not currently have any relationships with unconsolidated entities
or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purposes entities, which typically are established for the purpose of facilitating
off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Further, except as disclosed in the notes to our financial statements, we have not guaranteed any
obligations of unconsolidated entities nor do we have any commitments or intent to provide funding to any such entities. Accordingly, we are not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market
or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in these relationships. 
        Our
exchangeable senior notes provide for excess exchange value to be paid in shares of our common stock if our stock price exceeds a certain amount. See the notes to our financial
statements for a further description of our exchangeable senior notes. 
 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS  
        The following table sets forth information on future payments due by period as of December 31, 2011: 

























 
 
Payments due by Period: 
 


 
 
Total 
 
Less Than
1 Year 
 
1 - 3 Years 
 
3 - 5 Years 
 
After
5 Years 
 


 Operating leases
 
$
62,305
 
$
7,231
 
$
12,936
 
$
6,885
 
$
35,253
 


 Notes payable, notes payable to trusts, exchangeable senior notes and lines of credit
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest
 
 
364,438
 
 
59,808
 
 
99,582
 
 
60,234
 
 
144,814
 


 Principal
 
 
1,359,254
 
 
225,977
 
 
413,887
 
 
370,748
 
 
348,642
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total contractual obligations
 
$
1,785,997
 
$
293,016
 
$
526,405
 
$
437,867
 
$
528,709
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        As
of December 31, 2011, the weighted average interest rate for all fixed rate loans was 5.3%, and the weighted average interest rate on all variable rate loans was 2.7%. 
 FINANCING STRATEGY  
        We will continue to employ leverage in our capital structure in amounts reviewed from time to time by our board of directors. Although
our board of directors has not adopted a policy which limits the total amount of indebtedness that we may incur, we will consider a number of factors in evaluating our level of indebtedness from time
to time, as well as the amount of such indebtedness that will be 
44



 
Table of Contents
either
fixed or variable rate. In making financing decisions, we will consider factors including but not limited to:


•the interest rate of the proposed financing; 
•the extent to which the financing impacts flexibility in managing our properties;  
•prepayment penalties and restrictions on refinancing; 
•the purchase price of properties acquired with debt financing; 
•long-term objectives with respect to the financing; 
•target investment returns; 
•the ability of particular properties, and our Company as a whole, to generate cash flow sufficient to cover expected debt
service payments; 
•overall level of consolidated indebtedness; 
•timing of debt and lease maturities; 
•provisions that require recourse and cross-collateralization; 
•corporate credit ratios including debt service coverage, debt to total capitalization and debt to undepreciated assets;
and 
•the overall ratio of fixed and variable rate debt. 

        Our
indebtedness may be recourse, non-recourse or cross-collateralized. If the indebtedness is non-recourse, the collateral will be limited to the particular
properties to which the indebtedness relates. In addition, we may invest in properties subject to existing loans collateralized by mortgages or similar liens on our properties, or may refinance
properties acquired on a leveraged basis. We may use the proceeds from any borrowings to refinance existing indebtedness, to refinance investments, including the redevelopment of existing properties,
for general working capital or to purchase additional interests in partnerships or joint ventures or for other purposes when we believe it is advisable. 
        We
may from time to time seek to retire, repurchase or redeem our additional outstanding debt, including our exchangeable senior notes, as well as shares of common stock or other
securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or redemptions, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements,
contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. 
 SEASONALITY  
        The self-storage business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. A greater portion of revenues and profits are realized from
May through September. Historically, our highest level of occupancy has been at the end of July, while our lowest level of occupancy has been in late February and early March. Results for any quarter
may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year.  
 
    Item 7a.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk     
 Market Risk  
        Market risk refers to the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices and interest rates. Our future income, cash flows and fair
values of financial instruments are dependent upon prevailing market interest rates. 
45



 
Table of Contents
 Interest Rate Risk  
        Interest rate risk is highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international
economic and political considerations and other factors beyond our control. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $1,400,000 in total debt, of which approximately $332,900 was subject to variable interest rates (excluding debt with interest rate
swaps). If LIBOR were to increase or decrease by 100 basis points, the increase or decrease in interest expense on the variable rate debt (excluding variable rate debt with interest rate floors) would
increase or decrease future earnings and cash flows by approximately $2,600 annually. 
        Interest
rate risk amounts were determined by considering the impact of hypothetical interest rates on our financial instruments. These analyses do not consider the effect of any change
in overall economic activity that could occur. Further, in the event of a change of that magnitude, we may take actions to further mitigate our exposure to the change. However, due to the uncertainty
of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, these analyses assume no changes in our financial structure. 
46




 










Table of Contents 
    Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data     
    EXTRA SPACE STORAGE INC.  INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  AND SCHEDULES     

 


















 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
 
 48
 


 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
 49
 


 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 
 50
 


 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
 
 51
 


 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
 52
 


 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
 
 53
 


 SCHEDULE III
 
 
 93
 







        All
other schedules have been omitted since the required information is not present or not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information
required is included in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto. 
47




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     
To
the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Extra Space Storage Inc. 
        We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Extra Space Storage Inc. ("the Company") as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in
the index at Item 8. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
schedule based on our audits. 
        We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
        In
our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company at December 31, 2011 and
2010 and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material
respects the information set forth therein. 
        We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our
report dated February 29, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 











/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
 
 


 Salt Lake City, Utah
February 29, 2012
 

 




48




 










Table of Contents 
 
    Extra Space Storage Inc.         Consolidated Balance Sheets         (Dollars in thousands, except share data)     
















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 Assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Real estate assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net operating real estate assets
 
$
2,254,429
 
$
1,935,319
 


 Real estate under development
 
 
9,366
 
 
37,083
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net real estate assets
 
 
2,263,795
 
 
1,972,402
 


 Investments in real estate ventures
 
 

130,410
 
 

140,560
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
26,484
 
 
46,750
 


 Restricted cash
 
 
25,768
 
 
30,498
 


 Receivables from related parties and affiliated real estate joint ventures
 
 
18,517
 
 
10,061
 


 Other assets, net
 
 
51,276
 
 
49,549
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
$
2,516,250
 
$
2,249,820
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Liabilities, Noncontrolling Interests and Equity:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Notes payable
 
$
937,001
 
$
871,403
 


 Notes payable to trusts
 
 
119,590
 
 
119,590
 


 Exchangeable senior notes
 
 
87,663
 
 
87,663
 


 Premium (discount) on notes payable
 
 
4,402
 
 
(2,205
)


 Lines of credit
 
 
215,000
 
 
170,467
 


 Accounts payable and accrued expenses
 
 
45,079
 
 
35,242
 


 Other liabilities
 
 
33,754
 
 
28,589
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities
 
 
1,442,489
 
 
1,310,749
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commitments and contingencies
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Equity:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Extra Space Storage Inc. stockholders' equity:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Preferred stock, $0.01 par value, 50,000,000 shares authorized, no shares issued or outstanding
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Common stock, $0.01 par value, 300,000,000 shares authorized, 94,783,590 and 87,587,322 shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010, respectively
 
 
948
 
 
876
 


 Paid-in capital
 
 
1,290,021
 
 
1,148,820
 


 Accumulated other comprehensive deficit
 
 
(7,936
)
 
(5,787
)


 Accumulated deficit
 
 
(264,086
)
 
(262,508
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total Extra Space Storage Inc. stockholders' equity
 
 
1,018,947
 
 
881,401
 


 Noncontrolling interest represented by Preferred Operating Partnership units, net of $100,000 note receivable
 
 
29,695
 
 
29,733
 


 Noncontrolling interests in Operating Partnership
 
 
24,018
 
 
26,803
 


 Other noncontrolling interests
 
 
1,101
 
 
1,134
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total noncontrolling interests and equity
 
 
1,073,761
 
 
939,071
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities, noncontrolling interests and equity
 
$
2,516,250
 
$
2,249,820
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




  

   
  
See accompanying notes. 
49




 










Table of Contents 
 
    Extra Space Storage Inc.         Consolidated Statements of Operations         (Dollars in thousands, except share data)     



















 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Revenues:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property rental
 
$
268,725
 
$
232,447
 
$
238,256
 


 Management and franchise fees
 
 
29,924
 
 
23,122
 
 
20,961
 


 Tenant reinsurance
 
 
31,181
 
 
25,928
 
 
20,929
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenues
 
 
329,830
 
 
281,497
 
 
280,146
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property operations
 
 
95,481
 
 
86,165
 
 
88,935
 


 Tenant reinsurance
 
 
6,143
 
 
6,505
 
 
5,461
 


 Unrecovered development and acquisition costs
 
 
2,896
 
 
1,235
 
 
19,011
 


 Loss on sublease
 
 
—
 
 
2,000
 
 
—
 


 Severance costs
 
 
2,137
 
 
—
 
 
2,225
 


 General and administrative
 
 
49,683
 
 
44,428
 
 
40,224
 


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
58,014
 
 
50,349
 
 
52,403
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total expenses
 
 
214,354
 
 
190,682
 
 
208,259
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income from operations
 
 
115,476
 
 
90,815
 
 
71,887
 


 Interest expense
 
 

(67,301
)
 

(64,116
)
 

(67,579
)


 Non-cash interest expense related to amortization of discount on exchangeable senior notes
 
 
(1,761
)
 
(1,664
)
 
(2,239
)


 Interest income
 
 
1,027
 
 
898
 
 
1,582
 


 Interest income on note receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder
 
 
4,850
 
 
4,850
 
 
4,850
 


 Gain on repurchase of exchangeable senior notes
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
27,928
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income before equity in earnings of real estate ventures and income tax expense
 
 
52,291
 
 
30,783
 
 
36,429
 


 Equity in earnings of real estate ventures
 
 
7,287
 
 
6,753
 
 
6,964
 


 Income tax expense
 
 
(1,155
)
 
(4,162
)
 
(4,300
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
 
58,423
 
 
33,374
 
 
39,093
 


 Net income allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership noncontrolling interests
 
 
(6,289
)
 
(6,048
)
 
(6,186
)


 Net income allocated to Operating Partnership and other noncontrolling interests
 
 
(1,685
)
 
(995
)
 
(930
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income attributable to common stockholders
 
$
50,449
 
$
26,331
 
$
31,977
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income per common share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic
 
$
0.55
 
$
0.30
 
$
0.37
 


 Diluted
 
$
0.54
 
$
0.30
 
$
0.37
 


 Weighted average number of shares
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic
 
 
92,097,008
 
 
87,324,104
 
 
86,343,029
 


 Diluted
 
 
96,683,508
 
 
92,050,453
 
 
91,082,834
 


 Cash dividends paid per common share
 
$

0.56
 
$

0.40
 
$

0.38
 




  

   
  
See accompanying notes.
50




 










Table of Contents 
 
    Extra Space Storage Inc.         Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity         (Dollars in thousands, except share data)     





































 
 
Noncontrolling Interests 
 
Extra Space Storage Inc. Stockholders' Equity 
 
 
 


 
 
Preferred
Operating
Partnership 
 
Operating
Partnership 
 
Other 
 
Shares 
 
Par Value 
 
Paid-in
Capital 
 
Accumulated
Other
Comprehensive
Deficit 
 
Accumulated
Deficit 
 
Total
Equity 
 


 Balances at December 31, 2008
 
$
29,837
 
$
36,628
 
$
1,558
 
 
85,790,331
 
$
858
 
$
1,130,964
 
$
—
 
$
(253,052
)
$
946,793
 


 Restricted stock grants issued
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

547,265
 
 

5
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

5
 


 Restricted stock grants cancelled
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(21,256
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Compensation expense related to stock-based awards
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
3,809
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
3,809
 


 Noncontrolling interests consolidated as business acquisitions
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
726
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
726
 


 Investments from other noncontrolling interests
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(615
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(615
)


 Repurchase of equity portion of exchangeable senior notes
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(2,234
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(2,234
)


 Redemption of Operating Partnership units for common stock
 
 
—
 
 
(3,583
)
 
—
 
 
405,501
 
 
4
 
 
3,579
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Redemption of Operating Partnership units for cash
 
 
—
 
 
(1,908
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(1,908
)


 Comprehensive income:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss)
 
 
6,186
 
 
1,826
 
 
(896
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
31,977
 
 
39,093
 


 Change in fair value of interest rate swap, net of reclassification adjustment
 
 
(11
)
 
(44
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(1,056
)
 
—
 
 
(1,111
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total comprehensive income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37,982
 


 Tax effect from vesting of restricted stock grants
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(414
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(414
)


 Tax effect from wind down of development program
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
2,539
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
2,539
 


 Distributions to Operating Partnership units held by noncontrolling interests
 
 
(6,126
)
 
(1,538
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(7,664
)


 Dividends paid on common stock at $0.38 per share
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(32,800
)
 
(32,800
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balances at December 31, 2009
 
$
29,886
 
$
31,381
 
$
773
 
 
86,721,841
 
$
867
 
$
1,138,243
 
$
(1,056
)
$
(253,875
)
$
946,219
 


 Issuance of common stock upon the exercise of options
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

484,261
 
 

5
 
 

5,656
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

5,661
 


 Restricted stock grants issued
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
445,230
 
 
4
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
4
 


 Restricted stock grants cancelled
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(64,010
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Compensation expense related to stock-based awards
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
4,580
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
4,580
 


 Deconsolidation of noncontrolling interests
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
104
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
104
 


 Redemption of Operating Partnership units for cash
 
 
—
 
 
(4,116
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(4,116
)


 Investments from other noncontrolling interests
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
87
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
87
 


 Purchase of noncontrolling interest
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
223
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
223
 


 Comprehensive income:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss)
 
 
6,048
 
 
1,048
 
 
(53
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
26,331
 
 
33,374
 


 Change in fair value of interest rate swap, net of reclassification adjustment
 
 
(55
)
 
(177
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(4,731
)
 
—
 
 
(4,963
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total comprehensive income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
28,411
 


 Tax effect from vesting of restricted stock grants and stock option exercises
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
836
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
836
 


 Tax effect from contribution of property to Taxable REIT Subsidiary
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(495
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(495
)


 Distributions to Operating Partnership units held by noncontrolling interests
 
 
(6,146
)
 
(1,333
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(7,479
)


 Dividends paid on common stock at $0.40 per share
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(34,964
)
 
(34,964
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balances at December 31, 2010
 
$
29,733
 
$
26,803
 
$
1,134
 
 
87,587,322
 
$
876
 
$
1,148,820
 
$
(5,787
)
$
(262,508
)
$
939,071
 


 Issuance of common stock upon the exercise of options
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

1,388,269
 
 

14
 
 

18,608
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

18,622
 


 Restricted stock grants issued
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
226,630
 
 
2
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
2
 


 Restricted stock grants cancelled
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(47,695
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Issuance of common stock, net of offering costs
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
5,335,423
 
 
53
 
 
112,296
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
112,349
 


 Compensation expense related to stock-based awards
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
5,757
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
5,757
 


 Redemption of Operating Partnership units for common stock
 
 
—
 
 
(2,344
)
 
—
 
 
293,641
 
 
3
 
 
2,341
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Redemption of Operating Partnership units for cash
 
 
—
 
 
(271
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(271
)


 Comprehensive income:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss)
 
 
6,289
 
 
1,689
 
 
(4
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
50,449
 
 
58,423
 


 Change in fair value of interest rate swap, net of reclassification adjustment
 
 
(22
)
 
(66
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(2,149
)
 
—
 
 
(2,237
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total comprehensive income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
56,186
 


 Tax effect from vesting of restricted stock grants and stock option exercises
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
2,199
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
2,199
 


 Distributions to Operating Partnership units held by noncontrolling interests
 
 
(6,305
)
 
(1,793
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(8,098
)


 Distributions to other noncontrolling interests
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(29
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(29
)


 Dividends paid on common stock at $0.56 per share
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(52,027
)
 
(52,027
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balances at December 31, 2011
 
$
29,695
 
$
24,018
 
$
1,101
 
 
94,783,590
 
$
948
 
$
1,290,021
 
$
(7,936
)
$
(264,086
)
$
1,073,761
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




  

   
  
See accompanying notes.
51




 










Table of Contents 
 
    Extra Space Storage Inc.         Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows         (Dollars in thousands)     



















 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Cash flows from operating activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
$
58,423
 
$
33,374
 
$
39,093
 


 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
58,014
 
 
50,349
 
 
52,403
 


 Amortization of deferred financing costs
 
 
5,583
 
 
4,354
 
 
3,877
 


 Non-cash interest expense related to amortization of discount on exchangeable senior notes
 
 
1,761
 
 
1,664
 
 
2,239
 


 Gain on repurchase of exchangeable senior notes
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(27,928
)


 Compensation expense related to stock-based awards
 
 
5,757
 
 
4,580
 
 
3,809
 


 Non-cash unrecovered development and acquisition costs
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
19,011
 


 Loss on sublease
 
 
—
 
 
2,000
 
 
—
 


 Distributions from real estate ventures in excess of earnings
 
 
7,008
 
 
6,722
 
 
5,968
 


 Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Receivables from related parties and affiliated real estate joint ventures
 
 
(8,634
)
 
3,011
 
 
(12,347
)


 Other assets
 
 
7,533
 
 
(1,676
)
 
(6,584
)


 Accounts payable and accrued expenses
 
 
9,837
 
 
1,856
 
 
(1,675
)


 Other liabilities
 
 
(1,118
)
 
(1,419
)
 
3,299
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by operating activities
 
 
144,164
 
 
104,815
 
 
81,165
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash flows from investing activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Acquisition of real estate assets
 
 
(194,959
)
 
(69,588
)
 
(38,185
)


 Development and construction of real estate assets
 
 
(7,060
)
 
(36,062
)
 
(67,301
)


 Proceeds from sale of real estate assets
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
4,652
 


 Proceeds from sale of properties to joint venture
 
 
—
 
 
15,750
 
 
—
 


 Investments in real estate ventures
 
 
(4,088
)
 
(9,699
)
 
(3,246
)


 Return of investment in real estate ventures
 
 
4,614
 
 
8,802
 
 
1,315
 


 Change in restricted cash
 
 
4,730
 
 
9,036
 
 
(497
)


 Purchase of affiliated joint venture note receivable, net of principal payments received
 
 
(50,140
)
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Purchase of equipment and fixtures
 
 
(5,016
)
 
(1,945
)
 
(1,148
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash used in investing activities
 
 
(251,919
)
 
(83,706
)
 
(104,410
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash flows from financing activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Proceeds from the sale of common stock, net of offering costs
 
 
112,349
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Repurchase of exchangeable senior notes
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(87,734
)


 Proceeds from notes payable and lines of credit
 
 
475,487
 
 
191,062
 
 
442,560
 


 Principal payments on notes payable and lines of credit
 
 
(452,347
)
 
(252,400
)
 
(212,515
)


 Deferred financing costs
 
 
(6,197
)
 
(4,160
)
 
(8,716
)


 Investments from other noncontrolling interests
 
 
—
 
 
87
 
 
—
 


 Redemption of Operating Partnership units held by noncontrolling interest
 
 
(271
)
 
(4,116
)
 
(1,908
)


 Net proceeds from exercise of stock options
 
 
18,622
 
 
5,661
 
 
—
 


 Dividends paid on common stock
 
 
(52,027
)
 
(34,964
)
 
(32,800
)


 Distributions to noncontrolling interests
 
 
(8,127
)
 
(7,479
)
 
(7,664
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
 
 
87,489
 
 
(106,309
)
 
91,223
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
(20,266
)
 
(85,200
)
 
67,978
 


 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the period
 
 
46,750
 
 
131,950
 
 
63,972
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents, end of the period
 
$
26,484
 
$
46,750
 
$
131,950
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Supplemental schedule of cash flow information
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest paid, net of amounts capitalized
 
$
61,726
 
$
60,100
 
$
64,175
 


 Income taxes paid
 
 
665
 
 
6,539
 
 
4,292
 


 Supplemental schedule of noncash investing and financing activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Deconsolidation of joint ventures due to application of Accounting Standards Codification 810:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Real estate assets, net
 
$
—
 
$
(42,739
)
$
—
 


 Investments in real estate ventures
 
 
—
 
 
404
 
 
—
 


 Receivables from related parties and affiliated real estate joint ventures
 
 
—
 
 
21,142
 
 
—
 


 Other assets and other liabilities
 
 
—
 
 
(51
)
 
—
 


 Notes payable
 
 
—
 
 
21,348
 
 
—
 


 Other noncontrolling interests
 
 
—
 
 
(104
)
 
—
 


 Redemption of Operating Partnership units held by noncontrolling interests for common stock:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Noncontrolling interests in Operating Partnership
 
$
2,344
 
$
—
 
$
3,583
 


 Common stock and paid-in capital
 
 
(2,344
)
 
—
 
 
(3,583
)


 Tax effect from vesting of restricted stock grants and stock option exercises
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other assets
 
$
2,199
 
$
836
 
$
(414
)


 Paid-in capital
 
 
(2,199
)
 
(836
)
 
414
 


 Acquisitions of real estate assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Real estate assets, net
 
$
137,177
 
$
25,963
 
$
—
 


 Notes payable assumed
 
 
(132,327
)
 
(25,963
)
 
—
 


 Notes payable issued to seller
 
 
(4,850
)
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Change in receivables from related parties and affiliated real estate joint ventures due to consolidation of joint venture properties
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
18,568
 




  

   
  
See accompanying notes.
52




 










Table of Contents 
 
    Extra Space Storage Inc.         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         December 31, 2011         (Amounts in thousands, except property
and share data)     
 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS  

        Extra Space Storage Inc. (the "Company") is a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust ("REIT"), formed as a Maryland Corporation on
April 30, 2004, to own, operate, manage, acquire, develop and redevelop professionally managed self-storage facilities located throughout the United States. The Company continues
the business of Extra Space Storage LLC and its subsidiaries, which had engaged in the self-storage business since 1977. The Company's interest in its properties is held through its
operating partnership, Extra Space Storage LP (the "Operating Partnership"), which was formed on May 5, 2004. The Company's primary assets are general partner and limited partner
interests in the Operating Partnership. This structure is commonly referred to as an umbrella partnership REIT, or
UPREIT. The Company has elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Internal Revenue Code"). To the extent the Company continues to qualify as a REIT, it
will not be subject to tax, with certain limited exceptions, on the taxable income that is distributed to its stockholders. 
        The
Company invests in self-storage facilities by acquiring or developing wholly-owned facilities or by acquiring an equity interest in real estate entities. At
December 31, 2011, the Company had direct and indirect equity interests in 697 storage facilities. In addition, the Company managed 185 properties for franchisees or third parties bringing the
total number of properties which it owns and/or manages to 882, located in 34 states and Washington, D.C. 
        The
Company operates in three distinct segments: (1) property management, acquisition and development; (2) rental operations; and (3) tenant reinsurance. The
Company's property management, acquisition and development activities include managing, acquiring, developing, redeveloping and selling self-storage facilities. In June 2009, the Company
announced the wind-down of its development activities. As of December 31, 2011, there was one remaining development project in process. The Company expects to complete this project
by the end of the first quarter of 2012. The rental operations activities include rental operations of self-storage facilities. No single tenant accounts for more than 5% of rental income.
Tenant reinsurance activities include the reinsurance of risks relating to the loss of goods stored by tenants in the Company's self storage facilities. 
 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
 Basis of Presentation  
        The consolidated financial statements are presented on the accrual basis of accounting in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles ("GAAP") and include the accounts of the Company and its wholly- or majority-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 
 Variable Interest Entities  
        The Company accounts for arrangements that are not controlled through voting or similar rights as variable interest entities ("VIEs").
An enterprise is required to consolidate a VIE if it is the primary beneficiary of the VIE. A VIE is created when (i) the equity investment at risk is not sufficient to permit the entity to
finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties, or (ii) the entity's equity holders as a group either: (a) lack the power, through voting or 
53



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
similar
rights, to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance, (b) are not obligated to absorb expected losses of the entity if they
occur, or (c) do not have the right to receive expected residual returns of the entity if they occur. If an entity is deemed to be a VIE, the enterprise that is deemed to have a variable
interest, or combination of variable interests, that provides the enterprise with a controlling financial interest in the VIE, is considered the primary beneficiary and must consolidate the VIE. 
        The
Company has concluded that under certain circumstances when the Company (1) enters into option agreements for the purchase of land or facilities from an entity and pays a
non-refundable deposit, or (2) enters into arrangements for the formation of joint ventures, a VIE may be created under condition (i), (ii) (b) or (c) of
the previous paragraph. For each VIE created, the Company has performed a qualitative analysis, including considering which party, if any, has the power to direct the activities most significant to
the economic performance of each VIE and whether that party has the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could be significant to the VIE. If the
Company is determined to be the primary beneficiary of the VIE, the assets, liabilities and operations of the VIE are consolidated with the Company's financial statements. Additionally, the Operating
Partnership has notes payable to three
trusts that are VIEs under condition (ii)(a) above. Since the Operating Partnership is not the primary beneficiary of the trusts, these VIEs are not consolidated. 
        The
Company's investments in real estate joint ventures, where the Company has significant influence, but not control, and joint ventures which are VIEs in which the Company is not the
primary beneficiary, are recorded under the equity method of accounting on the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 
 Use of Estimates  
        The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 
 Reclassifications  
        Certain amounts in the 2010 and 2009 financial statements and supporting note disclosures have been reclassified to conform to the
current year presentation. Such reclassifications did not impact previously reported net income or accumulated deficit. 
54



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
 Fair Value Disclosures  
 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis  
        The following table provides information for each major category of assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a
recurring basis: 






















 
 
 
 
Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using 
 


Description



 
December 31, 2011 
 
Quoted Prices in Active
Markets for Identical
Assets (Level 1) 
 
Significant Other
Observable Inputs
(Level 2) 
 
Significant
Unobservable Inputs
(Level 3) 
 


 Other liabilities—Cash Flow Hedge Swap Agreements
 
$
(8,311
)
$
—
 
$
(8,311
)
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        There
were no transfers of assets and liabilities between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year ended December 31, 2011. The Company did not have any significant
assets or liabilities that are re-measured on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs as of December 31, 2011 or 2010. 
 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis  
        Long-lived assets held for use are evaluated by the Company for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that there
may be impairment. The Company reviews each self-storage facility at least annually to determine if any such events or circumstances have occurred or exist. The Company focuses on
facilities where occupancy and/or rental income have decreased by a significant amount. For these facilities, the Company determines whether the decrease is temporary or permanent and whether the
facility will likely recover the lost occupancy and/or revenue in the short term. In addition, the Company carefully reviews facilities in the lease-up stage and compares actual operating
results to original projections. 
        When
the Company determines that an event that may indicate impairment has occurred, the Company compares the carrying value of the related long-lived assets to the
undiscounted future net operating cash flows attributable to the assets. An impairment loss is recorded if the net carrying value of the assets exceeds the undiscounted future net operating cash flows
attributable to the assets. The impairment loss recognized equals the excess of net carrying value over the related fair value of the assets. 
        When
real estate assets are identified by management as held for sale, the Company discontinues depreciating the assets and estimates the fair value of the assets, net of selling costs.
If the estimated fair value, net of selling costs, of the assets that have been identified for sale is less than the net carrying value of the assets, then a valuation allowance is established. The
operations of assets held for sale or sold during the period are generally presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented. 
55



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
        The
Company assesses whether there are any indicators that the value of the Company's investments in unconsolidated real estate ventures may be impaired annually and when events or
circumstances indicate that there may be impairment. An investment is impaired if management's estimate of the fair value of the investment is less than its carrying value. To the extent impairment
has occurred, and is considered to be other than temporary, the loss is measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over the fair value of the investment. 
        As
of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. 
 Fair Value of Financial Instruments  
        The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, receivables, other financial instruments included in other assets,
accounts payable and accrued expenses, variable rate notes payable, lines of credit and other liabilities reflected in the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, approximate
fair value. The fair values of the Company's notes receivable, fixed rate notes payable and notes payable to trusts and exchangeable senior notes are as follows: 






















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Fair
Value 
 
Carrying
Value 
 
Fair
Value 
 
Carrying
Value 
 


 Note receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder
 
$
104,049
 
$
100,000
 
$
115,696
 
$
100,000
 


 Fixed rate notes payable and notes payable to trusts
 
$
1,008,039
 
$
938,681
 
$
777,575
 
$
731,588
 


 Exchangeable senior notes
 
$
92,265
 
$
87,663
 
$
118,975
 
$
87,663
 




 Real Estate Assets  
        Real estate assets are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation. Direct and allowable internal costs associated with the
development, construction, renovation, and improvement of real estate assets are capitalized. Interest, property taxes, and other costs associated
with development incurred during the construction period are capitalized. Capitalized interest during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, was $752, $2,013, and $4,148,
respectively. 
        Expenditures
for maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. Major replacements and betterments that improve or extend the life of the asset are capitalized and
depreciated over their estimated useful lives. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the buildings and improvements, which are
generally between five and 39 years. 
        In
connection with the Company's acquisition of self-storage facilities, the purchase price is allocated to the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities acquired based
on their fair values, which are estimated using significant unobservable inputs. The value of the tangible assets, consisting of land and buildings, are determined as if vacant. Intangible assets,
which represent the value of existing tenant relationships, are recorded at their fair values based on the avoided cost to replace the current 
56



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
leases.
The Company measures the value of tenant relationships based on the rent lost due to the amount of time required to replace existing customers which is based on the Company's historical
experience with turnover in its facilities. Debt assumed as part of an acquisition is recorded at fair value based on current interest rates compared to contractual rates. Acquisition-related
transaction costs are expensed as incurred. 
        Intangible
lease rights represent: (1) purchase price amounts allocated to leases on two properties that cannot be classified as ground or building leases; these rights are
amortized to expense over the life of the leases and (2) intangibles related to ground leases on four properties where the leases were assumed by the Company at rates that were lower than the
current market rates for similar leases. The value associated with these assumed leases were recorded as intangibles, which will be amortized over the lease terms. 
 Investments in Real Estate Ventures  
        The Company's investments in real estate joint ventures, where the Company has significant influence, but not control and joint
ventures which are VIEs in which the Company is not the primary beneficiary, are recorded under the equity method of accounting in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 
        Under
the equity method, the Company's investment in real estate ventures is stated at cost and adjusted for the Company's share of net earnings or losses and reduced by distributions.
Equity in earnings of real estate ventures is generally recognized based on the Company's ownership interest in the earnings of each of the unconsolidated real estate ventures. For the purposes of
presentation in the statement of cash flows, the Company follows the "look through" approach for classification of distributions from joint ventures. Under this approach, distributions are reported
under operating cash flow unless the facts and circumstances of a specific distribution clearly indicate that it is a return of capital (e.g., a liquidating dividend or distribution of the
proceeds from the joint venture's sale of assets), in which case it is reported as an investing activity. 
 Cash and Cash Equivalents  
        The Company's cash is deposited with financial institutions located throughout the United States of America and at times may exceed
federally insured limits. The Company considers all highly liquid debt instruments with a maturity date of three months or less to be cash equivalents. 
 Restricted Cash  
        Restricted cash is comprised of letters of credit and escrowed funds deposited with financial institutions located throughout the
United States relating to earnest money deposits on potential acquisitions, real estate taxes, insurance and capital expenditures. 
57



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
 Other Assets  
        Other assets consist primarily of equipment and fixtures, deferred financing costs, customer accounts receivable, investments in
trusts, other intangible assets, income taxes receivable, deferred tax assets and prepaid expenses. Depreciation of equipment and fixtures is
computed on a straight-line basis over three to five years. Deferred financing costs are amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the terms of the respective
debt agreements. 
 Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  
        The accounting for changes in the fair value of derivatives depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting
designation. Derivatives used to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset, liability or firm commitment attributable to a particular risk are considered fair value hedges.
Derivatives used to hedge the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows or other types of forecasted transactions are considered cash flow hedges. 
        For
derivatives designated as fair value hedges, changes in the fair value of the derivative and the hedged item related to the hedged risk are recognized in the statements of
operations. For derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is initially reported in other comprehensive income, outside of
earnings, and subsequently reclassified to earnings when the hedged transaction affects earnings. 
 Risk Management and Use of Financial Instruments  
        In the normal course of its ongoing business operations, the Company encounters economic risk. There are three main components of
economic risk: interest rate risk, credit risk and market risk. The Company is subject to interest rate risk on its interest-bearing liabilities. Credit risk is the risk of inability or unwillingness
of tenants to make contractually required payments. Market risk is the risk of declines in the value of properties due to changes in rental rates, interest rates or other market factors affecting the
value of properties held by the Company. The Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to manage a portion of its interest rate risk. 
 Conversion of Operating Partnership Units  
        Conversions of Operating Partnership units to common stock, when converted under the original provisions of the Operating Partnership
agreement, are accounted for by reclassifying the underlying net book value of the units from noncontrolling interest to the Company's equity. The difference between the fair value of the
consideration paid and the adjustment to the
carrying amount of the noncontrolling interest is recognized as additional paid in capital for the Company. 
 Revenue and Expense Recognition  
        Rental revenues are recognized as earned based upon amounts that are currently due from tenants. Leases are generally on
month-to-month terms. Prepaid rents are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the leases. Promotional discounts are recognized as a reduction to
rental income 
58



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
over
the promotional period. Late charges, administrative fees, merchandise sales and truck rentals are recognized as income when earned. Management and franchise fee revenues are recognized monthly
as services are performed and in accordance with the terms of the related management agreements. Tenant reinsurance premiums are recognized as revenue over the period of insurance coverage. Equity in
earnings of real estate entities is recognized based on our ownership interest in the earnings of each of the unconsolidated real estate entities. Interest income is recognized as earned. 
        Property
expenses, including utilities, property taxes, repairs and maintenance and other costs to manage the facilities are recognized as incurred. The Company accrues for property tax
expense based upon invoice amounts, estimates and historical trends. If these estimates are incorrect, the timing of expense recognition could be affected. 
 Real Estate Sales  
        In general, sales of real estate and related profits/losses are recognized when all consideration has changed hands and risks and
rewards of ownership have been transferred. Certain types of continuing involvement preclude sale treatment and related profit recognition; other forms of continuing involvement allow for sale
recognition but require deferral of profit recognition. 
 Advertising Costs  
        The Company incurs advertising costs primarily attributable to directory, direct mail, internet and other advertising. Direct response
advertising costs are deferred and amortized over the expected benefit period determined to be 12 months. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had $860 and $1,073, respectively,
of prepaid advertising included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets. All other advertising costs are expensed as incurred. The Company recognized $5,958, $6,430 and $5,892 in
advertising expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
 Income Taxes  
        The Company has elected to be treated as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code. In order to
maintain its qualification as a REIT, among other things, the Company is required to distribute at least 90% of its REIT taxable income to its stockholders and meet certain tests regarding the nature
of its income and assets. As a REIT, the Company is not subject to federal income tax with respect to that portion of its income which meets certain criteria and is distributed annually to
stockholders. The Company plans to continue to operate so that it meets the requirements for taxation as a REIT. Many of these requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. If the Company
were to fail to meet these requirements, it would be subject to federal income tax. The Company is subject to certain state and local taxes. Provision for such taxes has been included in income tax
expense on the Company's consolidated statements of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2011, 0.0% (unaudited) of all distributions to stockholders qualifies as a return of capital. 
59



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
        The
Company has elected to treat its corporate subsidiary, Extra Space Management, Inc. ("ESMI"), as a taxable REIT subsidiary ("TRS"). In general, the Company's TRS may perform
additional services for tenants and generally may engage in any real estate or non-real estate related business (except for the operation or management of health care facilities or any
lodging facilities or the provision to any person, under a franchise, license or otherwise, of rights to any brand name under which lodging facility or health care facility is operated). A TRS is
subject to corporate federal income tax. ESM Reinsurance Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ESMI, generates income from insurance premiums that are subject to corporate federal income tax and state
insurance premiums tax. 
        Deferred
tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, there
were no material unrecognized tax benefits. Interest and penalties relating to uncertain tax positions will be recognized in income tax expense when incurred. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
the Company had no interest or penalties related to uncertain tax provisions. 
 Stock-Based Compensation  
        The measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards to employees and directors are based on
estimated fair values. Awards granted are valued at fair value and any compensation element is recognized on a straight line basis over the service periods of each award. 
 Net Income Per Share  
        Basic net income per common share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average common shares outstanding including
unvested share based payment awards that contain a non-forfeitable right to dividends or dividend equivalents. Diluted earnings per common share measures the performance of the Company
over the reporting period while giving effect to all potential common shares that were dilutive and outstanding during the period. The denominator includes the weighted average number of basic shares
and the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the potential common shares that were dilutive had been issued and is calculated using either the treasury stock or
if-converted method. Potential common shares are securities (such as options, convertible debt, exchangeable Series A Participating Redeemable Preferred Operating Partnership units
("Preferred OP units") and exchangeable Operating Partnership units ("OP units")) that do not have a current right to participate in earnings but could do so in the future by virtue of their option or
conversion right. In computing the dilutive effect of convertible securities, net income is adjusted to add back any changes in earnings in the period associated with the convertible security. The
numerator also is adjusted for the effects of any other non-discretionary changes in income or loss that would result from the assumed conversion of those potential common shares. In
computing diluted earnings per share, only potential common shares that are dilutive, those that reduce earnings per share, are included. 
        The
Company's Operating Partnership has $87,663 of exchangeable senior notes issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2011, that also can potentially have a dilutive effect on
its earnings per 
60



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
share
calculations. The exchangeable senior notes are exchangeable by holders into shares of the Company's common stock under certain circumstances per the terms of the indenture governing the
exchangeable senior notes. The exchangeable senior notes are exchangeable if the price of the Company's common stock is greater than or equal to 130% of the applicable exchange price for a specified
period during a quarter, and under certain other circumstances. The exchange price was $23.20 per share at December 31, 2011, and could change over time as described in the indenture. The price
of the Company's common stock did not exceed 130% of the exchange price for the specified period of time during the fourth quarter of 2011. The exchangeable senior notes are also exchangeable at any
time from March 1, 2012 through April 1, 2012. 
        The
Company has irrevocably agreed to pay only cash for the accreted principal amount of the exchangeable senior notes relative to its exchange obligations, but has retained the right to
satisfy the exchange obligations in excess of the accreted principal amount in cash and/or common stock. Though the Company has retained that right, Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 260,
"Earnings Per Share," requires an assumption that shares will be used to pay the exchange obligations in excess of the accreted principal amount, and
requires that those shares be included in the Company's calculation of weighted average common shares outstanding for the diluted earnings per share computation using the treasury stock method. No
shares were included in the computation at December 31, 2011, as the shares in excess over the accreted principal would have been anti-dilutive. For the years ending
December 31, 2010 and 2009, no shares were included in the computation because there was no excess over the accreted principal for these periods. 
        For
the purposes of computing the diluted impact on earnings per share of the potential conversion of Preferred OP units into common shares, where the Company has the option to redeem in
cash or shares and where the Company has stated the positive intent and ability to settle at least $115,000 of the instrument in cash (or net settle a portion of the Preferred OP units against the
related outstanding note receivable), only the amount of the instrument in excess of $115,000 is considered in the calculation of shares contingently issuable for the purposes of computing diluted
earnings per share as allowed by ASC 260-10-45-46. 
        For
the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, options to purchase approximately 107,523 shares, 1,788,142 shares, and 4,925,153 shares of common stock, respectively, were
excluded from the computation of earnings per share as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. All restricted stock grants have been included in basic and diluted shares outstanding
because such shares earn a non-forfeitable dividend and carry voting rights. 
61




 







 
Table of Contents 

Extra Space Storage Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)  
 December 31, 2011  
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data)  
 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)  

        The computation of net income per share is as follows: 



















 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Net income attributable to common stockholders
 
$
50,449
 
$
26,331
 
$
31,977
 


 Add: Income allocated to noncontrolling interest—Preferred Operating Partnership and Operating Partnership
 
 

7,978
 
 

7,096
 
 

8,012
 


 Subtract: Fixed component of income allocated to noncontrolling interest—Preferred Operating Partnership
 
 
(5,750
)
 
(5,750
)
 
(5,750
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income for diluted computations
 
$
52,677
 
$
27,677
 
$
34,239
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Weighted average common shares outstanding:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Average number of common shares outstanding—basic
 
 
92,097,008
 
 
87,324,104
 
 
86,343,029
 


 Operating Partnership units
 
 
3,049,935
 
 
3,356,963
 
 
3,627,368
 


 Preferred Operating Partnership units
 
 
989,980
 
 
989,980
 
 
989,980
 


 Dilutive and cancelled stock options
 
 
546,585
 
 
379,406
 
 
122,457
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Average number of common shares outstanding—diluted
 
 
96,683,508
 
 
92,050,453
 
 
91,082,834
 


 Net income per common share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic
 
$
0.55
 
$
0.30
 
$
0.37
 


 Diluted
 
$
0.54
 
$
0.30
 
$
0.37
 




 Recently Issued Accounting Standards  
        In June 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2011-05, "Comprehensive Income
(Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income," which is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2011. This guidance eliminates the
option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of stockholders' equity. In addition, items of other comprehensive income that are reclassified to profit or
loss are required to be presented separately on the face of the financial statements. This guidance is intended to increase the prominence of other comprehensive income in financial statements by
requiring that such amounts be presented either in a single continuous statement of income and comprehensive income or separately in consecutive statements of income and comprehensive income. The
Company's adoption of ASU 2011-05 is not expected to have a material impact on its financial condition or results of operations. 
        In
May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in
U.S. GAAP and IFRSs ("ASU No. 2011-04"). ASU No. 2011-04 updates and further clarifies requirements in U.S. GAAP for measuring fair value and for
disclosing information about fair value measurements. Additionally, ASU No. 2011-04 clarifies the FASB's intent about the application of existing fair value measurements. ASU
No. 2011-04 is effective for interim and annual periods 
62



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
beginning
after December 15, 2011 and is applied prospectively. The Company does not expect that the adoption of ASU No. 2011-04 will have a material impact to its
consolidated financial statements. 
 3. REAL ESTATE ASSETS  

        The components of real estate assets are summarized as follows: 
















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 Land—operating
 
$
580,995
 
$
494,005
 


 Land—development
 
 
14,600
 
 
24,284
 


 Buildings and improvements
 
 
1,934,693
 
 
1,641,665
 


 Intangible assets—tenant relationships
 
 
37,293
 
 
32,257
 


 Intangible lease rights
 
 
6,150
 
 
6,150
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
2,573,731
 
 
2,198,361
 


 Less: accumulated depreciation and amortization
 
 
(319,302
)
 
(263,042
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net operating real estate assets
 
 
2,254,429
 
 
1,935,319
 


 Real estate under development
 
 
9,366
 
 
37,083
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net real estate assets
 
$
2,263,795
 
$
1,972,402
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Real estate assets held for sale included in net real estate assets
 
$
7,875
 
$
11,275
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
Company amortizes to expense intangible assets—tenant relationships on a straight-line basis over the average period that a tenant is expected to utilize the
facility (currently estimated at 18 months). The Company amortizes to expense the intangible lease rights over the terms of the related leases. Amortization related to the tenant relationships
and lease rights was $2,633, $907, and $1,905, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The remaining balance of the unamortized lease rights will be amortized over
the next 6 to 50 years. 
        In
June 2009, the Company announced the wind-down of its development activities. As a result of this change, the Company reviewed its properties under construction,
unimproved land and its investment in development joint ventures for potential impairments. This review included the preparation of updated models based on current market conditions, obtaining
appraisals and reviewing recent sales and list prices of undeveloped land and mature self storage facilities. Based on this review, the Company identified certain assets as being impaired. The
impairments relating to long-lived assets where the Company intends to complete the development and hold the asset are the result of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows being less
than the current carrying value of the assets. The Company compared the carrying value of certain undeveloped land and seven vacant condominiums that the Company intended to sell to the fair market
value of similar undeveloped land and condominiums. For the assets that the Company intended to sell, where the current estimated fair market value less costs to sell was below the carrying value, the
Company reduced the carrying value of the asset to the current fair market value less selling costs and recorded an impairment charge. These assets were classified as held for sale. The impairments
relating to investments in development joint 
63



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 3. REAL ESTATE ASSETS (Continued) 
ventures
were the result of the Company comparing the estimated current fair market value to the carrying value of the investment. For those investments in development joint ventures where the current
estimated fair market value was below the carrying value, the Company reduced the investment to the current fair market value through an impairment charge. Losses relating to changes in fair value
were included in unrecovered development and acquisition costs on the Company's statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009. No impairment losses were recorded during the
years ended December 31, 2011 or 2010. During 2011, the Company decided to lease the seven condominiums and as such they are no longer included in real estate assets held for sale. The rental
income related to the condominiums is included in property operations and was immaterial for the year ending December 31, 2011. Real estate assets held for sale included in net real estate
assets as of December 31, 2011 are recorded at fair value and consisted of undeveloped land. 
        On
April 10, 2009, the Company sold vacant land in Los Angeles, California for cash of $4,652. A loss of $343 was recorded as a result of this sale, and is included in unrecovered
development and acquisition costs in the consolidated statement of operations. 
 4. PROPERTY ACQUISITIONS  

        The following table shows the Company's acquisition of operating properties for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, and does not include purchases of raw land or
improvements made to existing assets: 














































 
 
 
 
 
 
Consideration Paid 
 
Acquisition Date Fair Value 
 


Property Location



 
Number of
Properties 
 
Date of
Acquisition 
 
Total Paid 
 
Cash Paid 
 
Loan
Assumed 
 
Notes
Payable
Issued to
Seller 
 
Previous
equity
interest 
 
Net
Liabilities/
(Assets)
Assumed 
 
Land 
 
Building 
 
Intangible 
 
Closing
costs—
expensed 
 


 New Jersey
 
 
1
 
 
12/16/2011
 
$
6,832
 
$
6,806
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
26
 
$
1,093
 
$
5,492
 
$
157
 
$
90
 


 Florida, Illinois, Massachusetts, New York, Rhode Island
 
 

6
 
 

12/1/2011
 
 

61,797
 
 

4,941
 
 

50,140
 
 

4,850
 
 

1,817
 
 

49
 
 

15,645
 
 

46,139
 
 

—
 
 

13
 


 Florida
 
 
1
 
 
10/25/2011
 
 
5,853
 
 
5,615
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
238
 
 
521
 
 
5,198
 
 
113
 
 
21
 


 California
 
 
19
 
 
10/19/2011
 
 
104,029
 
 
31,464
 
 
73,527
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(962
)
 
32,270
 
 
69,496
 
 
2,164
 
 
99
 


 New Jersey
 
 
1
 
 
10/6/2011
 
 
18,372
 
 
18,334
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
38
 
 
861
 
 
17,127
 
 
333
 
 
51
 


 Texas
 
 
1
 
 
8/2/2011
 
 
2,402
 
 
2,353
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
49
 
 
978
 
 
1,347
 
 
73
 
 
4
 


 Maryland
 
 
1
 
 
8/1/2011
 
 
7,343
 
 
7,342
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1
 
 
764
 
 
6,331
 
 
143
 
 
105
 


 Maryland
 
 
1
 
 
7/8/2011
 
 
5,785
 
 
5,795
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(10
)
 
1,303
 
 
4,218
 
 
125
 
 
139
 


 Ohio, Indiana, Kentucky
 
 
15
 
 
6/27/2011
 
 
39,773
 
 
39,387
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
386
 
 
13,478
 
 
25,098
 
 
903
 
 
294
 


 Nevada
 
 
1
 
 
6/22/2011
 
 
3,355
 
 
3,339
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
16
 
 
1,441
 
 
1,810
 
 
98
 
 
6
 


 Colorado
 
 
1
 
 
6/10/2011
 
 
4,600
 
 
2,664
 
 
1,907
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
29
 
 
296
 
 
4,199
 
 
98
 
 
7
 


 New Jersey
 
 
1
 
 
6/2/2011
 
 
4,963
 
 
4,959
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
4
 
 
1,644
 
 
3,115
 
 
135
 
 
69
 


 Virginia
 
 
1
 
 
5/26/2011
 
 
10,514
 
 
5,205
 
 
5,463
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(154
)
 
932
 
 
9,349
 
 
202
 
 
31
 


 Colorado
 
 
1
 
 
5/25/2011
 
 
3,540
 
 
2,262
 
 
1,290
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(12
)
 
407
 
 
3,077
 
 
61
 
 
(5
)


 Tennessee
 
 
1
 
 
4/15/2011
 
 
2,539
 
 
2,514
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
25
 
 
652
 
 
1,791
 
 
79
 
 
17
 


 California
 
 

1
 
 

4/7/2011
 
 

8,207
 
 

8,150
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

57
 
 

2,211
 
 

5,829
 
 

163
 
 

4
 


 Utah, Texas
 
 

2
 
 

4/1/2011
 
 

7,262
 
 

7,205
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

57
 
 

1,512
 
 

5,548
 
 

188
 
 

14
 


 Texas
 
 
2
 
 
12/14/2010
 
 
6,414
 
 
6,359
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
55
 
 
2,010
 
 
4,221
 
 
146
 
 
37
 


 New York
 
 
1
 
 
11/23/2010
 
 
9,727
 
 
4,547
 
 
5,601
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(421
)
 
5,676
 
 
3,784
 
 
209
 
 
58
 


 Utah
 
 
2
 
 
11/23/2010
 
 
4,559
 
 
4,570
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(11
)
 
1,306
 
 
3,132
 
 
106
 
 
15
 


 Maryland, Virginia
 
 
2
 
 
10/20/2010
 
 
16,784
 
 
16,828
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(44
)
 
1,461
 
 
14,668
 
 
490
 
 
165
 


 Utah
 
 
1
 
 
10/20/2010
 
 
4,531
 
 
4,514
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
17
 
 
986
 
 
3,455
 
 
80
 
 
10
 


 Alabama
 
 
2
 
 
8/23/2010
 
 
2,593
 
 
2,534
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
59
 
 
416
 
 
2,033
 
 
140
 
 
4
 


 Florida
 
 
1
 
 
7/15/2010
 
 
2,787
 
 
2,759
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
28
 
 
625
 
 
2,133
 
 
19
 
 
10
 


 Georgia
 
 
3
 
 
6/17/2010
 
 
7,661
 
 
7,551
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
110
 
 
2,769
 
 
4,487
 
 
318
 
 
87
 


 New York
 
 
1
 
 
5/21/2010
 
 
9,629
 
 
3,231
 
 
6,475
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(77
)
 
2,802
 
 
6,536
 
 
220
 
 
71
 




64



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 4. PROPERTY ACQUISITIONS (Continued) 
        As part of the acquisition of the 19-property portfolio purchased on October 19, 2011, the Company assumed three different
mortgage loans with a total amount due of $68,681 at the closing date. At the time of purchase, the Company recorded a $4,846 premium on the debt assumed in order to record the loans at their fair
values at the purchase date. This premium is included in premium (discount) on notes payable in the consolidated balance sheets and will be amortized to interest expense over the remaining term of the
loans. 
 5. INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE VENTURES  

        Investments in real estate ventures consist of the following: 






















 
 
 
 
 
 
Investment balance at 
 


 
 
Equity
Ownership % 
 
Excess Profit
Participation % 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 Extra Space West One LLC ("ESW")
 
 
5
%
 
40
%
$
689
 
$
1,077
 


 Extra Space West Two LLC ("ESW II")
 
 
5
%
 
40
%
 
4,501
 
 
4,606
 


 Extra Space Northern Properties Six LLC ("ESNPS")
 
 
10
%
 
35
%
 
953
 
 
1,142
 


 Extra Space of Santa Monica LLC ("ESSM")
 
 
48
%
 
48
%
 
3,015
 
 
2,901
 


 Clarendon Storage Associates Limited Partnership ("Clarendon")
 
 
50
%
 
50
%
 
3,171
 
 
3,204
 


 HSRE-ESP IA, LLC ("HSRE")
 
 
50
%
 
50
%
 
11,528
 
 
11,984
 


 PRISA Self Storage LLC ("PRISA")
 
 
2
%
 
17
%
 
11,141
 
 
11,445
 


 PRISA II Self Storage LLC ("PRISA II")
 
 
2
%
 
17
%
 
9,502
 
 
9,855
 


 PRISA III Self Storage LLC ("PRISA III")
 
 
5
%
 
20
%
 
3,410
 
 
3,568
 


 VRS Self Storage LLC ("VRS")
 
 
45
%
 
54
%
 
43,974
 
 
44,641
 


 WCOT Self Storage LLC ("WCOT")
 
 
5
%
 
20
%
 
4,495
 
 
4,799
 


 Storage Portfolio I LLC ("SP I")
 
 
25
%
 
25 - 40
%
 
11,853
 
 
14,873
 


 Storage Portfolio Bravo II ("SPB II")
 
 
20
%
 
20 - 45
%
 
14,435
 
 
14,759
 


 Extra Space Joint Ventures with Everest Real Estate Fund ("Everest")
 
 
39 - 58
%
 
40 - 50
%
 
3,609
 
 
5,514
 


 U-Storage de Mexico S.A. and related entities ("U-Storage")
 
 
40
%
 
40
%
 
4,841
 
 
4,852
 


 Other minority owned properties
 
 
18 - 50
%
 
19 - 50
%
 
(707
)
 
1,340
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
130,410
 
$
140,560
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        In
these joint ventures, the Company and the joint venture partner generally receive a preferred return on their invested capital. To the extent that cash/profits in excess of these
preferred returns are 
65



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 5. INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE VENTURES (Continued) 
generated
through operations or capital transactions, the Company would receive a higher percentage of the excess cash/profits than its equity interest. 
        In
accordance with ASC 810, the Company reviews all of its joint venture relationships quarterly to ensure that there are no entities that require consolidation. As of
December 31, 2011, there were no previously unconsolidated entities that were required to be consolidated as a result of this review. 
        On
December 1, 2011, the Company purchased Everest Real Estate Fund LLC's interest in Storage Associates Holdco, LLC, a joint venture in which the Company previously
held a 10% equity interest, for $4,941 in cash and a $4,850 promissory note. This joint venture owned six properties located in Florida, Illinois, Massachusetts, New York and Rhode Island. These
properties became wholly-owned and consolidated as of the date of the purchase. During September 2011, the Company purchased a note payable due from Holdco to the Bank of America for $51,000. The note
payable had a monthly interest rate of LIBOR plus 185 basis points and was due in March 2012. Upon the purchase of the remaining equity interest in Holdco on December 1, 2011, the balance of
the note of $50,140 was assumed by the Company and is subsequently eliminated in consolidation. 
        On
January 1, 2011, the Company paid $320 in cash to obtain its joint venture partners' equity interests in a joint venture. No gain or loss was recognized on this transaction.
The joint venture owned a single stabilized self-storage property located in Pennsylvania and was previously accounted for under the equity method. The property is now wholly-owned and
consolidated by the Company. 
        On
June 28, 2010, the Company contributed $6,660 to ESW as a result of a capital call related to the joint venture's repayment of its $16,650 loan. On August 25, 2010, ESW
closed on a new loan and on August 30, 2010, ESW returned $6,660 of investment capital to the Company. 
        On
June 15, 2010, the Company paid $193 to obtain an additional 7.2% percentage interest in ESSM, increasing the Company's interest in the venture from 41.0% to 48.2%. 
        On
January 21, 2010, the Company closed a joint venture transaction with an affiliate of Harrison Street Real Estate Capital LLC ("Harrison Street"). Harrison Street
contributed approximately $15,800 in cash to the joint venture in return for a 50.0% ownership interest. The Company contributed 19 wholly-owned properties and received approximately $15,800 in cash
and a 50.0% ownership interest in the joint venture. The joint venture assumed approximately $101,000 of existing debt which is secured by the properties. The properties are located in California,
Florida, Nevada, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The Company continues to operate the properties and receives a 6.0% management fee. The Company's 50% joint venture interest is
accounted for using the equity method of accounting. 
66



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 5. INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE VENTURES (Continued) 
        Equity
in earnings (losses) of real estate ventures consists of the following: 



















 
 
For the Year Ended
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Equity in earnings of ESW
 
$
1,156
 
$
1,213
 
$
1,164
 


 Equity in losses of ESW II
 
 
(8
)
 
(31
)
 
(24
)


 Equity in earnings of ESNPS
 
 
338
 
 
239
 
 
277
 


 Equity in earnings (losses) of ESSM
 
 
114
 
 
(142
)
 
(113
)


 Equity in earnings of Clarendon
 
 
465
 
 
417
 
 
375
 


 Equity in earnings (losses) of HSRE
 
 
388
 
 
(161
)
 
—
 


 Equity in earnings of PRISA
 
 
674
 
 
641
 
 
483
 


 Equity in earnings of PRISA II
 
 
530
 
 
481
 
 
550
 


 Equity in earnings of PRISA III
 
 
330
 
 
262
 
 
235
 


 Equity in earnings of VRS
 
 
2,279
 
 
2,221
 
 
2,116
 


 Equity in earnings of WCOT
 
 
92
 
 
251
 
 
242
 


 Equity in earnings (losses) of SP I
 
 
(116
)
 
934
 
 
793
 


 Equity in earnings of SPB II
 
 
301
 
 
184
 
 
283
 


 Equity in earnings (losses) of Everest
 
 
179
 
 
195
 
 
(6
)


 Equity in earnings (losses) of U-Storage
 
 
(11
)
 
55
 
 
70
 


 Equity in earnings (losses) of other minority owned properties
 
 
576
 
 
(6
)
 
519
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
7,287
 
$
6,753
 
$
6,964
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Equity
in earnings (losses) of ESW II, SP I and SPB II includes the amortization of the Company's excess purchase price of $25,713 of these equity investments over its original basis.
The excess basis is amortized over 40 years. 
67



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 5. INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE VENTURES (Continued) 
        Information
(unaudited) related to the real estate ventures' debt at December 31, 2011, is set forth below: 

















 
 
Loan Amount 
 
Current
Interest Rate 
 
Debt
Maturity 


 ESW—Fixed
 
$
16,700
 
 
5.00
%
September 2015


 ESW II—Fixed
 
 
20,000
 
 
5.48
%
March 2012


 ESNPS—Fixed
 
 
34,500
 
 
5.27
%
June 2015


 ESSM—Variable
 
 
11,125
 
 
3.01
%
November 2014


 Clarendon—Swapped to fixed
 
 
8,266
 
 
5.93
%
September 2018


 HSRE—Fixed
 
 
99,203
 
 
5.29
%
August 2015


 PRISA
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
Unleveraged


 PRISA II
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
Unleveraged


 PRISA III—Fixed
 
 
145,000
 
 
4.97
%
August 2012


 VRS—Fixed
 
 
52,100
 
 
4.76
%
August 2012


 WCOT—Fixed
 
 
92,140
 
 
4.76
%
August 2012


 SP I—Fixed
 
 
98,568
 
 
4.66
%
April 2018


 SPB II—Fixed
 
 
57,350
 
 
8.00
%
August 2014


 U-Storage
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
Unleveraged


 Other minority owned properties
 
 
74,402
 
 
Various
 
Various




        Combined,
condensed unaudited financial information of ESW, ESW II, ESNPS, PRISA, PRISA II, PRISA III, VRS, WCOT, SP I and SPB II and HSRE as of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
and for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, follows: 
















 
 
December 31, 
 


Balance Sheets:



 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net real estate assets
 
$
1,971,431
 
$
2,056,032
 


 Other
 
 
48,728
 
 
28,866
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
2,020,159
 
$
2,084,898
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Liabilities and members' equity:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Notes payable
 
$
615,561
 
$
634,778
 


 Other liabilities
 
 
37,558
 
 
27,700
 


 Members' equity
 
 
1,367,040
 
 
1,422,420
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
2,020,159
 
$
2,084,898
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




68



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 5. INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE VENTURES (Continued) 




















 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 
 


Statements of Income:



 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Rents and other income
 
$
304,499
 
$
297,658
 
$
282,181
 


 Expenses
 
 
217,114
 
 
211,283
 
 
195,330
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
$
87,385
 
$
86,375
 
$
86,851
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Variable Interests in Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures:  
        The Company has interests in two unconsolidated joint ventures with unrelated third parties which are variable interest entities
("VIEs" or the "VIE JVs"). The Company holds 18% and 39% of the equity interests in the two VIE JVs, and has 50% of the voting rights in each of the VIE JVs. Qualification as a VIE was based on the
determination that the equity investments at risk for each of these joint ventures were not sufficient based on a qualitative and quantitative analysis performed by the Company. The Company performed
a qualitative analysis for these joint ventures to determine which party was the primary beneficiary of each VIE. The Company determined that since the powers to direct the activities most significant
to the economic performance of these entities are shared equally by the Company and its joint venture partners, there is no primary beneficiary. Accordingly, these interests are recorded using the
equity method. 
        The
VIE JVs each own a single self-storage property. These joint ventures are financed through a combination of (1) equity contributions from the Company and its joint
venture partners, (2) mortgage notes payable and (3) payables to the Company. The payables to the Company consist of amounts owed for expenses paid on behalf of the joint ventures by the
Company as manager and mortgage notes payable to the Company. The Company performs management services for the VIE JVs in exchange for a management fee of approximately 6% of cash collected by the
properties. Except as disclosed, the Company has not provided financial or other support during the periods presented to the VIE JVs that it was not previously contractually obligated to provide. 
        The
Company guarantees the mortgage notes payable of the VIE JVs. The Company's maximum exposure to loss for these joint ventures as of December 31, 2011, is the total of the
guaranteed loan balances, the payables due to the Company and the Company's investment balances in the joint ventures. The Company believes that the risk of incurring a material loss as a result of
having to perform on the loan guarantees is unlikely and, therefore, no liability has been recorded related to these guarantees. Also, repossessing and/or selling the self-storage facility
and land that collateralize the loans could provide funds sufficient to reimburse the Company. Additionally, the Company believes the payables to the Company are collectible. 
69




 







 
Table of Contents 

Extra Space Storage Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)  
 December 31, 2011  
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data)  
 5. INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE VENTURES (Continued)  

        The following table compares the liability balance and the maximum exposure to loss related to the VIE JVs as of December 31, 2011: 




























 
 
Liability
Balance 
 
Investment
Balance 
 
Balance of
Guaranteed
Loan 
 
Payables to
Company 
 
Maximum
Exposure
to Loss 
 
Difference 
 


 Extra Space of Montrose Avenue LLC
 
$
—
 
$
1,194
 
$
5,120
 
$
2,195
 
$
8,509
 
$
(8,509
)


 Extra Space of Sacramento One LLC
 
 
—
 
 
(914
)
 
4,307
 
 
6,111
 
 
9,504
 
 
(9,504
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
—
 
$
280
 
$
9,427
 
$
8,306
 
$
18,013
 
$
(18,013
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
Company had no consolidated VIEs for the year ended December 31, 2011. 
 6. OTHER ASSETS  

        The components of other assets are summarized as follows: 
















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 Equipment and fixtures
 
$
12,146
 
$
13,552
 


 Less: accumulated depreciation
 
 
(8,847
)
 
(10,490
)


 Other intangible assets
 
 
3,424
 
 
3,343
 


 Deferred financing costs, net
 
 
15,386
 
 
14,519
 


 Prepaid expenses and deposits
 
 
5,265
 
 
6,869
 


 Accounts receivable, net
 
 
14,262
 
 
12,519
 


 Investments in Trusts
 
 
3,590
 
 
3,590
 


 Income taxes receivable
 
 
2,447
 
 
1,353
 


 Deferred tax assets
 
 
3,603
 
 
4,294
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
51,276
 
$
49,549
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




70



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 7. NOTES PAYABLE  

        The components of notes payable are summarized as follows: 
















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 Fixed Rate
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Mortgage and construction loans with banks (including loans subject to interest rate swaps) bearing interest at fixed rates between 3.7% and 7.0%. The
loans are collateralized by mortgages on real estate assets and the assignment of rents. Principal and interest payments are made monthly with all outstanding principal and interest due between January 2012 and February 2021. 
 
$
819,091
 
$
695,505
 


 Variable Rate
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Mortgage and construction loans with banks bearing floating interest rates based on LIBOR and Prime. Interest rates based on LIBOR are between LIBOR plus
2.0% (2.3% at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010) and LIBOR plus 4.0% (4.3% at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010). Interest rates based on Prime are between Prime plus 0.5% (3.8% at December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010), and Prime plus 1.5% (4.8% at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010). The loans are collateralized by mortgages on real estate assets and the assignment of rents. Principal and interest payments are made monthly
with all outstanding principal and interest due between May 2012 and May 2015. 
 
 
117,910
 
 
175,898
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
937,001
 
$
871,403
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
following table summarizes the scheduled maturities of notes payable at December 31, 2011: 













 2012
 
$
38,314
 


 2013
 
 
120,680
 


 2014
 
 
166,291
 


 2015
 
 
200,040
 


 2016
 
 
182,624
 


 Thereafter
 
 
229,052
 


 
 
 
 


 
 
$
937,001
 


 
 
 
 




        Certain
mortgage and construction loans with variable interest rates are subject to interest rate floors starting at 3.0%. Real estate assets are pledged as collateral for the notes
payable. Also, certain of these notes payable are cross-collateralized with other properties. Of the Company's $937,001 in notes payable outstanding at December 31, 2011, $418,348 were recourse
due to guarantees or other security provisions. The Company is subject to certain restrictive covenants relating to the outstanding notes payable. The Company was in compliance with all financial
covenants at December 31, 2011. 
71



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 8. DERIVATIVES  

        GAAP requires the recognition of all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. The accounting for changes in fair value of a derivative
instrument depends on whether it has been designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship and further, on the type of hedging relationship. A company must designate each qualifying hedging
instrument, based upon the exposure being hedged, as a fair value hedge, cash flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in foreign operation. 
        The
Company is exposed to certain risks relating to its ongoing business operations. The primary risk managed by using derivative instruments is interest rate risk. Interest rate swaps
are entered into to manage interest rate risk associated with the Company's fixed and variable-rate borrowings. 
        The
following table summarizes the terms of the Company's seven derivative financial instruments: 



















Hedge Product



 
Hedge Type 
 
Notional Amounts 
 
Strike 
 
Effective Dates 
 
Maturity Dates 


 Swap Agreements
 
Cash Flow
 
$8,462 - $63,000
 
2.24% - 6.98%
 
2/1/2009 - 10/1/2011
 
6/30/2013 - 9/20/2018




        Monthly interest payments were recognized as an increase or decrease in interest expense as follows: 





















 
 
 
 
For the Year Ended
December 31, 
 


 
 
Classification of
Income (Expense) 
 


Type



 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Swap Agreements
 
Interest expense
 
$
(3,771
)
$
(3,078
)
$
(463
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Information
relating to the losses recognized on the swap agreements is as follows: 


















 
 
 
 
 
 
Gain (loss)
reclassified from OCI 
 


 
 
Gain (loss)
recognized in OCI 
 
 
 


 
 
Location of amounts
reclassified from OCI
into income 
 
For the Year Ended
December 31, 2011 
 


Type



 
December 31, 2011 
 


 Swap Agreements
 
$
(2,237
)
Interest expense
 
$
(3,771
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






















 
 
 
 
 
 
Gain (loss)
reclassified from OCI 
 


 
 
Gain (loss)
recognized in OCI 
 
 
 


 
 
Location of amounts
reclassified from OCI
into income 
 
For the Year Ended
December 31, 2010 
 


Type



 
December 31, 2010 
 


 Swap Agreements
 
$
(4,963
)
Interest expense
 
$
(3,078
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
Swap Agreements were highly effective for the year ended December 31, 2011. The gain (loss) reclassified from OCI in the preceding table represents the effective portion of
our cash flow hedges reclassified from OCI to interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2011. 
72



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 8. DERIVATIVES (Continued) 
        The
balance sheet classification and carrying amounts of the interest rate swaps are as follows: 




















 
 
Asset (Liability) Derivatives 
 


 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


Derivatives designated as hedging instruments:



 
Balance Sheet
Location 
 
Fair
Value 
 
Balance Sheet
Location 
 
Fair
Value 
 


 Swap Agreements
 
Other liabilities
 
$
(8,311
)
Other liabilities
 
$
(6,074
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 9. NOTES PAYABLE TO TRUSTS  

        During July 2005, ESS Statutory Trust III (the "Trust III"), a newly formed Delaware statutory trust and a wholly-owned, unconsolidated subsidiary of the Operating Partnership, issued an
aggregate of
$40,000 of preferred securities which mature on July 31, 2035. In addition, the Trust III issued 1,238 of Trust common securities to the Operating Partnership for a purchase price of $1,238. On
July 27, 2005, the proceeds from the sale of the preferred and common securities of $41,238 were loaned in the form of a note to the Operating Partnership ("Note 3"). Note 3 had a
fixed rate of 6.91% through July 31, 2010, and then was payable at a variable rate equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 2.40% per annum. Effective July 11, 2011, the Trust III entered
into an interest rate swap that fixes the interest rate to be paid at 4.99% per annum and matures July 11, 2018. The interest on Note 3, payable quarterly, will be used by the Trust III
to pay dividends on the trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities became redeemable by the Trust III with no prepayment premium on July 27, 2010. 
        During
May 2005, ESS Statutory Trust II (the "Trust II"), a newly formed Delaware statutory trust and a wholly-owned, unconsolidated subsidiary of the Operating Partnership of the
Company, issued an aggregate of $41,000 of preferred securities which mature on June 30, 2035. In addition, the Trust II issued 1,269 of Trust common securities to the Operating Partnership for
a purchase price of $1,269. On May 24, 2005, the proceeds from the sale of the preferred and common securities of $42,269 were loaned in the form of a note to the Operating Partnership
("Note 2"). Note 2 had a fixed rate of 6.67% through June 30, 2010, and then was payable at a variable rate equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 2.40% per annum. Effective
July 11, 2011, the Trust II entered into an interest rate swap that fixes the interest rate to be paid at 4.99% per annum and matures July 11, 2018. The interest on Note 2,
payable quarterly, will be used by the Trust II to pay dividends on the trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities became redeemable by the Trust II with no prepayment premium on
June 30, 2010. 
        During
April 2005, ESS Statutory Trust I (the "Trust"), a newly formed Delaware statutory trust and a wholly-owned, unconsolidated subsidiary of the Operating Partnership of the Company
issued an aggregate of $35,000 of trust preferred securities which mature on June 30, 2035. In addition, the Trust issued 1,083 of Trust common securities to the Operating Partnership for a
purchase price of $1,083. On April 8, 2005, the proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred and common securities of $36,083 were loaned in the form of a note to the Operating Partnership
(the "Note"). The Note has a variable rate equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 2.25% per annum. Effective June 30, 2010, the Trust entered into an interest rate swap that fixes the interest
rate to be paid at 5.62% per annum and matures on June 30, 2015. The interest on the Note, payable quarterly, will be used by the Trust to pay 
73



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 9. NOTES PAYABLE TO TRUSTS (Continued) 
dividends
on the trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities became redeemable by the Trust with no prepayment premium on June 30, 2010. 
        Trust,
Trust II and Trust III are VIEs because the holders of the equity investment at risk (the trust preferred securities) do not have the power to direct the activities of the
entities that most significantly affect the entities' economic performance because of their lack of voting or similar rights. Because the Operating Partnership's investment in the trusts' common
securities was financed directly by the trusts as a result of its loan of the proceeds to the Operating Partnership, that investment is not considered
to be an equity investment at risk. The Operating Partnership's investment in the trusts is not a variable interest because equity interests are variable interests only to the extent that the
investment is considered to be at risk, and therefore the Operating Partnership cannot be the primary beneficiary of the trusts. Since the Company is not the primary beneficiary of the trusts, they
have not been consolidated. A debt obligation has been recorded in the form of notes as discussed above for the proceeds, which are owed to the Trust, Trust II, and Trust III by the Company. The
Company has also recorded its investment in the trusts' common securities as other assets. 
        The
Company has not provided financing or other support during the periods presented to the trusts that it was not previously contractually obligated to provide. The Company's maximum
exposure to loss as a result of its involvement with the trusts is equal to the total amount of the notes discussed above less the amounts of the Company's investments in the trusts' common
securities. The net amount is the notes payable that the trusts owe to third parties for their investments in the trusts' preferred securities. 
        Following
is a tabular comparison of the carrying amounts of the liabilities the Company has recorded as a result of its involvements with the trusts to the maximum exposure to loss the
Company is subject to related to the trusts as of December 31, 2011: 






















 
 
Notes payable
to Trusts as of
December 31, 2011 
 
Investment
Balance 
 
Maximum
exposure to loss 
 
Difference 
 


 Trust
 
$
36,083
 
$
1,083
 
$
35,000
 
$
—
 


 Trust II
 
 
42,269
 
 
1,269
 
 
41,000
 
 
—
 


 Trust III
 
 
41,238
 
 
1,238
 
 
40,000
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
119,590
 
$
3,590
 
$
116,000
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 10. EXCHANGEABLE SENIOR NOTES  

        On March 27, 2007, the Company's Operating Partnership issued $250,000 of its 3.625% Exchangeable Senior Notes due April 1, 2027 (the "Notes"). Costs incurred to issue the
Notes were approximately $5,700. The remaining portion of these costs are being amortized as an adjustment to interest expense over five years, which represents the estimated term of the Notes, and
are included in other assets, net in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. The Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of the Operating Partnership and are
fully guaranteed by the Company. Interest is payable on April 1 and October 1 of each year until the maturity date of April 1, 
74



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 10. EXCHANGEABLE SENIOR NOTES (Continued) 
2027.
The Notes bear interest at 3.625% per annum and contain an exchange settlement feature, which provides that the Notes may, under certain circumstances, be exchangeable for cash (up to the
principal amount of the Notes) and, with respect to any excess exchange value, for cash, shares of the Company's common stock or a combination of cash and shares of the Company's common stock at an
exchange rate as of December 31, 2011, of approximately 43.1091 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes at the option of the Operating Partnership. 
        The
Operating Partnership may redeem the Notes at any time to preserve the Company's status as a REIT. In addition, on or after April 5, 2012, the Operating Partnership may redeem
the Notes for cash, in whole or in part, at 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, upon at least 30 days but not more than 60 days prior written notice to holders
of the Notes. 
        The
holders of the Notes have the right to require the Operating Partnership to repurchase the Notes for cash, in whole or in part, on each of April 1, 2012, April 1, 2017
and April 1, 2022, and upon the occurrence of a designated event, in each case for a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal
amount of the Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest. Certain events are considered "Events of Default," as defined in the indenture governing the Notes, which may result in the accelerated maturity
of the Notes. 
        GAAP
requires entities with convertible debt instruments that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion to separately account for the liability and equity components
of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. The Company, therefore, accounts for the liability and equity components of the Notes separately. The equity component
is included in paid-in-capital in stockholders' equity in the consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component is treated as original issue discount for
purposes of accounting for the debt component. The discount is being amortized over the period of the debt as additional interest expense. 
        Information
about the carrying amounts of the equity component, the principal amount of the liability component, its unamortized discount, and its net carrying amount are as follows: 
















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 Carrying amount of equity component
 
$
19,545
 
$
19,545
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Principal amount of liability component
 
$
87,663
 
$
87,663
 


 Unamortized discount
 
 
(444
)
 
(2,205
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net carrying amount of liability component
 
$
87,219
 
$
85,458
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
remaining discount will be amortized over the remaining period of the debt through its first repurchase date, April 1, 2012. The effective interest rate on the liability
component is 5.75%. 
75



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 10. EXCHANGEABLE SENIOR NOTES (Continued) 
        The
amount of interest cost recognized relating to the contractual interest rate and the amortization of the discount on the liability component is as follows: 



















 
 
For the Year Ended
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Contractual interest
 
$
3,178
 
$
3,178
 
$
4,524
 


 Amortization of discount
 
 
1,761
 
 
1,664
 
 
2,239
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total interest expense recognized
 
$
4,939
 
$
4,842
 
$
6,763
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Repurchases of Notes  
        The Company has repurchased a portion of its Notes. The Company allocated the value of the consideration paid to repurchase the
Notes (1) to the extinguishment of the liability component and (2) to the reacquisition of the equity component. The amount allocated to the extinguishment of the liability component is
equal to the fair value of that component immediately prior to extinguishment. The difference between the consideration attributed to the extinguishment of the liability component and the sum of
(a) the net carrying amount of the repurchased liability
component, and (b) the related unamortized debt issuance costs, is recognized as a gain on debt extinguishment. The remaining settlement consideration is allocated to the reacquisition of the
equity component of the repurchased Notes and recognized as a reduction of stockholders' equity. 
        Information
about the repurchases and the related gains are as follows: 






















 
 
October 2009 
 
May 2009 
 
March 2009 
 
October 2008 
 


 Principal amount repurchased
 
$
7,500
 
$
43,000
 
$
71,500
 
$
40,337
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Amount allocated to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Extinguishment of liability component
 
$
6,700
 
$
35,000
 
$
43,800
 
$
30,696
 


 Reacquisition of equity component
 
 
181
 
 
1,340
 
 
713
 
 
1,025
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total cash paid for repurchase
 
$
6,881
 
$
36,340
 
$
44,513
 
$
31,721
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Exchangeable senior notes repurchased
 
$
7,500
 
$
43,000
 
$
71,500
 
$
40,337
 


 Extinguishment of liability component
 
 
(6,700
)
 
(35,000
)
 
(43,800
)
 
(30,696
)


 Discount on exchangeable senior notes
 
 
(366
)
 
(2,349
)
 
(4,208
)
 
(2,683
)


 Related debt issuance costs
 
 
(82
)
 
(558
)
 
(1,009
)
 
(647
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Gain on repurchase
 
$
352
 
$
5,093
 
$
22,483
 
$
6,311
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




76



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 11. LINES OF CREDIT  

        Information about the Company's lines of credit, the proceeds of which are used to repay debt and for general corporate purposes, is summarized as follows: 


























 
 
As of December 31, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Line of Credit



 
Amount
Drawn 
 
Capacity 
 
Interest
Rate 
 
Origination
Date 
 
Maturity 
 
Basis Rate 
 
Notes 


 Credit Line 1
 
$
100,000
 
$
100,000
 
 
1.3
%
10/19/2007
 
10/31/2012
 
LIBOR plus 1.00% - 2.10%
 
(5)


 Credit Line 2
 
 
40,000
 
 
74,000
 
 
2.4
%
2/13/2009
 
2/13/2014
 
LIBOR plus 2.15%
 
(1)(4)(5)


 Credit Line 3
 
 
40,000
 
 
72,000
 
 
2.5
%
6/4/2010
 
5/31/2013
 
LIBOR plus 2.20%
 
(2)(4)(5)


 Credit Line 4
 
 
25,000
 
 
40,000
 
 
2.5
%
11/16/2010
 
11/16/2013
 
LIBOR plus 2.20%
 
(3)(4)(5)


 Credit Line 5
 
 
10,000
 
 
50,000
 
 
2.4
%
4/29/2011
 
5/1/2014
 
LIBOR plus 2.15%
 
(3)(4)(5)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
215,000
 
$
336,000
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)One
year extension available
(2)One
two-year extension available
(3)Two
one-year extensions available
(4)Guaranteed
by the Company
(5)Secured
by mortgages on certain real estate assets 

 12. OTHER LIABILITIES  

        The components of other liabilities are summarized as follows: 
















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 Deferred rental income
 
$
14,907
 
$
12,194
 


 Lease obligation liability
 
 
5,828
 
 
7,016
 


 Fair value of interest rate swaps
 
 
8,311
 
 
6,074
 


 Other miscellaneous liabilities
 
 
4,708
 
 
3,305
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
33,754
 
$
28,589
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        Included
in the lease obligation liability is approximately $1,747 and $1,865 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to minimum rentals to be
received in the future under non cancelable subleases. The lease obligation liability increased by $2,000 during the year ended December 31, 2010, as a result of the bankruptcy of a tenant
subleasing office space from the Company in Memphis, TN. The Memphis, TN office lease is a liability assumed in the Storage USA acquisition in July 2005. The increase in this liability was recognized
through a $2,000 charge which is included as loss on sublease in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010. 
77



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 13. RELATED PARTY AND AFFILIATED REAL ESTATE JOINT VENTURE TRANSACTIONS  

        The Company provides management services to certain joint ventures, franchise, third parties and other related party properties. Management agreements provide generally for management
fees of 6% of cash collected from total revenues for the management of operations at the self-storage facilities. In addition, the Company receives an asset management fee equal to 50
basis points multiplied by the total asset value of the properties owned by the SPI joint venture, provided certain requirements are met. 
        Management
fee revenues for related party and affiliated real estate joint ventures are summarized as follows: 





















 
 
 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 
 


Entity



 
Type 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 ESW
 
Affiliated real estate joint ventures
 
$
410
 
$
403
 
$
402
 


 ESW II
 
Affiliated real estate joint ventures
 
 
335
 
 
318
 
 
312
 


 ESNPS
 
Affiliated real estate joint ventures
 
 
479
 
 
458
 
 
452
 


 ESSM
 
Affiliated real estate joint ventures
 
 
85
 
 
44
 
 
11
 


 HSRE
 
Affiliated real estate joint ventures
 
 
1,045
 
 
961
 
 
—
 


 PRISA
 
Affiliated real estate joint ventures
 
 
4,961
 
 
4,917
 
 
4,793
 


 PRISA II
 
Affiliated real estate joint ventures
 
 
4,016
 
 
3,964
 
 
3,989
 


 PRISA III
 
Affiliated real estate joint ventures
 
 
1,796
 
 
1,722
 
 
1,686
 


 VRS
 
Affiliated real estate joint ventures
 
 
1,156
 
 
1,136
 
 
1,128
 


 WCOT
 
Affiliated real estate joint ventures
 
 
1,497
 
 
1,468
 
 
1,454
 


 SP I
 
Affiliated real estate joint ventures
 
 
6,392
 
 
1,256
 
 
1,243
 


 SPB II
 
Affiliated real estate joint ventures
 
 
969
 
 
943
 
 
943
 


 Everest
 
Affiliated real estate joint ventures
 
 
528
 
 
491
 
 
359
 


 Other
 
Franchisees, third parties and other
 
 
6,255
 
 
5,041
 
 
4,189
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
$
29,924
 
$
23,122
 
$
20,961
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        During
2011, it was discovered that the asset management fee owed to the Company by the SPI joint venture had not been recorded by either party for the five-year period ended
December 31, 2010. The annual asset management fee for this period was $885, offset by an annual reduction of $221 of equity in earnings of SPI. Therefore, the Company's net income was
understated by $664 for each year in the five-year period ended December 31, 2010. After determining that the amounts were not material either in the prior periods or the current
year for restatement purposes, the Company recorded the asset management fee adjustments for the years 2006 through 2010 in the current year. The total prior period adjustment increased asset
management fee revenues by $4,425, and decreased equity in earnings by $1,106. Additionally, the Company recorded a receivable of $5,327 which represents the asset management fee owed for 2006 through
2011. The Company expects this receivable to be fully paid by the end of 2012. 
78




 







 
Table of Contents 

Extra Space Storage Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)  
 December 31, 2011  
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data)  
 13. RELATED PARTY AND AFFILIATED REAL ESTATE JOINT VENTURE TRANSACTIONS (Continued)  

        Receivables from related parties and affiliated real estate joint ventures balances are summarized as follows: 
















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 Mortgage notes receivable
 
$
7,253
 
$
6,943
 


 Other receivables from properties
 
 
11,264
 
 
3,118
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
18,517
 
$
10,061
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        Other
receivables from properties consist of amounts due for management fees, asset management fees and expenses paid on behalf of the properties that the Company manages. The Company
believes that all of these related party and affiliated real estate joint venture receivables are fully collectible. The Company does not have any payables to related parties at December 31,
2011 and 2010. 
        In
January 2009, the Company purchased a lender's interest in a construction loan from a joint venture that owns a single property located in Sacramento, CA. The construction loan was to
ESS of Sacramento One, LLC, a joint venture in which the Company owns a 50% interest, and was guaranteed by the Company. In July 2009, the Company purchased a lender's interest in a mortgage
note from a joint venture that owns a single property located in Chicago, IL. The note was to Extra Space of Montrose, a joint venture in which the Company holds a 39% interest, and was also
guaranteed by the Company. Both ESS of Sacramento One, LLC and Extra Space of Montrose were consolidated as of December 31, 2009, as each joint venture was considered to be a VIE of
which the Company was the primary beneficiary. The construction loan and mortgage note receivable were eliminated by the Company in consolidation as of December 31, 2009. On January 1,
2010, the Company adopted changes to the accounting guidance in ASC 810, "Consolidation." As a result of the adoption of this new guidance, the Company
determined that these joint ventures should no longer be consolidated as the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact these entities' economic performance is shared equally by the
Company and their joint venture partners, and therefore there is no primary beneficiary of either joint venture. The Company therefore deconsolidated these joint ventures as of January 1, 2010,
and removed the associated assets and liabilities from its books. The $2,251 note receivable from Extra Space of Montrose and the $5,002 loan receivable from ESS of Sacramento One, LLC are no
longer eliminated in consolidation as the Company now accounts for its interest in these joint ventures using the equity method of accounting. 
        Centershift,
a related party service provider, is partially owned by a certain director and certain members of management of the Company. Effective January 1, 2004, the Company
entered into a license agreement with Centershift which secures a perpetual right for continued use of STORE (the site management software used at all sites operated by the Company) in all aspects of
the Company's property acquisition, development, redevelopment and operational activities. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company paid Centershift $1,087, $778,
and $1,081, respectively, relating to the purchase of software and to license agreements. 
79



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 13. RELATED PARTY AND AFFILIATED REAL ESTATE JOINT VENTURE TRANSACTIONS (Continued) 
        The
Company has entered into an aircraft dry lease and service and management agreement with SpenAero, L.C. ("SpenAero"), an affiliate of Spencer F. Kirk, the Company's Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company pays a defined hourly rate for use of the aircraft. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company
paid SpenAero $608, $668, and $631, respectively. The services that the Company receives from SpenAero are similar in nature and price to those that are provided to other outside third parties. 
 14. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY  

        The Company's charter provides that it can issue up to 300,000,000 shares of common stock, $0.01 par value per share and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock, $0.01 par value per share.
As of December 31, 2011, 94,783,590 shares of common stock were issued and outstanding, and no shares of preferred stock were issued or outstanding. 
        All
holders of the Company's common stock are entitled to receive dividends and to one vote on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. The transfer agent and registrar for the
Company's common stock is American Stock Transfer & Trust Company. 
        In
May 2011, the Company closed a public stock offering of 5,335,423 shares of its common stock at an offering price of $21.16 per share. The Company received gross proceeds of $112,898.
Transaction costs were $549, for net proceeds of $112,349. 
 15. NONCONTROLLING INTEREST REPRESENTED BY PREFERRED OPERATING PARTNERSHIP UNITS  

        On June 15, 2007, the Operating Partnership entered into a Contribution Agreement with various limited partnerships affiliated with AAAAA Rent-A-Space to
acquire ten self-storage facilities (the "Properties") in exchange for 989,980 Preferred OP units of the Operating Partnership. The self-storage facilities are located in
California and Hawaii. 
        On
June 25, 2007, the Company loaned the holder of the Preferred OP units $100,000. The note receivable bears interest at 4.85%, and is due September 1, 2017. The loan is
secured by the borrower's Preferred OP units. The holder of the Preferred OP units can convert up to 114,500 Preferred OP units prior to the maturity date of the loan. If any redemption in excess of
114,500 Preferred OP units occurs prior to the maturity date, the holder of the Preferred OP units is required to repay the loan as of the date of that Preferred OP unit redemption. Preferred OP units
are shown on the balance sheet net of the $100,000 loan because the borrower under the loan receivable is also the holder of the Preferred OP units. 
        The
Operating Partnership entered into a Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership (the "Partnership Agreement") which provides for the designation and issuance of the
Preferred OP units. The Preferred OP units will have priority over all other partnership interests of the Operating Partnership with respect to distributions and liquidation. 
80



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 15. NONCONTROLLING INTEREST REPRESENTED BY PREFERRED OPERATING PARTNERSHIP UNITS (Continued) 
        Under
the Partnership Agreement, Preferred OP units in the amount of $115,000 bear a fixed priority return of 5% and have a fixed liquidation value of $115,000. The remaining balance
will participate in distributions with and have a liquidation value equal to that of the common Operating Partnership units. The Preferred OP units became redeemable at the option of the holder on
September 1, 2008, which redemption obligation may be satisfied, at the Company's option, in cash or shares of common stock. 
        GAAP
requires a company to present ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the company in the consolidated financial statements within the equity section but
separate from the company's equity. It also requires the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest to be clearly identified and presented on the
face of the consolidated statement of operations and requires changes in ownership interest to be accounted for similarly as equity transactions. If noncontrolling interests are determined to be
redeemable, they are to be carried at their redemption value as of the balance sheet date and reported as temporary equity. 
        The
Company has evaluated the terms of the Preferred OP units and classifies the noncontrolling interest represented by the Preferred OP units as stockholders' equity in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets. The Company will periodically evaluate individual noncontrolling interests for the ability to continue to recognize the noncontrolling amount as permanent equity in the
consolidated balance sheets. Any noncontrolling interests that fail to qualify as permanent equity will be reclassified as temporary equity and adjusted to the greater of (1) the carrying
amount, or (2) its redemption value as of the end of the period in which the determination is made. 
 16. NONCONTROLLING INTEREST IN OPERATING PARTNERSHIP  

        The Company's interest in its properties is held through the Operating Partnership. ESS Holding Business Trust I, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, is the sole general partner of
the Operating Partnership. ESS Business Trust II, also a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, is a limited partner of the Operating Partnership. Between its general partner and limited partner
interests, the Company held a 95.9% majority ownership interest therein as of December 31, 2011. The remaining ownership interests in the Operating Partnership (including Preferred OP units) of
4.1% are held by certain former owners of assets acquired by the Operating Partnership. As of December 31, 2011, the Operating Partnership had 3,049,935 common OP units outstanding. 
        The
noncontrolling interest in the Operating Partnership represents OP units that are not owned by the Company. In conjunction with the formation of the Company and as a result of
subsequent acquisitions, certain persons and entities contributing interests in properties to the Operating Partnership received limited partnership units in the form of OP units. Limited partners who
received OP units in the formation transactions or in exchange for contributions for interests in properties have the right to require the Operating Partnership to redeem part or all of their OP units
for cash based upon the fair market value of an equivalent number of shares of the Company's common stock (10 day average) at the time of the redemption. Alternatively, the Company may, at its
option, elect to acquire those OP units in exchange for shares of its common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to 
81



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 16. NONCONTROLLING INTEREST IN OPERATING PARTNERSHIP (Continued) 
anti-dilution
adjustments provided in the Operating Partnership agreement. The ten day average closing stock price at December 31, 2011, was $24.01 and there were 3,049,935 OP units
outstanding. Assuming that all of the unit holders exercised their right to redeem all of their OP units on December 31, 2011 and the Company elected to pay the non-controlling
members cash, the Company would have paid $73,229 in cash consideration to redeem the units. 
        In
January 2011, 150,000 OP units were redeemed in exchange for the Company's common stock. During April 2011, 143,641 OP units were redeemed in exchange for the Company's common stock
and 13,387 OP units were redeemed for $271 in cash. 
        During
July 2010, 90,135 OP units were redeemed for $1,314 in cash. During August 2010, 180,270 OP units were redeemed for $2,802 in cash. 
        In
December 2009, a member of management redeemed 72,643 OP units in exchange for the Company's common stock. This member of management no longer held any OP units after this redemption. 
        In
November 2009, a director redeemed 217,930 OP units in exchange for the Company's common stock. The director no longer held any OP units after this redemption. 
        During
April 2009, 114,928 OP units were redeemed in exchange for the Company's common stock. During July 2009, 232,099 OP units were redeemed in exchange for $1,908 in cash. 
        GAAP
requires a company to present ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the company in the consolidated financial statements within the equity section but
separate from the company's equity. It also requires the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest to be clearly identified and presented on the
face of the consolidated statement of operations and requires changes in ownership interest to be accounted for similarly as equity transactions. If noncontrolling interests are determined to be
redeemable, they are to be carried at their redemption value as of the balance sheet date and reported as temporary equity. 
        The
Company has evaluated the terms of the common OP units and classifies the noncontrolling interest represented by the common OP units as stockholders' equity in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets. The Company will periodically evaluate individual noncontrolling interests for the ability to continue to recognize the noncontrolling amount as permanent equity in the
consolidated balance sheets. Any noncontrolling interests that fail to qualify as permanent equity will be reclassified as temporary equity and adjusted to the greater of (1) the carrying
amount, or (2) its redemption value as of the end of the period in which the determination is made. 
 17. OTHER NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS  

        Other noncontrolling interests represent the ownership interests of various third parties in three consolidated self-storage properties as of December 31, 2011. Two of
these consolidated properties were undeveloped, and one was in the lease-up stage as of December 31, 2011. The ownership interests of the third party owners range from 10.0% to
27.6%. Other noncontrolling interests are included in the stockholders' equity section of the Company's consolidated balance sheet. The income or losses 
82



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 17. OTHER NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS (Continued) 
attributable
to these third party owners based on their ownership percentages are reflected in net income allocated to the Operating Partnership and other noncontrolling interests in the consolidated
statement of operations. 
        In
October 2010, the Company paid $500 to obtain its joint venture partners' equity interests in three joint ventures: Extra Space of Franklin Blvd. LLC, Extra Space of Washington
Avenue LLC and Extra Space of Elk Grove LLC. Each of these joint ventures owned a single pre-stabilized property. These properties are now wholly-owned by the Company. 
        On
June 25, 2010, the Company acquired all of its minority partners' membership interests in two consolidated self-storage properties located in New Jersey for a total
of $50 in cash. These properties are now wholly-owned by the Company. 
        In
April 2009, the Company requested a capital contribution from its partners in Westport Ewing LLC, a consolidated joint venture, in order to reduce the joint venture's loan with
its current lender. The partners were unable to provide their pro rata share of the funds required to satisfy the lender and deeded their interest in Westport Ewing LLC to the Company on
June 1, 2009. As a result, the property held by this joint venture became a wholly-owned property of the Company. The Company recorded a loss of $800 related to the reassessment of the fair
value of the property. 
 18. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION  

        The Company has the following plans under which shares were available for grant at December 31, 2011:


•The 2004 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan as amended and restated, effective March 25, 2008, and  
•The 2004 Non-Employee Directors' Share Plan (together, the "Plans"). 

        Option
grants are issued with an exercise price equal to the closing price of stock on the date of grant. Unless otherwise determined by the Compensation, Nominating and Governance
Committee ("CNG Committee") at the time of grant, options shall vest ratably over a four-year period beginning on the date of grant. Each option will be exercisable once it has vested.
Options are exercisable at such times and subject to such terms as determined by the CNG Committee, but under no circumstances may be exercised if such exercise would cause a violation of the
ownership limit in the Company's charter. Options expire 10 years from the date of grant. 
        Also
as defined under the terms of the Plans, restricted stock grants may be awarded. The stock grants are subject to a vesting period over which the restrictions are released and the
stock certificates are given to the grantee. During the performance or vesting period, the grantee is not permitted to sell, transfer, pledge, encumber or assign shares of restricted stock granted
under the Plans; however, the grantee has the ability to vote the shares and receive nonforfeitable dividends paid on shares. Unless otherwise determined by the CNG Committee at the time of grant, the
forfeiture and transfer restrictions on the shares lapse over a four-year period beginning on the date of grant. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, 2,786,113 shares were available for issuance under the Plans. 
83



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 18. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION (Continued) 
 Option Grants  
        A summary of stock option activity is as follows: 






















Options



 
Number of Shares 
 
Weighted Average
Exercise Price 
 
Weighted Average
Remaining
Contractual Life
(Years) 
 
Aggregate
Intrinsic Value as
of December 31,
2011 
 


 Outstanding at December 31, 2008
 
 
2,841,923
 
$
14.76
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Granted
 
 
723,000
 
 
6.22
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Forfeited
 
 
(107,875
)
 
13.36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding at December 31, 2009
 
 
3,457,048
 
$
13.02
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Granted
 
 
308,680
 
 
11.75
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Exercised
 
 
(484,261
)
 
11.69
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Forfeited
 
 
(175,562
)
 
12.27
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding at December 31, 2010
 
 
3,105,905
 
$
13.13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Granted
 
 
110,900
 
 
19.60
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Exercised
 
 
(1,388,269
)
 
13.44
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Forfeited
 
 
(29,675
)
 
15.65
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
 
 
1,798,861
 
$
13.25
 
 
5.30
 
$
19,759
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Vested and Expected to Vest
 
 
1,744,908
 
$
13.25
 
 
5.21
 
$
19,162
 


 Ending Exercisable
 
 
1,215,376
 
$
14.37
 
 
4.20
 
$
11,982
 




        The
aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total value (the difference between the Company's closing stock price on the last trading day of 2011 and the exercise
price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money options) that would have been received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options on
December 31, 2011. The amount of aggregate intrinsic value will change based on the fair market value of the Company's stock. 
        The
weighted average fair value of stock options granted in 2011, 2010 and 2009, was $5.39, $3.27, and $1.31, respectively. The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date
of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions: 



















 
 
For the Year Ended
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Expected volatility
 
 
45
%
 
47
%
 
42
%


 Dividend yield
 
 
4.9
%
 
5.3
%
 
6.6
%


 Risk-free interest rate
 
 
2.4
%
 
2.3
%
 
1.7
%


 Average expected term (years)
 
 
5
 
 
5
 
 
5
 




        The
Black-Scholes model incorporates assumptions to value stock-based awards. The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of the grant
for the estimated life of the option. The Company uses actual historical data to calculate the expected price volatility, dividend yield 
84



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 18. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION (Continued) 
and
average expected term. The forfeiture rate, which is estimated at a weighted-average of 17.4% of unvested options outstanding as of December 31, 2011, is adjusted periodically based on the
extent to which actual forfeitures differ, or are expected to differ, from the previous estimates. 
        A
summary of stock options outstanding and exercisable as of December 31, 2011, is as follows: 

























 
 
Options Outstanding 
 
Options Exercisable 
 


Exercise Price



 
Shares 
 
Weighted Average
Remaining
Contractual Life 
 
Weighted Average
Exercise Price 
 
Shares 
 
Weighted Average
Exercise Price 
 


 $6.22 - $11.59
 
 
563,955
 
 
6.27
 
$
7.76
 
 
190,570
 
$
7.46
 


 $11.60 - $12.50
 
 
284,950
 
 
4.12
 
 
12.42
 
 
226,900
 
 
12.48
 


 $12.51 - $15.53
 
 
453,350
 
 
4.43
 
 
14.90
 
 
414,600
 
 
14.93
 


 $15.54 - $19.00
 
 
250,756
 
 
5.22
 
 
17.11
 
 
218,256
 
 
17.16
 


 $19.01 - $19.91
 
 
245,850
 
 
6.15
 
 
19.79
 
 
165,050
 
 
19.88
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 $6.22 - $19.91
 
 
1,798,861
 
 
5.30
 
$
13.25
 
 
1,215,376
 
$
14.37
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
Company recorded compensation expense relating to outstanding options of $942, $801, and $831, in general and administrative expense for the years ended December 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009, respectively. Total cash received for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, related to option exercises was $18,622, $5,661, and $0, respectively. At
December 31, 2011, there was $722 of total unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested stock options under the Company's 2004 Long-Term Incentive
Compensation Plan. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.59 years. The valuation model applied in this calculation utilizes subjective assumptions that
could potentially change over time, including the expected forfeiture rate. Therefore, the amount of unrecognized compensation expense at December 31, 2011, noted above does not necessarily
represent the expense that will ultimately be realized by the Company in the statement of operations. 
 Common Stock Granted to Employees and Directors  
        The Company recorded $4,815, $3,779, and $2,978 of expense in general and administrative expense in its statement of operations related
to outstanding shares of common stock granted to employees and directors for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The forfeiture rate, which is estimated at a
weighted-average of 7% of unvested awards outstanding as of December 31, 2011, is adjusted periodically based on the extent to which actual forfeitures differ, or are expected to differ, from
the previous estimates. At December 31, 2011, there was $5,117 of total unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested restricted stock awards under the Company's 2004
Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.99 years. 
        The
fair value of common stock awards is determined based on the closing trading price of the Company's common stock on the grant date. 
85



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 18. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION (Continued) 
        A
summary of the Company's employee and director share grant activity is as follows: 
















Restricted Stock Grants



 
Shares 
 
Weighted-Average
Grant-Date Fair Value 
 


 Unreleased at December 31, 2008
 
 
441,204
 
$
16.21
 


 Granted
 
 
547,265
 
 
6.19
 


 Released
 
 
(198,284
)
 
13.51
 


 Cancelled
 
 
(21,256
)
 
9.82
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Unreleased at December 31, 2009
 
 
768,929
 
$
9.95
 


 Granted
 
 
445,230
 
 
12.22
 


 Released
 
 
(228,885
)
 
11.08
 


 Cancelled
 
 
(64,010
)
 
10.11
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Unreleased at December 31, 2010
 
 
921,264
 
$
10.75
 


 Granted
 
 
226,630
 
 
20.09
 


 Released
 
 
(386,113
)
 
11.39
 


 Cancelled
 
 
(47,695
)
 
14.31
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Unreleased at December 31, 2011
 
 
714,086
 
$
13.15
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




 19. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN  

        The Company has a retirement savings plan under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code under which eligible employees can contribute up to 15% of their annual salary, subject
to a statutory prescribed annual limit. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company made matching contributions to the plan of $832, $805, and $755, respectively, based on
100% of the first 3% and up to 50% of the next 2% of an employee's compensation. 
 20. INCOME TAXES  

        As a REIT, the Company is generally not subject to federal income tax with respect to that portion of its income which is distributed annually to its stockholders. However, the Company
has elected to treat one of its corporate subsidiaries, Extra Space Management, Inc., as a taxable REIT subsidiary. In general, the Company's TRS may perform additional services for tenants and
generally may engage in any real estate or non-real estate related business (except for the operation or management of health care facilities or lodging facilities or the provision to any
person, under a franchise, license or otherwise, of rights to any brand name under which lodging facility or health care facility is operated). A TRS is subject to corporate federal income tax. The
Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with the provisions of ASC 740, "Income Taxes." Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based
on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. 
86



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 20. INCOME TAXES (Continued) 
        The
income tax provision for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, is comprised of the following components: 



















 
 
For the Year Ended
December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
Federal 
 
State 
 
Total 
 


 Current expense
 
$
1,350
 
$
606
 
$
1,956
 


 Tax credits
 
 
(6,849
)
 
—
 
 
(6,849
)


 Change in deferred benefit
 
 
6,048
 
 
—
 
 
6,048
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total tax expense
 
$
549
 
$
606
 
$
1,155
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 



















 
 
For the Year Ended
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Federal 
 
State 
 
Total 
 


 Current expense
 
$
3,588
 
$
124
 
$
3,712
 


 Tax credits
 
 
(832
)
 
—
 
 
(832
)


 Change in deferred benefit
 
 
1,282
 
 
—
 
 
1,282
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total tax expense
 
$
4,038
 
$
124
 
$
4,162
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 



















 
 
For the Year Ended
December 31, 2009 
 


 
 
Federal 
 
State 
 
Total 
 


 Current expense
 
$
4,177
 
$
1,171
 
$
5,348
 


 Change in deferred benefit
 
 
(1,048
)
 
—
 
 
(1,048
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total tax expense
 
$
3,129
 
$
1,171
 
$
4,300
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        A
reconciliation of the statutory income tax provisions to the effective income tax provisions for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, is as follows: 






















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 Expected tax at statutory rate
 
$
20,854
 
 
35.0
%
$
13,204
 
 
35.0
%


 Non-taxable REIT income
 
 
(14,957
)
 
(25.1
)%
 
(8,303
)
 
(22.0
)%


 State and local tax expense—net of federal benefit
 
 
617
 
 
1.0
%
 
124
 
 
0.3
%


 Change in valuation allowance
 
 
1,298
 
 
2.2
%
 
804
 
 
2.1
%


 Tax credits
 
 
(6,849
)
 
(11.5
)%
 
(832
)
 
(2.2
)%


 Miscellaneous
 
 
192
 
 
0.3
%
 
(835
)
 
(2.3
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total provision
 
$
1,155
 
 
1.9
%
$
4,162
 
 
10.9
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




87




 







 
Table of Contents 

Extra Space Storage Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)  
 December 31, 2011  
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data)  
 20. INCOME TAXES (Continued)  

        The major sources of temporary differences stated at their deferred tax effects are as follows: 
















 
 
December 31,
2011 
 
December 31,
2010 
 


 Captive insurance subsidiary
 
$
232
 
$
236
 


 Fixed assets
 
 
(6,455
)
 
1,589
 


 Various liabilities
 
 
1,542
 
 
1,229
 


 Solar credit
 
 
6,849
 
 
—
 


 Stock compensation
 
 
1,955
 
 
2,140
 


 State net operating losses
 
 
2,691
 
 
1,743
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
6,814
 
 
6,937
 


 Valuation allowance
 
 
(3,211
)
 
(2,643
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net deferred tax asset
 
$
3,603
 
$
4,294
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
state income tax net operating losses expire between 2012 and 2031. The deferred tax benefits associated with the state income tax net operating losses have been fully reserved
through the valuation allowance. 
 21. SEGMENT INFORMATION  

        The Company operates in three distinct segments; (1) property management, acquisition and development; (2) rental operations; and (3) tenant reinsurance. Financial
information for the Company's business segments are set forth below: 
















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 Balance Sheet
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Investment in real estate ventures
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Rental operations
 
$
130,410
 
$
140,560
 


 Total assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property management, acquisition and development
 
$
634,782
 
$
302,262
 


 Rental operations
 
 
1,837,756
 
 
1,931,150
 


 Tenant reinsurance
 
 
43,712
 
 
16,408
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
2,516,250
 
$
2,249,820
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




88



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 21. SEGMENT INFORMATION (Continued) 




















 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Statement of Operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenues
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property management, acquisition and development
 
$
29,924
 
$
23,122
 
$
20,961
 


 Rental operations
 
 
268,725
 
 
232,447
 
 
238,256
 


 Tenant reinsurance
 
 
31,181
 
 
25,928
 
 
20,929
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
329,830
 
$
281,497
 
$
280,146
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating expenses, including depreciation and amortization
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property management, acquisition and development
 
$
58,012
 
$
49,762
 
$
64,246
 


 Rental operations
 
 
150,199
 
 
134,415
 
 
138,552
 


 Tenant reinsurance
 
 
6,143
 
 
6,505
 
 
5,461
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
214,354
 
$
190,682
 
$
208,259
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income (loss) from operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property management, acquisition and development
 
$
(28,088
)
$
(26,640
)
$
(43,285
)


 Rental operations
 
 
118,526
 
 
98,032
 
 
99,704
 


 Tenant reinsurance
 
 
25,038
 
 
19,423
 
 
15,468
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
115,476
 
$
90,815
 
$
71,887
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest expense
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property management, acquisition and development
 
$
(2,464
)
$
(3,126
)
$
(3,463
)


 Rental operations
 
 
(66,598
)
 
(62,654
)
 
(66,355
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
(69,062
)
$
(65,780
)
$
(69,818
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property management, acquisition and development
 
$
1,016
 
$
889
 
$
1,563
 


 Tenant reinsurance
 
 
11
 
 
9
 
 
19
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
1,027
 
$
898
 
$
1,582
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest income on note receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property management, acquisition and development
 
$
4,850
 
$
4,850
 
$
4,850
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Gain on repurchase of exchangeable senior notes
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property management, acquisition and development
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
27,928
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Equity in earnings of real estate ventures
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Rental operations
 
$
7,287
 
$
6,753
 
$
6,964
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income tax expense
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property management, acquisition and development
 
$
7,612
 
$
2,639
 
$
1,156
 


 Tenant reinsurance
 
 
(8,767
)
 
(6,801
)
 
(5,456
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
(1,155
)
$
(4,162
)
$
(4,300
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property management, acquisition and development
 
$
(17,074
)
$
(21,388
)
$
(11,251
)


 Rental operations
 
 
59,215
 
 
42,131
 
 
40,313
 


 Tenant reinsurance
 
 
16,282
 
 
12,631
 
 
10,031
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
58,423
 
$
33,374
 
$
39,093
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




89



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 21. SEGMENT INFORMATION (Continued) 



















 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Depreciation and amortization expense
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property management, acquisition and development
 
$
3,296
 
$
2,099
 
$
2,786
 


 Rental operations
 
 
54,718
 
 
48,250
 
 
49,617
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
58,014
 
$
50,349
 
$
52,403
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Statement of Cash Flows
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Acquisition of real estate assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property management, acquisition and development
 
$
(194,959
)
$
(69,588
)
$
(38,185
)


 Development and construction of real estate assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property management, acquisition and development
 
$
(7,060
)
$
(36,062
)
$
(67,301
)




 22. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES  

        The Company has operating leases on its corporate offices and owns 13 self-storage facilities that are subject to ground leases. At December 31, 2011, future minimum
rental payments under these non-cancelable operating leases are as follows (unaudited): 













 Less than 1 year
 
$
7,231
 


 Year 2
 
 
6,765
 


 Year 3
 
 
6,171
 


 Year 4
 
 
4,020
 


 Year 5
 
 
2,865
 


 Thereafter
 
 
35,253
 


 
 
 
 


 
 
$
62,305
 


 
 
 
 




        The
monthly rental amount for one of the ground leases is the greater of a minimum amount or a percentage of gross monthly receipts. The Company recorded expense of $2,799, $2,416, and
$2,289 related to these leases in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
        The
Company has fully guaranteed loans for the following unconsolidated joint ventures (unaudited): 






















 
 
Date of
Guaranty 
 
Loan
Maturity
Date 
 
Guaranteed
Loan Amount 
 
Estimated
Fair Market
Value of
Assets 
 


 Extra Space of Montrose Avenue LLC
 
 
Dec-10
 
 
Dec-13
 
$
5,120
 
$
8,446
 


 Extra Space of Sacramento One LLC
 
 
Apr-09
 
 
Apr-14
 
$
4,307
 
$
9,745
 


 ESS Baltimore LLC
 
 
Nov-04
 
 
Feb-13
 
$
4,031
 
$
6,647
 




90




 







 
Table of Contents 

Extra Space Storage Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)  
 December 31, 2011  
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data)  
 22. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)  

        If the joint ventures default on the loans, the Company may be forced to repay the loans. Repossessing and/or selling the self-storage facilities and land that collateralize
the loans could provide funds sufficient to reimburse the Company. The Company has recorded no liability in relation to these guarantees as of December 31, 2011, as the fair value of the
guarantees is not material. The Company believes the risk of incurring a material loss as a result of having to perform on these guarantees is remote. 
        The
Company has been involved in routine litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. As a result of these litigation matters, the Company has recorded a liability of $1,800,
which is included in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. The Company does not believe it to be reasonably possible that the loss related to these litigation matters will be in excess
of the current amount accrued. As of December 31, 2011, the Company was not involved in any material litigation nor, to its knowledge, is any material litigation threatened against it which, in
the opinion of management, is expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations. 
 23. SUPPLEMENTARY QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)  






















 
 
For the Three Months Ended 
 


 
 
March 31,
2011 
 
June 30,
2011 
 
September 30,
2011 
 
December 31,
2011(1) 
 


 Revenues
 
$
74,481
 
$
78,040
 
$
84,097
 
$
93,212
 


 Cost of operations
 
 
50,451
 
 
52,188
 
 
52,882
 
 
58,833
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Revenues less cost of operations
 
$
24,030
 
$
25,852
 
$
31,215
 
$
34,379
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
$
10,140
 
$
12,517
 
$
17,352
 
$
18,414
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income attributable to common stockholders
 
$
8,301
 
$
10,609
 
$
15,261
 
$
16,278
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income—basic
 
$
0.09
 
$
0.12
 
$
0.16
 
$
0.17
 


 Net income—diluted
 
$
0.09
 
$
0.12
 
$
0.16
 
$
0.17
 




91



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 (Amounts in thousands, except property and share data) 
 23. SUPPLEMENTARY QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) (Continued) 























 
 
For the Three Months Ended 
 


 
 
March 31,
2010 
 
June 30,
2010 
 
September 30,
2010 
 
December 31,
2010 
 


 Revenues
 
$
67,587
 
$
68,777
 
$
71,979
 
$
73,154
 


 Cost of operations
 
 
46,724
 
 
45,971
 
 
48,418
 
 
49,569
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Revenues less cost of operations
 
$
20,863
 
$
22,806
 
$
23,561
 
$
23,585
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
$
5,179
 
$
7,925
 
$
9,482
 
$
10,788
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income attributable to common stockholders
 
$
3,568
 
$
6,180
 
$
7,667
 
$
8,916
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income—basic
 
$
0.04
 
$
0.07
 
$
0.09
 
$
0.10
 


 Net income—diluted
 
$
0.04
 
$
0.07
 
$
0.09
 
$
0.10
 








(1)Included
in revenues are the cumulative effects of $4,425 of asset management fees related to the years 2006 through 2010 and $203 related to the first
three quarters of 2011 offset by a cumulative reduction of $1,157 to equity in earnings for the same periods. For further discussion, refer to Note 13. 

 24. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS  

        In February 2012, the Company sold its 40% interest in a joint venture that was not managed by the Company for $4,945. 
92




 







 
Table of Contents 

Extra Space Storage Inc.
Schedule III
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
(Dollars in thousands)  






















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross carrying amount at
December 31, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 


Property
Number



 
Property Name 
 
State 
 
Debt 
 
Land
initial cost 
 
Building and
improvements
initial cost 
 
Land costs
subsequent
to acquisition 
 
Building costs
subsequent
to acquisition 
 
Land
Adjustments 
 
Notes 
 
Building
Adjustments 
 
Notes 
 
Land 
 
Building and
improvements 
 
Total 
 
Accumulated
depreciation 
 
Date acquired
or development
completed 
 


 8115
 
 Auburn
 
AL
 
 
—
 
 
325
 
 
1,895
 
 
—
 
 
36
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
325
 
 
1,931
 
 
2,256
 
 
67
 
 
Aug-10
 


 8116
 
 Auburn
 
AL
 
 
—
 
 
92
 
 
138
 
 
—
 
 
107
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
92
 
 
245
 
 
337
 
 
12
 
 
Aug-10
 


 0654
 
 Hoover
 
AL
 
 
—
 
 
1,313
 
 
2,858
 
 
—
 
 
530
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,313
 
 
3,388
 
 
4,701
 
 
663
 
 
Aug-07
 


 8066
 
 Mesa
 
AZ
 
 
1,320
 
 
849
 
 
2,547
 
 
—
 
 
125
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
849
 
 
2,672
 
 
3,521
 
 
522
 
 
Aug-04
 


 1211
 
 Peoria
 
AZ
 
 
2,286
 
 
652
 
 
4,105
 
 
—
 
 
71
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
652
 
 
4,176
 
 
4,828
 
 
595
 
 
Apr-06
 


 1431
 
 Peoria
 
AZ
 
 
—
 
 
1,060
 
 
4,731
 
 
—
 
 
52
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,060
 
 
4,783
 
 
5,843
 
 
97
 
 
Jan-11
 


 0338
 
 Phoenix
 
AZ
 
 
7,268
 
 
1,441
 
 
7,982
 
 
—
 
 
468
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,441
 
 
8,450
 
 
9,891
 
 
1,549
 
 
Jul-05
 


 0659
 
 Phoenix
 
AZ
 
 
—
 
 
669
 
 
4,135
 
 
—
 
 
144
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
669
 
 
4,279
 
 
4,948
 
 
587
 
 
Jan-07
 


 1356
 
 Phoenix
 
AZ
 
 
3,440
 
 
552
 
 
3,530
 
 
—
 
 
190
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
552
 
 
3,720
 
 
4,272
 
 
594
 
 
Jun-06
 


 1370
 
 Alameda
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
2,919
 
 
12,984
 
 
—
 
 
1,673
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,919
 
 
14,657
 
 
17,576
 
 
2,020
 
 
Jun-07
 


 1232
 
 Antelope
 
CA
 
 
3,998
 
 
1,525
 
 
8,345
 
 
—
 
 
(19
)
 
(340
)
(b)
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,185
 
 
8,326
 
 
9,511
 
 
704
 
 
Jul-08
 


 1471
 
 Bellflower
 
CA
 
 
1,294
 
 
640
 
 
1,350
 
 
—
 
 
3
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
640
 
 
1,353
 
 
1,993
 
 
7
 
 
Oct-11
 


 1222
 
 Belmont
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
3,500
 
 
7,280
 
 
—
 
 
30
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
3,500
 
 
7,310
 
 
10,810
 
 
823
 
 
May-07
 


 1371
 
 Berkeley
 
CA
 
 
15,630
 
 
1,716
 
 
19,602
 
 
—
 
 
1,724
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,716
 
 
21,326
 
 
23,042
 
 
2,584
 
 
Jun-07
 


 1472
 
 Bloomington
 
CA
 
 
2,526
 
 
934
 
 
1,937
 
 
—
 
 
3
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
934
 
 
1,940
 
 
2,874
 
 
10
 
 
Oct-11
 


 1473
 
 Bloomington
 
CA
 
 
1,533
 
 
647
 
 
1,303
 
 
—
 
 
3
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
647
 
 
1,306
 
 
1,953
 
 
7
 
 
Oct-11
 


 1071
 
 Burbank
 
CA
 
 
8,684
 
 
3,199
 
 
5,082
 
 
—
 
 
557
 
 
419
 
(a)
 
 
672
 
(a)
 
 
3,618
 
 
6,311
 
 
9,929
 
 
1,863
 
 
Aug-00
 


 1461
 
 Burlingame
 
CA
 
 
5,668
 
 
2,211
 
 
5,829
 
 
—
 
 
51
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,211
 
 
5,880
 
 
8,091
 
 
107
 
 
Apr-11
 


 1256
 
 Carson
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
9,709
 
 
—
 
 
55
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
9,764
 
 
9,764
 
 
198
 
 
Mar-11
 


 1372
 
 Castro Valley
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
6,346
 
 
—
 
 
346
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
6,692
 
 
6,692
 
 
789
 
 
Jun-07
 


 1474
 
 Cerritos
 
CA
 
 
17,581
 
 
8,728
 
 
15,895
 
 
—
 
 
2
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
8,728
 
 
15,897
 
 
24,625
 
 
85
 
 
Oct-11
 


 1004
 
 Claremont
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
1,472
 
 
2,012
 
 
—
 
 
216
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,472
 
 
2,228
 
 
3,700
 
 
468
 
 
Jun-04
 


 1475
 
 Claremont
 
CA
 
 
2,390
 
 
1,375
 
 
1,434
 
 
—
 
 
3
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,375
 
 
1,437
 
 
2,812
 
 
8
 
 
Oct-11
 


 1373
 
 Colma
 
CA
 
 
15,986
 
 
3,947
 
 
22,002
 
 
—
 
 
2,121
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
3,947
 
 
24,123
 
 
28,070
 
 
3,088
 
 
Jun-07
 


 1255
 
 Compton
 
CA
 
 
4,160
 
 
1,426
 
 
7,582
 
 
—
 
 
33
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,426
 
 
7,615
 
 
9,041
 
 
642
 
 
Sep-08
 


 1404
 
 El Cajon
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
1,100
 
 
6,380
 
 
—
 
 
34
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,100
 
 
6,414
 
 
7,514
 
 
346
 
 
Sep-09
 


 1378
 
 El Sobrante
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
1,209
 
 
4,018
 
 
—
 
 
965
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,209
 
 
4,983
 
 
6,192
 
 
755
 
 
Jun-07
 


 1166
 
 Elk Grove
 
CA
 
 
4,290
 
 
952
 
 
6,936
 
 
—
 
 
32
 
 
123
 
(a)
 
 
234
 
(a)
 
 
1,075
 
 
7,202
 
 
8,277
 
 
231
 
 
Dec-07
 


 1121
 
 Fontana
 
CA
 
 
1,866
 
 
1,246
 
 
3,356
 
 
—
 
 
164
 
 
54
 
(a)
 
 
179
 
(a) (c)
 
 
1,300
 
 
3,699
 
 
4,999
 
 
820
 
 
Oct-03
 


 1157
 
 Fontana
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
961
 
 
3,846
 
 
—
 
 
170
 
 
39
 
(a)
 
 
186
 
(a) (c)
 
 
1,000
 
 
4,202
 
 
5,202
 
 
1,051
 
 
Sep-02
 


 1476
 
 Fontana
 
CA
 
 
4,375
 
 
768
 
 
4,208
 
 
—
 
 
3
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
768
 
 
4,211
 
 
4,979
 
 
23
 
 
Oct-11
 


 1477
 
 Fontana
 
CA
 
 
4,848
 
 
778
 
 
4,723
 
 
—
 
 
3
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
778
 
 
4,726
 
 
5,504
 
 
25
 
 
Oct-11
 


 1478
 
 Fontana
 
CA
 
 
4,150
 
 
684
 
 
3,951
 
 
—
 
 
3
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
684
 
 
3,954
 
 
4,638
 
 
21
 
 
Oct-11
 


 1031
 
 Glendale
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
6,084
 
 
—
 
 
224
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
6,308
 
 
6,308
 
 
1,281
 
 
Jun-04
 


 1030
 
 Hawthorne
 
CA
 
 
3,960
 
 
1,532
 
 
3,871
 
 
—
 
 
197
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,532
 
 
4,068
 
 
5,600
 
 
847
 
 
Jun-04
 


 1374
 
 Hayward
 
CA
 
 
8,811
 
 
3,149
 
 
8,006
 
 
—
 
 
2,127
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
3,149
 
 
10,133
 
 
13,282
 
 
1,413
 
 
Jun-07
 


 0177
 
 Hemet
 
CA
 
 
5,206
 
 
1,146
 
 
6,369
 
 
—
 
 
242
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,146
 
 
6,611
 
 
7,757
 
 
1,163
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1479
 
 Hesperia
 
CA
 
 
451
 
 
156
 
 
430
 
 
—
 
 
4
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
156
 
 
434
 
 
590
 
 
2
 
 
Oct-11
 


 1070
 
 Inglewood
 
CA
 
 
5,011
 
 
1,379
 
 
3,343
 
 
—
 
 
391
 
 
150
 
(a)
 
 
377
 
(a)
 
 
1,529
 
 
4,111
 
 
5,640
 
 
1,303
 
 
Aug-00
 


 1480
 
 Irvine
 
CA
 
 
5,176
 
 
3,821
 
 
3,999
 
 
—
 
 
3
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
3,821
 
 
4,002
 
 
7,823
 
 
21
 
 
Oct-11
 


 1481
 
 Lake Elsinore
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
587
 
 
4,219
 
 
—
 
 
3
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
587
 
 
4,222
 
 
4,809
 
 
23
 
 
Oct-11
 




93



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc.
Schedule III
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)
(Dollars in thousands)  






















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross carrying amount at
December 31, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 


Property
Number



 
Property Name 
 
State 
 
Debt 
 
Land
initial cost 
 
Building and
improvements
initial cost 
 
Land costs
subsequent
to acquisition 
 
Building costs
subsequent
to acquisition 
 
Land
Adjustments 
 
Notes 
 
Building
Adjustments 
 
Notes 
 
Land 
 
Building and
improvements 
 
Total 
 
Accumulated
depreciation 
 
Date acquired
or development
completed 
 


 1482
 
 Lake Elsinore
 
CA
 
 
2,120
 
 
294
 
 
2,105
 
 
—
 
 
3
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
294
 
 
2,108
 
 
2,402
 
 
11
 
 
Oct-11
 


 1278
 
 Lancaster
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
1,425
 
 
5,855
 
 
—
 
 
41
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,425
 
 
5,896
 
 
7,321
 
 
310
 
 
Oct-09
 


 1358
 
 Lancaster
 
CA
 
 
5,840
 
 
1,347
 
 
5,827
 
 
—
 
 
198
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,347
 
 
6,025
 
 
7,372
 
 
949
 
 
Jul-06
 


 1013
 
 Livermore
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
1,134
 
 
4,615
 
 
—
 
 
128
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,134
 
 
4,743
 
 
5,877
 
 
951
 
 
Jun-04
 


 1483
 
 Long Beach
 
CA
 
 
2,798
 
 
1,772
 
 
2,539
 
 
—
 
 
2
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,772
 
 
2,541
 
 
4,313
 
 
14
 
 
Oct-11
 


 1057
 
 Los Angeles
 
CA
 
 
5,207
 
 
1,431
 
 
2,976
 
 
—
 
 
145
 
 
180
 
(a)
 
 
374
 
(a)
 
 
1,611
 
 
3,495
 
 
5,106
 
 
1,061
 
 
Mar-00
 


 1160
 
 Los Angeles
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
3,991
 
 
9,774
 
 
—
 
 
36
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
3,991
 
 
9,810
 
 
13,801
 
 
1,014
 
 
Dec-07
 


 1235
 
 Los Angeles
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
2,200
 
 
8,108
 
 
—
 
 
5
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,200
 
 
8,113
 
 
10,313
 
 
689
 
 
Sep-08
 


 1296
 
 Los Gatos
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
2,550
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,550
 
 
—
 
 
2,550
 
 
—
 
 
 
 


 8055
 
 Manteca
 
CA
 
 
3,761
 
 
848
 
 
2,543
 
 
—
 
 
102
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
848
 
 
2,645
 
 
3,493
 
 
564
 
 
Jan-04
 


 1383
 
 Modesto
 
CA
 
 
1,494
 
 
909
 
 
3,043
 
 
—
 
 
261
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
909
 
 
3,304
 
 
4,213
 
 
447
 
 
Jun-07
 


 1122
 
 North Hollywood
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
3,125
 
 
9,257
 
 
—
 
 
85
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
3,125
 
 
9,342
 
 
12,467
 
 
1,364
 
 
May-06
 


 1053
 
 Oakland
 
CA
 
 
2,929
 
 
—
 
 
3,777
 
 
—
 
 
463
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
494
 
(a)
 
 
—
 
 
4,734
 
 
4,734
 
 
1,472
 
 
Apr-00
 


 1267
 
 Oakland
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
3,024
 
 
11,321
 
 
—
 
 
77
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
3,024
 
 
11,398
 
 
14,422
 
 
452
 
 
May-10
 


 0645
 
 Oceanside
 
CA
 
 
9,527
 
 
3,241
 
 
11,361
 
 
—
 
 
652
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
3,241
 
 
12,013
 
 
15,254
 
 
2,200
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1254
 
 Pacoima
 
CA
 
 
5,760
 
 
3,050
 
 
7,597
 
 
—
 
 
51
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
3,050
 
 
7,648
 
 
10,698
 
 
450
 
 
Aug-09
 


 1111
 
 Palmdale
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
1,225
 
 
5,379
 
 
—
 
 
2,148
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,225
 
 
7,527
 
 
8,752
 
 
1,298
 
 
Jan-05
 


 1484
 
 Paramount
 
CA
 
 
2,693
 
 
1,404
 
 
2,549
 
 
—
 
 
4
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,404
 
 
2,553
 
 
3,957
 
 
14
 
 
Oct-11
 


 1020
 
 Pico Rivera
 
CA
 
 
4,290
 
 
1,150
 
 
3,450
 
 
—
 
 
128
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,150
 
 
3,578
 
 
4,728
 
 
946
 
 
Aug-00
 


 1485
 
 Placentia
 
CA
 
 
6,995
 
 
4,798
 
 
5,483
 
 
—
 
 
2
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
4,798
 
 
5,485
 
 
10,283
 
 
29
 
 
Oct-11
 


 1382
 
 Pleasanton
 
CA
 
 
2,944
 
 
1,208
 
 
4,283
 
 
—
 
 
376
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,208
 
 
4,659
 
 
5,867
 
 
701
 
 
May-07
 


 1029
 
 Richmond
 
CA
 
 
5,074
 
 
953
 
 
4,635
 
 
—
 
 
557
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
953
 
 
5,192
 
 
6,145
 
 
1,063
 
 
Jun-04
 


 8016
 
 Riverside
 
CA
 
 
2,341
 
 
1,075
 
 
4,042
 
 
—
 
 
442
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,075
 
 
4,484
 
 
5,559
 
 
952
 
 
Aug-04
 


 0328
 
 Sacramento
 
CA
 
 
4,125
 
 
852
 
 
4,720
 
 
—
 
 
371
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
852
 
 
5,091
 
 
5,943
 
 
965
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1273
 
 Sacramento
 
CA
 
 
2,867
 
 
1,738
 
 
5,522
 
 
—
 
 
42
 
 
106
 
(a)
 
 
(81
)
(a) (c)
 
 
1,844
 
 
5,483
 
 
7,327
 
 
177
 
 
Oct-10
 


 1433
 
 Sacramento
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
2,400
 
 
7,425
 
 
—
 
 
31
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,400
 
 
7,456
 
 
9,856
 
 
439
 
 
Sep-09
 


 1007
 
 San Bernardino
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
1,213
 
 
3,061
 
 
—
 
 
126
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,213
 
 
3,187
 
 
4,400
 
 
662
 
 
Jun-04
 


 1194
 
 San Bernardino
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
750
 
 
5,135
 
 
—
 
 
41
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
750
 
 
5,176
 
 
5,926
 
 
689
 
 
Jun-06
 


 1486
 
 San Dimas
 
CA
 
 
5,596
 
 
1,867
 
 
6,354
 
 
—
 
 
6
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,867
 
 
6,360
 
 
8,227
 
 
34
 
 
Oct-11
 


 1368
 
 San Francisco
 
CA
 
 
13,040
 
 
8,457
 
 
9,928
 
 
—
 
 
1,182
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
8,457
 
 
11,110
 
 
19,567
 
 
1,597
 
 
Jun-07
 


 8145
 
 San Jose
 
CA
 
 
8,939
 
 
5,340
 
 
6,821
 
 
—
 
 
169
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
5,340
 
 
6,990
 
 
12,330
 
 
377
 
 
Sep-09
 


 1257
 
 San Leandro
 
CA
 
 
4,328
 
 
3,343
 
 
6,630
 
 
—
 
 
37
 
 
(52
)
(a)
 
 
(237
)
(a)
 
 
3,291
 
 
6,430
 
 
9,721
 
 
209
 
 
Oct-10
 


 1377
 
 San Leandro
 
CA
 
 
9,829
 
 
4,601
 
 
9,777
 
 
—
 
 
1,881
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
4,601
 
 
11,658
 
 
16,259
 
 
1,631
 
 
Aug-07
 


 1261
 
 Santa Clara
 
CA
 
 
8,153
 
 
4,750
 
 
8,218
 
 
—
 
 
23
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
4,750
 
 
8,241
 
 
12,991
 
 
485
 
 
Jul-09
 


 1384
 
 Santa Fe Springs
 
CA
 
 
6,814
 
 
3,617
 
 
7,022
 
 
—
 
 
273
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
3,617
 
 
7,295
 
 
10,912
 
 
874
 
 
Oct-07
 


 1487
 
 Santa Maria
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
1,556
 
 
2,740
 
 
—
 
 
24
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,556
 
 
2,764
 
 
4,320
 
 
15
 
 
Oct-11
 


 1488
 
 Santa Maria
 
CA
 
 
3,305
 
 
1,310
 
 
3,526
 
 
—
 
 
3
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,310
 
 
3,529
 
 
4,839
 
 
19
 
 
Oct-11
 


 8008
 
 Sherman Oaks
 
CA
 
 
17,129
 
 
4,051
 
 
12,152
 
 
—
 
 
260
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
4,051
 
 
12,412
 
 
16,463
 
 
2,377
 
 
Aug-04
 


 1275
 
 Simi Valley
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
5,533
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(1,285
)
(e)
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
4,248
 
 
—
 
 
4,248
 
 
—
 
 
 
 


 1095
 
 Stockton
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
649
 
 
3,272
 
 
—
 
 
159
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
649
 
 
3,431
 
 
4,080
 
 
868
 
 
May-02
 


 1425
 
 Sylmar
 
CA
 
 
4,240
 
 
3,058
 
 
4,671
 
 
—
 
 
226
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
3,058
 
 
4,897
 
 
7,955
 
 
534
 
 
May-08
 


 1253
 
 Thousand Oaks
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
4,500
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(1,000
)
(e)
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
3,500
 
 
—
 
 
3,500
 
 
—
 
 
 
 




94



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc.
Schedule III
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)
(Dollars in thousands)  






















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross carrying amount at
December 31, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 


Property
Number



 
Property Name 
 
State 
 
Debt 
 
Land
initial cost 
 
Building and
improvements
initial cost 
 
Land costs
subsequent
to acquisition 
 
Building costs
subsequent
to acquisition 
 
Land
Adjustments 
 
Notes 
 
Building
Adjustments 
 
Notes 
 
Land 
 
Building and
improvements 
 
Total 
 
Accumulated
depreciation 
 
Date acquired
or development
completed 
 


 1009
 
 Torrance
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
3,710
 
 
6,271
 
 
—
 
 
505
 
 
400
 
(d)
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
4,110
 
 
6,776
 
 
10,886
 
 
1,384
 
 
Jun-04
 


 1112
 
 Tracy
 
CA
 
 
2,819
 
 
778
 
 
2,638
 
 
—
 
 
137
 
 
133
 
(a)
 
 
481
 
(a) (c)
 
 
911
 
 
3,256
 
 
4,167
 
 
745
 
 
Jul-03
 


 1174
 
 Tracy
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
946
 
 
1,937
 
 
—
 
 
150
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
10
 
(c)
 
 
946
 
 
2,097
 
 
3,043
 
 
521
 
 
Apr-04
 


 1379
 
 Vallejo
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
1,177
 
 
2,157
 
 
—
 
 
815
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,177
 
 
2,972
 
 
4,149
 
 
488
 
 
Jun-07
 


 8011
 
 Venice
 
CA
 
 
6,421
 
 
2,803
 
 
8,410
 
 
—
 
 
125
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,803
 
 
8,535
 
 
11,338
 
 
1,637
 
 
Aug-04
 


 1489
 
 Victorville
 
CA
 
 
722
 
 
151
 
 
751
 
 
—
 
 
3
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
151
 
 
754
 
 
905
 
 
4
 
 
Oct-11
 


 0144
 
 Watsonville
 
CA
 
 
3,339
 
 
1,699
 
 
3,056
 
 
—
 
 
182
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,699
 
 
3,238
 
 
4,937
 
 
601
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1083
 
 Whittier
 
CA
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
2,985
 
 
—
 
 
83
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
20
 
(c)
 
 
—
 
 
3,088
 
 
3,088
 
 
784
 
 
Jun-02
 


 1073
 
 Arvada
 
CO
 
 
—
 
 
286
 
 
1,521
 
 
—
 
 
608
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
286
 
 
2,129
 
 
2,415
 
 
728
 
 
Sep-00
 


 1458
 
 Castle Rock
 
CO
 
 
1,261
 
 
407
 
 
3,077
 
 
—
 
 
32
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
407
 
 
3,109
 
 
3,516
 
 
50
 
 
May-11
 


 0665
 
 Colorado Springs
 
CO
 
 
—
 
 
781
 
 
3,400
 
 
—
 
 
163
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
781
 
 
3,563
 
 
4,344
 
 
451
 
 
Aug-07
 


 0744
 
 Colorado Springs
 
CO
 
 
3,401
 
 
1,525
 
 
4,310
 
 
—
 
 
183
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,525
 
 
4,493
 
 
6,018
 
 
386
 
 
Nov-08
 


 1459
 
 Colorado Springs
 
CO
 
 
1,881
 
 
296
 
 
4,199
 
 
—
 
 
71
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
296
 
 
4,270
 
 
4,566
 
 
60
 
 
Jun-11
 


 0679
 
 Denver
 
CO
 
 
2,742
 
 
368
 
 
1,574
 
 
—
 
 
154
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
368
 
 
1,728
 
 
2,096
 
 
341
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1074
 
 Denver
 
CO
 
 
—
 
 
602
 
 
2,052
 
 
—
 
 
555
 
 
143
 
(a)
 
 
512
 
(a)
 
 
745
 
 
3,119
 
 
3,864
 
 
945
 
 
Sep-00
 


 1359
 
 Parker
 
CO
 
 
2,672
 
 
800
 
 
4,549
 
 
—
 
 
562
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
800
 
 
5,111
 
 
5,911
 
 
796
 
 
Sep-06
 


 1075
 
 Thornton
 
CO
 
 
—
 
 
212
 
 
2,044
 
 
—
 
 
546
 
 
36
 
(a)
 
 
389
 
(a)
 
 
248
 
 
2,979
 
 
3,227
 
 
978
 
 
Sep-00
 


 1076
 
 Westminster
 
CO
 
 
—
 
 
291
 
 
1,586
 
 
—
 
 
874
 
 
8
 
(a)
 
 
48
 
(a)
 
 
299
 
 
2,508
 
 
2,807
 
 
881
 
 
Sep-00
 


 1079
 
 Groton
 
CT
 
 
2,386
 
 
1,277
 
 
3,992
 
 
—
 
 
346
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
46
 
(c)
 
 
1,277
 
 
4,384
 
 
5,661
 
 
1,028
 
 
Jan-04
 


 1192
 
 Middletown
 
CT
 
 
2,056
 
 
932
 
 
2,810
 
 
—
 
 
145
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
932
 
 
2,955
 
 
3,887
 
 
313
 
 
Dec-07
 


 1097
 
 Wethersfield
 
CT
 
 
—
 
 
709
 
 
4,205
 
 
—
 
 
135
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
16
 
(c)
 
 
709
 
 
4,356
 
 
5,065
 
 
1,083
 
 
Aug-02
 


 1392
 
 Coral Springs
 
FL
 
 
3,915
 
 
3,638
 
 
6,590
 
 
—
 
 
189
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
3,638
 
 
6,779
 
 
10,417
 
 
671
 
 
Jun-08
 


 0752
 
 Deland
 
FL
 
 
—
 
 
1,318
 
 
3,971
 
 
—
 
 
228
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,318
 
 
4,199
 
 
5,517
 
 
659
 
 
Jan-06
 


 1402
 
 Estero
 
FL
 
 
—
 
 
2,198
 
 
8,215
 
 
—
 
 
13
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,198
 
 
8,228
 
 
10,426
 
 
483
 
 
Jul-09
 


 0101
 
 Fort Myers
 
FL
 
 
4,322
 
 
1,985
 
 
4,983
 
 
—
 
 
372
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,985
 
 
5,355
 
 
7,340
 
 
1,028
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1308
 
 Fort Myers
 
FL
 
 
3,009
 
 
1,691
 
 
4,711
 
 
—
 
 
164
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
29
 
(c)
 
 
1,691
 
 
4,904
 
 
6,595
 
 
1,011
 
 
Aug-04
 


 1310
 
 Ft Lauderdale
 
FL
 
 
2,710
 
 
1,587
 
 
4,205
 
 
—
 
 
253
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
32
 
(c)
 
 
1,587
 
 
4,490
 
 
6,077
 
 
926
 
 
Aug-04
 


 1427
 
 Ft Lauderdale
 
FL
 
 
4,999
 
 
2,750
 
 
7,002
 
 
—
 
 
458
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,750
 
 
7,460
 
 
10,210
 
 
149
 
 
May-11
 


 1337
 
 Greenacres
 
FL
 
 
—
 
 
1,463
 
 
3,244
 
 
—
 
 
70
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
14
 
(c)
 
 
1,463
 
 
3,328
 
 
4,791
 
 
620
 
 
Mar-05
 


 1266
 
 Hialeah
 
FL
 
 
—
 
 
2,800
 
 
7,588
 
 
—
 
 
56
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,800
 
 
7,644
 
 
10,444
 
 
655
 
 
Aug-08
 


 1403
 
 Hialeah
 
FL
 
 
3,582
 
 
1,678
 
 
6,807
 
 
—
 
 
15
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,678
 
 
6,822
 
 
8,500
 
 
226
 
 
Sep-10
 


 1409
 
 Hialeah
 
FL
 
 
2,858
 
 
1,750
 
 
7,150
 
 
—
 
 
19
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,750
 
 
7,169
 
 
8,919
 
 
361
 
 
Jan-10
 


 0763
 
 Hollywood
 
FL
 
 
7,071
 
 
3,214
 
 
8,689
 
 
—
 
 
199
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
3,214
 
 
8,888
 
 
12,102
 
 
984
 
 
Nov-07
 


 1424
 
 Kendall
 
FL
 
 
—
 
 
2,375
 
 
5,543
 
 
—
 
 
45
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,375
 
 
5,588
 
 
7,963
 
 
77
 
 
Feb-11
 


 1314
 
 Madeira Beach
 
FL
 
 
2,677
 
 
1,686
 
 
5,163
 
 
—
 
 
140
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
29
 
(c)
 
 
1,686
 
 
5,332
 
 
7,018
 
 
1,060
 
 
Aug-04
 


 1068
 
 Margate
 
FL
 
 
3,247
 
 
430
 
 
3,139
 
 
—
 
 
320
 
 
39
 
(a)
 
 
287
 
(a)
 
 
469
 
 
3,746
 
 
4,215
 
 
1,133
 
 
Aug-00
 


 1066
 
 Miami
 
FL
 
 
3,332
 
 
1,325
 
 
4,395
 
 
—
 
 
370
 
 
114
 
(a)
 
 
388
 
(a)
 
 
1,439
 
 
5,153
 
 
6,592
 
 
1,577
 
 
Aug-00
 


 1067
 
 Miami
 
FL
 
 
9,158
 
 
5,315
 
 
4,305
 
 
—
 
 
247
 
 
544
 
(a)
 
 
447
 
(a)
 
 
5,859
 
 
4,999
 
 
10,858
 
 
1,488
 
 
Aug-00
 


 1385
 
 Miami
 
FL
 
 
5,414
 
 
1,238
 
 
7,597
 
 
—
 
 
218
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,238
 
 
7,815
 
 
9,053
 
 
996
 
 
May-07
 


 1466
 
 Miami
 
FL
 
 
—
 
 
521
 
 
5,198
 
 
—
 
 
8
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
521
 
 
5,206
 
 
5,727
 
 
28
 
 
Oct-11
 


 1429
 
 Miami
 
FL
 
 
5,712
 
 
4,798
 
 
9,475
 
 
—
 
 
25
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
4,798
 
 
9,500
 
 
14,298
 
 
499
 
 
Nov-09
 


 1064
 
 North Lauderdale
 
FL
 
 
3,629
 
 
428
 
 
3,516
 
 
—
 
 
621
 
 
31
 
(a)
 
 
260
 
(a)
 
 
459
 
 
4,397
 
 
4,856
 
 
1,422
 
 
Aug-00
 




95



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc.
Schedule III
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)
(Dollars in thousands)  






















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross carrying amount at
December 31, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 


Property
Number



 
Property Name 
 
State 
 
Debt 
 
Land
initial cost 
 
Building and
improvements
initial cost 
 
Land costs
subsequent
to acquisition 
 
Building costs
subsequent
to acquisition 
 
Land
Adjustments 
 
Notes 
 
Building
Adjustments 
 
Notes 
 
Land 
 
Building and
improvements 
 
Total 
 
Accumulated
depreciation 
 
Date acquired
or development
completed 
 


 1060
 
 North Miami
 
FL
 
 
—
 
 
1,256
 
 
6,535
 
 
—
 
 
440
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,256
 
 
6,975
 
 
8,231
 
 
1,450
 
 
Jun-04
 


 1335
 
 Ocoee
 
FL
 
 
2,202
 
 
872
 
 
3,642
 
 
—
 
 
178
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
17
 
(c)
 
 
872
 
 
3,837
 
 
4,709
 
 
743
 
 
Mar-05
 


 1317
 
 Orlando
 
FL
 
 
—
 
 
1,216
 
 
5,008
 
 
—
 
 
201
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
39
 
(c)
 
 
1,216
 
 
5,248
 
 
6,464
 
 
1,069
 
 
Aug-04
 


 1333
 
 Orlando
 
FL
 
 
4,368
 
 
2,233
 
 
9,223
 
 
—
 
 
315
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
21
 
(c)
 
 
2,233
 
 
9,559
 
 
11,792
 
 
1,755
 
 
Mar-05
 


 1334
 
 Orlando
 
FL
 
 
4,027
 
 
1,474
 
 
6,101
 
 
—
 
 
223
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
21
 
(c)
 
 
1,474
 
 
6,345
 
 
7,819
 
 
1,149
 
 
Mar-05
 


 1336
 
 Orlando
 
FL
 
 
3,337
 
 
1,166
 
 
4,816
 
 
—
 
 
1,144
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
15
 
(c)
 
 
1,166
 
 
5,975
 
 
7,141
 
 
1,038
 
 
Mar-05
 


 8136
 
 Orlando
 
FL
 
 
—
 
 
625
 
 
2,133
 
 
—
 
 
49
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
625
 
 
2,182
 
 
2,807
 
 
87
 
 
Jul-10
 


 1432
 
 Plantation
 
FL
 
 
—
 
 
3,850
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(1,900
)
(e)
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,950
 
 
—
 
 
1,950
 
 
—
 
 
 
 


 1318
 
 Port Charlotte
 
FL
 
 
—
 
 
1,389
 
 
4,632
 
 
—
 
 
132
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
20
 
(c)
 
 
1,389
 
 
4,784
 
 
6,173
 
 
950
 
 
Aug-04
 


 1319
 
 Riverview
 
FL
 
 
2,552
 
 
654
 
 
2,953
 
 
—
 
 
133
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
29
 
(c)
 
 
654
 
 
3,115
 
 
3,769
 
 
650
 
 
Aug-04
 


 0545
 
 Tampa
 
FL
 
 
3,994
 
 
1,425
 
 
4,766
 
 
—
 
 
285
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,425
 
 
5,051
 
 
6,476
 
 
707
 
 
Mar-07
 


 1366
 
 Tampa
 
FL
 
 
3,455
 
 
883
 
 
3,533
 
 
—
 
 
139
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
883
 
 
3,672
 
 
4,555
 
 
513
 
 
Nov-06
 


 1324
 
 Valrico
 
FL
 
 
3,080
 
 
1,197
 
 
4,411
 
 
—
 
 
162
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
34
 
(c)
 
 
1,197
 
 
4,607
 
 
5,804
 
 
922
 
 
Aug-04
 


 0692
 
 Venice
 
FL
 
 
7,065
 
 
1,969
 
 
5,903
 
 
—
 
 
243
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,969
 
 
6,146
 
 
8,115
 
 
1,004
 
 
Jan-06
 


 0976
 
 West Palm Beach
 
FL
 
 
3,929
 
 
1,752
 
 
4,909
 
 
—
 
 
361
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,752
 
 
5,270
 
 
7,022
 
 
1,027
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1065
 
 West Palm Beach
 
FL
 
 
1,581
 
 
1,164
 
 
2,511
 
 
—
 
 
341
 
 
82
 
(a)
 
 
180
 
(a)
 
 
1,246
 
 
3,032
 
 
4,278
 
 
933
 
 
Aug-00
 


 1069
 
 West Palm Beach
 
FL
 
 
1,821
 
 
1,312
 
 
2,511
 
 
—
 
 
445
 
 
104
 
(a)
 
 
204
 
(a)
 
 
1,416
 
 
3,160
 
 
4,576
 
 
1,019
 
 
Aug-00
 


 1186
 
 West Palm Beach
 
FL
 
 
—
 
 
1,729
 
 
4,058
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,729
 
 
4,058
 
 
5,787
 
 
4
 
 
Dec-11
 


 0693
 
 Alpharetta
 
GA
 
 
2,703
 
 
1,893
 
 
3,161
 
 
—
 
 
123
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,893
 
 
3,284
 
 
5,177
 
 
501
 
 
Aug-06
 


 1304
 
 Atlanta
 
GA
 
 
—
 
 
3,737
 
 
8,333
 
 
—
 
 
328
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
35
 
(c)
 
 
3,737
 
 
8,696
 
 
12,433
 
 
1,722
 
 
Aug-04
 


 1320
 
 Atlanta
 
GA
 
 
—
 
 
1,665
 
 
2,028
 
 
—
 
 
138
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
21
 
(c)
 
 
1,665
 
 
2,187
 
 
3,852
 
 
464
 
 
Aug-04
 


 1338
 
 Atlanta
 
GA
 
 
6,844
 
 
3,319
 
 
8,325
 
 
—
 
 
366
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
33
 
(c)
 
 
3,319
 
 
8,724
 
 
12,043
 
 
1,643
 
 
Feb-05
 


 0699
 
 Dacula
 
GA
 
 
3,862
 
 
1,993
 
 
3,001
 
 
—
 
 
93
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,993
 
 
3,094
 
 
5,087
 
 
492
 
 
Jan-06
 


 8163
 
 Douglasville
 
GA
 
 
—
 
 
1,209
 
 
719
 
 
—
 
 
20
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,209
 
 
739
 
 
1,948
 
 
30
 
 
Jun-10
 


 0753
 
 Duluth
 
GA
 
 
3,308
 
 
1,454
 
 
4,151
 
 
—
 
 
81
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,454
 
 
4,232
 
 
5,686
 
 
516
 
 
Jun-07
 


 8162
 
 Kennesaw
 
GA
 
 
—
 
 
673
 
 
1,151
 
 
—
 
 
63
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
673
 
 
1,214
 
 
1,887
 
 
49
 
 
Jun-10
 


 8134
 
 Lithonia
 
GA
 
 
—
 
 
1,958
 
 
3,645
 
 
—
 
 
27
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,958
 
 
3,672
 
 
5,630
 
 
204
 
 
Nov-09
 


 8161
 
 Marietta
 
GA
 
 
—
 
 
887
 
 
2,617
 
 
—
 
 
66
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
887
 
 
2,683
 
 
3,570
 
 
105
 
 
Jun-10
 


 1321
 
 Snellville
 
GA
 
 
—
 
 
2,691
 
 
4,026
 
 
—
 
 
198
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
23
 
(c)
 
 
2,691
 
 
4,247
 
 
6,938
 
 
859
 
 
Aug-04
 


 0417
 
 Stone Mountain
 
GA
 
 
1,826
 
 
925
 
 
3,505
 
 
—
 
 
209
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
925
 
 
3,714
 
 
4,639
 
 
669
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1322
 
 Stone Mountain
 
GA
 
 
2,945
 
 
1,817
 
 
4,382
 
 
—
 
 
206
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
24
 
(c)
 
 
1,817
 
 
4,612
 
 
6,429
 
 
919
 
 
Aug-04
 


 0745
 
 Sugar Hill
 
GA
 
 
—
 
 
1,368
 
 
2,540
 
 
—
 
 
148
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,368
 
 
2,688
 
 
4,056
 
 
343
 
 
Jun-07
 


 0754
 
 Sugar Hill
 
GA
 
 
—
 
 
1,371
 
 
2,547
 
 
—
 
 
131
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,371
 
 
2,678
 
 
4,049
 
 
347
 
 
Jun-07
 


 1313
 
 Alpharetta
 
GL
 
 
—
 
 
1,973
 
 
1,587
 
 
—
 
 
136
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
20
 
(c)
 
 
1,973
 
 
1,743
 
 
3,716
 
 
375
 
 
Aug-04
 


 1375
 
 Kahului
 
HI
 
 
—
 
 
3,984
 
 
15,044
 
 
—
 
 
500
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
3,984
 
 
15,544
 
 
19,528
 
 
1,942
 
 
Jun-07
 


 1376
 
 Kapolei
 
HI
 
 
14,824
 
 
—
 
 
24,701
 
 
—
 
 
328
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
25,029
 
 
25,029
 
 
2,986
 
 
Jun-07
 


 0728
 
 Chicago
 
IL
 
 
3,143
 
 
449
 
 
2,471
 
 
—
 
 
605
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
449
 
 
3,076
 
 
3,525
 
 
634
 
 
Jul-05
 


 0729
 
 Chicago
 
IL
 
 
2,848
 
 
472
 
 
2,582
 
 
—
 
 
594
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
472
 
 
3,176
 
 
3,648
 
 
677
 
 
Jul-05
 


 0731
 
 Chicago
 
IL
 
 
4,322
 
 
621
 
 
3,428
 
 
—
 
 
774
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
621
 
 
4,202
 
 
4,823
 
 
901
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1226
 
 Chicago
 
IL
 
 
—
 
 
1,925
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,925
 
 
—
 
 
1,925
 
 
—
 
 
 
 


 1108
 
 Crest Hill
 
IL
 
 
2,475
 
 
847
 
 
2,946
 
 
—
 
 
87
 
 
121
 
(a)
 
 
472
 
(a) (c)
 
 
968
 
 
3,505
 
 
4,473
 
 
806
 
 
Jul-03
 


 1171
 
 Gurnee
 
IL
 
 
—
 
 
1,374
 
 
8,296
 
 
—
 
 
74
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,374
 
 
8,370
 
 
9,744
 
 
911
 
 
Oct-07
 


 1178
 
 Highland Park
 
IL
 
 
—
 
 
5,798
 
 
6,016
 
 
—
 
 
8
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
5,798
 
 
6,024
 
 
11,822
 
 
6
 
 
Dec-11
 


 1173
 
 Naperville
 
IL
 
 
—
 
 
1,860
 
 
5,793
 
 
—
 
 
4
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,860
 
 
5,797
 
 
7,657
 
 
6
 
 
Dec-11
 


 1259
 
 Naperville
 
IL
 
 
—
 
 
2,800
 
 
7,355
 
 
—
 
 
79
 
 
(850
)
(e)
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,950
 
 
7,434
 
 
9,384
 
 
584
 
 
Dec-08
 


 1242
 
 North Aurora
 
IL
 
 
—
 
 
600
 
 
5,833
 
 
—
 
 
86
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
600
 
 
5,919
 
 
6,519
 
 
547
 
 
May-08
 


 1104
 
 South Holland
 
IL
 
 
1,577
 
 
839
 
 
2,879
 
 
—
 
 
177
 
 
26
 
(a)
 
 
108
 
(a) (c)
 
 
865
 
 
3,164
 
 
4,029
 
 
787
 
 
Oct-02
 


 1263
 
 Tinley Park
 
IL
 
 
—
 
 
1,823
 
 
4,794
 
 
—
 
 
79
 
 
(275
)
(e)
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,548
 
 
4,873
 
 
6,421
 
 
413
 
 
Aug-08
 


 1393
 
 Carmel
 
IN
 
 
—
 
 
1,169
 
 
4,393
 
 
—
 
 
199
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,169
 
 
4,592
 
 
5,761
 
 
426
 
 
Oct-08
 




96




 







 
Table of Contents 

Extra Space Storage Inc.
Schedule III
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)
(Dollars in thousands)  






















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross carrying amount at
December 31, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 


Property
Number



 
Property Name 
 
State 
 
Debt 
 
Land
initial cost 
 
Building and
improvements
initial cost 
 
Land costs
subsequent
to acquisition 
 
Building costs
subsequent
to acquisition 
 
Land
Adjustments 
 
Notes 
 
Building
Adjustments 
 
Notes 
 
Land 
 
Building and
improvements 
 
Total 
 
Accumulated
depreciation 
 
Date acquired
or development
completed 
 


 1514
 
 Connersville
 
IN
 
 
—
 
 
472
 
 
315
 
 
—
 
 
51
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
472
 
 
366
 
 
838
 
 
5
 
 
Jun-11
 


 1394
 
 Fort Wayne
 
IN
 
 
—
 
 
1,899
 
 
3,292
 
 
—
 
 
238
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,899
 
 
3,530
 
 
5,429
 
 
344
 
 
Oct-08
 


 0652
 
 Indianapolis
 
IN
 
 
—
 
 
588
 
 
3,457
 
 
—
 
 
203
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
588
 
 
3,660
 
 
4,248
 
 
480
 
 
Aug-07
 


 1395
 
 Indianapolis
 
IN
 
 
—
 
 
426
 
 
2,903
 
 
—
 
 
216
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
426
 
 
3,119
 
 
3,545
 
 
312
 
 
Oct-08
 


 1396
 
 Indianapolis
 
IN
 
 
—
 
 
850
 
 
4,545
 
 
—
 
 
247
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
850
 
 
4,792
 
 
5,642
 
 
457
 
 
Oct-08
 


 1397
 
 Mishawaka
 
IN
 
 
—
 
 
630
 
 
3,349
 
 
—
 
 
196
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
630
 
 
3,545
 
 
4,175
 
 
341
 
 
Oct-08
 


 1513
 
 Richmond
 
IN
 
 
—
 
 
723
 
 
482
 
 
—
 
 
48
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
723
 
 
530
 
 
1,253
 
 
8
 
 
Jun-11
 


 0586
 
 Wichita
 
KS
 
 
2,154
 
 
366
 
 
1,897
 
 
—
 
 
306
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
366
 
 
2,203
 
 
2,569
 
 
415
 
 
Apr-06
 


 1515
 
 Covington
 
KY
 
 
—
 
 
839
 
 
2,543
 
 
—
 
 
53
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
839
 
 
2,596
 
 
3,435
 
 
36
 
 
Jun-11
 


 0343
 
 Louisville
 
KY
 
 
2,947
 
 
586
 
 
3,244
 
 
—
 
 
212
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
586
 
 
3,456
 
 
4,042
 
 
672
 
 
Jul-05
 


 0648
 
 Louisville
 
KY
 
 
2,535
 
 
1,217
 
 
4,611
 
 
—
 
 
138
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,217
 
 
4,749
 
 
5,966
 
 
862
 
 
Jul-05
 


 0668
 
 Louisville
 
KY
 
 
3,617
 
 
892
 
 
2,677
 
 
—
 
 
145
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
892
 
 
2,822
 
 
3,714
 
 
469
 
 
Dec-05
 


 1315
 
 Metairie
 
LA
 
 
4,009
 
 
2,056
 
 
4,216
 
 
—
 
 
111
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
18
 
(c)
 
 
2,056
 
 
4,345
 
 
6,401
 
 
864
 
 
Aug-04
 


 1316
 
 New Orleans
 
LA
 
 
5,668
 
 
4,058
 
 
4,325
 
 
—
 
 
555
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
24
 
(c)
 
 
4,058
 
 
4,904
 
 
8,962
 
 
1,011
 
 
Aug-04
 


 1028
 
 Ashland
 
MA
 
 
—
 
 
474
 
 
3,324
 
 
—
 
 
290
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
27
 
(c)
 
 
474
 
 
3,641
 
 
4,115
 
 
1,003
 
 
Jun-03
 


 1010
 
 Auburn
 
MA
 
 
—
 
 
918
 
 
3,728
 
 
—
 
 
215
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
918
 
 
3,943
 
 
4,861
 
 
1,187
 
 
May-04
 


 1025
 
 Brockton
 
MA
 
 
—
 
 
647
 
 
2,762
 
 
—
 
 
121
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
647
 
 
2,883
 
 
3,530
 
 
791
 
 
May-04
 


 1056
 
 Dedham
 
MA
 
 
2,473
 
 
2,127
 
 
3,041
 
 
—
 
 
472
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
28
 
(c)
 
 
2,127
 
 
3,541
 
 
5,668
 
 
1,071
 
 
Mar-02
 


 1205
 
 Dedham
 
MA
 
 
—
 
 
2,443
 
 
7,328
 
 
—
 
 
995
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
16
 
(c)
 
 
2,443
 
 
8,339
 
 
10,782
 
 
1,826
 
 
Feb-04
 


 1208
 
 East Somerville
 
MA
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
137
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
14
 
(c)
 
 
—
 
 
151
 
 
151
 
 
78
 
 
Feb-04
 


 0675
 
 Everett
 
MA
 
 
—
 
 
692
 
 
2,129
 
 
—
 
 
638
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
692
 
 
2,767
 
 
3,459
 
 
582
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1001
 
 Foxboro
 
MA
 
 
—
 
 
759
 
 
4,158
 
 
—
 
 
445
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
759
 
 
4,603
 
 
5,362
 
 
1,641
 
 
May-04
 


 1002
 
 Hudson
 
MA
 
 
—
 
 
806
 
 
3,122
 
 
—
 
 
283
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
806
 
 
3,405
 
 
4,211
 
 
1,149
 
 
May-04
 


 1098
 
 Jamaica Plain
 
MA
 
 
2,742
 
 
3,285
 
 
11,275
 
 
—
 
 
112
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
3,285
 
 
11,387
 
 
14,672
 
 
1,194
 
 
Dec-07
 


 1084
 
 Kingston
 
MA
 
 
—
 
 
555
 
 
2,491
 
 
—
 
 
118
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
32
 
(c)
 
 
555
 
 
2,641
 
 
3,196
 
 
764
 
 
Oct-02
 


 7002
 
 Lynn
 
MA
 
 
—
 
 
1,703
 
 
3,237
 
 
—
 
 
263
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,703
 
 
3,500
 
 
5,203
 
 
1,016
 
 
Jun-01
 


 1035
 
 Marshfield
 
MA
 
 
4,776
 
 
1,039
 
 
4,155
 
 
—
 
 
202
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,039
 
 
4,357
 
 
5,396
 
 
896
 
 
Mar-04
 


 1099
 
 Milton
 
MA
 
 
—
 
 
2,838
 
 
3,979
 
 
—
 
 
6,400
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
20
 
(c)
 
 
2,838
 
 
10,399
 
 
13,237
 
 
1,566
 
 
Nov-02
 


 1011
 
 North Oxford
 
MA
 
 
—
 
 
482
 
 
1,762
 
 
—
 
 
207
 
 
46
 
(a)
 
 
168
 
(a)
 
 
528
 
 
2,137
 
 
2,665
 
 
717
 
 
Oct-99
 


 1022
 
 Northborough
 
MA
 
 
—
 
 
280
 
 
2,715
 
 
—
 
 
498
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
280
 
 
3,213
 
 
3,493
 
 
1,028
 
 
Feb-01
 


 1019
 
 Norwood
 
MA
 
 
—
 
 
2,160
 
 
2,336
 
 
—
 
 
1,502
 
 
61
 
(a)
 
 
95
 
(a)
 
 
2,221
 
 
3,933
 
 
6,154
 
 
1,036
 
 
Aug-99
 


 0519
 
 Plainville
 
MA
 
 
5,198
 
 
2,223
 
 
4,430
 
 
—
 
 
369
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,223
 
 
4,799
 
 
7,022
 
 
1,068
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1204
 
 Quincy
 
MA
 
 
—
 
 
1,359
 
 
4,078
 
 
—
 
 
225
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
18
 
(c)
 
 
1,359
 
 
4,321
 
 
5,680
 
 
974
 
 
Feb-04
 


 1023
 
 Raynham
 
MA
 
 
—
 
 
588
 
 
2,270
 
 
—
 
 
261
 
 
82
 
(a)
 
 
323
 
(a)
 
 
670
 
 
2,854
 
 
3,524
 
 
835
 
 
May-00
 


 1135
 
 Revere
 
MA
 
 
—
 
 
2,275
 
 
6,935
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,275
 
 
6,935
 
 
9,210
 
 
7
 
 
Dec-11
 


 1094
 
 Saugus
 
MA
 
 
3,802
 
 
1,725
 
 
5,514
 
 
—
 
 
395
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
104
 
(c)
 
 
1,725
 
 
6,013
 
 
7,738
 
 
1,536
 
 
Jun-03
 


 1107
 
 Somerville
 
MA
 
 
6,939
 
 
1,728
 
 
6,570
 
 
—
 
 
519
 
 
3
 
(a)
 
 
13
 
(a)
 
 
1,731
 
 
7,102
 
 
8,833
 
 
1,871
 
 
Jun-01
 


 0746
 
 Stoneham
 
MA
 
 
6,163
 
 
944
 
 
5,241
 
 
—
 
 
153
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
944
 
 
5,394
 
 
6,338
 
 
950
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1047
 
 Stoughton
 
MA
 
 
—
 
 
1,754
 
 
2,769
 
 
—
 
 
236
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,754
 
 
3,005
 
 
4,759
 
 
930
 
 
May-04
 


 1206
 
 Waltham
 
MA
 
 
—
 
 
3,770
 
 
11,310
 
 
—
 
 
1,005
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
17
 
(c)
 
 
3,770
 
 
12,332
 
 
16,102
 
 
2,514
 
 
Feb-04
 


 7001
 
 Weymouth
 
MA
 
 
—
 
 
2,806
 
 
3,129
 
 
—
 
 
170
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,806
 
 
3,299
 
 
6,105
 
 
1,041
 
 
Sep-00
 




97



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc.
Schedule III
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)
(Dollars in thousands)  






















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross carrying amount at
December 31, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 


Property
Number



 
Property Name 
 
State 
 
Debt 
 
Land
initial cost 
 
Building and
improvements
initial cost 
 
Land costs
subsequent
to acquisition 
 
Building costs
subsequent
to acquisition 
 
Land
Adjustments 
 
Notes 
 
Building
Adjustments 
 
Notes 
 
Land 
 
Building and
improvements 
 
Total 
 
Accumulated
depreciation 
 
Date acquired
or development
completed 
 


 1207
 
 Woburn
 
MA
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
219
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
17
 
(c)
 
 
—
 
 
236
 
 
236
 
 
99
 
 
Feb-04
 


 1003
 
 Worcester
 
MA
 
 
—
 
 
896
 
 
4,377
 
 
—
 
 
2,718
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
896
 
 
7,095
 
 
7,991
 
 
1,764
 
 
May-04
 


 1219
 
 Worcester
 
MA
 
 
3,393
 
 
1,350
 
 
4,433
 
 
—
 
 
86
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,350
 
 
4,519
 
 
5,869
 
 
613
 
 
Dec-06
 


 0152
 
 Annapolis
 
MD
 
 
—
 
 
1,375
 
 
8,896
 
 
—
 
 
266
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,375
 
 
9,162
 
 
10,537
 
 
1,115
 
 
Aug-07
 


 1381
 
 Annapolis
 
MD
 
 
6,825
 
 
5,248
 
 
7,247
 
 
—
 
 
152
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
5,248
 
 
7,399
 
 
12,647
 
 
936
 
 
Apr-07
 


 0919
 
 Arnold
 
MD
 
 
9,331
 
 
2,558
 
 
9,446
 
 
—
 
 
287
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,558
 
 
9,733
 
 
12,291
 
 
1,700
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1233
 
 Baltimore
 
MD
 
 
3,067
 
 
800
 
 
5,955
 
 
—
 
 
53
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
800
 
 
6,008
 
 
6,808
 
 
495
 
 
Nov-08
 


 1439
 
 Baltimore
 
MD
 
 
—
 
 
1,900
 
 
5,277
 
 
—
 
 
53
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,900
 
 
5,330
 
 
7,230
 
 
211
 
 
Jun-10
 


 0552
 
 Bethesda
 
MD
 
 
12,572
 
 
—
 
 
18,331
 
 
—
 
 
321
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
18,652
 
 
18,652
 
 
3,522
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1453
 
 Capitol Heights
 
MD
 
 
—
 
 
1,461
 
 
9,866
 
 
—
 
 
104
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,461
 
 
9,970
 
 
11,431
 
 
313
 
 
Oct-10
 


 0950
 
 Columbia
 
MD
 
 
8,251
 
 
1,736
 
 
9,632
 
 
—
 
 
241
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,736
 
 
9,873
 
 
11,609
 
 
1,708
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1262
 
 Edgewood
 
MD
 
 
—
 
 
1,000
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(575
)
(e)
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
425
 
 
—
 
 
425
 
 
—
 
 
 
 


 0980
 
 Ft. Washington
 
MD
 
 
11,280
 
 
4,920
 
 
9,174
 
 
—
 
 
151
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
4,920
 
 
9,325
 
 
14,245
 
 
1,226
 
 
Jan-07
 


 8248
 
 Glen Burnie
 
MD
 
 
—
 
 
1,303
 
 
4,218
 
 
—
 
 
71
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,303
 
 
4,289
 
 
5,592
 
 
51
 
 
Jul-11
 


 1195
 
 Lanham
 
MD
 
 
—
 
 
3,346
 
 
10,079
 
 
—
 
 
922
 
 
(728
)
(b)
 
 
12
 
(c)
 
 
2,618
 
 
11,013
 
 
13,631
 
 
2,389
 
 
Feb-04
 


 1292
 
 Laurel Heights
 
MD
 
 
6,360
 
 
3,000
 
 
5,930
 
 
—
 
 
57
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
3,000
 
 
5,987
 
 
8,987
 
 
641
 
 
Dec-07
 


 0918
 
 Pasadena
 
MD
 
 
—
 
 
1,869
 
 
3,056
 
 
—
 
 
693
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,869
 
 
3,749
 
 
5,618
 
 
403
 
 
Sep-08
 


 1287
 
 Pasadena
 
MD
 
 
—
 
 
3,500
 
 
7,407
 
 
—
 
 
7
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
3,500
 
 
7,414
 
 
10,914
 
 
103
 
 
 
 


 8211
 
 Randallstown
 
MD
 
 
4,839
 
 
764
 
 
6,331
 
 
—
 
 
16
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
764
 
 
6,347
 
 
7,111
 
 
62
 
 
Aug-11
 


 0380
 
 Rockville
 
MD
 
 
12,645
 
 
4,596
 
 
11,328
 
 
—
 
 
238
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
4,596
 
 
11,566
 
 
16,162
 
 
1,612
 
 
Sep-06
 


 0507
 
 Towson
 
MD
 
 
4,027
 
 
861
 
 
4,742
 
 
—
 
 
185
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
861
 
 
4,927
 
 
5,788
 
 
892
 
 
Jul-05
 


 0309
 
 Grandville
 
MI
 
 
1,670
 
 
726
 
 
1,298
 
 
—
 
 
357
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
726
 
 
1,655
 
 
2,381
 
 
367
 
 
Jul-05
 


 0556
 
 Mount Clemens
 
MI
 
 
2,063
 
 
798
 
 
1,796
 
 
—
 
 
315
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
798
 
 
2,111
 
 
2,909
 
 
418
 
 
Jul-05
 


 0664
 
 Florissant
 
MO
 
 
—
 
 
1,241
 
 
4,648
 
 
—
 
 
290
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,241
 
 
4,938
 
 
6,179
 
 
681
 
 
Aug-07
 


 0985
 
 Grandview
 
MO
 
 
1,080
 
 
612
 
 
1,770
 
 
—
 
 
304
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
612
 
 
2,074
 
 
2,686
 
 
475
 
 
Jul-05
 


 0656
 
 St. Louis
 
MO
 
 
—
 
 
1,444
 
 
4,162
 
 
—
 
 
240
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,444
 
 
4,402
 
 
5,846
 
 
597
 
 
Aug-07
 


 0663
 
 St. Louis
 
MO
 
 
2,834
 
 
676
 
 
3,551
 
 
—
 
 
251
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
676
 
 
3,802
 
 
4,478
 
 
523
 
 
Aug-07
 


 1061
 
 St. Louis
 
MO
 
 
2,057
 
 
631
 
 
2,159
 
 
—
 
 
305
 
 
59
 
(a)
 
 
205
 
(a)
 
 
690
 
 
2,669
 
 
3,359
 
 
845
 
 
Jun-00
 


 1062
 
 St. Louis
 
MO
 
 
1,577
 
 
156
 
 
1,313
 
 
—
 
 
369
 
 
17
 
(a)
 
 
151
 
(a)
 
 
173
 
 
1,833
 
 
2,006
 
 
604
 
 
Jun-00
 


 8027
 
 Merrimack
 
NH
 
 
—
 
 
754
 
 
3,299
 
 
—
 
 
209
 
 
63
 
(a)
 
 
279
 
(a)
 
 
817
 
 
3,787
 
 
4,604
 
 
926
 
 
Apr-99
 


 0738
 
 Nashua
 
NH
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
755
 
 
—
 
 
80
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
835
 
 
835
 
 
204
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1329
 
 Avenel
 
NJ
 
 
7,972
 
 
1,518
 
 
8,037
 
 
—
 
 
218
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
24
 
(c)
 
 
1,518
 
 
8,279
 
 
9,797
 
 
1,553
 
 
Jan-05
 


 1330
 
 Bayville
 
NJ
 
 
3,210
 
 
1,193
 
 
5,312
 
 
—
 
 
222
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
41
 
(c)
 
 
1,193
 
 
5,575
 
 
6,768
 
 
1,102
 
 
Dec-04
 


 1408
 
 Bellmawr
 
NJ
 
 
—
 
 
3,600
 
 
4,765
 
 
—
 
 
147
 
 
75
 
(c)
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
3,675
 
 
4,912
 
 
8,587
 
 
342
 
 
Sep-08
 


 1115
 
 Edison
 
NJ
 
 
5,690
 
 
2,519
 
 
8,547
 
 
—
 
 
450
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,519
 
 
8,997
 
 
11,516
 
 
2,421
 
 
Dec-01
 


 1116
 
 Egg Harbor Twp. 
 
NJ
 
 
7,445
 
 
1,724
 
 
5,001
 
 
—
 
 
643
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,724
 
 
5,644
 
 
7,368
 
 
1,573
 
 
Dec-01
 


 1258
 
 Ewing
 
NJ
 
 
—
 
 
1,552
 
 
4,720
 
 
—
 
 
210
 
 
11
 
(c)
 
 
(362
)
(e)
 
 
1,563
 
 
4,568
 
 
6,131
 
 
604
 
 
Mar-07
 


 1038
 
 Glen Rock
 
NJ
 
 
—
 
 
1,109
 
 
2,401
 
 
—
 
 
149
 
 
113
 
(a)
 
 
249
 
(a)(c)
 
 
1,222
 
 
2,799
 
 
4,021
 
 
713
 
 
Mar-01
 


 0330
 
 Hackensack
 
NJ
 
 
—
 
 
2,283
 
 
11,234
 
 
—
 
 
641
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,283
 
 
11,875
 
 
14,158
 
 
2,224
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1117
 
 Hazlet
 
NJ
 
 
8,019
 
 
1,362
 
 
10,262
 
 
—
 
 
526
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,362
 
 
10,788
 
 
12,150
 
 
2,834
 
 
Dec-01
 




98



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc.
Schedule III
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)
(Dollars in thousands)  






















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross carrying amount at
December 31, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 


Property
Number



 
Property Name 
 
State 
 
Debt 
 
Land
initial cost 
 
Building and
improvements
initial cost 
 
Land costs
subsequent
to acquisition 
 
Building costs
subsequent
to acquisition 
 
Land
Adjustments 
 
Notes 
 
Building
Adjustments 
 
Notes 
 
Land 
 
Building and
improvements 
 
Total 
 
Accumulated
depreciation 
 
Date acquired
or development
completed 
 


 1039
 
 Hoboken
 
NJ
 
 
8,170
 
 
2,687
 
 
6,092
 
 
—
 
 
198
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
3
 
(c)
 
 
2,687
 
 
6,293
 
 
8,980
 
 
1,589
 
 
Jul-02
 


 1118
 
 Howell
 
NJ
 
 
3,272
 
 
2,440
 
 
3,407
 
 
—
 
 
367
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,440
 
 
3,774
 
 
6,214
 
 
1,050
 
 
Dec-01
 


 1120
 
 Iselin
 
NJ
 
 
3,794
 
 
505
 
 
4,524
 
 
—
 
 
398
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
505
 
 
4,922
 
 
5,427
 
 
1,396
 
 
Dec-01
 


 1196
 
 Lawrenceville
 
NJ
 
 
—
 
 
3,402
 
 
10,230
 
 
—
 
 
408
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
8
 
(c)
 
 
3,402
 
 
10,646
 
 
14,048
 
 
2,245
 
 
Feb-04
 


 0739
 
 Linden
 
NJ
 
 
3,886
 
 
1,517
 
 
8,384
 
 
—
 
 
194
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,517
 
 
8,578
 
 
10,095
 
 
1,474
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1328
 
 Lumberton
 
NJ
 
 
3,649
 
 
831
 
 
4,060
 
 
—
 
 
146
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
22
 
(c)
 
 
831
 
 
4,228
 
 
5,059
 
 
879
 
 
Dec-04
 


 1040
 
 Lyndhurst
 
NJ
 
 
—
 
 
2,679
 
 
4,644
 
 
—
 
 
221
 
 
250
 
(a)
 
 
446
 
(a)(c)
 
 
2,929
 
 
5,311
 
 
8,240
 
 
1,340
 
 
Mar-01
 


 8093
 
 Maple Shade
 
NJ
 
 
—
 
 
1,093
 
 
5,492
 
 
—
 
 
1
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,093
 
 
5,493
 
 
6,586
 
 
6
 
 
Dec-11
 


 0784
 
 Merchantville
 
NJ
 
 
—
 
 
1,644
 
 
3,115
 
 
—
 
 
84
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,644
 
 
3,199
 
 
4,843
 
 
45
 
 
Jun-11
 


 1054
 
 Metuchen
 
NJ
 
 
—
 
 
1,153
 
 
4,462
 
 
—
 
 
208
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,153
 
 
4,670
 
 
5,823
 
 
1,237
 
 
Dec-01
 


 1428
 
 Monmouth Junction
 
NJ
 
 
—
 
 
1,700
 
 
5,835
 
 
—
 
 
22
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,700
 
 
5,857
 
 
7,557
 
 
294
 
 
Dec-09
 


 1197
 
 Morrisville
 
NJ
 
 
—
 
 
2,487
 
 
7,494
 
 
—
 
 
1,117
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
11
 
(c)
 
 
2,487
 
 
8,622
 
 
11,109
 
 
1,839
 
 
Feb-04
 


 1360
 
 Neptune
 
NJ
 
 
5,666
 
 
4,204
 
 
8,906
 
 
—
 
 
240
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
4,204
 
 
9,146
 
 
13,350
 
 
1,238
 
 
Nov-06
 


 0677
 
 North Bergen
 
NJ
 
 
—
 
 
861
 
 
17,127
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
861
 
 
17,127
 
 
17,988
 
 
92
 
 
Oct-11
 


 0809
 
 North Bergen
 
NJ
 
 
—
 
 
2,299
 
 
12,728
 
 
—
 
 
369
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,299
 
 
13,097
 
 
15,396
 
 
2,245
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1089
 
 North Bergen
 
NJ
 
 
6,545
 
 
2,100
 
 
6,606
 
 
—
 
 
183
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
74
 
(c)
 
 
2,100
 
 
6,863
 
 
8,963
 
 
1,636
 
 
Jul-03
 


 1119
 
 Old Bridge
 
NJ
 
 
5,130
 
 
2,758
 
 
6,450
 
 
—
 
 
909
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,758
 
 
7,359
 
 
10,117
 
 
1,972
 
 
Dec-01
 


 0810
 
 Parlin
 
NJ
 
 
—
 
 
2,517
 
 
4,516
 
 
—
 
 
396
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,517
 
 
4,912
 
 
7,429
 
 
1,050
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1032
 
 Parlin
 
NJ
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
5,273
 
 
—
 
 
329
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
5,602
 
 
5,602
 
 
1,770
 
 
May-04
 


 0655
 
 Toms River
 
NJ
 
 
5,123
 
 
1,790
 
 
9,935
 
 
—
 
 
277
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,790
 
 
10,212
 
 
12,002
 
 
1,891
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1331
 
 Union
 
NJ
 
 
—
 
 
1,754
 
 
6,237
 
 
—
 
 
232
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
78
 
(c)
 
 
1,754
 
 
6,547
 
 
8,301
 
 
1,299
 
 
Dec-04
 


 0547
 
 Albuquerque
 
NM
 
 
—
 
 
1,298
 
 
4,628
 
 
—
 
 
599
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,298
 
 
5,227
 
 
6,525
 
 
676
 
 
Aug-07
 


 1058
 
 Las Vegas
 
NV
 
 
1,244
 
 
251
 
 
717
 
 
—
 
 
323
 
 
27
 
(a)
 
 
87
 
(a)
 
 
278
 
 
1,127
 
 
1,405
 
 
433
 
 
Feb-00
 


 1465
 
 Las Vegas
 
NV
 
 
—
 
 
1,441
 
 
1,810
 
 
—
 
 
11
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,441
 
 
1,821
 
 
3,262
 
 
25
 
 
Jun-11
 


 1391
 
 Bohemia
 
NY
 
 
1,580
 
 
1,456
 
 
1,398
 
 
—
 
 
322
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,456
 
 
1,720
 
 
3,176
 
 
215
 
 
Dec-07
 


 1042
 
 Bronx
 
NY
 
 
—
 
 
3,450
 
 
21,210
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
3,450
 
 
21,210
 
 
24,660
 
 
23
 
 
Dec-11
 


 1213
 
 Bronx
 
NY
 
 
9,774
 
 
3,995
 
 
11,870
 
 
—
 
 
566
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
28
 
(c)
 
 
3,995
 
 
12,464
 
 
16,459
 
 
2,519
 
 
Aug-04
 


 1399
 
 Brooklyn
 
NY
 
 
14,069
 
 
12,993
 
 
10,405
 
 
—
 
 
110
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
12,993
 
 
10,515
 
 
23,508
 
 
893
 
 
Oct-08
 


 1450
 
 Brooklyn
 
NY
 
 
6,431
 
 
2,802
 
 
6,536
 
 
—
 
 
109
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,802
 
 
6,645
 
 
9,447
 
 
284
 
 
May-10
 


 1398
 
 Centereach
 
NY
 
 
2,135
 
 
2,226
 
 
1,657
 
 
—
 
 
116
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,226
 
 
1,773
 
 
3,999
 
 
165
 
 
Oct-08
 


 1451
 
 Freeport
 
NY
 
 
5,485
 
 
5,676
 
 
3,784
 
 
—
 
 
74
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
5,676
 
 
3,858
 
 
9,534
 
 
113
 
 
Nov-10
 


 0502
 
 Mount Vernon
 
NY
 
 
5,100
 
 
1,585
 
 
6,025
 
 
—
 
 
1,163
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,585
 
 
7,188
 
 
8,773
 
 
1,290
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1087
 
 Mount Vernon
 
NY
 
 
3,386
 
 
1,926
 
 
7,622
 
 
—
 
 
606
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
33
 
(c)
 
 
1,926
 
 
8,261
 
 
10,187
 
 
1,982
 
 
Nov-02
 




99




 







 
Table of Contents 

Extra Space Storage Inc.
Schedule III
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)
(Dollars in thousands)  






















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross carrying amount at
December 31, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 


Property
Number



 
Property Name 
 
State 
 
Debt 
 
Land
initial cost 
 
Building and
improvements
initial cost 
 
Land costs
subsequent
to acquisition 
 
Building costs
subsequent
to acquisition 
 
Land
Adjustments 
 
Notes 
 
Building
Adjustments 
 
Notes 
 
Land 
 
Building and
improvements 
 
Total 
 
Accumulated
depreciation 
 
Date acquired
or development
completed 
 


 1055
 
 Nanuet
 
NY
 
 
3,776
 
 
2,072
 
 
4,644
 
 
666
 
 
948
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
24
 
(c)
 
 
2,738
 
 
5,616
 
 
8,354
 
 
1,412
 
 
Feb-02
 


 0406
 
 New Paltz
 
NY
 
 
3,210
 
 
2,059
 
 
3,715
 
 
—
 
 
367
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,059
 
 
4,082
 
 
6,141
 
 
810
 
 
Jul-05
 


 0539
 
 New York
 
NY
 
 
10,069
 
 
3,060
 
 
16,978
 
 
—
 
 
604
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
3,060
 
 
17,582
 
 
20,642
 
 
3,104
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1050
 
 Plainview
 
NY
 
 
5,119
 
 
4,287
 
 
3,710
 
 
—
 
 
577
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
4,287
 
 
4,287
 
 
8,574
 
 
1,324
 
 
Dec-00
 


 1501
 
 Cincinnati
 
OH
 
 
—
 
 
2,941
 
 
2,177
 
 
—
 
 
112
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,941
 
 
2,289
 
 
5,230
 
 
32
 
 
Jun-11
 


 1502
 
 Cincinnati
 
OH
 
 
4,832
 
 
1,815
 
 
5,733
 
 
—
 
 
152
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,815
 
 
5,885
 
 
7,700
 
 
84
 
 
Jun-11
 


 1503
 
 Cincinnati
 
OH
 
 
—
 
 
1,445
 
 
3,755
 
 
—
 
 
80
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,445
 
 
3,835
 
 
5,280
 
 
54
 
 
Jun-11
 


 1504
 
 Cincinnati
 
OH
 
 
—
 
 
1,217
 
 
1,941
 
 
—
 
 
86
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,217
 
 
2,027
 
 
3,244
 
 
29
 
 
Jun-11
 


 0438
 
 Columbus
 
OH
 
 
2,848
 
 
483
 
 
2,654
 
 
—
 
 
483
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
483
 
 
3,137
 
 
3,620
 
 
715
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1511
 
 Greenville
 
OH
 
 
—
 
 
189
 
 
302
 
 
—
 
 
30
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
189
 
 
332
 
 
521
 
 
5
 
 
Jun-11
 


 1505
 
 Hamilton
 
OH
 
 
—
 
 
673
 
 
2,910
 
 
—
 
 
59
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
673
 
 
2,969
 
 
3,642
 
 
42
 
 
Jun-11
 


 0365
 
 Kent
 
OH
 
 
1,473
 
 
220
 
 
1,206
 
 
—
 
 
152
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
220
 
 
1,358
 
 
1,578
 
 
319
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1506
 
 Lebanon
 
OH
 
 
—
 
 
1,657
 
 
1,566
 
 
—
 
 
62
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,657
 
 
1,628
 
 
3,285
 
 
23
 
 
Jun-11
 


 1507
 
 Middletown
 
OH
 
 
—
 
 
534
 
 
1,047
 
 
—
 
 
54
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
534
 
 
1,101
 
 
1,635
 
 
16
 
 
Jun-11
 


 1509
 
 Sidney
 
OH
 
 
—
 
 
201
 
 
262
 
 
—
 
 
51
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
201
 
 
313
 
 
514
 
 
5
 
 
Jun-11
 


 1510
 
 Troy
 
OH
 
 
—
 
 
273
 
 
544
 
 
—
 
 
37
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
273
 
 
581
 
 
854
 
 
9
 
 
Jun-11
 


 1512
 
 Washington Court House
 
OH
 
 
—
 
 
197
 
 
499
 
 
—
 
 
29
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
197
 
 
528
 
 
725
 
 
8
 
 
Jun-11
 


 1508
 
 Xenia
 
OH
 
 
—
 
 
302
 
 
1,022
 
 
—
 
 
45
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
302
 
 
1,067
 
 
1,369
 
 
15
 
 
Jun-11
 


 0288
 
 Aloha
 
OR
 
 
6,371
 
 
1,221
 
 
6,262
 
 
—
 
 
199
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,221
 
 
6,461
 
 
7,682
 
 
1,166
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1294
 
 King City
 
OR
 
 
4,550
 
 
2,520
 
 
6,845
 
 
—
 
 
43
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,520
 
 
6,888
 
 
9,408
 
 
362
 
 
Sep-09
 


 1332
 
 Bensalem
 
PA
 
 
3,127
 
 
1,131
 
 
4,525
 
 
—
 
 
181
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
66
 
(c)
 
 
1,131
 
 
4,772
 
 
5,903
 
 
963
 
 
Dec-04
 


 1354
 
 Bensalem
 
PA
 
 
—
 
 
750
 
 
3,015
 
 
—
 
 
150
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
750
 
 
3,165
 
 
3,915
 
 
518
 
 
Mar-06
 


 1036
 
 Doylestown
 
PA
 
 
—
 
 
220
 
 
3,442
 
 
—
 
 
313
 
 
301
 
(a)(d)
 
 
384
 
(a)
 
 
521
 
 
4,139
 
 
4,660
 
 
1,053
 
 
Nov-99
 


 1046
 
 Kennedy Township
 
PA
 
 
—
 
 
736
 
 
3,173
 
 
—
 
 
169
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
736
 
 
3,342
 
 
4,078
 
 
1,035
 
 
May-04
 


 1198
 
 Philadelphia
 
PA
 
 
—
 
 
1,965
 
 
5,925
 
 
—
 
 
968
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
7
 
(c)
 
 
1,965
 
 
6,900
 
 
8,865
 
 
1,483
 
 
Feb-04
 


 1045
 
 Pittsburgh
 
PA
 
 
—
 
 
889
 
 
4,117
 
 
—
 
 
474
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
889
 
 
4,591
 
 
5,480
 
 
1,353
 
 
May-04
 


 1063
 
 Pittsburgh
 
PA
 
 
—
 
 
991
 
 
1,990
 
 
—
 
 
448
 
 
91
 
(a)
 
 
199
 
(a)
 
 
1,082
 
 
2,637
 
 
3,719
 
 
760
 
 
Aug-00
 


 1048
 
 Willow Grove
 
PA
 
 
—
 
 
1,297
 
 
4,027
 
 
—
 
 
164
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,297
 
 
4,191
 
 
5,488
 
 
111
 
 
Jan-11
 


 0741
 
 Johnston
 
RI
 
 
6,974
 
 
2,658
 
 
4,799
 
 
—
 
 
365
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,658
 
 
5,164
 
 
7,822
 
 
991
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1150
 
 Johnston
 
RI
 
 
—
 
 
533
 
 
2,127
 
 
—
 
 
1
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
533
 
 
2,128
 
 
2,661
 
 
2
 
 
Dec-11
 


 1303
 
 Charleston
 
SC
 
 
3,614
 
 
1,279
 
 
4,171
 
 
—
 
 
100
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
30
 
(c)
 
 
1,279
 
 
4,301
 
 
5,580
 
 
859
 
 
Aug-04
 


 1305
 
 Columbia
 
SC
 
 
2,896
 
 
838
 
 
3,312
 
 
—
 
 
149
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
38
 
(c)
 
 
838
 
 
3,499
 
 
4,337
 
 
734
 
 
Aug-04
 


 1311
 
 Goose Creek
 
SC
 
 
—
 
 
1,683
 
 
4,372
 
 
—
 
 
931
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
30
 
(c)
 
 
1,683
 
 
5,333
 
 
7,016
 
 
961
 
 
Aug-04
 


 1323
 
 Summerville
 
SC
 
 
—
 
 
450
 
 
4,454
 
 
—
 
 
123
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
26
 
(c)
 
 
450
 
 
4,603
 
 
5,053
 
 
923
 
 
Aug-04
 


 0487
 
 Cordova
 
TN
 
 
2,652
 
 
852
 
 
2,720
 
 
—
 
 
224
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
852
 
 
2,944
 
 
3,796
 
 
578
 
 
Jul-05
 


 0704
 
 Cordova
 
TN
 
 
—
 
 
894
 
 
2,680
 
 
—
 
 
135
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
894
 
 
2,815
 
 
3,709
 
 
383
 
 
Jan-07
 


 8122
 
 Cordova
 
TN
 
 
2,143
 
 
652
 
 
1,791
 
 
—
 
 
3
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
652
 
 
1,794
 
 
2,446
 
 
33
 
 
Apr-11
 


 0574
 
 Nashville
 
TN
 
 
2,960
 
 
390
 
 
2,598
 
 
—
 
 
610
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
390
 
 
3,208
 
 
3,598
 
 
622
 
 
Apr-06
 




100



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc.
Schedule III
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)
(Dollars in thousands)  






















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross carrying amount at
December 31, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 


Property
Number



 
Property Name 
 
State 
 
Debt 
 
Land
initial cost 
 
Building and
improvements
initial cost 
 
Land costs
subsequent
to acquisition 
 
Building costs
subsequent
to acquisition 
 
Land
Adjustments 
 
Notes 
 
Building
Adjustments 
 
Notes 
 
Land 
 
Building and
improvements 
 
Total 
 
Accumulated
depreciation 
 
Date acquired
or development
completed 
 


 1363
 
 Allen
 
TX
 
 
4,325
 
 
901
 
 
5,553
 
 
—
 
 
182
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
901
 
 
5,735
 
 
6,636
 
 
788
 
 
Nov-06
 


 1301
 
 Arlington
 
TX
 
 
2,292
 
 
534
 
 
2,525
 
 
—
 
 
271
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
34
 
(c)
 
 
534
 
 
2,830
 
 
3,364
 
 
641
 
 
Aug-04
 


 1302
 
 Austin
 
TX
 
 
5,011
 
 
870
 
 
4,455
 
 
—
 
 
250
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
35
 
(c)
 
 
870
 
 
4,740
 
 
5,610
 
 
972
 
 
Aug-04
 


 0514
 
 Dallas
 
TX
 
 
11,700
 
 
1,980
 
 
12,501
 
 
—
 
 
275
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,980
 
 
12,776
 
 
14,756
 
 
1,914
 
 
May-06
 


 0561
 
 Dallas
 
TX
 
 
2,080
 
 
337
 
 
2,216
 
 
—
 
 
402
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
337
 
 
2,618
 
 
2,955
 
 
510
 
 
Apr-06
 


 1307
 
 Dallas
 
TX
 
 
11,188
 
 
4,432
 
 
6,181
 
 
—
 
 
417
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
36
 
(c)
 
 
4,432
 
 
6,634
 
 
11,066
 
 
1,352
 
 
Aug-04
 


 0795
 
 Euless
 
TX
 
 
—
 
 
671
 
 
3,213
 
 
—
 
 
182
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
671
 
 
3,395
 
 
4,066
 
 
60
 
 
Apr-11
 


 1309
 
 Fort Worth
 
TX
 
 
2,231
 
 
631
 
 
5,794
 
 
—
 
 
178
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
31
 
(c)
 
 
631
 
 
6,003
 
 
6,634
 
 
1,202
 
 
Aug-04
 


 1312
 
 Grand Prairie
 
TX
 
 
2,317
 
 
551
 
 
2,330
 
 
—
 
 
172
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
31
 
(c)
 
 
551
 
 
2,533
 
 
3,084
 
 
520
 
 
Aug-04
 


 0584
 
 Houston
 
TX
 
 
—
 
 
2,596
 
 
8,735
 
 
—
 
 
236
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,596
 
 
8,971
 
 
11,567
 
 
1,357
 
 
Apr-06
 


 1457
 
 Houston
 
TX
 
 
—
 
 
402
 
 
1,870
 
 
—
 
 
133
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
402
 
 
2,003
 
 
2,405
 
 
56
 
 
Dec-10
 


 1456
 
 La Porte
 
TX
 
 
—
 
 
1,608
 
 
2,351
 
 
—
 
 
185
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,608
 
 
2,536
 
 
4,144
 
 
73
 
 
Dec-10
 


 1364
 
 Plano
 
TX
 
 
4,435
 
 
1,010
 
 
6,203
 
 
—
 
 
270
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,010
 
 
6,473
 
 
7,483
 
 
875
 
 
Nov-06
 


 1365
 
 Plano
 
TX
 
 
—
 
 
614
 
 
3,775
 
 
—
 
 
198
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
614
 
 
3,973
 
 
4,587
 
 
569
 
 
Nov-06
 


 1357
 
 Rowlett
 
TX
 
 
2,052
 
 
1,002
 
 
2,601
 
 
—
 
 
264
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,002
 
 
2,865
 
 
3,867
 
 
441
 
 
Aug-06
 


 1306
 
 San Antonio
 
TX
 
 
993
 
 
1,269
 
 
1,816
 
 
—
 
 
458
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
30
 
(c)
 
 
1,269
 
 
2,304
 
 
3,573
 
 
506
 
 
Aug-04
 


 1326
 
 San Antonio
 
TX
 
 
1,150
 
 
253
 
 
1,496
 
 
—
 
 
113
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
32
 
(c)
 
 
253
 
 
1,641
 
 
1,894
 
 
353
 
 
Aug-04
 


 1387
 
 San Antonio
 
TX
 
 
—
 
 
2,471
 
 
3,556
 
 
—
 
 
186
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
(408
)
(f)
 
 
2,471
 
 
3,334
 
 
5,805
 
 
393
 
 
Dec-07
 


 0521
 
 South Houston
 
TX
 
 
2,413
 
 
478
 
 
4,069
 
 
—
 
 
534
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
478
 
 
4,603
 
 
5,081
 
 
751
 
 
Apr-06
 


 8246
 
 Spring
 
TX
 
 
—
 
 
978
 
 
1,347
 
 
—
 
 
2
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
978
 
 
1,349
 
 
2,327
 
 
13
 
 
Aug-11
 


 1006
 
 Kearns
 
UT
 
 
—
 
 
642
 
 
2,607
 
 
—
 
 
250
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
642
 
 
2,857
 
 
3,499
 
 
639
 
 
Jun-04
 


 1454
 
 Murray
 
UT
 
 
—
 
 
571
 
 
986
 
 
—
 
 
259
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
571
 
 
1,245
 
 
1,816
 
 
38
 
 
Nov-10
 


 0792
 
 Orem
 
UT
 
 
—
 
 
841
 
 
2,335
 
 
—
 
 
11
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
841
 
 
2,346
 
 
3,187
 
 
42
 
 
Apr-11
 


 8002
 
 Salt Lake City
 
UT
 
 
3,180
 
 
986
 
 
3,455
 
 
—
 
 
79
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
986
 
 
3,534
 
 
4,520
 
 
110
 
 
Oct-10
 


 0132
 
 Sandy
 
UT
 
 
4,045
 
 
1,349
 
 
4,372
 
 
—
 
 
248
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,349
 
 
4,620
 
 
5,969
 
 
849
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1455
 
 West Jordan
 
UT
 
 
2,212
 
 
735
 
 
2,146
 
 
—
 
 
35
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
735
 
 
2,181
 
 
2,916
 
 
68
 
 
Nov-10
 


 0230
 
 West Valley City
 
UT
 
 
1,817
 
 
461
 
 
1,722
 
 
—
 
 
130
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
461
 
 
1,852
 
 
2,313
 
 
359
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1380
 
 Alexandria
 
VA
 
 
6,094
 
 
1,620
 
 
13,103
 
 
—
 
 
503
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,620
 
 
13,606
 
 
15,226
 
 
1,826
 
 
Jun-07
 


 1452
 
 Arlington
 
VA
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
4,802
 
 
—
 
 
45
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
4,847
 
 
4,847
 
 
486
 
 
Oct-10
 


 0717
 
 Dumfries
 
VA
 
 
5,421
 
 
932
 
 
9,349
 
 
—
 
 
38
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
932
 
 
9,387
 
 
10,319
 
 
151
 
 
May-11
 


 0678
 
 Falls Church
 
VA
 
 
6,090
 
 
1,259
 
 
6,975
 
 
—
 
 
349
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,259
 
 
7,324
 
 
8,583
 
 
1,306
 
 
Jul-05
 


 1325
 
 Richmond
 
VA
 
 
4,703
 
 
2,305
 
 
5,467
 
 
—
 
 
114
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
8
 
(c)
 
 
2,305
 
 
5,589
 
 
7,894
 
 
1,086
 
 
Aug-04
 


 0764
 
 Stafford
 
VA
 
 
4554
 
 
2,076
 
 
5,175
 
 
—
 
 
68
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,076
 
 
5,243
 
 
7,319
 
 
403
 
 
Jan-09
 


 1341
 
 Lakewood
 
WA
 
 
4,580
 
 
1,917
 
 
5,256
 
 
—
 
 
158
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,917
 
 
5,414
 
 
7,331
 
 
850
 
 
Feb-06
 


 1342
 
 Lakewood
 
WA
 
 
4,577
 
 
1,389
 
 
4,780
 
 
—
 
 
214
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,389
 
 
4,994
 
 
6,383
 
 
801
 
 
Feb-06
 


 0643
 
 Seattle
 
WA
 
 
7,574
 
 
2,727
 
 
7,241
 
 
—
 
 
203
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
2,727
 
 
7,444
 
 
10,171
 
 
1,323
 
 
Jul-05
 




101



 
Table of Contents

Extra Space Storage Inc.
Schedule III
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)
(Dollars in thousands)  






















































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross carrying amount at
December 31, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 


Property
Number



 
Property Name 
 
State 
 
Debt 
 
Land
initial cost 
 
Building and
improvements
initial cost 
 
Land costs
subsequent
to acquisition 
 
Building costs
subsequent
to acquisition 
 
Land
Adjustments 
 
Notes 
 
Building
Adjustments 
 
Notes 
 
Land 
 
Building and
improvements 
 
Total 
 
Accumulated
depreciation 
 
Date acquired
or development
completed 
 


 1343
 
 Tacoma
 
WA
 
 
3,365
 
 
1,031
 
 
3,103
 
 
—
 
 
135
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
1,031
 
 
3,238
 
 
4,269
 
 
534
 
 
Feb-06
 


 
 
 Other corporate assets
 
 
 
 

4,850
 
 

849
 
 

2,202
 
 

—
 
 

31,806
 
 

(849
)
 (d)
 
 

—
 
 
 
 

—
 
 

34,008
 
 

34,008
 
 

4,377
 
 

Various
 


 
 
 Construction in progress
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
9,366
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
9,366
 
 
9,366
 
 
—
 
 
 
 


 
 
 Intangible tenant relationships and lease rights
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
38,407
 
 
—
 
 
5,035
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
43,442
 
 
43,442
 
 
35,741
 
 
Various
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
$
937,001
 
$
598,732
 
$
1,827,406
 
$
666
 
$
150,618
 
$
(3,803
)
 
 
$
9,478
 
 
 
$
595,595
 
$
1,987,502
 
$
2,583,097
 
$
319,302
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(a)Adjustments
relate to the acquisition of joint venture partners interests
(b)Adjustment
relates to partial disposition of land
(c)Adjustment
relates to asset transfers between land, building and/or equipment
(d)Adjustment
relates to asset transfers between entities
(e)Adjustment
relates to impairment charge
(f)Adjustment
relates to a purchase price adjustment 

102




 










Table of Contents 
        Activity in real estate facilities during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 is as follows: 



















 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Operating facilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance at beginning of year
 
$
2,198,361
 
$
2,249,262
 
$
2,121,257
 


 Acquisitions
 
 
301,531
 
 
89,750
 
 
21,764
 


 Improvements
 
 
39,352
 
 
16,563
 
 
31,652
 


 Transfers from construction in progress
 
 
34,777
 
 
33,407
 
 
78,148
 


 Dispositions and other
 
 
(290
)
 
(190,621
)
 
(3,559
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance at end of year
 
$
2,573,731
 
$
2,198,361
 
$
2,249,262
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Accumulated depreciation:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance at beginning of year
 
$
263,042
 
$
233,830
 
$
182,335
 


 Depreciation expense
 
 
56,702
 
 
48,665
 
 
50,530
 


 Dispositions and other
 
 
(442
)
 
(19,453
)
 
965
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance at end of year
 
$
319,302
 
$
263,042
 
$
233,830
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Construction in progress
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance at beginning of year
 
$
37,083
 
$
34,427
 
$
58,734
 


 Current development
 
 
7,060
 
 
36,063
 
 
67,301
 


 Transfers to operating facilities
 
 
(34,777
)
 
(33,407
)
 
(78,148
)


 Dispositions and other
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(13,460
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance at end of year
 
$
9,366
 
$
37,083
 
$
34,427
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net real estate assets
 
$
2,263,795
 
$
1,972,402
 
$
2,049,859
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
aggregate cost of real estate for U.S. federal income tax purposes is $2,117,151  
 
    Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure     
        None.  
 
    Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures     
(i)    Disclosure Controls and Procedures  
        We maintain disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports we file pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), are recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC, and that such information is accumulated
and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure based on the definition
of "disclosure controls and procedures" in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that any
controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and in reaching a reasonable level of assurance,
management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. 
        We
have a disclosure committee that is responsible for considering the materiality of information and determining the disclosure obligations of the Company on a timely basis. The
disclosure committee meets quarterly and reports directly to our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. 
103



 
Table of Contents
        We
carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of
the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level as of the end of the period covered by this report. 
(ii)   Internal Control over Financial Reporting  
(a)   Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  
        Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f)
of the Exchange Act. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011. 
        Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
        Our
independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued the following attestation report over our internal control over financial reporting. 
(b)   Attestation Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm  
 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
 The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Extra Space Storage Inc.  
        We have audited Extra Space Storage Inc.'s (the "Company") internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Extra Space
Storage Inc.'s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial
reporting based on our audit. 
        We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
        A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (1) pertain to the 
104



 
Table of Contents
maintenance
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
        Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
        In
our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the COSO criteria. 
        We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2011,
and 2010 and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the period ended December 31, 2011 of Extra Space
Storage Inc. and our report dated February 29, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
/s/
Ernst & Young LLP 
Salt
Lake City, Utah
February 29, 2012 
(c)   Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting  
        There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f)) that occurred
during our most recent quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  
 
    Item 9B.    Other Information     
        None. 
 
 
  PART III     
 
    Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance     
        Information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the captions "Executive Officers,"
and "Information About the Board of Directors and its Committees" in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within
120 days after December 31, 2011. 
        We
have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics in compliance with rules of the SEC that applies to all of our personnel, including our board of directors, Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer and principal accounting officer. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available free of charge on the "Investor Relations—Corporate Governance" section of
our web site at www.extraspace.com. We intend to satisfy any disclosure requirements under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of this
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics by posting such information on our web site at the address and location specified above. 
        The
board of directors has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines and charters for our Audit Committee and Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee, each of which is posted on 
105



 
Table of Contents
our
website at the address and location specified above. Investors may obtain a free copy of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, the Corporate Governance Guidelines and the committee charters by
contacting the Investor Relations Department at 2795 East Cottonwood Parkway, Suite 400, Salt Lake City, Utah 84121, Attn: Clint Halverson or by telephoning (801) 365-4600. 
 
    Item 11.    Executive Compensation     
        Information with respect to executive compensation is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the caption
"Executive Compensation" in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after December 31,
2011.  
 
    Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters     
        Information with respect to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters is
incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the captions "Executive Compensation" and "Security Ownership of Directors and Officers" in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after December 31, 2011.  
 
    Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence     
        Information with respect to certain relationships and related transactions is incorporated by reference to the information set forth
under the captions "Information about the Board of Directors and its Committees" and "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" in our Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after December 31, 2011.  
 
    Item 14.    Principal Accountant Fees and Services     
        Information with respect to principal accountant fees and services is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the
caption "Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" in our Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A
within 120 days after December 31, 2011. 
106




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  PART IV     
 
    Item 15.    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules     

(a)Documents
filed as part of this report: 
        (1)   and
(2).    All Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules filed as part of this Annual Report on 10-K are included in
Item 8—"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on 10-K and reference is made thereto. 
        (3)   The
following documents are filed or incorporated by references as exhibits to this report: 












Exhibit
Number 
 
Description 


 
2.1
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated May 5, 2005 by and among Security Capital Self Storage Incorporated, as seller and Extra Space Storage LLC, PRISA Self Storage LLC, PRISA II Self Storage LLC, PRISA
III Self Storage LLC, VRS Self Storage LLC, WCOT Self Storage LLC and Extra Space Storage LP, as purchaser parties and The Prudential Insurance Company of America (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 2.1 of Form 8-K
filed on May 11, 2005).


 
3.1
 
Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Extra Space Storage Inc.(1)


 
3.2
 
Articles of Amendment dated September 28, 2007 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.1 of Form 8-K filed on October 3, 2007).


 
3.3
 
Amended and Restated Bylaws of Extra Space Storage Inc.(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.1 of Form 8-K filed on May 26, 2009)


 
3.4
 
Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Extra Space Storage LP (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed on June 26, 2007).


 
3.5
 
Declaration of Trust of ESS Holdings Business Trust I.(1)


 
3.6
 
Declaration of Trust of ESS Holdings Business Trust II.(1)


 
4.1
 
Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of July 27, 2005, between Extra Space Storage LP and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 of
Form 8-K filed on August 2, 2005).


 
4.2
 
Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, dated as of July 27, 2005, among Extra Space Storage LP, as depositor and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as property trustee, Chase Bank USA, National
Association, as Delaware trustee, the Administrative Trustees named therein and the holders of undivided beneficial interest in the assets of ESS Statutory Trust III (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.2 of Form 8-K filed on
August 2, 2005).


 
4.3
 
Junior Subordinated Note (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.3 of Form 10-K filed on February 26, 2010)


 
4.4
 
Trust Preferred Security Certificates (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.4 of Form 10-K filed on February 26, 2010)


 
4.5
 
Indenture, dated March 27, 2007 among Extra Space Storage LP, Extra Space Storage Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee, including the form of 3.625% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2027 and form of
guarantee (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 of Form 8-K filed on March 28, 2007).


 
10.1
 
Registration Rights Agreement, by and among Extra Space Storage Inc. and the parties listed on Schedule I thereto.(1)


 
10.2
 
License between Centershift Inc. and Extra Space Storage LP.(1)




107



 
Table of Contents












Exhibit
Number 
 
Description 


 
10.3
 
2004 Long-Term Compensation Incentive Plan as amended and restated effective March 25, 2008 (incorporated by reference from the Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed on April 14, 2008)



 
10.4
 
Extra Space Storage Performance Bonus Plan.(1)


 
10.5
 
Form of 2004 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan Option Award Agreement for Employees with employment agreements. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.11 of Form 10-K filed on February 26,
2010)


 
10.6
 
Form of 2004 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan Option Award Agreement for employees without employment agreements. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.12 of Form 10-K filed on February 26,
2010)


 
10.7
 
Form of 2004 Non-Employee Directors Share Plan Option Award Agreement for Directors. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.13 of Form 10-K filed on February 26, 2010)


 
10.8
 
Joint Venture Agreement, dated June 1, 2004, by and between Extra Space Storage LLC and Prudential Financial, Inc.(1)


 
10.9
 
Extra Space Storage Non-Employee Directors' Share Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.22 of Form 10-K/A filed on March 22, 2007).


 
10.10
 
Purchase Agreement, dated June 20, 2005, among Extra Space Storage Inc. and the investors named therein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed on June 24,
2005).


 
10.11
 
Registration Rights Agreement, dated June 20, 2005, among Extra Space Storage Inc. and the investors named therein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed on June 24,
2005).


 
10.12
 
Purchase Agreement, dated as of July 27, 2005, among Extra Space Storage LP, ESS Statutory Trust III and the Purchaser named therein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed
on August 2, 2005).


 
10.13
 
Purchase Agreement, dated as of July 27, 2005, among Extra Space Storage LP, ESS Statutory Trust III and the Purchaser named therein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed
on August 2, 2005).


 
10.14
 
Registration Rights Agreement, dated March 27, 2007, among Extra Space Storage LP, Extra Space Storage Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed on March 28, 2007).


 
10.15
 
Contribution Agreement, dated June 15, 2007, among Extra Space Storage LP and various limited partnerships affiliated with AAAAA Rent-A-Space. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.23 of
Form 10-K filed on February 26, 2010)


 
10.16
 
Promissory Note, dated June 25, 2007, among Extra Space Storage LP, H. James Knuppe and Barbara Knuppe (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of Form 8-K filed on June 26,
2007).


 
10.17
 
Pledge Agreement, dated June 25, 2007, among Extra Space Storage LP, H. James Knuppe and Barbara Knuppe (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of Form 8-K filed on June 26,
2007).




108



 
Table of Contents












Exhibit
Number 
 
Description 


 
10.18
 
Registration Rights Agreement among Extra Space Storage LP, H. James Knuppe and Barbara Knuppe. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.26 of Form 10-K filed on February 26, 2010)


 
10.19
 
First Amendment to Contribution Agreement and to Agreement Regarding Transfer of Series A units among Extra Space Storage LP, various limited partnerships affiliated with AAAAA Rent-A-Space, H. James Knuppe
and Barbara Knuppe, dated September 28, 2007. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed on October 3, 2007).


 
10.20
 
2004 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 of Form 10-Q filed on November 7, 2007).


 
10.21
 
First Amendment to Extra Space Storage Inc. 2004 Non-Employee Directors' Share Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.4 of Form 10-Q filed on November 7, 2007).


 
10.22
 
Loan Agreement between ESP Seven Subsidiary LLC as Borrower and General Electric Capital Corporation as Lender, dated October 16, 2007. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.30 of Form 10-K
filed on February 26, 2010)


 
10.23
 
Subscription Agreement, dated December 31, 2007, among Extra Space Storage LLC and Extra Space Development, LLC. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.31 of Form 10-K filed on
February 26, 2010)


 
10.24
 
First Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Extra Space Storage LP, dated September 18, 2008. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.32 of Form 10-K filed
on February 26, 2010)


 
10.25
 
Revolving Promissory Note between Extra Space Properties Thirty LLC and Bank of America as Lender, dated February 13, 2009 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.33 of Form 10-K filed on
February 26, 2010)


 
10.26
 
Revolving Line of Credit between Extra Space Properties Thirty LLC and Bank of America as Lender, dated February 13, 2009 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.34 of Form 10-K filed on
February 26, 2010)


 
10.27
 
First Loan and Note Modification Agreement between Extra Space Properties Thirty LLC and Bank of America as lender, dated April 9, 2009(2)


 
10.28
 
Second Loan and Note Modification Agreement between Extra Space Properties Thirty LLC and Bank of America as lender, dated May 4, 2009(2)


 
10.29
 
Third Loan and Note Modification Agreement between Extra Space Properties Thirty LLC and Bank of America as lender, dated August 27, 2010(2)


 
10.30
 
Fourth Loan and Note Modification Agreement between Extra Space Properties Thirty LLC and Bank of America as lender, dated October 19, 2011(2)


 
10.31
 
Extra Space Storage Inc. Executive Change in Control Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed on August 31, 2011).


 
10.32
 
Separation and Release Agreement, dated December 7, 2011, among Extra Space Storage Inc., Extra Space Storage LP and Kent W. Christensen (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K
filed on December 9, 2011).


 
10.33
 
Retention Agreement, dated February 21, 2012, between Extra Space Storage Inc. and Karl Haas, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed on February 21, 2012).




109



 
Table of Contents












Exhibit
Number 
 
Description 


 
14.0
 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics adopted May 23, 2007 (incorporated by reference from the Definitive Proxy Statement on Form 14A filed on April 14, 2008.)


 
21.1
 
Subsidiaries of the Company(2)


 
23.1
 
Consent of Ernst & Young LLP(2)


 
31.1
 
Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.(2)


 
31.2
 
Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.(2)


 
32
 
Certifications of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.(2)


 
101
 
The following financial information from Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2011, filed with the SEC on February 29, 2012, formatted in Extensible Business
Reporting Language (XBRL): (i) Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010; (ii) Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009; (iii) Consolidated Statements
of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009; (iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009; and (v) Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.








(1)Incorporated
by reference from our Registration Statement on Form S-11 (File No. 333-115436 dated August 11,
2004).
(2)Filed
herewith
(3)Pursuant
to Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, these interactive data files are deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or
prospectus for purposes of Section 11 or 12 of the Securities Act, are deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, and otherwise are not subject to liability under
these sections. 

110




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  SIGNATURES     
        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 













Date: February 29, 2012
 
EXTRA SPACE STORAGE INC.



 
 
  By:
 
/s/ SPENCER F. KIRK

  Spencer F. Kirk Chairman and Chief Executive Officer




        Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated. 













Date: February 29, 2012
 
 By:
 
/s/ SPENCER F. KIRK

  Spencer F. Kirk Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
(Principal Executive Officer)


Date: February 29, 2012
 
 By:
 
/s/ P. SCOTT STUBBS

  P. Scott Stubbs Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer)


Date: February 29, 2012
 
 By:
 
/s/ GRACE KUNDE

  Grace Kunde Vice President and Corporate Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)


Date: February 29, 2012
 
 By:
 
/s/ JOSEPH D. MARGOLIS

  Joseph D. Margolis Director


Date: February 29, 2012
 
 By:
 
/s/ ROGER B. PORTER

  Roger B. Porter Director


Date: February 29, 2012
 
 By:
 
/s/ K. FRED SKOUSEN

  K. Fred Skousen Director




111










