
10-K
1
a2207137z10-k.htm
10-K







Use these links to rapidly review the document
  TABLE OF CONTENTS 
  Summer Infant, Inc. And Subsidiaries Index to Financial Statements









 
Table of Contents 

 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549  





 
FORM 10-K  











(Mark One)
 
 


ý
 
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011


 or


o
 
 TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


 For the transition period
from                                 to       
                        





 Commission File No. 001-33346  





 
SUMMER INFANT, INC.  








Delaware
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation)
 
 20-1994619
(I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.)


 1275 Park East Drive, Woonsocket,
 

 


Rhode Island
 
 02895


(Address of Principal Executive Offices)
 
(Zip Code)



(401) 671-6550
(Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code) 






         Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 








Title of each class 
 
Name of Exchange on which registered 


Common Stock, Par Value $.0001
 
Nasdaq Capital Market



         Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
         Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act. YES o    NO ý 
         Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. YES o    NO ý 
         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days. YES ý    NO o 
         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files). YES ý    NO o 
         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. o 
         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting
company. See the definitions of "accelerated filer," large accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 















Large accelerated filer o
 
Accelerated filer o
 
Non-accelerated filer o (Do not check if a
smaller reporting company)
 
Smaller reporting company ý




         Indicate
by check mark whether registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act). YES o    NO ý 
         The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates, based on the closing price of the
registrant's Common Stock as reported on the Nasdaq Capital Market on June 30, 2011 was approximately $72.2 million. For purposes of this computation, all officers, directors, and 10%
beneficial owners of the registrant are deemed to be affiliates. Such determination should not be deemed to be an admission that such officers, directors, or 10% beneficial owners are, in fact,
affiliates of the registrant. 
         The
number of shares issued and outstanding of the registrant's common stock as of February 1, 2012 was 17,760,191 (excluding unvested restricted shares that have been issued to
employees). 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  
         Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for its 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K. 
  

   


 















Table of Contents 
 
 
 
  INDEX TO FORM 10-K  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011     

 
















 
 
 
 
PAGE 
 


 PART I
 
 
 
 
 
 


 ITEM 1.
 
 Business
 
 
1
 


 ITEM 1A.
 
 Risk Factors
 
 
5
 


 ITEM 1B.
 
 Unresolved Staff Comments
 
 
10
 


 ITEM 2.
 
 Properties
 
 
10
 


 ITEM 3.
 
 Legal Proceedings
 
 
11
 


 ITEM 4.
 
 Mine Safety Disclosures
 
 
11
 


 PART II
 
 
 
 
 
 


 ITEM 5.
 
 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 
 
12
 


 ITEM 6.
 
 Selected Financial Data
 
 
12
 


 ITEM 7.
 
 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 
13
 


 ITEM 7A.
 
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
 
 
21
 


 ITEM 8.
 
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
 
21
 


 ITEM 9.
 
 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
 
 
21
 


 ITEM 9A.
 
 Controls and Procedures
 
 
22
 


 ITEM 9B.
 
 Other Information
 
 
23
 


 PART III
 
 
 
 
 
 


 ITEM 10.
 
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
 
 
24
 


 ITEM 11.
 
 Executive Compensation
 
 
24
 


 ITEM 12.
 
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
 
 
24
 


 ITEM 13.
 
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
 
 
24
 


 ITEM 14.
 
 Principal Accountant Fees and Services
 
 
24
 


 PART IV
 
 
 
 
 
 


 ITEM 15.
 
 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
 
 
25
 


  SIGNATURES
 
 

26
 









 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS     
        This annual report on Form 10-K contains, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements within
the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are based on management's current
expectations and include statements regarding our "expectations," "anticipation," "intentions," "beliefs," or "strategies" regarding the future, whether or not those words are used. These statements
include statements regarding our ability to grow strategically, our position in the markets in which we compete, our ability to increase product penetration, create new products, and meet our growth
strategy, our ability to develop proprietary products, grow sales in the future, and make and successfully integrate acquisitions, and our expectations regarding liquidity and capital resources in the
future. Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in such statements. We caution
investors that actual results or business conditions may differ materially from those projected or suggested in forward-looking statements as a result of various factors including, but not limited to,
the risk factors discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors below. All forward-looking statements included in this report are based on information available to us as of the filing date of this report,
and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. 
 
 
  PART I     
        Note that all dollar amounts in Part I are in thousands of U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted. 
 
    Item 1.    Business     
 Background  
        On March 6, 2007, under an Agreement and Plans of Reorganization, dated as of September 1, 2006, KBL Healthcare
Acquisition Corp. II ("KBL"), and its wholly owned subsidiary, SII Acquisition Corp. ("Acquisition Sub"), consummated a transaction by which (i) Summer Infant, Inc.
("SII") was merged with and into Acquisition Sub and (ii) all of the outstanding capital stock of each of Summer Infant Europe, Limited and Summer Infant Asia, Ltd. was acquired directly
by KBL. Effective upon closing, KBL changed its name to Summer Infant, Inc. and SII changed its name to Summer Infant (USA), Inc. On March 7, 2007, the securities of Summer
Infant, Inc. commenced listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbols SUMR (common stock), SUMRW (warrants) and SUMRU (units). In 2008, Summer Infant (USA), Inc. created a
wholly-owned subsidiary called Summer Infant Canada, Ltd. In March 2011, Summer Infant (USA), Inc. acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Born Free Holdings, Ltd. Summer
Infant, Inc is now a holding company operating through its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, Summer Infant (USA), Inc., Summer Infant Europe, Limited, Summer Infant
Canada, Ltd., Summer Infant Asia, Ltd. and Born Free Holdings Ltd. The consolidated financial statements of the Company included in this Annual Report include the accounts of its
wholly-owned subsidiaries. References to "we," "us," or the "Company" means Summer Infant, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries unless otherwise noted. 
 General  
        We are a designer, marketer, and distributor of branded juvenile health, safety and wellness products (for ages
0-3 years) which are sold principally to large North American and United Kingdom retailers. We currently market products in various product categories including nursery audio/video
monitors, safety gates, durable bath products, bed rails, nursery products, booster and potty seats, bouncers, travel accessories, high chairs, swings, feeding products, car seats, and nursery
furniture. In the past three years, the Company has completed several acquisitions and therefore added products through acquisition, such as cribs, baby gear and feeding products. In North America our
products are sold primarily to retailers including Babies R Us, Target, KMart, Wal-Mart, Buy Buy Baby and Amazon.com. Our largest European-based customers are Mothercare, Toys R Us, Argos
and Tesco. 
1



 
Table of Contents
        Our
corporate headquarters is located in Woonsocket, Rhode Island. We maintain sales, marketing and distribution offices in England, which service the United Kingdom and other parts of
Europe, and in Canada. We maintain through our Hong Kong subsidiary a product development, sales, engineering and quality assurance office in Hong Kong. 
 Strategy  
        Our strategy is to grow our sales through a variety of methods, including:


•increased product penetration (more products at each store); 
•increased store penetration (more stores within each retail customer); 
•new products (at existing and new customers); 
•new mass merchant retail customers; 
•new distribution channels (food and drug chains, price clubs, home centers, web-based retailers);  
•new geographies (international expansion); 
•new product categories; and 
•acquisitions. 

        We
have been able to grow our annual revenues historically through a combination of all of the above factors. Each year, we have been able to expand the number of products in our main
distribution channel (mass merchant retailers), and have also added new customers each year. Therefore, even with limited new product introductions, we could grow our business by simply selling more
of our existing product line to existing customers. 
        In
the future, our growth strategy will be to continue to develop and sell new products to our existing customer base, sell new and existing products to new customers (or expand
relationships with existing customers) and to expand in the United Kingdom, Canada, and in other geographic regions (including Japan, Mexico and Australia, among others). In addition, there are a
number of potential acquisition candidates that could be pursued to obtain new innovative products, new product categories, new retail customers or new sales territories. There are several hundred
active juvenile product companies, of which we estimate the majority have less than $10,000 in sales. 
 Products  
        We currently sell products in a number of different categories, including nursery audio/video monitors, safety gates, durable bath
products, bed rails, infant thermometers, related health and safety products, booster and potty seats, cribs, baby gear, bouncers, swaddling blankets and bottles. No single product generated more than
10% of sales for the year ended December 31, 2011. While a majority of our products are sold under the Summer Infant brand name, we also have several licensing arrangements to sell products
under different brand names, including Carter's and Disney. In 2011, we added feeding products to our categories and introduced our new PRODIGY™ car seat and travel system. 
 Product Development and Design  
        We believe that product development is a critical element of our strategy and success to date. Our product strategy is to produce
proprietary products that provide distinctive benefits, are visually appealing, provide convenience and will appeal to the mid-tier and upper-tier buyers. Our retail customers
are strategically motivated to buy innovative products. Our main product development efforts are located at our Rhode Island headquarters, but we also have development efforts in China, Pennsylvania,
and the United Kingdom. We also focus on improving existing products based on feedback from our customers. For example, we expect to re-launch our PRODIGY™ travel system in the third
quarter of 2012 with new fashion and an improved stroller platform. 
2



 
Table of Contents
 Suppliers and Manufacturing  
        Except for certain injection-molded products, which are manufactured in the U.S., substantially all of our other products are
manufactured in Asia (primarily China) and Israel. We use many different suppliers and we own our molds. Therefore, we are not dependent on any one manufacturer. Our Hong Kong subsidiary provides us
with a local sourcing presence and the ability to oversee quality, electronic engineering and other issues that may arise during production. Generally, we are buying finished goods from manufacturers
and thus are not directly procuring any raw materials
related to the ultimate manufacturing of the products. We have not had any significant disruption of supply to date as a result of raw material shortages, but there is the possibility that shortages
could occur in the future based on a variety of factors beyond our control. 
        Transportation
of Asia-made goods to our warehouses typically takes three to four weeks, depending on the location of the warehouse. We maintain our inventory at warehouses
located in the United States, Canada, Asia, and the United Kingdom. Most of our customers pick up their goods at regional warehouses. We also use UPS and other common carriers to arrange shipments to
customers who request such arrangements, primarily smaller retailers and specialty stores. In 2011, our East Coast distribution center was consolidated into our West Coast distribution center. We
anticipate this will better enable us to service our customers. 
        We
use several manufacturers in the United States for certain injection molded products, including bath tubs, potty seats and booster seats, which typically account for between 10% and
15% of our annual sales. 
 Sales and Marketing  
        Our sales are primarily derived from the sale of juvenile health, safety and wellness products and are recognized upon transfer of
title of product to our customers. Our products are marketed and sold through several distribution channels including mass merchant retailers, specialty retailers and direct to consumers. 
        Sales
are made utilizing standard credit terms of 30 to 60 days. We generally accept returns only for defective merchandise. 
 Competition  
        The juvenile health, safety and wellness industry has many participants, none of which have dominant market share, though certain
companies have disproportionate strength in certain segments. Our largest direct competitors are Dorel Industries (including Safety 1st and Cosco brands), Evenflo (Evenflo, Gerry, and Snugli
brands), Kid Brands, Inc., Fisher-Price (part of Mattel, Inc.), The First Years (a subsidiary of Tomy Corporation) and Graco (a subsidiary of Newell Rubbermaid). In addition, we compete
in certain of our product lines with a number of private companies, such as KidCo, Inc. and Munchkin. 
        The
primary methods of competition in the industry consist of product innovation, brand positioning, quality, price and other factors such as timely distribution. Our competitive
strengths include our experienced product development staff, our ability to develop new products, brand positioning, relationships with major retailers, and the quality and pricing of our products. 
 Intellectual Property  
        We rely on a combination of patents, licenses and trade secrets to protect our intellectual property. Our patents currently in effect
include various design features related to bedrails, infant seats, bouncers, and potty chairs, with several other patents pending for monitors, baby swings, and other items. The patents expire at
various times over the next 20 years. We also have license agreements relating to the use of patented technology owned by third parties in certain of our products. 
3



 
Table of Contents
 Customers  
        Our top seven customers together comprised over 75% of our sales in fiscal 2011. These customers include Babies R Us/Toys R Us, Target,
K-Mart, Buy Buy Baby, Amazon.com, Burlington Coat Factory, and Wal-Mart. Of these customers, three generated more than 10% of sales for fiscal 2011: Toys R Us (39%), Walmart
(11%) and Target (10%). Because of the concentration of our business with these customers and because we have no long term contracts with these customers, our success depends on our customers'
willingness to purchase and provide shelf space for our products. 
 Seasonality  
        There are not significant variations in seasonal demand for our products. Sales to our retail customers are generally higher in the
time frame when retailers take initial
shipments of new products. These orders usually incorporate enough product inventory to fill each store plus additional amounts to be kept at the customer's distribution center. The timing of these
initial shipments varies by customer depending on when they finalize store layouts for the upcoming year, and whether there are any mid-year product introductions. 
 Geographic Regions  
        In 2011, North America accounted for over 90% of our total net sales; the remaining sales were made in the United Kingdom and all other
geographies. 
 Regulatory Matters  
        We obtain all necessary regulatory agency approvals for each of our products. In the U.S., these approvals may include, among others,
one or more of the Consumer Product Safety Commission ("CPSC"), the American Society of Test Methods ("ASTM"), the Juvenile Products Manufacturing Association ("JPMA"), the Federal Communications
Commission ("FCC") and the Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"). We conduct our own internal testing, which utilizes a "foreseeable use and abuse" testing method and is designed to subject each
product to the "worst case scenario." Our products are also frequently tested by independent government certified labs. 
 Insurance  
        We carry a product liability insurance policy that provides us with $15,000 of liability coverage with a minimal deductible. We consult
with our insurers to ascertain appropriate liability coverage for our product mix. We anticipate increasing our insurance coverage in the future in line with our expanding sales and product breadth. 
 Employees  
        As of December 31, 2011, we employed a total of 247 full time people, 143 of whom work in the headquarters in Rhode Island. Our
employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our employee relations to be good. 
 Available Information  
        We maintain our corporate website at www.summerinfant.com and we make available, free
of charge, through this website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to
those reports that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file that material with, or furnish it to, the
SEC. Our website also includes corporate governance information, including our Code of Ethics and our Board Committee Charters. 
4




 










Table of Contents 
 
    Item 1A.    Risk Factors     
        If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of
operations could be materially adversely affected. In those cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline. 
 The concentration of our business with a base of retail customers that make no binding long-term commitments means that economic difficulties or changes in the
purchasing policies of our major customers could have a significant impact on our business.  
        A number of large, retail customers account for a majority of our sales. In fiscal 2011, Toys R Us generated 39% of our total sales,
and seven customers accounted for over 75% of our total sales. Because of the concentration of our business with these customers and because we have no long term contracts with these customers, our
success depends on our customers' willingness to
continue to purchase and provide shelf space for our products. An adverse change in our relationship with any of our large customers or a change in the financial viability of any of these customers
could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 
 Our ability to grow and compete will be harmed if we do not successfully satisfy consumer preferences, enhance existing products, develop and introduce new products, and
achieve market acceptance of those products.  
        Our business and operating results depend largely upon the appeal of our products. Consumer preferences, particularly among parents,
whom are often the end purchasers of our products, are constantly changing. Our success will largely depend on our ability to identify emerging trends in the health, safety and wellness marketplace,
and design products that address consumer demand and prove safe and cost effective. Our product offerings compete with those of many other companies, many of which are much larger and enjoy broader
brand recognition and significant distribution channel relationships, which means that our market position is always at risk. Our ability to maintain and increase our current market share will depend
upon our ability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and satisfy these preferences, enhance existing products, develop and introduce new products and establish and grow distribution channels
for these products, and ultimately achieve market acceptance of these products. 
 We are dependent on key personnel, and our ability to grow and compete in our industry will be harmed if we do not retain the continued services of our key personnel, or we
fail to identify, hire, and retain additional qualified personnel.  
        We are dependent on the efforts of our management team, and the loss of services of members of our management team, each of whom has
substantial experience in the juvenile health, safety and wellness markets, could have an adverse effect on our business. If any members of management leave, their departure could have an adverse
effect on our operations and could adversely affect our ability to design new products and to maintain and grow the distribution channels for our products. 
        In
addition, if our operations continue to grow in a manner consistent with our historical growth rates, it will be necessary for us to attract and retain additional qualified personnel.
The market for qualified and talented product development personnel in the consumer goods market, and the juvenile health, safety and wellness products market specifically is intensely competitive. If
we are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel as needed, the growth of our operations could be slowed or hampered. However, we believe that our compensation including salary,
performance-based bonuses, and stock award programs provides incentives that are competitive within our industry. 
5



 
Table of Contents
 Intellectual property claims relating to our products could increase our costs and adversely affect our business.  
        We have, from time to time, received claims of alleged infringement of patents relating to certain of our products, and we may face
similar claims in the future. These claims relate to alleged patent infringement and are primarily the result of newly issued patents that were not in force when we initially brought the subject
products to market. The defense of intellectual property claims can be costly and time consuming, even in circumstances where the claim is without merit. We may be required to pay substantial damages
or settlement costs in order to resolve these types of claims. In addition, these claims could materially harm our brand name, reputation and operations. 
 We rely on foreign suppliers in Asia to manufacture the majority of our products, and any adverse change in our relationship with our suppliers could harm our business.  
        We rely on numerous third-party suppliers located in Asia for the manufacture of most of our products. While we believe that
alternative suppliers could be located if required, our product sourcing could be affected if any of these suppliers do not continue to manufacture our products in required quantities or at all, or
with the required levels of quality. We enter into purchase orders with our foreign suppliers and do not enter into any long term contracts. In addition, difficulties encountered by these suppliers,
such as fire, accident, natural disasters, outbreaks of contagious diseases, or political unrest, could halt or disrupt production at the affected locations, resulting in delay or cancellation of
orders. Any of these events could result in delayed deliveries by us of our products, causing reduced sales and harm to our reputation and brand name. 
 Increases in the cost of materials or labor used to manufacture our products could decrease our profitability and therefore negatively impact our business and financial
condition.  
        Because our products are manufactured by third-party suppliers, we do not directly purchase the materials used in the manufacture of
our products. However, the prices paid by us to these suppliers could increase if raw materials, labor, or other costs increase. If we cannot pass these increases along to our customers, our
profitability will be adversely affected. 
 Because we rely on foreign suppliers and we sell in foreign markets, we are subject to numerous risks associated with international business that could increase our costs or
disrupt the supply of our products, resulting in a negative impact on our business and financial condition.  
        Our international operations subject us to risks, including:


•economic and political instability, 
•restrictive actions by foreign governments, 
•greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting intellectual property rights,  
•changes in import duties or import or export restrictions, 
•timely shipping of product and unloading of product through West Coast ports, as well as timely truck delivery to our
warehouses, 
•complications in complying with the laws and policies of the United States affecting the importation of goods, including
duties, quotas, and taxes, and 
•complications in complying with trade and foreign tax laws. 

        Any
of these events or circumstances could disrupt the supply of our products or increase our expenses. 
6



 
Table of Contents
 Product liability, product recalls, and other claims relating to the use of our products could increase our costs.  
        Because we sell infant and juvenile health, safety and wellness products to consumers, we face product liability risks relating to the
use of our products. We also must comply with a variety of product safety and product testing regulations. In particular, our products are subject to, among other statutes and regulations, the
Consumer Product Safety Act, the Federal Hazardous Substances Act ("FHSA") and the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act ("CPSIA"), which empower the Consumer Product Safety Commission (the "CPSC"),
to take action against hazards presented by consumer products. With expanded authority under the CPSIA, the CPSC has and continues to adopt new regulations for safety and products testing that apply
to our products. These new regulations have or likely will significantly increase the regulatory requirements governing the manufacture and sale of children's products and increase the potential
penalties for noncompliance with applicable regulations. The CPSC has the authority to exclude from the market and recall certain consumer products that are found to be potentially hazardous. Consumer
product safety laws also exist in some states and cities within the United States and in Canada and Europe, as well as certain other countries. While we take the steps we believe are necessary to
comply with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, or if we face product liability
claims, we may be subject to damage awards or settlement costs that exceed any available insurance coverage and we may incur significant costs in complying with recall requirements. Furthermore,
concerns about potential liability may lead us to recall voluntarily selected products. For instance in 2011, we undertook voluntary action to re-label our audio/video nursery monitors and
in the fourth quarter of 2011 recorded a charge in connection with the proposed settlement of outstanding litigation related to our analog video nursery monitors. In addition, the CPSC issued a
warning regarding sleep positioners during 2010 which resulted in the return of product by retail customers. Complying with existing or any such additional regulations or requirements could impose
increased costs on our business. Similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such
regulations. 
 Competition in our markets could reduce our net sales and profitability.  
        We operate in highly competitive markets. We compete with several large domestic and foreign companies and with other producers of
infant products. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. In addition, we may
face competition from new participants in our markets because the infant and juvenile product industry has limited barriers to entry. We experience price competition for our products, competition for
shelf space at retailers and competition for licenses, all of which may increase in the future. If we cannot compete successfully in the future, our net sales and profitability will likely decline. 
 We may experience difficulties in identifying suitable acquisition targets and integrating strategic acquisitions.  
        As part of our growth strategy, we have made strategic acquisitions and intend to continue to pursue acquisitions that are consistent
with our mission and enable us to leverage our competitive strengths. While we continue to evaluate potential acquisitions, we may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable
acquisitions, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms, obtain regulatory approval for certain acquisitions or otherwise complete acquisitions in the future. An inability to
identify future acquisitions could limit our future growth. 
        In
addition, the integration of operations of those companies we do acquire into our operations involves a number of risks, including:


•the acquired business may experience losses that could adversely affect our profitability;  
•unanticipated costs relating to the integration of acquired businesses may increase our expenses; 

7



 
Table of Contents


•possible failure to obtain any necessary consents to the transfer of licenses or other agreements of the acquired
business; 
•possible failure to maintain customer, licensor and other relationships after the closing of the transaction of the
acquired business; 
•difficulties in achieving planned cost-savings and synergies may increase our expenses or decrease our net
sales; 
•diversion of management's attention could impair their ability to effectively manage our business operations; and  
•unanticipated management or operational problems or liabilities may adversely affect our profitability and financial
condition. 

        In
addition, any future acquisitions or investments may result in:


•issuances of dilutive equity securities, which may be sold at a discount to market price;  
•impairment of goodwill; 
•use of significant amounts of cash; 
•the incurrence of debt; 
•the assumption of significant liabilities; 
•unfavorable financing terms; 
•large one-time expenses; and 
•the creation of intangible assets, including goodwill, the write-down of which may result in significant
charges to earnings. 

 We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities.  
        Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by nondeductible stock-based compensation,
earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, transfer pricing
adjustments, not meeting the terms and conditions of tax holidays or incentives, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in actual results versus our estimates, or
changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. In addition, like other companies, we may be subject to examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal
Revenue Service and other tax authorities, and our federal tax returns for 2009 are currently being audited by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. While we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse
outcomes from such examinations and the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that such provision is sufficient and that a determination by a tax authority will not
have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 
 A material impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth.  
        A portion of our assets is goodwill and other intangible assets, which are reviewed on an annual basis and whenever events and changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current fair value, the asset is considered impaired and is
reduced to fair value, resulting in a non-cash charge to earnings during the period in which any impairment is determined. Events and conditions that could result in impairment include a
sustained drop in the market price of our common stock, increased competition or loss of 
8



 
Table of Contents
market
share, product innovation or obsolescence, or a decline of our business related to acquired companies. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. 
 Our debt covenants may affect our liquidity or limit our ability to complete acquisitions, incur debt, make investments, sell assets, merge or complete other significant
transactions.  
        Our loan agreement includes provisions that place limitations on a number of our activities, including our ability
to:


•incur additional debt; 
•create liens on our assets or make guarantees; 
•make certain investments or loans; 
•pay dividends; or 
•dispose of or sell assets or enter into a merger or similar transaction. 

Our
credit agreement also contains a number of financial covenants. The restrictive covenants in our credit agreement may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best
long-term interests. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants in our credit agreement could result in a default under our credit agreement. If a default occurs, the lenders under our
credit agreement may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable, to terminate any commitments they have to provide further
borrowers, and to exercise any other rights they have under the credit agreement or applicable law. 
 We may not be able to maintain compliance with our bank covenants, and our capital resources may not be sufficient to make required payments on our outstanding indebtedness.  
        Our ability to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants under our current loan agreement is dependent upon our
ability to continue to execute our business model and current operational plans. If an event of default in such covenants occurs and is continuing among other things, the lenders may accelerate the
loans, declare the commitments thereunder to be terminated, seize collateral or take other actions of secured creditors. If the loans are accelerated or commitments terminated, we could face
substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to dispose of material assets or operations, seek to obtain equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Such alternative measures may
not be available or successful. Also, our bank covenants may limit our ability to dispose of material assets or operations or to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Even if we are able to
restructure or refinance our indebtedness, the economic terms may not be favorable to us. All of the foregoing could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations. Our
ability to generate cash to meet scheduled payments with respect to our debt depends on our financial and operating performance, which in turn, is subject to prevailing economic and competitive
conditions and the other factors discussed in this "Risk Factors" section. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial
liquidity problems and may be forced to dispose of material assets or operations, seek to obtain equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Such alternative measures may not be
successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt services obligations. The breach of any covenants or restrictions in our loan agreement could result in a default thereunder, which would
permit the lenders to take the actions discussed above. 
 We could issue additional common stock, which might dilute the book value of our common stock.  
        Our board of directors has authority, without action or vote of our stockholders in most cases, to issue all or a part of our
authorized but unissued shares. These stock issuances could be made at a 
9



 
Table of Contents
price
that reflects a discount from the then-current trading price of our common stock. In addition, to raise capital, we may need to issue securities that are convertible into or
exchangeable for a significant amount of our common stock. These issuances would dilute current shareholders' ownership percentage which would have the effect of reducing their influence on matters on
which stockholders vote, and could dilute the book value per share of Summer Infant common stock. Stockholders may incur additional dilution if holders of stock options, whether currently outstanding
or subsequently granted, exercise their options, or if warrant holders exercise their warrants to purchase shares of Summer Infant common stock. 
 As a "thinly-traded" stock, large sales can place downward pressure on our stock price.  
        Our common stock experiences periods when it could be considered "thinly traded." Finance transactions resulting in a large amount of
newly issued shares that become readily tradable, or other events that cause current stockholders to sell shares, could place downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. In addition, the lack
of a robust resale market may require a stockholder to sell a large number of shares in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our stock. 
 Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may limit the ability of our stockholders to control our policies and effect a change
of control of our company and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management, which may not be in your best interests.  
        There are provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws that may discourage a third party from making a proposal to acquire
us, even if some of our stockholders
might consider the proposal to be in their best interests, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. These provisions include the
following:


•our certificate of incorporation provides for three classes of directors with the term of office of one class expiring
each year, commonly referred to as a staggered board. By preventing stockholders from voting on the election of more than one class of directors at any annual meeting of stockholders, this provision
may have the effect of keeping the current members of our board of directors in control for a longer period of time than stockholders may desire; 
•our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder
approval and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred stock issued, which would allow the board to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock that could discourage or delay
a tender offer or change in control; and 
•our bylaws require advance written notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. 

        Additionally,
we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, in general, imposes restrictions upon acquirers of 15% or more of our stock. Finally,
the board of directors may in the future adopt other protective measures, such as a stockholder rights plan, which could delay, deter or prevent a change of control.  
 
    Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments     
        None.  
 
    Item 2.    Properties     
        We are headquartered in a 52,000 square facility in Woonsocket, Rhode Island. We have a seven year lease on this facility, with an
option to extend for an additional five years. We also lease small offices in Pennsylvania, Arkansas, Canada, Israel, the United Kingdom and Hong Kong. 
10



 
Table of Contents
        We
maintain inventory at leased warehouses in California (approximately 442,000 square feet), Canada (approximately 31,000 square feet), Hong Kong (third party warehouse) and the United
Kingdom (approximately 16,000 square feet). These leases expire at various times between 2012 and 2016.  
 
    Item 3.    Legal Proceedings     
        From time to time, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business. However, litigation is subject
to inherent uncertainties, and an adverse result in these or other matters may arise from time to time that may harm our business. 
        Please
see "Litigation" under Note 11. Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements included in this report concerning the January 2012 proposed
settlement of outstanding litigation related to our analog video baby monitor.  
 
    Item 4.    Mine Safety Disclosures     
        Not applicable. 
11




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  PART II     
 
    Item 5.    Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     
 Price Range of Common Stock  
        On March 7, 2007, our common stock, warrants and units commenced listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbols "SUMR",
"SUMRW" and "SUMRU", respectively. 
        On
March 17, 2008, we announced that effective March 28, 2008, the units will be separated into its component securities, consisting of one share of common stock and two
warrants. As a result, beginning in March 2008, the units ceased trading. The warrants expired on April 20, 2009 and ceased trading in April 2009. 
        The
high and low closing prices for our common stock as reported on the Nasdaq Capital Market for the periods indicated below were as follows: 
















 
 
High 
 
Low 
 


 Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 First Quarter
 
$
6.69
 
$
4.64
 


 Second Quarter
 
$
8.25
 
$
6.47
 


 Third Quarter
 
$
8.51
 
$
6.49
 


 Fourth Quarter
 
$
8.15
 
$
6.59
 


 Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 First Quarter
 
$
8.03
 
$
7.01
 


 Second Quarter
 
$
9.22
 
$
8.00
 


 Third Quarter
 
$
8.79
 
$
6.12
 


 Fourth Quarter
 
$
8.20
 
$
6.12
 




 Holders of Common Stock  
        As of January 20, 2012, there were approximately 54 holders of record of our common stock. Because shares of our common stock
are held by depositaries, brokers and other nominees, the number of beneficial holders of our shares is substantially larger than the number of record holders. 
 Dividend Policy  
        There have been no cash dividends declared on our common stock since our company was formed. Dividends are declared at the sole
discretion of our Board of Directors. Our intention is not to declare cash dividends and retain all cash for our operations and future acquisitions. In addition, under the terms of our current loan
agreement, we are restricted in our ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders. 
 Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities  
        None. 
 Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities  
        Not applicable.  
 
    Item 6.    Selected Consolidated Financial Data     
        Not required. 
12



 
Table of Contents

 
    Item 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (dollar amounts are in thousands of U.S. dollars, except  share and per
share data)     
        The following discussion is intended to assist in the assessment of significant changes and trends related to our results of operations
and financial condition. The information contained in this section has been derived from our consolidated financial statements and should be read together with our consolidated financial statements
and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Readers are also encouraged to review and consider our disclosures describing various factors that could affect our business, including the
disclosures under the heading "Risk Factors" in this report. 
 Company Overview  
        We are a designer, marketer, and distributor of branded juvenile health, safety and wellness products which are sold principally to
large North American and United Kingdom retailers. We currently market proprietary products in various product categories including nursery audio/video monitors, safety gates, durable bath products,
bed rails, infant thermometers, related health and safety products, booster and potty seats, cribs, baby gear, bouncers, feeding items, and swaddling blankets. 
        Our
business has grown organically in all of our markets. We derive our revenues from the sale of health, safety and wellness products for infants and toddlers. Our revenue is driven by
our ability to design and market desirable products, identify business opportunities and secure new and renew existing distribution channels. Our income from operations is derived from our ability to
generate revenue and collect cash in excess of labor and other costs of providing our products and selling, general and administrative costs. 
        Our
strategy is to grow our sales through a variety of methods, including:


•increased product penetration (more products at each store); 
•increased store penetration (more stores within each retail customer); 
•new products (at existing and new customers); 
•new mass merchant retail customers; 
•new distribution channels (food and drug chains, price clubs, home centers, web-based retailers);  
•new geographies (international expansion); 
•new product categories; and 
•acquisitions. 

        We
have been able to grow our annual revenues historically through a combination of all of the above factors. Each year, we have been able to expand the number of products in our main
distribution channel (mass merchant retailers) and have also added new customers each year. Therefore, even with
limited new product introductions, we could grow our business by simply selling more of our existing product line to existing customers. 
        In
the future, our growth strategy will be to continue to develop and sell new products to our existing customer base, sell new and existing products to new customers (or expand
relationships with existing customers) and expand in the United Kingdom and in other geographic regions (including Japan, Mexico and Australia, among others). In addition, there are a number of
potential acquisition candidates that could be pursued to obtain new innovative products, new product categories, new retail customers or new sales territories. There are several hundred active
juvenile product companies, of which we estimate the majority have less than $10 million in sales. 
13



 
Table of Contents
        As
we continue to grow through internal initiatives and any future acquisitions, we will incur additional expenses. Two of the key areas in which those increased expenses will likely
occur are sales and product development. To grow sales, we will likely hire additional sales personnel to service new geographic territories, focus existing resources on specific parts of the United
States market and retain product line specialists to drive sales of new and existing products in specific areas in which we believe we can readily increase sales. Product development expenses will
increase as we develop new products in existing and new categories. 
        If
we were to acquire one or more companies as part of our growth strategy, we would face various challenges such as the integration of the acquired companies' product lines, employees,
marketing requirements and information systems. Ongoing infrastructure investment also may be required to support realized growth, including expenditures with respect to upgraded and expanded
information systems and enhancing our management team. 
 Sales  
        Our revenues are primarily derived from the sale of juvenile health, safety and wellness products and are recognized upon transfer of
title of product to our customers. Our products are marketed through several distribution channels including chain retailers, specialty retailers and on-line retailers. 
        A
number of large, North American retail customers account for a majority of our sales. Three customers generated more than 10% of sales for the year ended December 31, 2011, Toys
R Us (39%), Walmart (11%), and Target (10%). Because of the concentration of our business with these customers and because we have no long term contracts with these customers, our success depends on
our customers' willingness to purchase and provide shelf space for our products. 
        Over
90% of sales are currently made to customers in North America, with the remaining sales primarily made to customers in the United Kingdom. Sales are made utilizing standard credit
terms of 30 to 60 days. We generally accept returns only for defective merchandise. 
 Cost of goods sold and other expenses  
        Our products are manufactured by third parties, with approximately 85-90% of the dollar value of products being
manufactured in Asia with the majority of the balance being manufactured in the United States and Israel. Cost of goods sold primarily represents purchases of finished products from these third party
manufacturers. The remainder of our cost of goods sold includes duties on certain imported items, freight-in from suppliers and miscellaneous charges from contract manufacturers.
Substantially all of our purchases are made in U.S. dollars; therefore, most of this activity is not subject to currency fluctuations. If our suppliers experience increased raw materials, labor or
other costs and pass along those cost increases through higher prices for finished goods, our cost of sales would increase, and to the extent we are unable to pass these price increases along to our
customers, our gross margins would decrease. 
        Selling,
general and administrative expenses primarily consist of payroll, insurance, professional fees, royalties, freight out to customers, product development costs, advertising and
marketing expenses (including co-op advertising allowances as negotiated with certain customers) and sales commissions. Several of these items fluctuate with sales; some of these variable
costs are based on sales to particular customers and others are based on sales of particular products. 
        There
are no significant variations in seasonal demand for our products. Sales to our retail customers are generally higher in the time frame when retailers take initial shipments of new
products. These orders usually incorporate enough product to fill each store plus additional amounts to be kept at the customer's distribution center. The timing of these initial shipments varies by
customer 
14



 
Table of Contents
depending
on when they finalize store layouts for the upcoming year, and whether there are any mid-year product introductions. 
 Summary of critical accounting policies and estimates  
        This summary of our critical accounting policies is presented to assist in understanding our consolidated financial statements. The
consolidated financial statements and notes are representations of our management, which is responsible for their integrity and objectivity. These accounting policies conform to accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America and have been consistently applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. 
        We
make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. The accounting policies described
below are those we consider critical in preparing our financial statements. Some of these policies include significant estimates made by management using information available at the time the
estimates were made. However, these estimates could change materially if different information or assumptions were used. 
 Revenue recognition  
        We record revenue when all of the following occur: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, product delivery has occurred, the
sales price to the customer is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Sales are recorded net of provisions for returns and allowances, cash discounts and markdowns. We base
our estimates for discounts, returns and allowances on negotiated customer terms, and historical experience. These estimates are subject to variability, as actual deductions taken by customers may be
different from the estimates recorded. Customers do not have the right to return products unless the products are defective. We record a reduction of sales for estimated future defective product
deductions based on historical experience. 
        Sales
incentives or other consideration given by us to customers that are considered adjustments of the selling price of its products, such as markdowns, are reflected as reductions of
revenue. Sales incentives and other consideration that represent costs incurred by us for assets or services received, such as the appearance of our products in a customer's national circular ad, are
reflected as selling and marketing expenses in the accompanying statements of income. 
 Trade receivables  
        Trade receivables are reported at their outstanding unpaid principal balances reduced by an allowance for doubtful accounts. On a
periodic basis, we estimate doubtful accounts based on historical bad debt, factors related to specific customers' ability to pay and current economic trends. We write off accounts receivable against
the allowance when a balance is determined to be uncollectible. 
        We
do not accrue interest on trade receivables. A receivable is considered past due if payments have not been received within the credit terms on the account, typically 60 days
for most customers. 
        We
will turn an account over for collection around 120 days past due. Accounts are considered uncollectible if no payments are received 60 to 90 days after they have been
turned over for collection. 
 Allowance for doubtful accounts  
        The allowance for doubtful accounts represents adjustments to customer trade accounts receivable for amounts deemed uncollectible. The
allowance for doubtful accounts reduces gross trade receivables to their estimated net realizable value. The allowance is based on our assessment of the business environment, customers' financial
condition, historical trends, customer payment practices, receivable 
15



 
Table of Contents
aging
and customer disputes. We will continue to proactively review our credit risks and adjust customer terms to reflect the current environment. 
 Inventory Valuation  
        Inventory is comprised of finished goods and is stated at the lower of cost, inclusive of freight and duty, or market (net realizable
value) using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Our warehousing costs are charged to expense as incurred. We regularly review slow-moving and excess inventory,
and write-down inventories as appropriate. Management uses estimates to record write-downs based on its review of inventory by product category, including length of time on hand and
estimates of future orders for each product. Changes in consumer preferences, as well as demand for products, customer buying patterns and inventory management could impact the inventory valuation. 
 Impairment of Long-Lived Assets  
        We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of
a long-lived asset may not be recoverable. An asset is considered to be impaired when its carrying amount exceeds the sum of the undiscounted future net cash flows expected to result from
the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. Long-lived assets include property and equipment. The amount of impairment loss, if any, is charged by the Company to current operations.
For each of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, no such impairment existed. 
 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  
        We account for goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with accounting guidance that requires that goodwill and intangible
assets that have indefinite useful lives and not subject to amortization be tested at least annually for impairment. We evaluate goodwill, at a minimum, on an annual basis and whenever events and
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Impairment of goodwill is tested by comparing the carrying value, including goodwill, to the Company's
fair value. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, a second step is performed to measure the amount of the impairment loss, if any. Under this second step, the implied goodwill value is
determined, in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination, to assess the level of goodwill impairment, if any. We determine the Company's fair value using the
income, or discounted cash flows, approach. ("DCF model") and verify the reasonableness of such fair value calculations using the market approach, which utilizes comparable companies' data. The
completion of the DCF model requires that we make a number of significant assumptions to produce an estimate of future cash flows. These assumptions include projections of future revenue, costs and
working capital changes. In addition, we make assumptions about the estimated cost of capital and other relevant variables, as required, in estimating fair value.
The projections that we use in our DCF model are updated annually and will change over time based on the historical performance and changing business conditions. The determination of whether goodwill
is impaired involves a significant level of judgment in these assumptions, and changes in our business strategy, government regulations, or economic or market conditions could significantly impact
these judgments. We will continue to monitor market conditions and other factors to determine if interim impairment tests are necessary in future periods. As of December 31, 2011, the estimated
fair value of the Company exceeded the carrying value of our reporting unit. Management evaluates the remaining useful life of an intangible asset that is not being amortized each reporting period to
determine whether evens and circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life. If an intangible asset that is not being amortized is subsequently determined to have a finite useful life, it
is amortized prospectively over its estimated remaining useful life. 
16




 







 
Table of Contents 
 Income taxes  
        Income taxes are computed using the asset and liability method of accounting. Under the asset and liability method, a deferred tax
asset or liability is recognized for estimated future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards. The measurement of deferred income tax assets is adjusted by a valuation
allowance, if necessary, to recognize future tax benefits only to the extent, based on available evidence, it is more likely than not that such benefits will be realized. 
        Previously,
the Company adopted the provisions of a new standard which provides detailed guidance for the financial statement recognition, measurement and disclosure of uncertain tax
positions recognized in the financial statements. Tax positions must meet a "more-likely-than-not" recognition threshold at the effective date to be recognized upon
adoption and in subsequent periods. Upon the adoption, and at December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company did not have any uncertain tax positions. No interest and penalties related to uncertain
tax positions were accrued at December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
        The
tax years 2007 through 2010 remain open to examination by the major taxing jurisdictions in which the Company operates. The Company's federal tax return for the year ended
December 31, 2009 is currently being audited by the Internal Revenue Service. The Company expects no material changes to unrecognized tax positions within the next twelve months. 
 Results of Operations  
        The following table presents selected condensed consolidated financial information for Summer Infant, Inc. and its subsidiaries
for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. 






















 
 
Year ended
December 31, 2011 
 
Year Ended
December 31, 2010 
 


 Net sales
 
$
238,172
 
 
100.0
%
$
194,485
 
 
100.0
%


 Cost of goods sold
 
 
156,787
 
 
65.8
%
 
124,994
 
 
64.3
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Gross Profit
 
 
81,385
 
 
34.2
%
 
69,491
 
 
35.7
%


 SG&A expenses
 
 
67,187
 
 
28.2
%
 
55,501
 
 
28.5
%


 Interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
 
 
10,387
 
 
4.4
%
 
7,403
 
 
3.8
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net Income
 
$
3,811
 
 
1.6
%
$
6,587
 
 
3.4
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Year ended December 31, 2011 compared with year ended December 31, 2010  
        Net sales increased 22% from $194,485 in the year ended December 31, 2010 to $238,172 for the year ended December 31,
2011. This increase was primarily attributable to organic growth resulting from increased distribution of existing products throughout our customer base, introduction of new products and international
growth. In addition, the Company acquired Born Free Holdings, Ltd. in March 2011, which added approximately $10,175 to net sales in 2011. While net sales increased in 2011, sales were impacted
by lower than expected consumer purchases of our new PRODIGY™ car seat and travel system, reduced inventory levels at retail customers and delays in shipping of certain new products. 
        Gross
profit increased 17% from $69,491 for the year ended December 31, 2010 to $81,385 for the year ended December 31, 2011. This increase was primarily attributable to
the 22% increase in net sales. Gross profit percentage decreased to 34.2% of sales for the year ended December 31, 2011 from 35.7% in the prior year due to increased costs of raw materials and
labor, plus a change in sales mix. 
        Selling,
general and administrative expenses increased 21.1% from $55,501 for the year ended December 31, 2010 to $67,187 for the year ended December 31, 2011. This
increase was primarily 
17



 
Table of Contents
attributable
to increased variable costs such as co-op advertising allowances as a result of the significant increase in sales. In addition, there were increased expenditures in product
development, payroll, professional fees, and warehouse operations. Finally, there were several significant items incurred during 2011 including professional fees and transition costs related to the
Born Free acquisition, related to the proposed settlement of outstanding litigation, $482 related to the closure and relocation of our Rhode Island distribution center and $773 of severance for three
former senior management employees. 
        Other
expenses increased 40% from $7,403 for the year ended December 31, 2010 to $10,387 for the year ended December 31, 2011. This increase was attributable to an increase
in depreciation and amortization in 2011 and higher interest expense. 
 Liquidity and Capital Resources  
        We generally fund our operations and working capital needs through cash generated from operations and borrowings under our credit
facility. 
        Our
sales have increased significantly over the past several years. This sales growth has led to a substantial increase in working capital requirements, specifically accounts receivable
and inventory. The typical cash flow cycle is as follows:


•Inventory is purchased to meet expected demand plus a safety stock. Because the majority of our vendors are based in Asia,
inventory takes from three to four weeks to arrive from Asia to the various distribution points we maintain in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom. Payment terms for these vendors are
approximately 30-60 days from the date the product ships from Asia, therefore we are generally paying for the product a short time after it is physically received in the United
States. The increased sales we have experienced result in increased levels of inventory and, therefore, an increase in the amount of cash required to fund our inventory level. 

        Sales
to customers generally have payment terms of 60 days. The increased sales have resulted in an increase in the level of accounts receivable, and therefore have increased the
amount of cash required to fund working capital. 
        We
have traditionally been able to fund our increased working capital through lines of credit with banks. 
        The
majority of capital expenditures are for tools related to new product introductions. We receive indications from retailers generally around the middle of each year as to what
products the retailer will be taking into its product line for the upcoming year. Based on these indications, we will then acquire the tools required to build the products. In most cases the payments
for the tools are spread out over a three to four month period. 
        For
the year ended December 31, 2011, net cash provided by operating activities totaled $9,385, which primarily relates to improved working capital management. At
December 31, 2010, net cash used in operating activities totaled $8,861. The change in net cash relating to operating activities in 2011 as compared to 2010 is largely attributable to decreases
in accounts payable and accounts receivable in 2011. 
        For
the year ended December 31, 2011, net cash used in investing activities was approximately $20,769 which primarily relates to capital expenditures and the Born Free
acquisition. At December 31, 2010, net cash used in investing activities was $8,782. The increase in net cash used in investing activities in 2011 was due primarily to the Born Free
acquisition. 
        For
the year ended December 31, 2011, net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $11,189 which relates to borrowings from our debt facilities to fund the Born
Free acquisition and 
18



 
Table of Contents
working
capital growth. At December 31, 2010, net cash provided by financing activities was $17,377. The decrease in 2011 in net cash provided by financing activities was due primarily to lower
borrowings. 
        Based
primarily on the above factors, the net cash increase for the year ended December 31, 2011 was approximately $77, resulting in a cash balance of approximately $1,215 at
December 31, 2011. 
        We
believe that our cash on hand and current banking facilities are sufficient to fund our cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, unforeseen circumstances,
such as softness in the retail industry or deterioration in the business of a significant customer could create a situation where we cannot access all of the available lines of credit due to not
having sufficient assets or consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreement described below) as required under our loan agreements. There is no assurance that we will meet all of our bank
covenants in the future, or that our lender will grant waivers if there are covenant violations. In addition, should we need to raise additional funds through additional debt or equity financings, any
sale of additional debt or equity securities may cause dilution to existing stockholders. If sufficient funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to address any
unexpected changes in our operations could be limited. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise such funds if and when they are required. Failure to obtain future funding
when needed or on acceptable terms could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 
        Our
strategy for funding our business going forward is a combination of increased profitability, and if necessary, negotiation of increased borrowing lines as required with traditional
lenders. 
        In
August 2010, we entered into a secured credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and each of the financial institutions that is a signatory to the
Agreement. The agreement was amended on March 24, 2011 and on November 9, 2011 (as amended, the "Loan Agreement"). The Loan Agreement provides for an $80,000 working capital revolving
credit facility and a $20,000 "accordion" credit facility. The loan matures on June 30, 2013. 
        Summer
and its subsidiaries, Summer Infant (USA), Inc., Summer Infant Europe Limited, Summer Infant Asia Limited and Summer Infant Canada, Limited are the borrowers under the Loan
Agreement. This loan agreement replaced Summer's prior line of credit and is being used principally to fund growth opportunities and for working capital purposes. 
        Our
ability to borrow under the Loan Agreement is subject to its ongoing compliance with a number of financial and other covenants, including the following (i) that Summer and its
subsidiaries maintain consolidated EBITDA, as defined in the Loan Agreement, of at least $20,000 on a trailing twelve month basis as of December 31, 2011, which escalates to $23,000 by the end
of the loan term in 2013, (ii) that Summer and its subsidiaries maintain a ratio of total funded debt to consolidated EBITDA of not greater than 3.25:1.00, and (iii) that Summer and its
subsidiaries maintain a ratio of operating cash flow to debt service of not less than 1.50:1.00. Upon utilizing all approved and permitted Add Backs, as defined in the Loan Agreement, the Company is
in compliance with these and other covenants at December 31, 2011. 
        These
credit facilities bear interest at a floating rate based on a spread over LIBOR ranging from 200 basis points to 300 basis points, depending upon the ratio of the Company's total
funded debt to consolidated EBITDA. The Company has also entered into various interest swap agreements which fixes the interest rates on a portion of the outstanding debt. Only one of these swaps
remains active at December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, the rate on these credit facilities averaged 3.69%. In addition, these credit facilities have an unused line fee based on
the unused amount of the credit facilities equal to 25 basis points. 
19




 










Table of Contents 
        The Loan Agreement also contains customary events of default, including a cross default provision and a change of control provision. In the event of a default,
all of the obligations of the Company and its subsidiaries under the Loan Agreement may be declared immediately due and payable. For certain events of default relating to insolvency and receivership,
all outstanding obligations become due and payable. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, we had $62,000 outstanding of the total committed amount of $100,000. Availability under the credit facility was approximately $5,021 at
December 31, 2011. 
        The
following table summarizes our significant contractual commitments at December 31, 2011: 

























 
 
Payment Due by Period 
 


Contractual Obligations



 
Total 
 
2012 
 
2013 
 
2014 
 
2015 and
beyond 
 


 Line of credit/acquisition facility
 
$
62,000
 
$
 
 
$
62,000
 
$
 
 
 
 
 


 Estimated future interest payments on line of credit
 
 
3,436
 
 
2,291
 
 
1,145
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating leases
 
 
6,713
 
 
1,578
 
 
1,441
 
 
1,342
 
$
2,352
 


 Capital leases and other liabilities
 
 
2,951
 
 
1,157
 
 
706
 
 
469
 
 
619
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total contractual cash obligations
 
$
75,100
 
$
5,026
 
$
65,292
 
$
1,811
 
$
2,971
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Estimated
future interest payments on our line of credit were based upon the interest rates in effect at December 31, 2011. 
 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  
        We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements during either of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  
ASC
Update No. 2010-06 
        In
January 2010, the FASB issued ASC Update No. 2010-06, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820)—Improving
Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements. Update No. 2010-06 requires additional disclosure within the rollforward of activity for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on
a recurring basis, including transfers of assets and liabilities between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy and the separate presentation of purchases, sales, issuances and
settlements of assets and liabilities within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. In addition, Update No. 2010-06 requires enhanced disclosures of the valuation techniques
and inputs used in the fair value measurements within Level 2 and Level 3. We adopted Update No. 2010-06 for our first quarter ended March 31, 2010, except for
the disclosure of purchases, sales, issuances and settlements of Level 3 measurements, for which disclosures were required for our first quarter ending March 31, 2011. The adoption of
this guidance had no effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. 
ASC
Update No. 2009-13 
        In
October 2009, the FASB issued ASC Update No. 2009-13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605)—Multiple-Deliverable Revenue
Arrangements. The consensus in Update No. 2009-13 supersedes certain guidance in Topic 605 (formerly EITF Issue No. 00-21, Multiple-Element Arrangements). Update
No. 2009-13 provides principles and application guidance to determine whether multiple deliverables exist, how the individual deliverables should be separated and how to allocate
the revenue in the arrangement among those separate deliverables. Update No. 2009-13 also expands the disclosure requirements for multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. We
adopted Update No. 2009-13 as of 
20



 
Table of Contents
January 1,
2011. The adoption of this guidance had no effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. 
ASC
Update No. 2010-29 
        In
December 2010, the FASB issued ASC Update No. 2010-29, Business Combinations (Topic 805)—Disclosure of Supplementary
Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations. Update No. 2010-29 clarifies paragraph 805-10-50-2(h) to require public entities that
enter into business combinations that are material on an individual or aggregate basis to disclose pro forma information for such business combinations that occurred in the current reporting period,
including pro forma revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the acquisition date had been as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period only. We adopted Update
No. 2010-29 in the quarter ended March 31, 2011, and the requisite disclosures are reflected in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 
ASU 2011-05,
Comprehensive Income (Topic 220)—Presentation of Comprehensive Income 
        This
ASU requires all nonowner changes in stockholders' equity to be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two
separate but consecutive statements. For public entities, the amendments are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. However,
ASU 2011-12 has deferred the specific requirement within ASU 2011-05 to present on the face of the financial statements items that are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive
income to net income separately with their respective components of net income and other comprehensive income. Entities should continue to report reclassifications out of accumulated comprehensive
income consistent with the presentation requirements in effect before ASU 2011-05. 
ASU 2011-08,
Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment 
        The
ASU gives an entity the option in its annual goodwill impairment test to first assess revised qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely
than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. The amendments are effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2011. 
        Management
does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards if currently adopted would have a material effect on the accompanying financial
statements.  
 
    Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk     
        Not required.  
 
    Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data     
        The financial statements required by this item are attached to this Annual Report on Form 10-K beginning on
Page F-1.  
 
    Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure     
        Not applicable. 
21



 
Table of Contents

 
    Item 9A    Controls and Procedures     
(a)   Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  
        As required by Rule 13a-15 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of the end of the period covered by this report, we carried out an
evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of
December 31, 2011. Our principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded, based on their evaluation, that as of the end of the period covered by this report, our
disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2011. 
(b)   Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  
        Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. As defined in
Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act, internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of , a company's principal executive and
principal financial officers and effected by a company's board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. It includes those policies and procedures that: 

        1)    Pertain
to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of a company; 
        2)    Provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of a company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and the board of directors of the company; and 
        3)    Provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or deposition of a company's assets that could have a material
effect on its financial statements. 

        Because
of the inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
        The
Company's management has used the criteria established in "Internal Control—Integrated Framework" issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission ("COSO Framework") to evaluate the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Management has selected the COSO Framework for its evaluation as it is a control
framework recognized by the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, that is free from bias, permits reasonably consistent qualitative and quantitative measurement of the Company's
internal controls, is sufficiently complete so that relevant controls are not omitted, and is relevant to an evaluation of internal controls over financial reporting. 
        Management
of the Company conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness, as of December 31, 2011, of the Company's internal control over financial reporting and on its evaluation
under the COSO
Framework, management has concluded that the Company's internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011. 
22



 
Table of Contents
(c)   Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  
        There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2011 that has materially affected,
or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  
 
    Item 9B.    Other Information     
        Not applicable. 
23



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  PART III     
 
    Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance     
        The information required by this Item will be contained in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC in connection with
our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "2012 Proxy Statement") under the captions "Election of Directors," "Board of Directors Meetings and Committees of the Board," "Executive Officers" and
"Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" and is incorporated herein by reference. 
        We
have adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to all our directors, officers and employees. The Code of Ethics is publicly available on our website at  www.summerinfant.com . Amendments to the Code
of Ethics and any grant of a waiver from a provision of the Code of Ethics requiring disclosure under
applicable SEC and Nasdaq rules will be disclosed on our website.  
 
    Item 11.    Executive Compensation     
        The information required by this Item will be incorporated by reference from the information under the caption "Executive Compensation"
contained in our 2012 Proxy Statement.  
 
    Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters     
        The information required by this item will be incorporated by reference from the information under the caption "Ownership of Summer
Infant, Inc. Common Stock" contained in our 2012 Proxy Statement.  
 
    Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence     
        The information required by this item will be incorporated by reference from the information under the caption "Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions" contained in our 2012 Proxy Statement.  
 
    Item 14.    Principal Accountant Fees and Services     
        The information required by this item will be incorporated by reference from the information under the captions "Audit Fees",
"Audit-Related Fees," "Tax Fees," "All Other Fees" and "Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures" contained in our 2012 Proxy Statement. 
24



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  PART IV     
 
    Item 15.    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules     
(a)   (1)   Financial
Statements 
        The
list of consolidated financial statements and notes required by this Item 15 (a) (1) is set forth in the "Index to Financial Statements" on page F-1
of this Annual Report. 
        (2)   Financial
Statement Schedules 
        All
schedules have been omitted because the required information is included in the financial statements or notes thereto. 
        (3)   Exhibits 
        The
exhibits listed in the "Index to Exhibits" immediately preceding the exhibits are filed as part of this Annual Report. 
25




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  SIGNATURES     
        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on the 29th day of February 2012. 













 
 
 SUMMER INFANT, INC.



 
 
By:
 
/s/ JASON MACARI

  Jason Macari Chief Executive Officer
(Principal Executive Officer)



 
 
By:
 
/s/ JOSEPH DRISCOLL

  Joseph Driscoll Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)




        Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated. 













Name



 
Title



 
Date






 
 

 
 

 


/s/ JASON MACARI

  Jason Macari
 
Director and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)
 
February 29, 2012


/s/ JOSEPH DRISCOLL

  Joseph Driscoll
 
Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)
 
February 29, 2012


/s/ MARTIN FOGELMAN

  Martin Fogelman
 
Director
 
February 29, 2012


/s/ ROBERT STEBENNE

  Robert Stebenne
 
Director
 
February 29, 2012


/s/ RICHARD WENZ

  Richard Wenz
 
Director
 
February 29, 2012


/s/ DERIAL SANDERS

  Derial Sanders
 
Director
 
February 29, 2012


/s/ DAN ALMAGOR

  Dan Almagor
 
Director
 
February 29, 2012




26




 










Table of Contents 
 Exhibits.  
 
    Index to Exhibits     












Exhibit No. 
 
Description 


 
2.1
 
Agreement and Plans of Reorganization dated as of September 1, 2006, by and among KBL Healthcare Acquisition Corp. II, and its wholly owned subsidiary, SII Acquisition Corp., Summer Infant, Inc. ("SII"),
Summer Infant Europe, Limited ("SIE") and Summer Infant Asia, Ltd. ("SIA" and, collectively, with SII and SIE, the "Targets") and the stockholders of the Targets(1)


 
  
 
 


 
2.2
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement dated March 24, 2009 between Summer Infant (USA), Inc. and Faith Realty II, LLC(2)


 
  
 
 


 
2.3
 
Lease Agreement dated March 24, 2009 between Summer Infant (USA), Inc. and Faith Realty II, LLC(2)


 
  
 
 


 
2.4
 
Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 18, 2008, by and among Summer (USA), Inc., Kiddo Acquisition, Inc., and Kiddopotamus & Company and certain of its stockholders(3)


 
  
 
 


 
2.5
 
Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of March 24, 2011, by and among the Registrant, Summer infant (USA), Inc., Born Free Holdings Ltd., and each stockholder of Born Free Holdings Ltd.(4)


 
  
 
 


 
3.1
 
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation(5)


 
  
 
 


 
3.2
 
Certificate of Amendment to Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation(6)


 
  
 
 


 
3.3
 
Amended and Restated Bylaws(7)


 
  
 
 


 
4.1
 
Specimen Common Stock Certificate(3)


 
  
 
 


 
10.1
 
Registration Rights Agreement by and among the Registrant, Jason Macari and Steven Gibree(1)


 
  
 
 


 
10.2
**
2006 Performance Equity Plan(8)


 
  
 
 


 
10.3
**
Employment Agreement by and between the Registrant and Jason Macari dated February 1, 2010(9)


 
  
 
 


 
10.4
 
Change of Control Agreement between the Registrant and Joseph Driscoll(9)


 
  
 
 


 
10.5
 
Summer Infant, Inc, 2010 Employee Performance Incentive Plan(9)


 
  
 
 


 
10.6
**
Separation and Release Agreement, dated as of December 10, 2010, between the Registrant and Steven Gibree(10)


 
  
 
 


 
10.7
 
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated August 2, 2010, among the Registrant, Summer Infant (USA), Inc., Kiddopotamus & Company, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, swing lender, and
L/C issuer, and RBS Citizens, National Association, as Collateral Agent, and other lenders thereto(11)


 
  
 
 


 
10.8
 
First Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of March 24, 2011, among the Registrant, Summer Infant (USA), Inc., Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender, and L/C
Issuer, and RBS Citizens, National Association, as Collateral Agent, and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as Lead Arranger and Book Manager(4)


 


 
 




27



 
Table of Contents












Exhibit No. 
 
Description 


 
10.9
 
Second Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of November 9, 2011, among the Registrant, Summer Infant (USA), Inc., Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender, and
L/C Issuer, and RBS Citizens, National Association, as Collateral Agent


 
  
 
 


 
10.10
**
Separation Agreement and Release, dated as of October 17, 2011, between the Registrant and Jeffrey Hale(12)


 
  
 
 


 
10.11
**
Offer Letter and Change of Control Agreement between the Registrant and David S. Hemendinger(12)


 
  
 
 


 
10.12
**
Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement between the Registrant and David S. Hemendinger


 
  
 
 


 
10.13
**
Restricted Stock Award Agreement between the Registrant and David S. Hemendinger


 
  
 
 


 
21.1
 
List of Subsidiaries(13)


 
  
 
 


 
23.1
 
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


 
  
 
 


 
31.1
 
Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


 
  
 
 


 
31.2
 
Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


 
  
 
 


 
32.1
 
Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 (Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002)


 
  
 
 


 
32.2
 
Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 (Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002)


 
  
 
 


 
101.INS
*
XBRL Instance Document


 
  
 
 


 
101.SCH
*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document


 
  
 
 


 
101.CAL
*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document


 
  
 
 


 
101.DEF
*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document


 
  
 
 


 
101.LAB
*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Labels Linkbase Document


 
  
 
 


 
101.PRE
*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document








*Pursuant
to Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, these interactive data files are deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of
Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, are deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise are not
subject to liability under those sections
**Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
(1)Incorporated
by reference to Annexes of the Registrant's Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed February 13, 2007
(2)Incorporated
by reference to Exhibits to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A filed August 18, 2009
(3)Incorporated
by reference to Exhibits to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 24, 2008 

28



 
Table of Contents


(4)Incorporated
by reference to Exhibits to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 8, 2011.
(5)Incorporated
by reference to Exhibits to the Registrant's Form 8-A filed March 6, 2007
(6)Incorporated
by reference to Exhibits to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 7, 2010
(7)Incorporated
by reference to Exhibits to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 21, 2011
(8)Incorporated
by reference to Appendix A to the Registrant's Definitive Proxy on Schedule 14A filed on April 29, 2008
(9)Incorporated
by reference to Exhibits to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 4, 2010
(10)Incorporated
by reference to Exhibits to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 13, 2010
(11)Incorporated
by reference to Exhibits to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed August 9, 2010
(12)Incorporated
by reference to Exhibits to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 19, 2011
(13)Incorporated
by reference to Exhibits to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 27, 2008 

29




 










Table of Contents 
 
  Summer Infant, Inc. And Subsidiaries  Index to Financial Statements     

 














 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
 
F-2
 


 Consolidated Balance Sheets
 
 
F-3
 


 Consolidated Statements of Income
 
 
F-4
 


 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
 
 
F-5
 


 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
 
 
F-6
 


 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
F-7 - F-26
 





F-1




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     
To
the Board of Directors and Stockholders
Summer Infant, Inc. 
        We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Summer Infant, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for the years then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 
        We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal
control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances,
but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's controls over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
        In
our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Summer Infant, Inc. and Subsidiaries as
of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the years then ended, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 











/s/ McGladrey & Pullen, LLP

  McGladrey & Pullen, LLP
 
 


Boston, Massachusetts
February 29, 2012
 
 




F-2




 










Table of Contents 
 
    Summer Infant, Inc. and Subsidiaries         Consolidated Balance Sheets     
        Note that all amounts presented in the table below are in thousands of U.S. dollars, except share amounts and par value per share. 
















 
 
December 31,
2011 
 
December 31,
2010 
 


 ASSETS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 CURRENT ASSETS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
1,215
 
$
1,138
 


 Trade receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $110 and $90 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively
 
 
47,670
 
 
46,693
 


 Inventory, net
 
 
50,014
 
 
45,853
 


 Prepaids and other current assets
 
 
4,095
 
 
2,783
 


 Deferred tax assets
 
 
265
 
 
1,269
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS
 
 
103,259
 
 
97,736
 


 Property and equipment, net
 
 
17,682
 
 
14,958
 


 Goodwill
 
 
61,908
 
 
50,375
 


 Other intangible assets, net
 
 
30,045
 
 
14,745
 


 Other assets
 
 
21
 
 
181
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 TOTAL ASSETS
 
$
212,915
 
$
177,995
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 CURRENT LIABILITIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Line of credit and current portion of long-term debt (Including capital lease)
 
 
736
 
 
1,256
 


 Accounts payable and accrued expenses
 
 
40,633
 
 
35,651
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES
 
 
41,369
 
 
36,907
 


 Long-term debt, less current portion
 
 
62,479
 
 
51,963
 


 Other liabilities
 
 
3,726
 
 
4,579
 


 Deferred tax liabilities
 
 
11,439
 
 
8,085
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 TOTAL LIABILITIES
 
 
119,013
 
 
101,534
 


 STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Common Stock $.0001 par value, issued and outstanding 17,717,667 and 15,450,227 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively
 
 
2
 
 
1
 


 Treasury Stock at cost (141,134 shares at December 31, 2011)
 
 
(956
)
 
—
 


 Additional paid-in capital
 
 
71,158
 
 
56,431
 


 Retained earnings
 
 
24,301
 
 
20,490
 


 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
 
 
(603
)
 
(461
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 TOTAL STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
 
93,902
 
 
76,461
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
$
212,915
 
$
177,995
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




  

   
  
See notes to consolidated financial statements 
F-3




 










Table of Contents 
 
    Summer Infant, Inc. and Subsidiaries         Consolidated Statements of Income     
        Note that all amounts presented in the table below are in thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts. 
















 
 
For the year ended 
 


 
 
December 31,
2011 
 
December 31,
2010 
 


 Net sales
 
$
238,172
 
$
194,485
 


 Cost of goods sold
 
 
156,787
 
 
124,994
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Gross profit
 
 
81,385
 
 
69,491
 


 Selling, general and administrative expenses
 
 
67,187
 
 
55,501
 


 Gain on settlement of acquisition related liability
 
 
—
 
 
(1,770
)


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
6,377
 
 
5,384
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net operating income
 
 
7,821
 
 
10,376
 


 Interest expense, net
 
 
(2,790
)
 
(1,734
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income before provision for income taxes
 
 
5,031
 
 
8,642
 


 Provision for income taxes
 
 
1,220
 
 
2,055
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 NET INCOME
 
$
3,811
 
$
6,587
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income per share BASIC
 
$
0.22
 
$
0.43
 


 Weighted average shares outstanding BASIC
 
 
17,097,361
 
 
15,431,806
 


 Net income per share DILUTED
 
$
0.21
 
$
0.40
 


 Weighted average shares outstanding DILUTED
 
 
17,820,621
 
 
16,408,594
 




  

   
  
See notes to consolidated financial statements 
F-4




 










Table of Contents 
 
    Summer Infant, Inc. and Subsidiaries         Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows     
        Note that all amounts presented in the table below are in thousands of U.S. dollars. 
















 
 
For the year ended 
 


 
 
December 31,
2011 
 
December 31,
2010 
 


 Cash flows from operating activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
$
3,811
 
$
6,587
 


 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash (used in) provided by operating activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Change in value of interest rate swap agreements
 
 
(257
)
 
(476
)


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
6,377
 
 
5,384
 


 Stock-based compensation
 
 
1,187
 
 
1,057
 


 Deferred income taxes
 
 
4,358
 
 
2,279
 


 Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Increase) decrease in accounts receivable
 
 
990
 
 
(14,752
)


 Increase in inventory
 
 
(1,936
)
 
(14,442
)


 Increase in prepaids and other current assets
 
 
(1,344
)
 
(331
)


 Decrease in other assets
 
 
160
 
 
56
 


 Increase (decrease) in accounts payable and accrued expenses
 
 
(3,961
)
 
5,777
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
 
 
9,385
 
 
(8,861
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash flows from investing activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Acquisitions of property and equipment
 
 
(6,688
)
 
(7,902
)


 Acquisitions of other intangible assets
 
 
(121
)
 
—
 


 Acquisitions, net of cash acquired
 
 
(13,960
)
 
(880
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash used in investing activities
 
 
(20,769
)
 
(8,782
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash flows from financing activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net borrowings of debt
 
 
9,187
 
 
17,345
 


 Issuance of common stock upon exercise of stock options
 
 
2,002
 
 
32
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by financing activities
 
 
11,189
 
 
17,377
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents
 
 
272
 
 
472
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
77
 
 
206
 


 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
 
 
1,138
 
 
932
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
 
$
1,215
 
$
1,138
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:
 
 
 
 
$
 
 


 Cash paid during the year for interest
 
$
2,622
 
$
1,829
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash paid during the year for income taxes
 
$
1,257
 
$
2,069
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Non cash investing and financing activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Issuance of common stock in conjunction with the acquisitions (see note 1)
 
$
9,652
 
$
—
 


 Capital lease obligations incurred
 
$
1,146
 
$
713
 


 Issuance of common stock—Butterfly Earn-out
 
$
931
 
$
—
 


 Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow Information:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Summary of entities acquired in purchase business combinations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fair value of assets acquired
 
$
21,274
 
$
—
 


 Goodwill Acquired
 
$
11,532
 
$
—
 


 Liabilities Assumed
 
$
(9,239
)
$
—
 


 Issuance of Common Stock in conjunction with acquisition
 
$
(9,607
)
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash Paid
 
$
(13,960
)
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




  

   
  
See notes to consolidated financial statements
F-5




 










Table of Contents 
 
    Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity         For the Years Ended December 31, 2011 and 2010     
        Note that all amounts presented in the table below are in thousands of U.S. dollars. 


































 
 
Commons Stock 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Additional
Paid in
Capital 
 
Treasury
Stock 
 
Retained
Earnings 
 
Accumulated
Comprehensive
Income (Loss) 
 
Comprehensive
Income 
 
Total
Equity 
 


 
 
Shares 
 
Amount 
 


 Balance at December 31, 2009
 
 
15,356,727
 
$
1
 
$
55,342
 
 
 
 
$
13,903
 
$
(266
)
 
 
 
$
68,980
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Issuance of common stock upon vesting of restricted shares
 
 
80,750
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Issuance of common stock upon exercise of stock options
 
 
12,750
 
 
 
 
 
32
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
32
 


 Stock-based compensation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,057
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,057
 


 Net income for the year
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6,587
 
 
 
 
 
6,587
 
 
 
 


 Foreign currency translation adjustment
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(195
)
 
(195
)
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total comprehensive income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6,392
 
 
6,392
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance at December 31, 2010
 
 
15,450,227
 
$
1
 
$
56,431
 
 
 
 
$
20,490
 
$
(461
)
 
 
 
$
76,461
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Acquisition of Born Free
 
 
1,510,989
 
$
1
 
 
10,607
 
 
(956
)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9,652
 


 Issuance of common stock—Butterfly Earn-Out
 
 
129,618
 
 
 
 
 
931
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
931
 


 Issuance of common stock upon vesting of restricted shares
 
 
156,233
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Issuance of common stock upon exercise of stock options
 
 
470,600
 
 
 
 
 
2,002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2,002
 


 Stock-based compensation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1,187
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1,187
 


 Net income for the year
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

3,811
 
 
 
 
 

3,811
 
 
 
 


 Foreign currency translation adjustment
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

(142
)
 

(142
)
 
 
 


 Total comprehensive income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

3,669
 
 

3,669
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance at December 31, 2011
 
 
17,717,667
 
$
2
 
$
71,158
 
$
(956
)
$
24,301
 
$
(603
)
 
 
 
$
93,902
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




F-6




 










Table of Contents 
 
    SUMMER INFANT, INC. AND SUBSIDIAIRES         NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     
 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
        All
significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in the consolidation. 
        All
dollar amounts are in thousands of U.S. dollars except share and per share amounts. 
 Company History  
        On March 6, 2007, under an Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated as of September 1, 2006 ("Acquisition Agreement"),
KBL Healthcare Acquisition Corp. II ("KBL"), and its wholly owned subsidiary, SII Acquisition Corp. ("Acquisition Sub"), consummated a transaction by which (i) Summer
Infant, Inc. ("SII") was merged with and into Acquisition Sub and (ii) all of the outstanding capital stock of each of Summer Infant Europe, Limited ("SIE") and Summer Infant
Asia, Ltd. ("SIA") was acquired directly by KBL. As used in this Report, the term "Company" means the registrant on a post-acquisition basis. At the closing of the acquisition, the
Summer stockholders received from the Company an aggregate of $20,000 cash and 3,916,667 shares of company common stock. 
        Effective
upon closing, the Company changed its name to Summer Infant, Inc. and SII changed its name to Summer Infant (USA), Inc. Thus, the Company became a holding company
called Summer Infant, Inc. operating through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Summer Infant (USA), Inc., Summer Infant Europe, Limited, and Summer Infant Asia, Ltd. 
        On
November 7, 2008, Summer Infant (USA), Inc. created a wholly-owned subsidiary called Summer Infant Canada, Ltd. ("SIC"). On March 24, 2011, the Company and
Summer Infant (USA) acquired all the outstanding capital stock of Born Free Holdings Ltd., which is now a wholly-owned subsidiary. 
 Company Overview  
        The Company is a designer, marketer, and distributor of branded juvenile health, safety and wellness products which are sold
principally to large North American and United Kingdom retailers. The Company currently markets products in various product categories including nursery audio/video monitors, safety gates, durable
bath products, bed rails, nursery products, booster and potty seats, bouncers, travel accessories, high chairs, swings, feeding products, car seats, and nursery furniture. 
 Nature of Operations and Basis of Presentation and Principles of Consolidation  
        It is the Company's policy to prepare its financial statements on the accrual basis of accounting in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of its wholly-owned subsidiaries. 
 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  
 Revenue Recognition  
        The Company records revenue when all of the following occur: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, product delivery has
occurred, the sales price to the customer is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Sales are recorded net of provisions for returns and allowances, customer discounts, and
other sales related discounts. The Company bases its estimates for discounts, returns and allowances on negotiated customer terms and historical experience. Customers do not have the right to return
products unless the products are defective. The Company 
F-7



 
Table of Contents

SUMMER INFANT, INC. AND SUBSIDIAIRES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
records
a reduction of sales for estimated future defective product deductions based on historical experience. 
        Sales
incentives or other consideration given by the Company to customers that are considered adjustments of the selling price of its products, such as markdowns, are reflected as
reductions of revenue. Sales incentives and other consideration that represent costs incurred by the Company for assets or services received, such as the appearance of the Company's products in a
customer's national circular ad, are reflected as selling and marketing expenses in the accompanying statements of income. 
 Cash and Cash Equivalents  
        For purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include money market accounts and investments with an original
maturity of three months or less. At times, the Company possesses cash balances in excess of federally-insured limits. 
 Trade Receivables  
        Trade receivables are carried at their outstanding unpaid principal balances reduced by an allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company
estimates doubtful accounts
based on historical bad debts, factors related to specific customers' ability to pay and current economic trends. The Company writes off accounts receivable against the allowance when a balance is
determined to be uncollectible. 
 Inventory Valuation  
        Inventory is comprised of finished goods and is stated at the lower of cost using the first-in, first-out
(FIFO) method, or market (net realizable value). The Company regularly reviews slow-moving and excess inventories, and writes down inventories to net realizable value if the ultimate
expected proceeds from the disposals of excess inventory are less than the carrying cost of the merchandise. 
 Property and Equipment  
        Property and equipment are recorded at cost. The Company owns the molds used in the production of its products by third party
manufacturers. Capitalized mold costs include costs incurred for the pre-production design and development of the molds. 
        Depreciation
is provided over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets using either straight-line or accelerated methods. 
 Impairment of Long-Lived Assets  
        The Company reviews long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount of a long-lived asset may not be recoverable. An asset is considered to be impaired when its carrying amount exceeds the sum of the undiscounted future net cash flows expected to
result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. Long-lived assets include property and equipment. The amount of impairment loss, if any, is charged by the Company to current
operations. For each of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, no such impairment existed. 
F-8



 
Table of Contents

SUMMER INFANT, INC. AND SUBSIDIAIRES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  
        The Company accounts for goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with accounting guidance that requires that goodwill and
intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives no longer be subject to amortization and be tested at least annually for impairment. Management evaluates the remaining useful life of an intangible
asset that is not being amortized each reporting period to determine whether events and circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life. If an intangible asset that is not being amortized
is subsequently determined to have a finite useful life, it is amortized prospectively over its estimated remaining useful life. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company has
determined that no such impairment existed. 
 Fair Value Measurements  
        Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted ASC 820 Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures which establishes a new framework
for measuring fair value and expands related disclosures. Broadly, the framework requires fair value to be determined based on the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to
transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. The standard established a
three-level valuation hierarchy based upon observable and non-observable inputs. 
        Observable
inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect our market assumptions. Preference is given to observable inputs. These two
types of inputs create the following fair value hierarchy: 

Level 1—Quoted
prices for identical instruments in active markets. 
Level 2—Quoted
prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations
whose inputs are observable or whose significant value drivers are observable. 
Level 3—Significant
inputs to the valuation model are unobservable. 

        The
Company maintains policies and procedures to value instruments using the best and most relevant data available. In addition, the Company utilizes risk management resources that
review valuation, including independent price validation. 
        The
Company has used derivatives to fix interest rates. As a matter of policy, the Company does not use derivatives for speculative purposes. This is a requirement in the Company's loan
agreement to mitigate interest rate risk. 
        The
Company recognizes the fair value of interest rate swaps using Level 2 inputs. 
F-9



 
Table of Contents

SUMMER INFANT, INC. AND SUBSIDIAIRES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
 
 
  Fair Values of Derivative Instruments     


























 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
Liability Derivatives 
 


 
 
Balance Sheet
Location 
 
Fair
Value 
 
Change in
Fair Value
Gain/(Loss) 
 
Balance Sheet
Location 
 
Fair
Value 
 
Change in
Fair Value
Gain/(Loss) 
 


 
 
(In Thousands of Dollars)
 


 As of December 31
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Derivatives not designated as effective hedging instruments under Subtopic 815-20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest rate contracts
 
Other liabilities
 
$
(88
)
$
257
 
Other liabilities
 
$
(345
)
$
476
 


 Total derivatives not designated as effective hedging instruments under Subtopic 815-20
 
 
 
$

(88
)
 
 
 
 
 
$

(345
)
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The notional amounts under the interest rate swap agreements total $3,522 which is approximately 6% of the Company's total outstanding bank debt
at December 31, 2011. 
        The
Company's financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, accounts and notes receivable, interest rate swaps, accounts payable, accrued expenses, and short and
long-term borrowings. Because of their short maturity, the carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, accounts and notes receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses and
short-term borrowings approximate fair value. The carrying value of long-term borrowings approximates fair value, which is based on quoted market prices or on rates available
to the Company for debt with similar terms and maturities. 
 Income taxes  
        Income taxes are computed using the asset and liability method of accounting. Under the asset and liability method, a deferred tax
asset or liability is recognized for estimated future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards. The measurement of deferred income tax assets is adjusted by a valuation
allowance, if necessary, to recognize future tax benefits only to the extent, based on available evidence, it is more likely than not that such benefits will be realized. 
        Previously,
the Company adopted the provisions of a new standard which provides detailed guidance for the financial statement recognition, measurement and disclosure of uncertain tax
positions recognized in the financial statements. Tax positions must meet a "more-likely-than-not" recognition threshold at the effective date to be recognized upon
adoption and in subsequent periods. Upon the adoption, and at December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company did not have any uncertain tax positions. No interest and penalties related to uncertain
tax positions were accrued at December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
        The
tax years 2007 through 2010 remain open to examination by the major taxing jurisdictions in which the Company operates. The Company's federal tax return for the year ended
December 31, 2009 is currently being audited by the Internal Revenue Service. The Company expects no material changes to unrecognized tax positions within the next twelve months. 
F-10




 







 
Table of Contents 

SUMMER INFANT, INC. AND SUBSIDIAIRES  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)  
 Translation of Foreign Currencies  
        The assets and liabilities of the Company's European, Canadian, Israeli, and Asian operations have been translated into U.S. dollars at
year-end exchange rates. All assets and liabilities of the Company's foreign affiliates are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the year and the
income and expense accounts of these affiliates have been translated at average rates prevailing during each respective year. Resulting translation adjustments are made to a separate component of
stockholders' equity within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Transaction gains and losses are included in the statements of income. 
 Shipping Costs  
        Shipping costs are included in selling expenses and amounted to approximately $2,329 and $3,260 for the years ended December 31,
2011 and 2010, respectively. 
 Advertising Costs  
        The Company charges advertising costs to selling, general and administration expense as incurred. Advertising expense, which consists
primarily of promotional and cooperative advertising allowances provided to customers, was approximately $17,565 and $15,455 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
 Use of Estimates  
        The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect certain reported amounts and disclosures. Accordingly, actual results could differ from those estimates. 
 Net Income Per Share  
        Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income for the period by the weighted average number of common stock outstanding
during the period. 
        Diluted
earnings per share for the Company is computed by dividing net income by the sum of: the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period; the
dilutive impact (using the "treasury stock" method) of "in the money" stock options; and unvested restricted shares issued to employees. Options to purchase 50,150 and 28,000 shares of the Company's
common stock were not included in the calculation, due to the fact that these options were anti-dilutive for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
 New Accounting Pronouncements  

ASC Update No. 2010-29 

        In
December 2010, the FASB issued ASC Update No. 2010-29, Business Combinations (Topic 805)—Disclosure of Supplementary
Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations. Update No. 2010-29 clarifies paragraph 805-10-50-2(h) to require public entities that
enter into business combinations that are material on an individual or aggregate basis to disclose pro forma information for such business combinations that occurred in the current reporting period,
including pro forma 
F-11



 
Table of Contents

SUMMER INFANT, INC. AND SUBSIDIAIRES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
revenue
and earnings of the combined entity as though the acquisition date had been as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period only. The Company adopted Update
No. 2010-29 in the quarter ended March 31, 2011, and the requisite disclosures are reflected in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 

ASU 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220)—Presentation of Comprehensive Income 

        This
ASU requires all nonowner changes in stockholders' equity to be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two
separate but consecutive statements. For public entities, the amendments are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. However, ASU
2011-12 has deferred the specific requirement within ASU 2011-05 to present on the face of the financial statements items that are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to
net income separately with their respective components of net income and other comprehensive income. Entities should continue to report reclassifications out of accumulated comprehensive income
consistent with the presentation requirements in effect before ASU 2011-05. 

ASU 2011-08, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment 

        This
ASU gives an entity the option in its annual goodwill impairment test to first assess revised qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely
than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. The amendments are effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2011. 
        Management
does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards if currently adopted would have a material effect on the accompanying financial
statements. 
 2. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT  

        Property and equipment, at cost, consist of the following: 

















 
 
December 31, 
 
 


 
 
Depreciation/
Amortization Period 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 


 
 
(In Thousands)
 
 


 Computer-related
 
$
3,639
 
$
3,166
 
5 years


 Tools and dies and Prototypes/molds
 
 
19,638
 
 
14,944
 
1 - 5 years


 Building
 
 
4,156
 
 
4,156
 
30 years


 Other
 
 
5,702
 
 
3,000
 
various


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
33,135
 
 
25,266
 
 


 Less accumulated depreciation
 
 
15,453
 
 
10,308
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property and Equipment, net
 
$
17,682
 
$
14,958
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Property
and equipment includes amounts acquired under capital leases of approximately $2,537 and $1,628 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, with related accumulated
depreciation of approximately $464 and $394, respectively. Total depreciation expense was $5,154 and $4,425 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
F-12



 
Table of Contents

SUMMER INFANT, INC. AND SUBSIDIAIRES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 3. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS  
 Goodwill  
        Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis and more frequently if facts and circumstances indicate goodwill carrying values
exceed estimated fair values. Because the Company has fully integrated its acquisitions, it has determined that it has only one reporting unit for purposes of testing for goodwill impairment. Based on
the impairment tests performed, there was no impairment of goodwill in 2011 or 2010. 
        The
change in goodwill during the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 was as follows: 
















 
 
(In Thousands)
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Balance at beginning of year
 
$
50,375
 
$
49,496
 


 Acquisitions and other adjustments
 
 
11,532
 
 
879
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance at end of year
 
$
61,907
 
$
50,375
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




 Intangible assets  
        Intangible assets consist of the following: 
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(In Thousands)
 


 Brand names
 
$
22,700
 
$
10,900
 


 Patents and licenses
 
 
1,711
 
 
1,581
 


 Customer lists
 
 
6,946
 
 
2,355
 


 Other intangibles
 
 
1,886
 
 
1,886
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
33,243
 
 
16,722
 


 Less:Accumulated amortization
 
 
(3,198
)
 
(1,976
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Intangible assets, net
 
$
30,045
 
$
14,745
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
amortization period for the majority of the intangible assets ranges from 5 to 15 years for those assets that have an estimated life; certain of the assets have indefinite
lives (including brand names and several significant customer relationships). Total of intangibles not subject to amortization amounted to $22,546 and $10,746 for the years ended December 31,
2011 and 2010, respectively. There was no impairment of intangible assets in 2011 or 2010. 
F-13



 
Table of Contents

SUMMER INFANT, INC. AND SUBSIDIAIRES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 3. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Continued) 
        Amortization
expense amounted to $1,222 and $959 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Estimated amortization expense for the next five years is as
follows: 













Year ending December 31,



 
(In Thousands) 
 


 2012
 
$
1,080
 


 2013
 
 
998
 


 2014
 
 
626
 


 2015
 
 
586
 


 2016
 
 
586
 




 4. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED EXPENSES  

        Accounts payable and accrued expenses consist of the following: 
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(In Thousands)
 


 Accounts payable
 
$
22,775
 
$
20,122
 


 Customer advertising and allowances
 
 
4,251
 
 
4,703
 


 Accrued purchases of inventory
 
 
6,701
 
 
7,869
 


 Other (none in excess of 5% of current liabilities)
 
 
6,906
 
 
2,957
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
40,633
 
$
35,651
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




 5. DEBT  
 Credit Facilities  
        In August 2010, the Company entered into a secured credit facility with Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and each
of the financial institutions a signatory to the agreement. The agreement was amended on March 24, 2011 and on November 9, 2011 (as amended, the "Loan Agreement"). The Loan Agreement
provides for an $80,000 working capital revolving credit facility and a $20,000 "accordion" credit facility. The Loan Agreement was amended on November 9, 2011, which modified certain financial
covenants. The amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility are payable in full upon maturity. The credit facilities mature on June 30, 2013. The amount outstanding on the credit
facilities at December 31, 2011 was $62,000, and the amount of availability was approximately $5,021. 
        Aggregate
maturities of long term debt related to this note are as follows: 















 
 
 
 
(In Thousands) 
 


Year ending December 31:
 
2012
 
$
0
 


 
 
2013
 
 
62,000
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Total
 
$
62,000
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




F-14




 







 
Table of Contents 

SUMMER INFANT, INC. AND SUBSIDIAIRES  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 5. DEBT (Continued)  

        The Company and its subsidiaries, Summer Infant (USA), Inc. Summer Infant Europe Limited, Summer Infant Asia Limited and Summer Infant Canada, Limited are the borrowers under this
Loan Agreement. This credit facility is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company. 
        The
Company's ability to borrow under the Loan Agreement is subject to its ongoing compliance with a number of financial and other covenants, including the following: (i) that the
Company and its subsidiaries maintain consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the Loan Agreement) of at least $20,000 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, which increases to $23,000 on a
quarterly basis over the remainder of the term; (ii) that the Company and its subsidiaries maintain a ratio of total funded debt to consolidated EBITDA of not greater than 3.25:1.00, and
(iii) that the Company and its subsidiaries maintain a ratio of operating cash flow to debt service of not less than 1.50:1.00. Upon utilizing all approved and permitted Add Backs, as defined
in the Loan Agreement, the Company is in compliance with these and all other covenants at December 31, 2011. 
        These
credit facilities bear interest at a floating rate based on a spread over LIBOR ranging from 200 basis points to 300 basis points, depending upon the ratio of the Company's total
funded debt to consolidated EBITDA. The Company has also entered into various interest swap agreements which effectively fix the interest rates on a portion of the outstanding debt of which one is
still active at December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, the rate on these credit facilities averaged 3.69%. In addition, these credit facilities have an unused line fee based on the
unused amount of the credit facilities equal to 25 basis points. 
        The
Loan Agreement also contains customary events of default, including a cross default provision and a change of control provision. In the event of a default, all of the obligations of
the Company and its subsidiaries under the loan Agreement may be declared immediately due and payable. For certain events of default relating to insolvency and receivership, all outstanding
obligations become due and payable. 
        During
2010, the Company also initiated an agreement to borrow against certain international receivables. Approximately $831 relating to this agreement is included in the current portion
of long term debt at December 31, 2010. This agreement was terminated in 2011. 
 Sale-Leaseback  
        On March 24, 2009 the Company entered into a definitive agreement with Faith Realty II, LLC, a Rhode Island limited
liability company ("Faith Realty") (the members of which are Jason Macari, the current Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and his spouse), pursuant to which
Faith Realty purchased the corporate headquarters of the Company located at 1275 Park East Drive, Woonsocket, Rhode Island (the "Headquarters"), for $4,052 and subsequently leased the Headquarters
back to Summer USA for an annual rent of $390 during the initial seven year term of the lease, payable monthly and in advance. The lease will expire on the seventh anniversary of its commencement
unless an option period is exercised by Summer USA. At that time, Summer USA will have the opportunity to extend the lease for one additional period of five years. If Summer USA elects to extend the
term of the lease for an additional five years, the annual rent for the first two years of the extension term shall be equal to $429 and for the final three years of
the extension term shall be equal to $468. In addition, during the first six months of the last lease year of the initial term of the lease, Summer USA has the option to repurchase the Headquarters
for $4,457 (110% of the initial sale price). With the majority of the proceeds of the sale of the Headquarters Summer USA paid off the 
F-15



 
Table of Contents

SUMMER INFANT, INC. AND SUBSIDIAIRES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 5. DEBT (Continued) 
construction
loan relating to the Headquarters. Mr. Macari has given a personal guarantee to secure the Faith Realty debt on its mortgage; therefore, due to his continuing involvement in the
building transaction and the Company's option to repurchase the building, the transaction has been recorded as a financing lease, with no gain recognition. At December 31, 2011, approximately
$102 was included in accounts payable and accrued expenses, with the balance of approximately $3,638 included in other liabilities, in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. This obligation is
reduced each month (along with a charge to interest expense) as the rent payment is made to Faith Realty. 
        On
February 25, 2009, the Company's board of Directors (with Mr. Macari abstaining from such action) approved the sale leaseback transaction. In connection therewith, the
board granted a potential waiver, to the extent necessary, if at all, of the conflict of interest provisions of the Company's Model Code of Ethics, effective upon execution of definitive agreements
within the parameters approved by the Board. In connection with granting such potential waiver, the Board of Directors engaged independent counsel to review the sale leaseback transaction and an
independent appraiser to ascertain (i) the value of the Headquarters and (ii) the market rent for the Headquarters. In reaching its conclusion that the sale leaseback transaction is fair
to the Company, the Board of Directors considered a number of factors, including Summer USA's ability to repurchase the headquarters at 110% of the initial sale price at the end of the initial term. 
        In
addition, the Company's Audit Committee approved the sale leaseback transaction (as a related party transaction) and the potential waiver and recommended the matter to a vote of the
entire Board of Directors (which approved the transaction). 
 6. INCOME TAXES  

        The provision for income taxes is summarized as follows: 
















 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(In Thousands)
 


 Current:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Federal
 
$
(74
)
$
(268
)


 Foreign
 
 
907
 
 
769
 


 State and Local
 
 
135
 
 
273
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total Current
 
 
968
 
 
774
 


 Deferred (primarily federal)
 
 
252
 
 
1,281
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total expense
 
$
1,220
 
$
2,055
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




F-16



 
Table of Contents

SUMMER INFANT, INC. AND SUBSIDIAIRES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 6. INCOME TAXES (Continued) 
        The
tax effects of temporary differences that comprise the deferred tax liabilities and assets are as follows: 
















 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(In Thousands)
 


 Assets (Liabilities)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Deferred tax asset-current:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Accounts receivable and inventory reserves
 
$
265
 
$
361
 


 Research and development credit carry-forward and other
 
 
—
 
 
908
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net deferred tax asset-current
 
 
265
 
 
1,269
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Deferred tax (liability) asset-non-current:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Research and development credit and net operating loss carry-forward
 
 
1,877
 
 
—
 


 Intangible assets and other
 
 
(9,573
)
 
(5,620
)


 Property, plant and equipment
 
 
(3,067
)
 
(2,465
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total deferred tax liability
 
 
(10,763
)
 
—
 


 Valuation allowance
 
 
(676
)
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net deferred tax liability non-current:
 
 
(11,439
)
 
(8,085
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net deferred income tax liability
 
$
(11,174
)
$
(6,815
)


 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
following reconciles the provision for income taxes at the U.S. federal income tax statutory rate to the expense in the consolidated financial statements: 
















 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(In Thousands)
 


 Tax expense at statutory rate
 
$
1,711
 
$
2,938
 


 State income taxes, net of U.S. federal income tax benefit
 
 
(419
)
 
371
 


 Stock options
 
 
155
 
 
250
 


 Foreign dividend
 
 
544
 
 
0
 


 Valuation allowance of state R&D credits
 
 
676
 
 
0
 


 Foreign tax rate differential
 
 
(1,207
)
 
(1,098
)


 Tax credits
 
 
(161
)
 
(364
)


 Non-deductible expenses
 
 
114
 
 
10
 


 Other
 
 
(193
)
 
(52
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total expense
 
$
1,220
 
$
2,055
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
Company had undistributed earnings from its foreign subsidiaries of approximately $14,316 at December 31, 2011 which is all considered to be permanently reinvested due to the
Company's plans to reinvest such earnings for future expansion in certain foreign jurisdictions. The amount of taxes attributable to the permanently reinvested undistributed earnings is not
practicably determinable. 
        As
of Dec. 31, 2011, the Company has approx. $1,529,000 of net operating loss carryforwards to offset future federal taxable income. Such carryforwards begin to expire in 2028. The
Company also has approx. $212K of net operating losses in the United Kingdom which can be carried forward indefinitely. 
F-17




 










Table of Contents 

SUMMER INFANT, INC. AND SUBSIDIAIRES  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 6. INCOME TAXES (Continued)  

        Authoritative guidance requires a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred tax assets reported, if based on the weight of the evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or
all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. After consideration of all evidence, including the Companies' past earnings history and future earnings forecast, management has determined that a
valuation allowance in the amount of $676K relating to certain state tax credits is necessary at Dec. 31, 2011. 
        Upon
the adoption, and at December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company did not have any uncertain tax positions. No interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions were
accrued at December 31, 2011 and 2010. The tax years 2008 through 2010 remain open to examination by the major taxing jurisdictions in which the Company operates. The Company expects no
material changes to unrecognized tax positions within the next twelve months. 
 7. STOCK OPTIONS AND RESTRICTED SHARES  

        The Company has granted stock options and restricted shares under its 2006 Performance Equity Plan ("2006 Plan"). Under the 2006 Plan, awards may be granted to participants in the form
of Non-Qualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, Restricted Stock, Deferred Stock, Stock Reload Options and other stock-based awards. Subject to the provisions of the plan, awards
may be granted to employees, officers, directors, advisors and consultants who are deemed to have rendered or are able to render significant services to the Company or its subsidiaries and who are
deemed to have contributed or to have the potential to contribute to our success. The Company accounts for options under the fair value recognition standard. The application of this standard resulted
in share-based compensation expense for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 of $1,187 and $1,057, respectively. Stock based compensation expense is included in selling, general and
administrative expenses. There were no share-based payment arrangements capitalized as part of the cost of an asset. 
        The
fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option valuation model that uses the assumptions noted in the following table. Summer has
insufficient history by which to estimate the expected term of the options, but used an estimate for grants of "plain vanilla" stock options based on a formula prescribed by the SEC. Forfeitures are
estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Stock-based compensation expense recognized in the consolidated
financial statements in 2011 and 2010 is based on awards that are ultimately expected to vest. 
        The
following table summarizes the weighted average assumptions used for options granted during the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. 













 
 
2011 
 
2010 


 Expected life (in years)
 
6.0
 
6.0


 Risk-free interest rate
 
1.71%
 
1.18%


 Volatility
 
55%
 
55%


 Dividend yield
 
0%
 
0%


 Forfeiture rate
 
10%
 
10%




        The
weighted-average grant date fair value of options granted during the year ended December 31, 2011 was $ 3.84 per share which totals $379 for the 98,650 options granted during
such period. During 
F-18



 
Table of Contents

SUMMER INFANT, INC. AND SUBSIDIAIRES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 7. STOCK OPTIONS AND RESTRICTED SHARES (Continued) 
the
year ended December 31, 2010, the weighted-average grant date fair value of options granted was $3.19 per share which totaled $603 for the 189,500 options granted during the year. 
        A
summary of the status of the Company's options as of December 31, 2011 and changes during the year then ended is presented below: 
















 
 
Number Of
Shares 
 
Weighted-
Average
Exercise
Price 
 


 Outstanding at beginning of year
 
 
2,187,850
 
$
3.90
 


 Granted
 
 
98,650
 
$
7.32
 


 Exercised
 
 
(470,600
)
$
4.25
 


 Canceled
 
 
(220,500
)
$
3.17
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding at end of year
 
 
1,595,400
 
$
4.08
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Options exercisable at December 31, 2011
 
 
1,182,250
 
$
3.96
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
intrinsic value of options exercised totaled $1.702 and $10 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
        The
following table summarizes information about stock options at December 31, 2011: 



























 
 
 
 
Options Outstanding 
 
Options Exercisable 
 


Year Granted



 
Range of
Exercise Prices 
 
Number
Outstanding 
 
Remaining
Contractual
Life (years) 
 
Weighted
Average
Exercise
Price 
 
Number
Exercisable 
 
Weighted
Average
Exercise
Price 
 


 2007
 
$5.20 - $5.25
 
 
623,500
 
 
5.5
 
$
5.22
 
 
623,500
 
$
5.22
 


 2009
 
$2.14 - $4.33
 
 
741,750
 
 
7.2
 
$
2.35
 
 
525,875
 
$
2.33
 


 2010
 
$5.36 - $7.79
 
 
131,500
 
 
8.5
 
$
5.94
 
 
32,8750
 
 
5.99
 


 2011
 
$6.70 - $8.00
 
 
98,650
 
 
9.5
 
$
7.32
 
 
—
 
 
—
 




        The
aggregate intrinsic value of options outstanding and options exercisable at December 31, 2011 is $2,308 and $1,449, respectively. 
















 
 
Number of
Options 
 
Grant Date
Fair Value 
 


 Non-Vested options at December 31, 2010
 
 
1,039,650
 
$
1.40
 


 Options Granted
 
 
98,650
 
 
3.84
 


 Options Vested
 
 
(504,650
)
 
1.33
 


 Options forfeited
 
 
(220,500
)
 
1.37
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Non-Vested options at December 31, 2011
 
 
413,150
 
 
2.08
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        As
of December 31, 2011, there was approximately $889 of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock option awards, which is expected to be recognized
over a remaining weighted-average vesting period of 2 years. 
F-19



 
Table of Contents

SUMMER INFANT, INC. AND SUBSIDIAIRES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 7. STOCK OPTIONS AND RESTRICTED SHARES (Continued) 
        Restricted
stock awards require no payment from the grantee. The related compensation cost of each award is calculated using the market price on the grant date and is expensed equally
over the vesting
period. A summary of restricted stock awards for the Company's stock incentive plan for the year ended December 31, 2011, is as follows: 
















 
 
Number of
Shares 
 
Grant
Date
Fair Value 
 


 Unvested restricted stock awards as of December 31, 2010
 
 
156,500
 
$
2.40
 


 Granted
 
 
261,878
 
 
7.62
 


 Vested
 
 
(156,233
)
 
5.26
 


 Forfeited
 
 
(30,016
)
 
6.00
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Unvested restricted stock awards as of December 31, 2011
 
 
232,129
 
$
5.91
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        As
of December 31, 2011, there was approximately $896 of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock compensation arrangements granted under the
Company's stock incentive plan for restricted stock awards. That cost is expected to be recognized over the next three years. The Company did not grant any restricted stock awards prior to 2009. 
        The
Company is authorized to issue up to 3,000,000 stock options and restricted shares under the 2006 Plan. As of December 31, 2011, there are 422,888 shares available to grant
under the 2006 Plan. 
 8. CAPITAL LEASE OBLIGATIONS  

        The Company leases certain equipment under capital leases which expire over the next several years. 
        The
leases require monthly payments of principal and interest, imputed at interest rates ranging from 3% to 18% per annum. 
        The
capital lease liability balance of approximately $1,261 and $844 is included in debt on the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, (of
which approximately $395 is included in long-term debt each year, and the balance is in current portion of long-term debt). The minimum future lease payments, including
principal and interest, are approximately $1,332 and $2,972, respectively. 
 
 
  Future Minimum Lease Payments     




























 
 
Total 
 
2012 
 
2013 
 
2014 
 
2015 
 
2016
& Beyond 
 


 Capital Lease Payments
 
 
1,332
 
 
781
 
 
329
 
 
90
 
 
79
 
 
53
 


 Interest
 
 
(71
)
 
(44
)
 
(14
)
 
(8
)
 
(4
)
 
(1
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Principal
 
 
1,261
 
 
737
 
 
315
 
 
82
 
 
75
 
 
52
 




F-20




 







 
Table of Contents 

SUMMER INFANT, INC. AND SUBSIDIAIRES  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 9. PROFIT SHARING PLAN  

        Summer Infant (USA), Inc maintains a defined contribution salary deferral plan (the Plan) under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. All employees who meet the Plan's
eligibility requirements can participate. Employees may elect to make contributions up to 25% of their compensation. In 2007, the Company adopted a matching plan which was funded throughout the year.
For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company recorded 401(k) matching expense of $211 and $200, respectively. 
 10. MAJOR CUSTOMERS  

        Sales to three customers comprised approximately 39%, 11%, and 10%, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2011. Amounts due from these three customers comprised
approximately 39%, 12%, and 11% of trade receivables, respectively, at December 31, 2011. Sales to one customer comprised approximately 51% of sales for the year ended December 31, 2010.
Amounts due from the one customer comprised approximately 46% of trade receivables at December 31, 2010. 
 11. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES  
 Royalty Commitments  
        Summer Infant (USA), Inc has entered into various license agreements with third parties for the use of product designs and trade names
for the products manufactured by the Company. These agreements have termination dates through December 2013. Royalty expense under these licensing agreements for the years ended December 31,
2011 and 2010 were approximately $2,475 and $2,139, respectively. 
 Customer Agreements  
        The Company enters into annual agreements with its customers in the normal course of business. These agreements define the terms of
product sales including in some instances cooperative advertising costs and product return privileges (for defective products only) or defective allowances (which are based upon historical
experience). These contracts are generally annual in nature and obligate the Company only as to products actually sold to the customer. 
 License Agreements and Lease Commitments  
        For lease agreements with escalation clauses, the Company records the total rent to be paid under the lease on a
straight-line basis over the term of the lease, with the difference between the expense recognized and the cash paid recorded as a deferred rent liability included in accounts payable and
accrued expenses on the balance sheet for amounts to be recognized within twelve months and in other liabilities for amounts to be recognized after twelve months from the balance sheet date, in the
consolidated balance sheets. Lease incentives are recorded as deferred rent at the beginning of the lease term and recognized as a reduction of rent expense over the term of the lease. 
        Summer
Infant (USA), Inc. leases an office under a four year agreement which requires monthly payments of approximately $4 through July 2012. 
        SIE
leases office space under a non-cancelable operating lease agreement. This lease is for a five-year term through April 2012, and requires monthly payments of
approximately $6. In addition, SIE is required to pay its proportionate share of property taxes. 
F-21



 
Table of Contents

SUMMER INFANT, INC. AND SUBSIDIAIRES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 11. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued) 
        Summer
Infant Canada, Ltd. entered into a five-year lease for office and warehouse space under a non-cancelable operating lease agreement expiring March
2013. The Company is obligated as part of the lease to pay maintenance expenses as well as property taxes and insurance costs as defined in the agreement. Monthly payments for the initial year are
approximately $13 and escalate over the course of the lease term. Summer Infant Canada, Ltd. has the option to renew this lease for one additional period of five years under the same terms and
conditions. 
        Summer
Infant (USA) Inc. entered into a 72 month lease in September 2010 for warehouse space under a non-cancelable operating lease agreement. The Company is
obligated to pay certain common area maintenance charges including insurance and utilities. The initial lease term is 10 months of free rent followed by 6 monthly payments of
approximately $64 and escalate over the course of the lease term. 
        During
November 2011, SIA entered into a two year office lease which requires monthly payments of $6 through October 2013. 
        Approximate
future minimum rental payments due under these leases are as follows(a): 













Year Ending



 
(In Thousands) 
 


 December 31, 2012
 
$
1,528
 


 December 31, 2013
 
 
1,426
 


 December 31, 2014
 
 
1,342
 


 December 31, 2015
 
 
1,397
 


 December 31, 2016
 
 
956
 


 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
6,649
 


 
 
 
 








(a)Amounts
exclude payments for Sales-Leaseback transaction as described in Note 5. 

        Rent
expense (excluding taxes, fees and other charges) for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 totaled approximately $1,627 and $2,519, respectively. 
 Employment Contracts  
        In accordance with United Kingdom and EU law, SIE has employment contracts with all employees. In connection with these contracts, SIE
is required to fund the individual pension contributions of certain employees at varying rates from 5% to 10% of the employee' s annual salary, as part of their total compensation package. These
pension contributions are expensed as incurred. There are no termination benefit provisions in these contracts. 
 Litigation  
        From time to time, the Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business. However, litigation is
subject to inherent uncertainties, and an adverse result in these or other matters may arise from time to time that may harm our business. In October 2009, a purported class action suit was filed in
the State of Illinois against the Company and Toys "R" Us alleging violations of the Illinois Consumer Fraud and Deceptive Business Practices Act and similar laws in other states, the
Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act, negligence and other claims relating to analog video 
F-22



 
Table of Contents

SUMMER INFANT, INC. AND SUBSIDIAIRES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 11. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued) 
baby
monitors. The plaintiffs alleged that the Company sold the video monitors without disclosing that the monitors' unencrypted signals could be viewed outside the consumer's home. Warnings
concerning the unencrypted signals were included in the instructions accompanying the monitors, but did not appear on the monitors' retail packaging. The Company believes that the claims set forth in
the complaint were without merit and proceeded to defend these claims. In December 2009, the case was removed to the United States District Court, Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division. 
        In
January 2012, the parties filed the proposed settlement agreement with the court and received preliminary approval of the settlement. The proposed settlement certifies for purposes of
the settlement only a class consisting of all persons residing within the United States and Puerto Rico who purchased or received as a gift certain of our analog video monitors between
December 9, 2004 and January 11, 2012. Under a settlement, the Company will pay $1,675 to be distributed among the plaintiffs and to cover administrative costs and attorneys' fees and
costs in exchange for a release of all claims by the class members. The Company will also disclose in advertising (including on the website) and analog video monitor packaging that broadcast signals
of analog video monitors are susceptible to reception by other monitors within an unimpeded range of 300 feet. Of the total proposed settlement cost,
approximately $506 will be covered under existing insurance policies, with the remaining $1,169 to be paid by the Company. The settlement is subject to the final approval of the court, and the hearing
on the final approval of the settlement is scheduled for May 16, 2012. If the court rejects the settlement, the settlement agreement will be terminated and have no force or effect, and the case
will continue to be litigated. Consequently the Company has taken a $1,501 charge to earnings during the fourth quarter in order to establish a reserve that relates to the proposed settlement; this
amount includes the Company's portion of the settlement ($1,169) plus legal and other costs associated with this case. 
        Other
than the matter described above, the Company is not aware of any such proceedings or claims that the Company believes will have, individually or in the aggregate, a material
adverse effect on the results of operations or financial condition. 
 12. GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION  

        The Company distributes branded durable baby products throughout the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom, and various other parts of the world. 
        The
following is a table that presents net revenue by geographic area: 
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(In Thousands)
 


 North America
 
$
221,796
 
$
180,664
 


 All Other
 
 
16,376
 
 
13,821
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
238,172
 
$
194,485
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




F-23



 
Table of Contents

SUMMER INFANT, INC. AND SUBSIDIAIRES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 12. GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION (Continued) 
        The
following is a table that presents total assets by geographic area: 
















 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(In Thousands)
 


 North America
 
$
188,129
 
$
170,002
 


 Europe
 
 
7,153
 
 
5,652
 


 Asia/Other
 
 
17,633
 
 
2,341
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
212,915
 
$
177,995
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




 13. BUTTERFLY LIVING ACQUISITION  

        On July 17, 2009, the Company entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the "Acquisition Agreement") to acquire Butterfly Living, LLC ("Butterfly"), under which the Company
acquired certain assets and liabilities of Butterfly, an innovative manufacturer of infant cribs, headquartered in Pennsylvania. 
        Total
purchase price recorded in connection with the acquisition was approximately $4,100, including approximately $3,600 representing the estimated fair value of contingent
earn-out consideration to be paid quarterly through 2013 based on the achievement of certain financial targets. The first payment was due in April 2010. Approximately $74 was paid in cash
upon closing. 
        The
estimated earn-out liability was calculated using a discount rate of 3.27% to discount the $4,000 potential future liability to its present value, then reduced for
certain closing adjustments to $3,600. Management concluded that the full potential earn out should be recorded at the time of acquisition (net of present value) based upon current sales generated by
Butterfly products as well as projections of future business. In the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company recorded a gain of $1,770 relating to a reduction in the estimated fair value of the
earn-out at December 31, 2010, resulting primarily from a forecasted decline in the earnings expected from specific products included in the earn-out. The related
earn-out was subsequently settled in February 2011 at an amount approximating the December 31, 2010 carrying value. 
        The
following table summarizes the activity of the earn-out liability from the date of the acquisition: 













 
 
(In Thousands) 
 


 Initially recorded
 
$
3,569
 


 Payments and adjustments
 
 
(1,799
)


 Reduction of liability
 
 
(1,770
)


 
 
 
 


 Balance at December 31, 2011
 
$
0
 


 
 
 
 




F-24




 







 
Table of Contents 

SUMMER INFANT, INC. AND SUBSIDIAIRES  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 14. ACQUISITION OF BORN FREE HOLDINGS LTD.  

        On March 24, 2011, the Company acquired all of the capital stock of Born Free Holdings Ltd. ("Born Free") pursuant to the terms and conditions of a Stock Purchase Agreement
(the "Purchase Agreement") by and among the Company, its wholly owned subsidiary Summer Infant (USA), Inc., Born Free and the stockholders of Born Free. The aggregate consideration paid by the
Company to the Born Free stockholders at closing was $24,607 (subject to adjustment), consisting of $14,000 in cash and
approximately $10,607 in shares of the Company's common stock, or 1,510,989 shares based on a price per share of $7.02 (the closing price on the date of acquisition). In addition, the Born Free
stockholders may receive earn-out payments upon achievement of certain financial targets over the twelve months subsequent to the acquisition up to a maximum amount of $13,000, of which up
to $6,500 may be paid in shares of the Company's common stock (or 925,926 shares based on a price per share of $7.02). A portion of the shares issued at closing was, and, if achieved, a portion of the
earn-out payments will be, deposited in escrow for a period of 18 months as security for any breach of the representations, warranties and covenants of Born Free and the Born Free
stockholders contained in the Purchase Agreement. On September 30, 2011 the Company received $1,000 in common stock from the Born Free escrow account due to a preliminary net asset adjustment
as defined in the Purchase Agreement. This is accounted for on the balance sheet through an increase in acquired accrued liabilities by $1,000, and increasing treasury stock by $956 and goodwill by
$44. There may be additional adjustments in future periods. 
        The
results of operations of Born Free are included in the results of the Company from the date of acquisition forward. Related deal costs were expensed in the 2011 statement of
operations. 
        Under
the purchase method of accounting, the total purchase price for Born Free has been assigned to the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on
their estimated fair values. Approximately $16,400 and $11,532 were assigned to certain intangible assets and goodwill, respectively, based on independent valuations received by the Company. In
addition, the estimated fair value of the contingent earn-out has been valued at zero as of December 31, 2011 based on the Company's best estimate of the earn-out
computation. The acquisition has been recorded as of the closing date, reflecting the assets and liabilities of Born Free (the target), at their acquisition date fair values. Intangible assets that
are identifiable are recognized separately from goodwill which is measured and recognized as the excess of the fair value of Born Free, as a whole, over the net amount of the recognized identifiable
assets acquired and liabilities assumed. 
        The
acquisition accounting was finalized during the fourth quarter of 2011. 
        Calculation
of assignment consideration: 













 
 
March 24,
2011 
 


 Cash
 
$
13,960
 


 Stock
 
 
9,607
*


 
 
 
 


 Total Consideration
 
$
23,567
 


 
 
 
 




F-25



 
Table of Contents

SUMMER INFANT, INC. AND SUBSIDIAIRES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 14. ACQUISITION OF BORN FREE HOLDINGS LTD. (Continued) 
        Assignment
of purchase price among assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of March 24, 2011: 













 
 
March 24,
2011 
 


 Trade Receivables
 
$
2,226
 


 Inventory
 
 
2,595
 


 Property and equipment, net
 
 
53
 


 Brand Name
 
 
11,800
 


 Customer Relationship
 
 
4,600
 


 Accounts payable and other accrued liabilities
 
 
(5,176
)


 Deferred tax liability
 
 
(4,063
)


 Goodwill
 
 
11,532
 


 
 
 
 


 Total assigned preliminary purchase price
 
$
23,567
 


 
 
 
 








*The
stock portion of the acquisition consists of 1,369,855 shares at a price per share of $7.02. 

        Pro forma financial information.    The pro forma financial information presented below is for informational purposes only and is not
intended to
represent or be indicative of the results of operations that would have been achieved if the Born Free acquisition had been completed as of the date indicated, and should not be taken as
representative of the Company's future consolidated results of operations or financial condition. The unaudited pro forma financial information below summarizes the results of operations of the
combined entity, as though the acquisition had occurred as of the beginning of the period presented. Preparation of the pro forma financial information required management to make certain judgments
and estimates to determine the pro forma adjustments such as purchase accounting adjustments. Revenue generated from Born Free products amounted to $10,175 from March 25, 2011 to
December 31, 2011. 
        The
pro forma effect on net revenues, earnings, and earnings per share amounts for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, and 2010, assuming the Born Free transaction had
closed on January 1, 2010, are as follows: 
















 
 
Twelve Months Ended
December 31 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Net Revenues
 
$
241,645
 
$
210,400
 


 Net Income
 
 
2,650
 
 
5,244
 


 Diluted earnings per share
 
$
0.15
 
$
0.29
 




 15. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS  

        The Company has evaluated all events or transactions that occurred after December 31, 2011 through the date of this Annual Report; no subsequent event disclosures are required. 
F-26










