
10-K
1
v306234_10k.htm
ANNUAL REPORT







 
UNITED
STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
Form 10-K
 
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13
OR 15(d)
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
For the fiscal year ended December 31,
2011
Commission file number 000-51211
 
Global
Telecom & Technology, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified
in Its Charter)
 


Delaware
20-2096338

(State or other jurisdiction of
(I.R.S. Employer

incorporation or organization)
Identification No.)

 
8484 Westpark Drive
Suite 720
McLean, Virginia 22102
(703) 442-5500
(Address including zip code, and telephone
number, including area
code, of principal executive offices)
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b)
of the Act:
None
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g)
of the Act:
 
Common Stock, par value $.0001 per share
Class Z Warrants
(Title of Class)
 
Indicate by check mark
if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes o     No þ
 
Indicate by check mark
if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes o     No þ
 
Note —
Checking the box above will not relieve any registrant required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange
Act from their obligations under those Sections.
 
Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any, every Interactive Data File required
to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (Section 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).  Yes þ     No o
 
Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports),
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes þ     No o
 
Indicate by check mark
if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy statements or information statements incorporated by reference
in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  þ
 
Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.
See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company”
in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):
 


Large accelerated filer o
Accelerated filer o
Non-accelerated filer o
Smaller reporting company þ

 
 
(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
 

 
Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes o     No þ
 
The aggregate market
value of the common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant (7,308,383 shares) based on the $1.26 closing price of
the registrant’s common stock as reported on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board on June 30, 2011, was $9,208,563.
For purposes of this computation, all officers, directors and 10% beneficial owners of the registrant are deemed to be affiliates.
Such determination should not be deemed to be an admission that such officers, directors or 10% beneficial owners are, in fact,
affiliates of the registrant.
 
As of March 23, 2012
there were outstanding 18,910,564 shares of the registrant’s common stock, par value $.0001 per share.
 
Documents Incorporated by Reference
 
Portions of our definitive
proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be filed within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year
covered by this Form 10-K, are incorporated by reference into Part III hereof.

 

 

 
 

 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 


 
 
Page

PART I


Item 1.
Business
2

Item 1A.
Risk Factors
5

Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments
16

Item 2.
Properties
16

Item 3.
Legal Proceedings
16

Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures
17

PART II
 

Item 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
17

Item 6.
Selected Financial Data
18

Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
18

Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
28

Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
28

Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures
29

Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures
29

Item 9B.
Other Information
 

PART III
 

Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
30

Item 11.
Executive  Compensation
30

Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
30

Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
30

Item 14.
Principal Accounting Fees and Services
30

PART IV
 

Item 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
30

 

 
 

 
CAUTIONARY NOTES REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS
 
Our Form 10-K (“Annual
Report”) includes certain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995, which reflect the current views of Global Telecom & Technology, Inc., with respect to current events
and financial performance. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “may,” “will,”
“expect,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “plan,”
“could,” “should,” and “continue” or similar words. These forward-looking statements may also
use different phrases. From time to time, Global Telecom & Technology, Inc., which we refer to as “we”, “us”
or “our” and in some cases, “GTT” or the “Company”, also provides forward-looking statements
in other materials GTT releases to the public or files with the United States Securities & Exchange Commission (“SEC”),
as well as oral forward-looking statements. You should consider any further disclosures on related subjects in our quarterly reports
on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K filed with the SEC.
 
Such forward-looking
statements are and will be subject to many risks, uncertainties and factors relating to our operations and the business environment
that may cause our actual results to be materially different from any future results, express or implied, by such forward-looking
statements. Factors that could cause GTT’s actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include,
but are not limited to, the following:
 


 
•
our ability to develop and market new products and services that meet customer demands and generate acceptable margins;

 
 
 

 
•
our reliance on several large customers;

 
 
 

 
•
our ability to negotiate and enter into acceptable contract terms with our suppliers;

 
 
 

 
•
our ability to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel;

 
 
 

 
•
competition in the industry in which we do business;

 
 
 

 
•
failure of the third-party communications networks on which we depend;

 
 
 

 
•
legislation or regulatory environments, requirements or changes adversely affecting the businesses in which we are engaged;

 
 
 

 
•
our ability to maintain our databases, management systems and other intellectual property;

 
 
 

 
•
our ability to maintain adequate liquidity and produce sufficient cash flow to fund our capital expenditures and debt service;

 
 
 

 
•
our ability to obtain capital to grow our business;

 
 
 

 
•
technological developments and changes in the industry;

 
 
 

 
•
our ability to complete acquisitions or divestures and to integrate any business or operation acquired;

 
 
 

 
•
general economic conditions.

 
You are cautioned not
to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Forward-looking statements
involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual future results to differ materially from those projected
or contemplated in the forward-looking statements.
 
All forward-looking
statements included herein attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the
cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Except to the extent required by applicable laws and regulations,
we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this
report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. You should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in
the “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report could have a material adverse effect on our business and our
results of operations.
 
Unless the context
otherwise requires, when we use the words ‘‘the Company,” “GTT,” “we”, “us,”
or “our Company” in this Form 10-K, we are referring to Global Telecom & Technology, Inc., a Delaware
corporation, and its subsidiaries, unless it is clear from the context or expressly stated that these references are only
to Global Telecom & Technology, Inc.
 

1
 

 
PART I
 
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
 
Background
 
Global Telecom &
Technology, Inc. (“GTT” or the “Company”) is a Delaware corporation which was incorporated on January 3,
2005. GTT is a global network operator delivering data services to large enterprise, government and carrier customers in over 80
countries worldwide. GTT provides customers with innovative connectivity solutions by utilizing our own network assets - linking
over 100 Points of Presence across North America, Europe and Asia - and extending them through our 800 partners worldwide. Our
Network as a Service proposition delivers flexible, reliable and scalable network infrastructure, capable of both public and secure
private networking. We simplify network deployment by removing the complexity of multi-vendor solutions while offering the cost
efficiencies of a single partner. For over 14 years GTT has provided world class project management, rapid service implementation
and global 24/7 end-to-end solution monitoring and support. GTT is headquartered in the Washington, DC metro region with offices
in London, Dusseldorf, and Denver.
 
Our Customers
 
As of December 31,
2011, our customer base was comprised of over 1,000 businesses. For the year ended December 31, 2011, no single customer accounted
for more than 7% of our total consolidated revenue. Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 18% of consolidated
revenue during the same period.
 
We provide services
in over 80 countries, with the ability to expand into new geographic areas by adding new regional partners and suppliers. Our service
expansion is largely customer-driven. We have designed, delivered, and subsequently managed services in all six populated continents
around the world.
 
For the year ended December 31,
2011, approximately 72% of our revenue was attributable to our operations based in the United States, 21% was attributable to operations
based in the United Kingdom, and 7% was attributable to operations based in Germany and Japan.
 
Our customer contracts
for network services and support are generally for initial terms of one to three years, with some contracts calling for terms in
excess of five years. Following the initial terms, these agreements typically provide for renewal automatically for specified periods
ranging from one month to one year. Our prices are fixed for the duration of the contract, and we typically bill in advance for
such services. If a customer terminates its agreement, the terms of our customer contracts typically require full recovery of any
amounts due for the remainder of the term (or at a minimum, our liability to the underlying suppliers).
 
Our Suppliers and Network
 
As of December 31,
2011, we had over 800 supplier relationships worldwide from which we source bandwidth and other services and combine our own network
assets to meet our customers’ requirements. Through our extensive supplier relationships, our customers have access to an
array of service providers without having to manage multiple contracts.
 
GTT has
deployed network assets in North America, Europe and Asia to provide Dedicated Internet Access and Ethernet Transport
services. GTT has network connectivity in all major U.S. cities and European cities, established Ethernet hubs with
various carriers and multiple connections to Tier 1 IP providers.
 
Our supplier management
teams work with our suppliers to acquire updated pricing and network asset information and negotiate purchase agreements when appropriate.
In some cases, we have electronic interfaces into our suppliers’ pricing systems to provide our customers with real time
pricing updates. Our supplier management teams are constantly seeking out strategic partnerships with new carriers, negotiating
favorable terms on existing contracts, and looking to expand each supplier’s product portfolio. These partnerships are reflected
in long-term contracts, commonly referred to as Master Service Agreements. All of these efforts are aimed at providing greater
choice, flexibility, and cost savings for our customers. We are committed to using high-quality suppliers, and our supplier management
teams continually monitor supplier performance.
 

2
 

 
Sales and Marketing
 
Because our markets
are highly competitive, we believe that personal relationships and quality of service delivery remain important in winning new
and repeat customer business. We therefore sell our services largely through a direct sales force located across the globe, as
well as strong agent channel relationships, with principal concentration in the United States, the United Kingdom, and Germany.
Most of our sales representatives have many years of experience in selling to multinational enterprises, governmental entities,
service providers, and carriers. The average sales cycle can be as little as two to six weeks for existing customers and three
to six months or longer for new customers with complicated service requirements.
 
Our sales and marketing
efforts are focused on generating new business opportunities through industry contacts, new product offerings, and long-term relationships
with new and existing customers. Our sales activities are specifically focused on recruiting seasoned industry experts with deep
ties to the direct enterprise, system integrator and carrier markets, building relationships with our new clients, and driving
expansion within existing accounts. Our marketing activities are designed to generate awareness and familiarity of our value proposition
with our target accounts, develop new products to meet the needs of our customer base, and communicate to our target markets, thereby
reinforcing our value proposition among our customers’ key decision makers.
 
Operations
 
Our global operations
consist of two parts: global customer operations and global network operations and engineering.
 
Customer operations
include project management and development of our Client Management Database (CMD) system. The global project management team assures
the successful implementation of customer services after the sale. A project manager is assigned to each customer order to ensure
that the underlying network facilities required for the solution are provisioned, that the customer is provided with status reports
on its service, and that any difficulties related to the installation of a customer order are proactively managed.
 
Network operations and
engineering is comprised of the global Network Operations Center (“NOC”), Engineering and Information and Communications
Technology (“ICT”). The NOC receives, prioritizes, tracks, and resolves network outages or other customer needs, along
with provisioning and testing of new services. Engineering provides support for the NOC and the sales team, as well as carrying
out all provisioning for services utilizing GTT’s owned network assets (GTT Network Services). ICT manages all internal desktop
and network and server infrastructure.
 
Competition
 
Our competition consists
primarily of traditional, facilities-based providers, including companies that provide network connectivity and internet access
principally within one continent or geographical region, such as Level 3, Qwest, KPN, XO, Comcast Communications, and COLT.
We also compete against carriers who provide network connectivity on a multi-continent, or global basis, such as Verizon Business,
AT&T, British Telecom, NTT and Deutsche Telekom.
 
Government Regulation
 
In connection with certain
of our service offerings, we may be subject to federal, state, and foreign regulations. United States Federal laws and Federal
Communications Commission, or FCC, regulations generally apply to interstate telecommunications and international telecommunications
that originate or terminate in the United States, while state laws and regulations apply to telecommunications transmissions
ultimately terminating within the same state as the point of origination. A foreign country’s laws and regulations apply
to telecommunications that originate or terminate in, or in some instances traverse, that country. The regulation of the telecommunications
industry is changing rapidly, and varies from state to state and from country to country.
 

3
 

 
Where certification
or licensing is required, carriers are required to comply with certain ongoing responsibilities. For example, we may be required
to submit periodic reports to various telecommunications regulatory authorities relating to the provision of services within the
relevant jurisdiction. Another potential ongoing responsibility relates to payment of regulatory fees and the collection and remittance
of surcharges and fees associated with the provision of telecommunications services. Some of our services are subject to these
assessments, depending upon the jurisdiction, the type of service, and the type of customer.
 
Federal Regulation
 
Generally, the FCC has
chosen not to heavily regulate the charges or practices of non-dominant carriers. For example, we are not required to tariff the
interstate inter-exchange private line services we provide, but need only to post terms and conditions for such services on our
website. In providing certain telecommunications services, however, we may remain subject to the regulatory requirements applicable
to common carriers, such as providing services at just and reasonable rates, filing the requisite reports, and paying regulatory
fees and contributing to universal service. The FCC also releases orders and takes other actions from time to time that modify
the regulations applicable to services provided by carriers such as us; these orders and actions can result in additional (or reduced)
reporting or payments requirements, or changes in the relative rights and obligations of carriers with respect to services they
provide to each other or to other categories of customers. These changes in regulation can affect the services that we procure
and/or provide and, in some instances, may affect demand for or the costs of providing our services.
 
State Regulation
 
The Telecommunications
Act of 1996, as amended generally prohibits state and local governments from enforcing any law, rule, or legal requirement that
prohibits or has the effect of prohibiting any person from providing any interstate or intrastate telecommunications service. However,
states retain jurisdiction to adopt regulations necessary to preserve universal service, protect public safety and welfare, ensure
the continued quality of communications services, and safeguard the rights of consumers. Generally, each carrier must obtain and
maintain certificates of authority from regulatory bodies in states in which it offers intrastate telecommunications services.
In most states, a carrier must also file and obtain prior regulatory approval of tariffs containing the rates, terms and conditions
of service for its regulated intrastate services. A state may also impose telecommunications regulatory fees, fees related to the
support for universal service, and other costs and reporting obligations on providers of services in that state. We are currently
authorized to provide intrastate services in more than 20 states and the District of Columbia as an interexchange carrier
and/or a competitive local provider.
 
Foreign Regulation
 
Generally, the provisioning
to U.S. customers of international telecommunications services originating or terminating in the United States is governed
by the FCC. In addition, the regulatory requirements to operate within a foreign country or to provide services to customers within
that foreign country vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, although in some respects regulation in the Western European markets
is harmonized under the regulatory structure of the European Union. As opportunities arise in particular nations, we may need to
apply for and acquire various authorizations to operate and provide certain kinds of telecommunications services. Although some
countries require complex applications procedures for authorizations and/or impose certain reporting and fee payment requirements,
others simply require registration with or notification to the regulatory agency and some simply operate through general authorization
with no filing requirement at all.
 
Intellectual Property
 
We do not own any patent
registrations, applications or licenses. We maintain and protect trade secrets, know-how, and other proprietary information regarding
many of our business processes and related systems and databases.
 
Employees
 
As of December 31,
2011, we had a total of 88 employees.
 
Executive Officers
 
Our executive officers
and their respective ages and positions as of March 23, 2012 are as follows:
 

4
 

 
Richard D. Calder, Jr.,
48, has served as our President, Chief Executive Officer and Director since May 2007. Prior to joining us, from 2004 to 2006 Mr. Calder
served as President and Chief Operating Officer of InPhonic, Inc., a publicly-traded online seller of wireless services and
products. From 2001 to 2003, Mr. Calder served in a variety of executive roles for Broadwing Communications, Inc., including
President — Business Enterprises and Carrier Markets. From 1996 to 2001, Mr. Calder held several senior management
positions with Winstar Communications, including Chief Marketing Officer, and President of the company’s South Division.
In 1994 Mr. Calder co-founded Go Communications, a wireless communications company, and served as its Vice President of Corporate
Development from its founding until 1996. Mr. Calder previously held a variety of marketing, business development, and engineering
positions within MCI Communications, Inc. and Tellabs, Inc. Mr. Calder holds a Master of Business Administration from Harvard
Business School and a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering from Yale University.
 
H. Brian Thompson,
73, has served as Chairman of our Board of Directors since January 2005, as our Executive Chairman since October 2006, and as our
interim Chief Executive Officer from January 2005 to October 2006 and from February 2007 to May 2007. Mr. Thompson continues
to head his own private equity investment and advisory firm, Universal Telecommunications, Inc. From December 2002 to June 2007,
Mr. Thompson was Chairman of Comsat International, one of the largest independent telecommunications operators serving all
of Latin America. He also served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Global TeleSystems Group, Inc. from March 1999
through September of 2000. Mr. Thompson was Chairman and CEO of LCI International from 1991 until its merger with Qwest Communications
International Inc. in June 1998, and became Vice Chairman of the board for Qwest until his resignation in December 1998. He previously
served as Executive Vice President of MCI Communications Corporation from 1981 to 1990, and prior to MCI, was a management consultant
with the Washington, DC offices of McKinsey & Company for nine years, where he specialized in the management of telecommunications.
Mr. Thompson currently serves as a member of the board of directors of Axcelis Technologies, Inc, ICO Global Communications
(Holdings) Ltd, Penske Automotive Group, and Sonus Networks, Inc., and is a member of the Irish Prime Minister’s Ireland-America
Economic Advisory Board. Mr. Thompson holds a Master of Business Administration from Harvard Business School, and holds an
undergraduate degree in chemical engineering from the University of Massachusetts.
 
Chris McKee,
44, has served as our General Counsel and Secretary since May 2008. Prior to joining us, Mr. McKee served as the Vice President
and General Counsel of StarVox Communications, Inc. from June, 2007 to April 2008. From 2005 to 2007, Mr. McKee was the Vice
President and Assistant General Counsel of Covad Communications Group Inc., a publicly held San Jose, California-based broadband
provider of integrated voice and data communications nationwide. Prior to joining Covad, from 2002 to 2005, Mr. McKee served
as Executive Director of Legal and Regulatory Affairs for XO Communications, Inc., a publicly held Reston, Virginia-based broadband
provider of integrated voice and data communications nationwide. Mr. McKee previously, from 1998 to 2002, served as Deputy
General Counsel of Net2000 Communications Inc., a publicly traded Herndon, Virginia-based telecommunications services provider.
Prior to that, from 1994 to 1998, Mr. McKee was an associate at Washington, D.C.-based law firms Dickstein Shapiro LLP
and Dow Lohnes PLLC. Mr. McKee received a Bachelor’s degree from Colby College and a Juris Doctor from Syracuse University.
 
Available Information
 
The public may read
and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, D.C.
20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our
annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to such
reports filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available
free of charge on the SEC website at www.sec.gov and on our website at www.gt-t.net as soon as reasonably
practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.
 
ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS
 
We operate in a rapidly
changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. Below are the risks and uncertainties
we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently
deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or telecommunications and/or technology
companies in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business,
financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.
 

5
 

 
Risks Relating to Our Business and Operations
 
We depend on several large customers, and the
loss of one or more of these customers, or a significant decrease in total revenue from any of these customers, would
likely reduce our revenue and income.
 
For the year ended December 31,
2011, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 18% of our total service revenue. If we were to lose all of the underlying
services from one or more of our large customers, or if one or more of our large customers were to significantly reduce the services
purchased from us or otherwise renegotiate the terms on which services are purchased from us, our revenue could decline and our
results of operations would suffer.
 
If our customers elect to terminate their agreements
with us, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.
 
Our services are sold
under agreements that generally have initial terms of between one and three years. Following the initial terms, these agreements
generally automatically renew for successive month-to-month, quarterly, or annual periods, but can be terminated by the customer
without cause with relatively little notice during a renewal period. In addition, certain government customers may have rights
under federal law with respect to termination for convenience that can serve to minimize or eliminate altogether the liability
payable by that customer in the event of early termination. Our customers may elect to terminate their agreements as a result of
a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with the services they are receiving, their ability to continue their
operations due to budgetary or other concerns, and the availability and pricing of competing services. If customers elect to terminate
their agreements with us, our business, financial condition, and results of operation may be adversely affected.
 
Competition in the industry in which we do business
is intense and growing, and our failure to compete successfully could make it difficult for us to add and retain
customers or increase or maintain revenue.
 
The markets in which
we operate are rapidly evolving and highly competitive. We currently or potentially compete with a variety of companies, including
some of our transport suppliers, with respect to their products and services, including global and regional telecommunications
service providers such as AT&T, British Telecom, NTT, Level 3, Qwest and Verizon, among others.
 
The industry in which
we operate is consolidating, which is increasing the size and scope of our competitors. Competitors could benefit from assets or
businesses acquired from other carriers or from strategic alliances in the telecommunications industry. New entrants could enter
the market with a business model similar to ours. Our target markets may support only a limited number of competitors. Operations
in such markets with multiple competitive providers may be unprofitable for one or more of such providers. Prices in the data transmission
and internet access business have declined in recent years and may continue to decline.
 
Many of our potential
competitors have certain advantages over us, including:
 

•substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources, including brand or
corporate name recognition;
 

•substantially lower cost structures, including cost structures of facility-based providers who
have reduced debt and other obligations through bankruptcy or other restructuring proceedings;
 

•larger client bases;
 

•longer operating histories;
 

•more established relationships in the industry; and
 

6
 

 

•larger geographic presence.
 
Our competitors may
be able to use these advantages to:
 

•develop or adapt to new or emerging technologies and changes in client requirements more quickly;
 

•take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily;
 

•enter into strategic relationships to rapidly grow the reach of their networks and capacity;
 

•devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their services;
 

•adopt more aggressive pricing and incentive policies, which could drive down margins; and
 

•expand their offerings more quickly.
 
If we are unable to
compete successfully against our current and future competitors, our revenue and gross margin could decline and we would lose market
share, which could materially and adversely affect our business.
 
We might require additional capital to support
business growth, and this capital might not be available on favorable terms, or at all.
 
Our operations or expansion
efforts may require substantial additional financial, operational, and managerial resources. As of December 31, 2011, we had
approximately $3.2 million in cash and cash equivalents and current liabilities $19.5 million greater than current assets.
We may have insufficient cash to fund our working capital or other capital requirements and may be required to raise additional
funds to continue or expand our operations. If we are required to obtain additional funding in the future, we may have to sell
assets, seek debt financing, or obtain additional equity capital. Our ability to sell assets or raise additional equity or debt
capital will depend on the condition of the capital and credit markets and our financial condition at such time. Accordingly, additional
capital may not be available to us, or may only be available on terms that adversely affect our existing stockholders, or that
restrict our operations. For example, if we raise additional funds through issuances of equity or convertible debt securities,
our existing stockholders could suffer dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences, and privileges
superior to those of holders of our common stock. Also, if we were forced to sell assets, there can be no assurance regarding the
terms and conditions we could obtain for any such sale, and if we were required to sell assets that are important to our current
or future business, our current and future results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We have granted security
interests in substantially all of our assets to secure the repayment of our indebtedness maturing in 2012 and 2016, and if we are
unable to satisfy our obligations the lenders could foreclose on their security interests.
 
Because our business consists primarily of reselling
telecommunications network capacity purchased from third parties, the failure of our suppliers and other service
providers to provide us with services, or disputes with those suppliers and service providers, could affect
our ability to provide quality services to our customers and have an adverse effect on our operations and financial
condition.
 
The majority of our
business consists of integrating and reselling network capacity purchased from facility-based telecommunications carriers. Accordingly,
we will be largely dependent on third parties to supply us with services. Occasionally in the past, our operating companies have
experienced delays or other problems in receiving services from third party providers. Disputes also arise from time to time with
suppliers with respect to billing or interpretation of contract terms. Any failure on the part of third parties to adequately supply
us or to maintain the quality of their facilities and services in the future, or the termination of any significant contracts by
a supplier, could cause customers to experience delays in service and lower levels of customer care, which could cause them to
switch providers. Furthermore, disputes over billed amounts or interpretation of contract terms could lead to claims against us,
some of which if resolved against us could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and/or financial condition. Suppliers
may also attempt to impose onerous terms as part of purchase contract negotiations. Although we know of no pending or threatened
claims with respect to past compliance with any such terms, claims asserting any past noncompliance, if successful, could have
a material adverse effect on our operations and/or financial condition. Moreover, to the extent that key suppliers were to attempt
to impose such provisions as part of future contract negotiations, such developments could have an adverse impact on the company’s
operations. Finally, some of our suppliers are potential competitors. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain use of
facilities or services in a timely manner or on terms acceptable and in quantities satisfactory to us.
 

7
 

 
Industry consolidation may affect our ability
to obtain services from suppliers on a timely or cost-efficient basis.
 
A principal method of
connecting with our customers is through local transport and last mile circuits we purchase from incumbent carriers such as AT&T
and Verizon, or competitive carriers such as Time Warner Telecom, XO, or Level 3. In recent years, AT&T, Verizon, and
Level 3 have acquired competitors with significant local and/or long-haul network assets. Industry consolidation has occurred
on a lesser scale as well through mergers and acquisitions involving regional or smaller national or international competitors.
Generally speaking, we believe that a marketplace with multiple supplier options for transport access is important to the long-term
availability of competitive pricing, service quality, and carrier responsiveness. It is unclear at this time what the long-term
impact of such consolidation will be, or whether it will continue at the same pace as it has in recent years; we cannot guarantee
that we will continue to be able to obtain use of facilities or services in a timely manner or on terms acceptable and in quantities
satisfactory to us from such suppliers.
 
We may occasionally have certain sales commitments
to customers that extend beyond the Company’s commitments from its underlying suppliers.
 
The Company’s
financial results could be adversely affected if the Company were unable to purchase extended service from a supplier at a cost
sufficiently low to maintain the Company’s margin for the remaining term of its commitment to a customer. While the Company
has not encountered material price increases from suppliers with respect to continuation or renewal of services after expiration
of initial contract terms, the Company cannot be certain that it would be able to obtain similar terms and conditions from suppliers.
In most cases where the Company has faced any price increase from a supplier following contract expiration, the Company has been
able to locate another supplier to provide the service at a similar or reduced future cost; however, the Company’s suppliers
may not provide services at such cost levels in the future.
 
We may make purchase commitments to vendors
for longer terms or in excess of the volumes committed by our underlying customers.
 
The Company attempts
to match its purchase of network capacity from its suppliers and its service commitments from its customers. However, from time
to time the Company has obligations to its suppliers that exceed the duration of the Company’s related customer contracts
or that are for capacity in excess of the amount for which it has Customer commitments. This could arise based upon the terms and
conditions available from the Company’s suppliers, from an expectation of the Company that we will be able to utilize the
excess capacity, as a result of a breach of a customer’s commitment to us, or to support fixed elements of the Company’s
network. Under any of these circumstances, the Company would incur the cost of the network capacity from its supplier without having
corresponding revenue from its customers, which could result in a material and adverse impact on the Company’s operating
results.
 
The networks on which we depend may fail, which
would interrupt the network availability they provide and make it difficult to retain and attract customers.
 
Our customers depend
on our ability to provide network availability with minimal interruption. The ability to provide this service depends in part on
the networks of third party transport suppliers. The networks of transport suppliers may be interrupted as a result of various
events, many of which they cannot control, including fire, human error, earthquakes and other natural disasters, disasters along
communications rights-of-way, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorism, sabotage, vandalism, or the financial distress
or other event adversely affecting a supplier, such as bankruptcy or liquidation.
 
We may be subject to
legal claims and be liable for losses suffered by customers due to our inability to provide service. If our network failure rates
are higher than permitted under the applicable customer contracts, we may incur significant expenses related to network outage
credits, which would reduce our revenue and gross margin. Our reputation could be harmed if we fail to provide a reasonably adequate
level of network availability, and in certain cases, customers may be entitled to seek to terminate their contracts with us in
case of prolonged or severe service disruptions or other outages.
 

8
 

 
System disruptions could cause delays or interruptions
of our service due to terrorism, natural disasters and other events beyond our control, which could cause
us to lose customers or incur additional expenses.
 
Our success depends
on our ability to provide reliable service. Although we have attempted to design our network services to minimize the possibility
of service disruptions or other outages, in addition to risks associated with third party provider networks, our services may be
disrupted by problems on our own systems, including events beyond our control such as terrorism, computer viruses, or other infiltration
by third parties that affect our central offices, corporate headquarters, network operations centers, or network equipment. Such
events could disrupt our service, damage our facilities, and damage our reputation. In addition, customers may, under certain contracts,
have the ability to terminate services in case of prolonged or severe service disruptions or other outages. Accordingly, service
disruptions or other outages may cause us to, among other things, lose customers and could harm our results of operations.
 
If the products or services that we market or
sell do not maintain market acceptance, our results of operations will be adversely affected.
 
Certain segments of
the telecommunications industry are dependent on developing and marketing new products and services that respond to technological
and competitive developments and changing customer needs. We cannot assure you that our products and services will gain or obtain
increased market acceptance. Any significant delay or failure in developing new or enhanced technology, including new product and
service offerings, could result in a loss of actual or potential market share and a decrease in revenue.
 
The communications market
in which we operate is highly competitive; we could be forced to reduce prices, may lose customers to other providers that offer
lower prices and have problems attracting new customers.
 
The communications industry
is highly competitive and pricing for some of our key service offerings, such as our dedicated IP transport services, have been
generally declining. If our costs of service, including the cost of leasing underlying facilities, do not decline in a similar
fashion, we could experience significant margin compression, reduction of profitability and loss of business.
 
If carrier and enterprise connectivity demand
does not continue to expand, we may experience a shortfall in revenue or earnings or otherwise fail to meet public
market expectations.
 
The growth of our business
will be dependent, in part, upon the increased use of carrier and enterprise connectivity services and our ability to capture a
higher proportion of this market. Increased usage of enterprise connectivity services depends on numerous factors, including:
 

•the willingness of enterprises to make additional information technology expenditures;
 

•the availability of security products necessary to ensure data privacy over the public networks;
 

•the quality, cost, and functionality of these services and competing services;
 

•the increased adoption of wired and wireless broadband access methods;
 

•the continued growth of broadband-intensive applications; and
 

•the proliferation of electronic devices and related applications.
 

9
 

 
Our long sales and service deployment cycles
require us to incur substantial sales costs that may not result in related revenue.
 
Our business is characterized
by long sales cycles, which are often in the range of 45 days or more, between the time a potential customer is contacted
and a customer contract is signed. Furthermore, once a customer contract is signed, there is typically an extended period of between
30 and 120 days before the customer actually begins to use the services, which is when we begin to realize revenue. As a result,
we may invest a significant amount of time and effort in attempting to secure a customer, which investment may not result in near
term, if any, revenue. Even if we enter into a contract, we will have incurred substantial sales-related expenses well before we
recognize any related revenue. If the expenses associated with sales increase, if we are not successful in our sales efforts, or
if we are unable to generate associated offsetting revenue in a timely manner, our operating results could be materially and adversely
affected.
 
Because much of our business is international,
our financial results may be affected by foreign exchange rate fluctuations.
 
Approximately 28% of
our revenue comes from countries outside of the United States. As such, other currencies, particularly the Euro and the British
Pound Sterling, can have an impact on the Company’s results (expressed in U.S. Dollars). Currency variations also contribute
to variations in sales in impacted jurisdictions. Accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency rates, most notably the strengthening
of the dollar against the euro and the pound, could have a material impact on our revenue growth in future periods. In addition,
currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the United States and margins
on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the United States.
 
Because much of our business is international,
we may be subject to local taxes, tariffs, or other restrictions in foreign countries, which may reduce our
profitability.
 
Revenue from our foreign
subsidiaries, or other locations where we provide or procure services internationally, may be subject to additional taxes in some
foreign jurisdictions. Additionally, some foreign jurisdictions may subject us to additional withholding tax requirements or the
imposition of tariffs, exchange controls, or other restrictions on foreign earnings. Any such taxes, tariffs, controls, and other
restrictions imposed on our foreign operations may increase our costs of business in those jurisdictions, which in turn may reduce
our profitability.
 
If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets
become further impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.
 
Under generally accepted
accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate
the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered
a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable
include reduced future cash flow estimates, a decline in stock price and market capitalization, and slower growth rates in our
industry. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company recorded no impairment to goodwill and amortizable
intangible assets. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period
in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations.
 
The ability to implement and maintain our databases
and management information systems is a critical business requirement, and if we cannot obtain or maintain
accurate data or maintain these systems, we might be unable to cost-effectively provide solutions to our customers.
 
To be successful, we
must increase and update information in our databases about network pricing, capacity, and availability. Our ability to provide
cost-effective network availability and access cost management depends upon the information we collect from our transport suppliers
regarding their networks. These suppliers are not obligated to provide this information and could decide to stop providing it to
us at any time. Moreover, we cannot be certain that the information that these suppliers share with us is accurate. If we cannot
continue to maintain and expand the existing databases, we may be unable to increase revenue or to facilitate the supply of services
in a cost-effective manner.
 
Furthermore, we are
in the process of reviewing, integrating, and augmenting our management information systems to facilitate management of client
orders, client service, billing, and financial applications. Our ability to manage our businesses could be materially adversely
affected if we fail to successfully and promptly maintain and upgrade the existing management information systems.
 

10
 

 
If we are unable to protect our intellectual
property rights, competitors may be able to use our technology or trademarks, which could weaken our competitive
position.
 
We own certain proprietary
programs, software, and technology. However, we do not have any patented technology that would preclude competitors from replicating
our business model; instead, we rely upon a combination of know-how, trade secret laws, contractual restrictions, and copyright,
trademark and service mark laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Our success will depend in part on our ability
to maintain or obtain (as applicable) and enforce intellectual property rights for those assets, both in the United States and
in other countries. Although our Americas operating company has registered some of its service marks in the United States, we have
not otherwise applied for registration of any marks in any other jurisdiction. Instead, with the exception of the few registered
service marks in the United States, we rely exclusively on common law trademark rights in the countries in which we operate.
 
We may file applications
for patents, copyrights and trademarks as our management deems appropriate. We cannot assure you that these applications, if filed,
will be approved, or that we will have the financial and other resources necessary to enforce our proprietary rights against infringement
by others. Additionally, we cannot assure you that any patent, trademark, or copyright obtained by us will not be challenged, invalidated,
or circumvented, and the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do
the laws of the United States or the member states of the European Union. Finally, although we intend to undertake reasonable measures
to protect the proprietary assets of our combined operations, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in all cases in protecting
the trade secret status of certain significant intellectual property assets. If these assets should be misappropriated, if our
intellectual property rights are otherwise infringed, or if a competitor should independently develop similar intellectual property,
this could harm our ability to attract new clients, retain existing customers, and generate revenue.
 
Intellectual property and proprietary rights
of others could prevent us from using necessary technology to provide our services or otherwise operate our business.
 
We utilize data and
processing capabilities available through commercially available third-party software tools and databases to assist in the efficient
analysis of network engineering and pricing options. Where such technology is held under patent or other intellectual property
rights by third parties, we are required to negotiate license agreements in order to use that technology. In the future, we may
not be able to negotiate such license agreements at acceptable prices or on acceptable terms. If an adequate substitute is not
available on acceptable terms and at an acceptable price from another software licensor, we could be compelled to undertake additional
efforts to obtain the relevant network and pricing data independently from other, disparate sources, which, if available at all,
could involve significant time and expense and adversely affect our ability to deliver network services to customers in an efficient
manner.
 
Furthermore, to the
extent that we are subject to litigation regarding the ownership of our intellectual property or the licensing and use of others’
intellectual property, this litigation could:
 

•be time-consuming and expensive;
 

•divert attention and resources away from our daily business;
 

•impede or prevent delivery of our products and services; and
 

•require us to pay significant royalties, licensing fees, and damages.
 
Parties making claims
of infringement may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide
our services and could cause us to pay substantial damages. In the event of a successful claim of infringement, we may need to
obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may not be available at a reasonable cost, if at all. The defense of any
lawsuit could result in time-consuming and expensive litigation, regardless of the merits of such claims, and could also result
in damages, license fees, royalty payments, and restrictions on our ability to provide our services, any of which could harm our
business.
 

11
 

 
We continue to evaluate merger and acquisition
opportunities and may purchase additional companies in the future, and the failure to integrate them successfully
with our existing business may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
 
We continue to explore
merger and acquisition opportunities, and we may face difficulties if we acquire other businesses in the future, including:
 

•integrating the personnel, services, products and technologies of the acquired businesses into
our existing operations;
 

•retaining key personnel of the acquired businesses;
 

•failing to adequately identify or assess liabilities of acquired businesses;
 

•failing to achieve the synergies, revenue growth and other expected benefits we used to determine
the purchase price of the acquired businesses;
 

•failing to realize the anticipated benefits of a particular merger and acquisition;
 

•incurring significant transaction and acquisition-related costs;
 

•incurring significant amounts of additional debt;
 

•creating significant contingent earn-out obligations and other financial liabilities;
 

•incurring unanticipated problems or legal liabilities;
 

•being subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while an acquisition is pending
that could adversely affect our business; and
 

•diverting our management’s attention from the day-to-day operation of our business.
 
These difficulties could
disrupt our ongoing business and increase our expenses. As of the date of the filing of this Form 10-K, we have no agreement
or memorandum of understanding to enter into any acquisition transaction.
 
In addition, our ability
to complete acquisitions may depend, in part, on our ability to finance these acquisitions, including both the costs of the acquisition
and the cost of the subsequent integration activities. Our ability may be constrained by our cash flow, the level of our indebtedness,
restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness, conditions in the securities and credit markets and other factors,
most of which are generally beyond our control. If we proceed with one or more acquisitions in which the consideration consists
of cash, we may use a substantial portion of our available cash to complete such acquisitions, thereby reducing our liquidity.
If we finance one or more acquisitions with the proceeds of indebtedness, our interest expense and debt service requirements could
increase materially. Thus, the financial impact of future acquisitions, including the costs to pursue acquisitions that do not
ultimately close, could materially affect our business and could cause substantial fluctuations in our quarterly and yearly operating
results.
 
Our efforts to develop new service offerings
may not be successful, in which case our revenue may not grow as we anticipate or may decline.
 
The market for telecommunications
services is characterized by rapid change, as new technologies are developed and introduced, often rendering established technologies
obsolete. For our business to remain competitive, we must continually update our service offerings to make new technologies available
to our customers and prospects. To do so, we may have to expend significant management and sales resources, which may increase
our operating costs. The success of our potential new service offerings is uncertain and would depend on a number of factors, including
the acceptance by end-user customers of the telecommunications technologies which would underlie these new service offerings, the
compatibility of these technologies with existing customer information technology systems and processes, the compatibility of these
technologies with our then-existing systems and processes, and our ability to find third-party vendors that would be willing to
provide these new technologies to us for delivery to our users. If we are unsuccessful in developing and selling new service offerings,
our revenue may not grow as we anticipate, or may decline.
 

12
 

 
If we do not continue to train, manage and retain
employees, clients may reduce purchases of services.
 
Our employees are responsible
for providing clients with technical and operational support, and for identifying and developing opportunities to provide additional
services to existing clients. In order to perform these activities, our employees must have expertise in areas such as telecommunications
network technologies, network design, network implementation, and network management, including the ability to integrate services
offered by multiple telecommunications carriers. They must also accept and incorporate training on our systems and databases developed
to support our operations and business model. Employees with this level of expertise tend to be in high demand in the telecommunications
industry, which may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified employees. If we fail to train, manage, and retain
our employees, we may be limited in our ability to gain more business from existing clients, and we may be unable to obtain or
maintain current information regarding our clients’ and suppliers’ communications networks, which could limit our ability
to provide future services.
 
The regulatory framework under which we operate
could require substantial time and resources for compliance, which could make it difficult and costly for us to operate
the businesses.
 
In providing certain
interstate and international telecommunications services, we must comply, or cause our customers or carriers to comply, with applicable
telecommunications laws and regulations prescribed by the FCC and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. In offering services
on an intrastate basis, we may also be subject to state laws and to regulation by state public utility commissions. Our international
services may also be subject to regulation by foreign authorities and, in some markets, multinational authorities, such as the
European Union. The costs of compliance with these regulations, including legal, operational, and administrative expenses, may
be substantial. In addition, delays in receiving or failure to obtain required regulatory approvals or the enactment of new or
adverse legislation, regulations, or regulatory requirements may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results
of operations, and cash flow.
 
If we fail to obtain
required authorizations from the FCC or other applicable authorities, or if we are found to have failed to comply, or are alleged
to have failed to comply, with the rules of the FCC or other authorities, our right to offer certain services could be challenged
and/or fines or other penalties could be imposed on us. Any such challenges or fines could be substantial and could cause us to
incur substantial legal and administrative expenses as well; these costs in the forms of fines, penalties, and legal and administrative
expenses could have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. Furthermore, we are dependent in certain cases on
the services other carriers provide, and therefore on other carriers’ abilities to retain their respective licenses in the
regions of the world in which they operate. We are also dependent, in some circumstances, on our customers’ abilities to
obtain and retain the necessary licenses. The failure of a customer or carrier to obtain or retain any necessary license could
have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct operations.
 
Future changes in regulatory requirement, new
interpretations of existing regulatory requirements, or determinations that we violated existing regulatory requirements
may impair our ability to provide services, result in financial losses or otherwise reduce our profitability.
 
Many of the laws and
regulations that apply to providers of telecommunications services are subject to frequent changes and different interpretations
and may vary between jurisdictions. Changes to existing legislation or regulations in particular markets may limit the opportunities
that are available to enter into markets, may increase the legal, administrative, or operational costs of operating in those markets,
or may constrain other activities, including our ability to complete subsequent acquisitions, or purchase services or products,
in ways that we cannot anticipate. Because we purchase telecommunications services from other carriers, our costs and manner of
doing business can also be adversely affected by changes in regulatory policies affecting these other carriers.
 
In addition, any determination
that we, including companies that we have acquired, have violated applicable regulatory requirements could result in material fines,
penalties, forfeitures, interest or retroactive assessments. For example, a determination that we have not paid all required universal
service fund contributions could result in substantial retroactive assessment of universal service fund contributions, together
with applicable interest, penalties, fines or forfeitures.
 

13
 

 
We depend on key personnel to manage our businesses
effectively in a rapidly changing market, and our ability to generate revenue will suffer if we are unable to retain
key personnel and hire additional personnel.
 
The future success,
strategic development, and execution of our business will depend upon the continued services of our executive officers and other
key sales, marketing, and support personnel. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies with respect to
any of our employees, nor are we certain if any such policies will be obtained or maintained in the future. We may need to hire
additional personnel in the future, and we believe the success of the combined business depends, in large part, upon our ability
to attract and retain key employees. The loss of the services of any key employees, the inability to attract or retain qualified
personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel could limit our ability to generate revenue and to operate our
business.
 
Interruption or failure of our information technology
and communications systems could hurt our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could damage our reputation
and harm our operating results. 
 
The availability of
our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Our systems
are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures,
computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, or other attempts to harm our systems. Some of our systems are not fully
redundant, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision
to close a facility we are using without adequate notice for financial reasons, or other unanticipated problems at our data centers
could result in lengthy interruptions in our service.
 
Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness
 
Our failure to comply with covenants in our
Loan Agreement could result in our indebtedness being immediately due and payable and the loss of our assets.
 
Pursuant to the terms
of our Loan Agreement with Silicon Valley Bank we have pledged substantially all of our assets to the lender as security for our
payment obligations under the Loan Agreement. If we fail to pay any of our indebtedness under this Loan Agreement when due, or
if we breach any of the other covenants in the Loan Agreement, it may result in one or more events of default. An event of default
under our Loan Agreement would permit the lender to declare all amounts owing to be immediately due and payable and, if we were
unable to repay any indebtedness owed, the lender could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness.
 
Covenants in our Loan Agreement and outstanding
notes, and in any future debt agreement, may restrict our future operations.
 
The indenture governing the notes and the
Loan Agreement will impose financial restrictions that limit our discretion on some business matters, which could make it more
difficult for us to expand our business, finance our operations and engage in other business activities that may be in our interest.
These restrictions include compliance with, or maintenance of, certain financial tests and ratios and restrictions that limit our
ability and that of our subsidiaries to, among other things:
 


 
•
incur additional indebtedness or place additional liens on our assets;

 
 
 

 
•
pay dividends or make other distributions on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock;

 
 
 

 
•
make investments or repay subordinated indebtedness;

 
 
 

 
•
enter into transactions with affiliates;

 
 
 

 
•
sell assets;

 
 
 

 
•
engage in a merger, consolidation or other business combination; or

 

14
 

 


 
•
change the nature of our businesses.

 
Any additional indebtedness we may incur
in the future may subject us to similar or even more restrictive conditions.
 
Our substantial level of indebtedness and debt
service obligations could impair our financial condition, hinder our growth and put us at a competitive disadvantage.
 
As of December 31,
2011, our indebtedness was substantial in comparison to our available cash and our net income. Our substantial level of indebtedness
could have important consequences for our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, a high level of
indebtedness could, among other things:
 


 
•
make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations;

 
 
 

 
•
increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations;

 
 
 

 
•
increase the risk that a substantial decrease in cash flows from operating activities or an increase in expenses will make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements and will require us to modify our operations;

 
 
 

 
•
require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund future business opportunities, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;

 
 
 

 
•
limit our ability to borrow additional funds to expand our business or ease liquidity constraints;

 
 
 

 
•
limit our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity;

 
 
 

 
•
limit our ability to pursue future acquisitions;

 
 
 

 
•
limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and

 
 
 

 
•
place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less indebtedness.

 
Risks Related to our Common Stock and the Securities Markets
 
Because we do not currently intend to pay dividends
on our common stock, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value.
 
We do not currently
anticipate paying any dividends on shares of our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made by
our Board of Directors and will depend upon results of operations, financial conditions, contractual restrictions, restrictions
imposed by applicable law, and other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. Accordingly, realization of a gain on stockholders’
investments will depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will
appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders purchased their shares.
 
Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse
effect on the market price of our common stock.
 
As of December 31,
2011, we had 12,090,000 Class Z warrants, each of which entitles the holder to purchase a share of our common stock at an
exercise price of $5.00 per share on or before April 10, 2012. The common stock underlying the warrants has been registered
for sale under the Securities Act or is entitled to registration rights or are otherwise generally eligible for sale in the public
market at or soon after exercise or conversion. If, and to the extent, these warrants are exercised, stockholders may experience
dilution to their ownership interests in the Company. The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock and warrants
eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.
 

15
 

 
The concentration of our capital stock ownership
will likely limit a stockholder’s ability to influence corporate matters, and could discourage a takeover that
stockholders may consider favorable and make it more difficult for a stockholder to elect directors of its
choosing.
 
H. Brian Thompson,
the Company’s Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors, and Universal Telecommunications, Inc., his own private equity
investment and advisory firm, owned 5,622,071 shares of our common stock and 699,750 Class Z warrants, each exercisable
to purchase one share of our common stock. Based on the number of shares of our common stock outstanding on December 31, 2011
without taking into account their unexercised warrants, these funds would beneficially own approximately 30% of our common stock.
Based on public filings with the SEC made by J. Carlo Cannell, we believe that as of December 31, 2011, funds associated with
Cannell Capital LLC owned 3,472,080 shares of our common stock and 923,900 Class Z warrants, each exercisable to purchase
one share of our common stock. Based on the number of shares of our common stock outstanding on December 31, 2011 without
taking into account their unexercised warrants, these funds would beneficially own approximately 19% of our common stock. In addition,
as of December 31, 2011, our executive officers, directors and affiliated entities, excluding H. Brian Thompson and Universal
Telecommunications, together beneficially owned common stock, without taking into account their unexercised and unconverted warrants
and options, representing approximately 12% of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders have the ability to exert significant
control over matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant
corporate transactions. The interests of these stockholders might conflict with your interests as a holder of our securities, and
it may cause us to pursue transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions
may involve significant risks to you as a security holder. The large concentration of ownership in a small group of stockholders
might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company that other stockholders may view as beneficial.
 
It may be difficult for you to resell shares
of our common stock if an active market for our common stock does not develop.
 
Our common stock is
not actively traded on a securities exchange and we currently do not meet the initial listing criteria for any registered securities
exchange, including the NASDAQ National Market System. It is quoted on the less recognized Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board.
This factor, in addition to the concentrated ownership of our capital stock, may further impair your ability to sell your shares
when you want and/or could depress our stock price. As a result, you may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate
quotations of the price of our securities because smaller quantities of shares could be bought and sold, transactions could be
delayed, and security analyst and news coverage of our company may be limited. These factors could result in lower prices and larger
spreads in the bid and ask prices for our shares.
 
ITEM 1B.  UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
 
Not applicable.
 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
 
The Company does
not own any real estate. Instead, all of the Company’s facilities are leased. GTT’s headquarters in McLean,
Virginia are occupied under a lease that expires in December 2014. We also maintain offices in Denver, Colorado, London,
England and Düsseldorf, Germany. The lease of our London, England facility expires in June 2012. The Company leases its
facility in Düsseldorf, Germany under a multi-year lease that expires in May 2012. The lease of our Denver, Colorado
offices expire in January 2013. We are currently evaluating our options with respect to our offices in Düsseldorf, Germany,
and Denver, Colorado. We believe the necessary office space in these locations will be available on commercially reasonable
terms.
 
We believe our properties,
taken as a whole, are in good operating condition and are adequate for our business needs.
 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
The Company is not currently
subject to any material legal proceedings. From time to time, however, we or our operating companies may be party to other various
legal proceedings that arise in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, none of these proceedings, individually
or in the aggregate, are likely to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, consolidated results
of operations or cash flows. However, we cannot provide assurance that any adverse outcome would not be material to our consolidated
financial position or consolidated results of operations or cash flows.
 

16
 

 
ITEM 4.  MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURE
 
Not applicable.
 
PART II
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET
FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
 
Market for Equity Securities
 
Our common stock trades
on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board under the symbol GTLT, and our Class Z warrants trade under the symbol GTLTZ.
At March 23, 2012, we had outstanding 18,910,564 shares of our common stock and 12,090,000 Class Z Warrants. On April 10,
2010, our Class W Warrants of 12,090,000 expired at 5:00pm, New York City time.
 
The Class Z warrant
entitles the holder to purchase from us one share of common stock at an exercise price of $5.00. The Class Z warrants will
expire at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on April 10, 2012, or earlier upon redemption. The trading of our securities,
especially our Class Z warrants, is limited, and therefore there may not be deemed to be an established public trading market
under guidelines set forth by the SEC.
 
The following table
sets forth, for the calendar quarters indicated, the quarterly high and low bid information of our common stock, warrants, and
units as reported on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. The quotations listed below reflect interdealer prices, without
retail markup, markdown, or commission, and may not necessarily represent actual transactions.
 


  
Common Stock  
Class W Warrants  
Class Z Warrants 

  
High  
Low  
High  
Low  
High  
Low 

2010 
    
    
    
    
    
   

First Quarter 
$1.34  
$0.90  
$0.00  
$0.00  
$0.04  
$0.02 

Second Quarter 
$1.32  
$0.96  
$0.00  
$0.00  
$0.04  
$0.02 

Third Quarter 
$1.32  
$0.82  
 -  
 -  
$0.02  
$0.01 

Fourth Quarter 
$1.30  
$0.95  
 -  
 -  
$0.01  
$0.01 

2011 
    
    
    
    
    
   

First Quarter 
$1.30  
$1.05  
 -  
 -  
$0.00  
$0.00 

Second Quarter 
$1.26  
$1.01  
 -  
 -  
$0.01  
$0.01 

Third Quarter 
$1.30  
$1.10  
 -  
 -  
$0.07  
$0.01 

Fourth Quarter 
$1.40  
$0.95  
 -  
 -  
$0.01  
$0.00 

 
As of March 23, 2012
there were approximately 15 holders of record of our Class Z warrants.
 
Dividends
 
We have not paid any
dividends on our common stock to date, and do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. Moreover, restrictive
covenants existing in certain promissory notes that we have issued preclude us from paying dividends until those notes are paid
in full.
 

17
 

 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA
 
Not required as a Smaller
Reporting Company.
 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
The following discussion
and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere
in this report.
 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations of the Company
 
The following discussion
and analysis should be read together with the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto beginning
on page F-1. Reference is made to “Cautionary Notes Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page 1 hereof,
which describes important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations and non-historical information contained
herein.
 
Overview
 
Global Telecom &
Technology, Inc. (“GTT” or the “Company”) is a Delaware corporation which was incorporated on January 3,
2005. GTT is a global network operator delivering data services to large enterprise, government and carrier customers in over 80
countries worldwide. GTT provides customers with innovative connectivity solutions by utilizing our own network assets - linking
over 100 Points of Presence across North America, Europe and Asia - and extending them through our 800 partners worldwide. Our
Network as a Service proposition delivers flexible, reliable and scalable network infrastructure, capable of both public and secure
private networking. We simplify network deployment by removing the complexity of multi-vendor solutions while offering the cost
efficiencies of a single partner. For over 14 years GTT has provided world class project management, rapid service implementation
and global 24/7 end-to-end solution monitoring and support. GTT is headquartered in the Washington, DC metro region with offices
in London, Dusseldorf, and Denver.
 
The Company sells services
largely through a direct sales force located across the globe, as well as strong agent channel relationships. The Company generally
competes with traditional, facilities-based providers and other services providers in each of our global markets. As of December 31,
2011, our customer base was comprised of over 1,000 businesses. Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 18% of consolidated
revenue during the year ended December 31, 2011.
 
Costs and Expenses
 
The Company’s
cost of revenue consists almost entirely of the costs for procurement of services associated with customer services. The key terms
and conditions appearing in both supplier and customer agreements are substantially the same, with margin applied to the suppliers’
costs. There are no wages or overheads included in these costs. From time to time, the Company has agreed to certain special commitments
with vendors in order to obtain better rates, terms and conditions for the procurement of services from those vendors. These commitments
include volume purchase commitments and purchases on a longer-term basis than the term for which the applicable customer has committed.
 
Our supplier contracts
do not have any market related net settlement provisions. The Company has not entered into, and has no plans to enter into, any
supplier contracts which involve financial or derivative instruments. The supplier contracts are entered into solely for the direct
purchase of telecommunications capacity, which is resold by the Company in its normal course of business.
 
Other than cost of revenue,
the Company’s most significant operating expenses are employment costs. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had 88 employees
and employment costs comprised approximately 13% of total operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011.
 

18
 

 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
 
The Company’s
significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to its accompanying consolidated financial statements. The Company
considers the following accounting policies to be those that require the most significant judgments and estimates in the preparation
of its consolidated financial statements, and believes that an understanding of these policies is important to a proper evaluation
of the reported consolidated financial results.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
The Company provides
data connectivity solutions, such as dedicated circuit access, access aggregation and hubbing and managed network services to its
customers. Certain of the Company’s current revenue activities have features that may be considered multiple elements. The
Company believes that there is insufficient evidence to determine each element’s fair value and as a result, in those arrangements
where there are multiple elements, revenue is recorded ratably over the term of the arrangement.
 
The Company’s
services are provided under contracts that typically provide for an installation charge along with payments of recurring charges
on a monthly (or other periodic) basis for use of the services over a committed term. Our contracts with customers specify the
terms and conditions for providing such services. These contracts call for the Company to provide the service in question (e.g.,
data transmission between point A and point Z), to manage the activation process, and to provide ongoing support (in the form of
service maintenance and trouble-shooting) during the service term. The contracts do not typically provide the customer any rights
to use specifically identifiable assets. Furthermore, the contracts generally provide us with discretion to engineer (or re-engineer)
a particular network solution to satisfy each customer’s data transmission requirement, and typically prohibit physical access
by the customer to the network infrastructure used by the Company and its suppliers to deliver the services.
 
The Company recognizes
revenue as follows:
 
Network Services
and Support.  The Company’s services are provided pursuant to contracts that typically provide for payments
of recurring charges on a monthly basis for use of the services over a committed term. Each service contract typically has a fixed
monthly cost and a fixed term, in addition to a fixed installation charge (if applicable). Variable usage charges are applied when
incurred for certain product offerings. At the end of the initial term of most service contracts the contracts roll forward on
a month-to-month or other periodic basis and continue to bill at the same fixed recurring rate. If any cancellation or termination
charges become due from the customer as a result of early cancellation or termination of a service contract, those amounts are
calculated pursuant to a formula specified in each contract. Recurring costs relating to supply contracts are recognized ratably
over the term of the contract.
 
Non-recurring fees,
Deferred Revenue.  Non-recurring fees for data connectivity typically take the form of one-time, non-refundable provisioning
fees established pursuant to service contracts. The amount of the provisioning fee included in each contract is generally determined
by marking up or passing through the corresponding charge from the Company’s supplier, imposed pursuant to the Company’s
purchase agreement. Non-recurring revenue earned for providing provisioning services in connection with the delivery of recurring
communications services is recognized ratably over the contractual term of the recurring service starting upon commencement of
the service contract term. Fees recorded or billed from these provisioning services are initially recorded as deferred revenue
then recognized ratably over the contractual term of the recurring service. Installation costs related to provisioning incurred
by the Company from independent third party suppliers, directly attributable and necessary to fulfill a particular service contract,
and which costs would not have been incurred but for the occurrence of that service contract, are recorded as deferred contract
costs and expensed proportionally over the contractual term of service in the same manner as the deferred revenue arising from
that contract. Deferred costs do not exceed deferred upfront fees. The Company believes the initial contractual term is the best
estimate of the period of earnings.
 
Other Revenue.  From
time to time, the Company recognizes revenue in the form of fixed or determinable cancellation (pre-installation) or termination
(post-installation) charges imposed pursuant to the service contract. This revenue is earned when a customer cancels or terminates
a service agreement prior to the end of its committed term. This revenue is recognized when billed if collectability is reasonably
assured. In addition, the Company from time to time sells equipment in connection with data networking applications. The Company
recognizes revenue from the sale of equipment at the contracted selling price when title to the equipment passes to the customer
(generally F.O.B. origin) and when collectability is reasonably assured.
 

19
 

 
The Company does not
use estimates in determining amounts of revenue to be recognized. Each service contract has a fixed monthly cost and a fixed term,
in addition to a fixed installation charge (if applicable). At the end of the initial term of most service contracts, the contracts
roll forward on a month-to-month or other periodic basis and the Company continues to bill at the same fixed recurring rate.
 
Estimating Allowances and Accrued Liabilities
 
The Company employs
the “allowance for bad debts” method to account for bad debts. The Company states its accounts receivable balances
at amounts due from the customer net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company determines this allowance by considering
a number of factors, including the length of time receivables are past due, previous loss history, and the customer’s current
ability to pay.
 
In the normal course
of business from time to time, the Company identifies errors by suppliers with respect to the billing of services. The Company
performs bill verification procedures to attempt to ensure that errors in its suppliers’ billed invoices are identified and
resolved. The bill verification procedures include the examination of bills, comparison of billed rates to rates shown on the actual
contract documentation and logged in the Company’s operating systems, comparison of circuits billed to the Company’s
database of active circuits, and evaluation of the trend of invoiced amounts by suppliers, including the types of charges being
assessed. If the Company concludes by reference to such objective factors that it has been billed inaccurately, the Company will
record a liability for the amount that it believes is owed with reference to the applicable contractual rate and, in the instances
where the billed amount exceeds the applicable contractual rate, the likelihood of prevailing with respect to any dispute.
 
These disputes with
suppliers generally fall into four categories: pricing errors, network design, start of service date or disconnection errors, and
taxation and regulatory surcharge errors. In the instances where the billed amount exceeds the applicable contractual rate the
Company does not accrue the full face amount of obvious billing errors in accounts payable because to do so would present a misleading
and confusing picture of the Company’s current liabilities by accounting for liabilities that are erroneous based upon a
detailed review of objective evidence. If the Company ultimately pays less than the corresponding accrual in resolution of an erroneously
over-billed amount, the Company recognizes the resultant decrease in cost of revenue in the period in which the resolution is reached.
If the Company ultimately pays more than the corresponding accrual in resolution of an erroneously billed amount, the Company recognizes
the resultant cost of revenue increase in the period in which the resolution is reached and during which period the Company makes
payment to resolve such account.
 
Although the Company
disputes erroneously billed amounts in good faith and historically has prevailed in most cases, it recognizes that it may not prevail
in all cases (or in full) with a particular supplier with respect to such billing errors or it may choose to settle the matter
because of the quality of the supplier relationship or the cost and time associated with continuing the dispute. Careful judgment
is required in estimating the ultimate outcome of disputing each error, and each reserve is based upon a specific evaluation by
management of the merits of each billing error (based upon the bill verification process) and the potential for loss with respect
to that billing error. In making such a case-by-case evaluation, the Company considers, among other things, the documentation available
to support its assertions with respect to the billing errors, its past experience with the supplier in question, and its past experience
with similar errors and disputes. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had $3.4 million in billing errors disputed with
suppliers, for which we have accrued $1.3 million in liabilities.
 
In instances where the
Company has been billed less than the applicable contractual rate, the accruals remain on the Company’s consolidated financial
statements until the vendor invoices for the under-billed amount or until such time as the obligations related to the under-billed
amounts, based upon applicable contract terms and relevant statutory periods in accordance with the Company’s internal policy,
have passed. If the Company ultimately determines it has no further obligation related to the under-billed amounts, the Company
recognizes a decrease in expense in the period in which the determination is made.
 
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
 
Goodwill is the excess
purchase price paid over identified intangible and tangible net assets of acquired companies. Goodwill is not amortized, and is
tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually or when there are any indications of impairment, as required by the
Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 350, Intangibles —
Goodwill and Other. ASC Topic 350 provides guidance on financial accounting and reporting related to goodwill and other
intangibles, other than the accounting at acquisition for goodwill and other intangibles. A reporting unit is an operating segment,
or component of an operating segment, for which discrete financial information is available and is regularly reviewed by management.
We have one reporting unit to which goodwill is assigned.
 

20
 

 
In September 2011, the
FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment. ASU 2011-08
is intended to simplify how entities, both public and nonpublic, test goodwill for impairment. ASU 2011-08 permits an entity to
first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is “more likely than not” that the fair value of a reporting
unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment
test described in Topic 350, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other. The first step tests for impairment by applying fair value-based
tests. The second step, if deemed necessary, measures the impairment by applying fair value-based tests to specific assets and
liabilities. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires significant judgments including estimation of future cash flows,
which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for the Company, the useful life over which
cash flows will occur, and determination of the Company’s cost of capital. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could
materially affect the determination of fair value and conclusions on goodwill impairment.
 
The Company performs
its annual goodwill impairment testing in the third quarter of each year, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances
indicate that goodwill may be impaired. The Company tested its goodwill during the third quarter of 2011 and 2010 and concluded
that no impairment existed.
 
Intangible assets are
assets that lack physical substance, and are accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 350 and ASC Topic 360-10-35,
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets. ASC Topic 360-10-35 provides guidance for recognition and
measurement of the impairment of long-lived assets to be held, used and disposed of by sale. Intangible assets arose from business
combinations and consist of customer contracts, acquired technology and restrictive covenants related to employment agreements
that are amortized, on a straight-line basis, over periods of up to five years. Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. During the third quarter of 2011 and
2010, the Company tested their intangible assets and concluded that no impairment existed.
 
Income Taxes
 
The Company accounts
for income taxes in accordance with ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes. Under ASC Topic 740, deferred tax assets are recognized
for future deductible temporary differences and for tax net operating loss and tax credit carry-forwards, and deferred tax liabilities
are recognized for temporary differences that will result in taxable amounts in future years. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
are measured using the enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the periods in which the deferred tax asset or
liability is expected to be realized or settled. A valuation allowance is provided to offset the net deferred tax asset if, based
upon the available evidence, management determines that it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax asset will
not be realized.
 
In June 2006, the FASB
issued Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (“FIN 48”). FIN 48
was codified into ASC Topic 740, which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise’s
financial statements, and prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition
and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. ASC Topic 740 also provides guidance on de-recognition,
classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. The adoption of the new FASB
ASC Topic did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
 
We may from time to
time be assessed interest and/or penalties by taxing jurisdictions, although any such assessments historically have been minimal
and immaterial to our financial results. The Company’s federal tax returns for 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 are still open.
In the event we have received an assessment for interest and/or penalties, it has been classified in the statement of operations
as other general and administrative costs.
 
Share-Based Compensation
 
On October 16,
2006, the Company adopted ASC Topic 718, Compensation — Stock Compensation which requires the measurement
and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees, directors, and consultants based
on estimated fair values.
 

21
 

 
ASC Topic 718 requires
companies to estimate the fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model. The value
of the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest is recognized as expense over the requisite service periods in
the Company’s consolidated statement of operations. The Company follows the straight-line single option method of attributing
the value of stock-based compensation to expense. As stock-based compensation expense recognized is based on awards ultimately
expected to vest, it has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. ASC Topic 718 requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time
of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.
 
The Company uses the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model as its method of valuation for share-based awards granted. The Company’s determination
of fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected by the Company’s
stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but
are not limited to the Company’s expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards and the expected term of the
awards. The Company accounts for non-employee share-based compensation expense in accordance with ASC Topic 505, Equity —
Based Payments to Non-Employee.
 
Use of Estimates and Assumptions
 
The preparation of financial
statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect certain reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results can, and in many cases will, differ from those estimates.
 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 
Reference is made to
Note 2 (“Significant Accounting Policies”) of the consolidated financial statements, which commence on page F-7
of this report, which Note is incorporated herein by reference.
 

22
 

 
Results of Operations of the Company
 
Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011 compared
to Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2010
 
Overview.  The
financial information presented in the table below comprises the audited consolidated financial information of the Company for
the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (amounts in thousands):
 


  
Year Ended December 31, 2011  
Year Ended December 31, 2010 

  
   
  

Revenue: 
    
   

Telecommunications services sold 
$91,188  
$81,075 

  
    
   

Operating expenses: 
    
   

Cost of telecommunications services provided 
 64,198  
 57,022 

Selling, general and administrative expense 
 18,597  
 18,021 

Restructuring costs, employee termination and other items 
 958  
 - 

Depreciation and amortization 
 3,896  
 2,791 

  
    
   

Total operating expenses 
 87,649  
 77,834 

  
    
   

Operating income 
 3,539  
 3,241 

  
    
   

Other income (expense): 
    
   

Interest expense, net 
 (2,491) 
 (1,407)

Other income (expense), net 
 (218) 
 (368)

Total other income (expense) 
 (2,709) 
 (1,775)

  
    
   

Income before income taxes 
 830  
 1,466 

  
    
   

Provision for income taxes 
 575  
 96 

  
    
   

Net income 
$255  
$1,370 

  
    
   

Earnings per share: 
    
   

Basic 
$0.01  
$0.08 

Diluted 
$0.01  
$0.08 

  
    
   

Weighted average shares: 
    
   

Basic 
 18,599,028  
 16,740,882 

Diluted 
 18,820,380  
 16,971,396 

 
Revenue.  The
table below presents the components of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:
  


Geographical Revenue 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

United States 
 72% 
 76%

United Kingdom 
 21% 
 15%

Germany 
 6% 
 9%

Japan 
 1% 
 0%

Totals 
 100% 
 100%

 
The shift in revenue
geographically is the result of the acquisition of PacketExchange which occurred on June 6, 2011 and is predominately UK-based
revenue.
 

23
 

 
Total revenue increased
$10.1 million, or 12%, for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily
due to the acquisition of PacketExchange as well as increased sales to new and existing customers.
 
Costs of Service.  Total
costs of service increased $7.2 million, or 13%, for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the year ended December 31,
2010 primarily due to the PacketExchange acquisition as well as increased sales to new and existing customers.
 
Selling, General
and Administrative Expenses.  SG&A increased $0.6 million, or 3% for the year ended December 31, 2011
compared to the year ended December 31, 2010.
 
Restructuring costs,
employee termination and non-recurring items. Restructuring costs increased by $1.0 million for the year ended December 31,
2011 compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. The cause of the increase is the $1.0 million in restructuring costs associated
with the PacketExchange acquisition, including legal fees, professional fees, transfer taxes, and travel.
 
Depreciation and
Amortization.  Depreciation and amortization expense increased $1.1 million, or 39%, to $3.9 million for
the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase was due primarily to the
network assets and intangibles related to the PacketExchange acquisition.
 
Interest Expense.  Interest
expense increased $1.1 million, or 77%, to $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the year
ended December 31, 2010. The increase was due to the additional debt incurred in connection with the PacketExchange acquisition.
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources (amounts in
thousands)
 


  
December 31, 2011  
December 31, 2010 

Cash and cash equivalents 
$3,249  
$6,562 

Debt 
$27,989  
$14,265 

 
Management monitors
cash flow and liquidity requirements. Based on the Company’s cash and cash equivalents, the Silicon Valley Bank credit facility,
and analysis of the anticipated working capital requirements, management believes the Company has sufficient liquidity to fund
the business and meet its contractual obligations for 2012. The Company’s current planned cash requirements for 2012 are
based upon certain assumptions, including its ability to manage expenses and the growth of revenue from service arrangements. In
connection with the activities associated with the services, the Company expects to incur expenses, including provider fees, employee
compensation and consulting fees, professional fees, sales and marketing, insurance and interest expense. Should the expected cash
flows not be available, management believes it would have the ability to revise its operating plan and make reductions in expenses.
 
The Company believes
that cash currently on hand, expected cash flows from future operations and existing borrowing capacity are sufficient to fund
operations for at least the next twelve months, including the scheduled repayment of indebtedness pursuant to the Silicon Valley
Bank Term Loan. If our operating performance differs significantly from our forecasts, we may be required to reduce our operating
expenses and curtail capital spending, and we may not remain in compliance with our debt covenants. In addition, if the Company
were unable to fully fund its cash requirements through operations and current cash on hand, the Company would need to obtain additional
financing through a combination of equity and subordinated debt financings and/or renegotiation of terms of its existing debt.
If any such activities become necessary, there can be no assurance that the Company would be successful in obtaining additional
financing or modifying its existing debt terms.
 
Operating Activities.  Net
cash used in operating activities was $28,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011, driven primarily by an increase
in accounts receivable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities and deferred revenue and other long-term liabilities and
a decrease in accounts payable, offset by net income and depreciation and amortization.
 
Investing Activities.  Net
cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $16.1 million, consisting primarily of the $14.6 million
of cash used, net of cash acquired, in the acquisition of PacketExchange. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended
December 31, 2010 was $0.2 million.
 

24
 

 
Financing Activities.  Net
cash provided by financing activities increased to $13.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to
$3.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. This increase was due to the modified Term Loan with Silicon Valley
Bank and the Purchase Agreement with BIA Digital Partners that was issued during the second quarter of 2011 in connection with
the PacketExchange acquisition.
 
Effect of Exchange
Rate Changes on Cash.  Effect of Exchange Rate Changes increased $0.1 million to $0.2 million for the year
ended December 31, 2011 as compared to an effect of $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010.
 
During 2011 and 2010,
we made cash payments for interest totaling $2.2 million and $0.6 million, respectively. The increase in interest payments
was a result of the modified Term Loan with Silicon Valley Bank and the Purchase Agreement with BIA Digital Partners that was issued
during the second quarter of 2011.
 
Debt
 
The following summarizes
the debt activity of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2011 (amounts in thousands):
 


  
Total Debt  
SVB Term Loan  
SVB Line of Credit  
BIA Note  
Subordinated Notes  
Capital Lease/ Promissory Note 

  
   
   
   
   
   
  

Debt obligation as of December 31, 2010 
$14,265  
$9,500  
$2,338  
$-  
$2,183  
$244 

Subordinated notes issuance 
 153  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 153  
 - 

Issuance of BIA Note, net of discount 
 8,028  
 -  
 -  
 8,028  
 -  
 - 

Debt discount amortization 
 316  
 -  
 -  
 50  
 266  
 - 

Draw on Line of Credit 
 762  
 -  
 762  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Increase in SVB Term Loan 
 6,333  
 6,333  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Repayment of SVB Term Loan 
 (2,333) 
 (2,333) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Principal payments on capital lease 
 (244) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (244)

Seller Note Assumed 
 709  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 709 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Debt obligation as of December 31, 2011 
$27,989  
$13,500  
$3,100  
$8,078  
$2,602  
$709 

 
Term Loan and Line of Credit
 
On June 6, 2011, immediately following
the PacketExchange acquisition, the Company and its subsidiaries GTTA, GTTE, WBS Connect LLC, a Colorado limited liability company
(“WBS”, and together with the Company, GTTA and GTTE, collectively, the “Existing Borrower”), PacketExchange
(Ireland) Limited, a company incorporated and existing under the laws of Ireland (“PEIRL”), PacketExchange (Europe)
Limited, a private limited company incorporated and registered in England and Wales (“PELTD”), PacketExchange (USA),
Inc., a Delaware corporation (“PEUSA”), PacketExchange, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“PEINC”, and together
with PEIRL, PELTD and PEUSA, collectively, the “New Borrower”) (the New Borrower and the Existing Borrower together
are the “Borrower”) entered into a joinder and first loan modification agreement (the “Modification Agreement”)
with Silicon Valley Bank, which amends that certain Loan and Security Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”), dated September
30, 2010, by and among Silicon Valley Bank and the Existing Borrower.
 

25
 

 
The Modification Agreement
increases the amount of the term loan facility from $10 million to $15 million (the “Term Loan”), while the revolving
line of credit facility in the aggregate principal amount of up to $5 million (the “Line of Credit”) remains unchanged.
The Modification Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants of the Borrower and customary events of
default. In connection with negotiating the terms of the Modification Agreement, it was noted that the Company would benefit by
separating the financing provided under the Loan Agreement into separate U.S. and non-U.S. financings. Accordingly, the Company
and Silicon Valley Bank restructured the terms of the Loan Agreement on June 29, 2011 to implement this separation. The obligations
of the Borrower under the Modification Agreement are secured by substantially all of Borrower’s tangible and intangible assets
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.
 
The Term Loan matures on June 1, 2016.
The Borrower shall repay the Term Loan in sixty (60) equal installments of principal and interest, with interest accruing at a
floating per annum rate equal to Silicon Valley Bank’s prime rate plus 3.75%, unless the Borrower achieves certain performance
criteria, in which case the interest rate shall be equal to Silicon Valley Bank’s prime rate plus 2.75%.
 
The Line of Credit will continue to mature
on September 29, 2012 and the principal amount outstanding under the Line of Credit shall continue to accrue interest at a floating
per annum rate equal to Silicon Valley Bank’s prime rate plus 2%, unless the Borrower achieves certain performance criteria,
in which case the interest rate shall be equal to Silicon Valley Bank’s prime rate plus 1.0%.
 
Note Purchase Agreement for Second Lien Credit Facility
 
Concurrent with entering in to the Modification
Agreement, on June 6, 2011, the Company and its subsidiaries GTTA, WBS, PEUSA and PEINC (collectively, the “Note Borrower”)
entered into a note purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) with the BIA Digital Partners SBIC II LP (“BIA”).  The
Purchase Agreement provided for a total commitment of $12.5 million, of which $7.5 million was immediately funded (the “Notes”).  The
Notes were issued at a discount to face value of $0.4 million and the discount is being amortized, into interest expense,
over the life of the notes. The remaining $5.0 million of the committed financing was available to be called by the Note Borrower
on or before August 11, 2011, subject to extension to December 31, 2011 at the sole option of BIA.  On September 19,
2011, BIA agreed to extend the commitment period and funded the Note Borrower an additional $1.0 million. The additional funding
was issued at a discount to face value of $45,000, due to the warrants issued, and the discount is being amortized, into interest
expense, over the life of the notes. The Purchase Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants of the
Note Borrower and customary events of default. The obligations of the Note Borrower under the Purchase Agreement are secured by
substantially all of Borrower’s tangible and intangible assets pursuant to the Purchase Agreement.
 
The Notes mature on June 6, 2016. The obligations
evidenced by the Notes shall bear interest at a rate of 13.5% per annum, of which (i) at least 11.5% per annum shall be payable,
in cash, monthly (“Cash Interest Portion”) and (ii) 2.0% per annum shall be, at the Note Borrower’s option, paid
in cash or paid-in-kind. If the Note Borrower achieves certain performance criteria, the obligations evidenced by the Notes shall
bear interest at a rate of 12.0% per annum, with a Cash Interest Portion of at least 11.0% per annum.
 
The obligations of the Note Borrower under
the Note Purchase Agreement are guaranteed by TEK and GTGS (GTGS and TEK, together, the “Note Guarantors”) pursuant
to unconditional guaranties executed by each Guarantor in favor of BIA (each a “Note Guaranty”). Each Guaranty is secured
by a second lien on each Guarantor’s tangible and intangible assets pursuant to a security agreement containing representations,
warranties and covenants substantially similar to those made under the Note Purchase Agreement with respect to the Note Borrower.
Pursuant to a pledge agreement (the “Pledge Agreement”), dated June 6, 2011, by and between BIA and the Company and
GTTA, the obligations of the Note Borrower under the Note Purchase Agreement are also secured by a pledge in all of the equity
interests of the Company and GTTA in their respective United States subsidiaries and a pledge of 65% of the voting equity interests
and all of the non-voting equity interests of the Company and GTTA in their respective non-United States subsidiaries.
 
Concurrent with entering into the Note
Purchase Agreement, Silicon Valley Bank and BIA entered into an Intercreditor and Subordination Agreement which governs, among
other things, ranking and collateral access for the respective lenders.
 

26
 

 
Warrants
 
On June 6, 2011, pursuant to the Purchase
Agreement, the Company issued to BIA a warrant to purchase from the Company 634,648 shares of the Company’s common stock,
at an exercise price equal to $1.144 per share (as adjusted from time to time as provided in the Purchase Agreement). Upon the
additional $1.0 million funding, the Company issued to BIA an additional warrant (together the “Warrants”) to purchase
from the Company 63,225 shares of the Company’s common stock, at an exercise price equal to $1.181 per share.
 
The Company evaluated the down round ratchet
feature embedded in the Warrants and after considering ASC 480, Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity , which establishes
standards for how an issuer classifies and measures in its statement of financial position certain financial instruments with characteristics
of both liabilities and equity, and ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging, the Company concluded the Warrants should be
treated as a derivative and recorded a liability for the amount of $472,000.  At December 31, 2011, the warrant liability
was marked to market which resulted in a gain of $42,000 for the year end.  The balance of the warrant liability was
$430,000 at December 31, 2011, which is included in other long-term liabilities.
 
Subordinated Notes
 
On February 8, 2010, the Company completed
a units offering (“February 2010 Units”) in which it sold 500 units consisting of debt and common stock at a purchase
price of $10,000 per unit, resulting in $5.0 million of proceeds to the Company.  Each unit consisted of 2,970 shares
of the Company’s common stock, and $7,000 in principal amount of the Company’s subordinated promissory notes due February 8,
2012.  The subordinated promissory notes were issued at a discount to face value of $0.2 million and the discount
is being amortized, into interest expense, over the life of the notes. Interest on the subordinated promissory notes accrues at
10% per annum.  Accrued but unpaid interest was $178,000 as of December 31, 2011.
  
The proceeds from the February 2010 Units
were to be applied by the Company to finance a portion of the purchase price under an asset purchase agreement with a potential
acquisition target. On April 30, 2010, the asset purchase agreement with the potential acquisition target expired without
consummation of the acquisition.  On May 13, 2010, investors representing $1.5 million in aggregated principal amount
of the Company’s subordinated promissory notes and $0.9 million of the Company’s common stock waived the right
to receive their refund and elected to retain some or all of their subordinated promissory notes. In May 2011, $1.4 million of
the February 2010 Units subordinated notes were amended to mature in four equal installments on March 31, June 30, September 30
and December 31, 2013, and are included in long-term debt as of December 31, 2011. The remaining $0.1 million of the February
2010 Units subordinated notes are included in short-term debt as of December 31, 2011.
 
On December 31, 2010, the Company
completed a financing transaction in which it issued 212 Units, valued at $10,000 per unit (“December 2013 Units”).  Each
unit consisted of 5,000 shares of the Company’s common stock, and $5,000 in principal amount of the Company’s
subordinated promissory notes due December 31, 2013.   The subordinated promissory notes were issued at a discount
to face value of $0.2 million and the discount is being amortized, into interest expense, over the life of the notes.  Interest
on the subordinated promissory notes accrues at 10% per annum. In total, the Company issued 1,060,000 shares of the Company’s
common stock and $1.1 million in principal amount of subordinated promissory notes.
 
On February 16, 2011, the Company
and the holders of the December 2013 Units amended the offering solely to increase the aggregate principal amount available for
issuance from $1.1 million to $1.6 million. On February 16, 2011, the Company also completed a financing transaction
in which it issued 40 Units, at a purchase price of $10,000 per Unit, for gross proceeds of $0.4 million. Each Unit was comprised
of 5,000 shares of the Company’s common stock, and $5,000 in principal amount of subordinated promissory notes.  The
subordinated promissory notes were issued at a discount to face value of $47,000 and the discount is being amortized, into interest
expense, over the life of the notes.
 
As of December 31, 2011, the subordinated
notes payable had a balance of $2.6 million. The balance includes notes totaling $2.1 million due to a related party,
Universal Telecommunications, Inc. H. Brian Thompson, the Company’s Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors, is also
the head of Universal Telecommunications, Inc., his own private equity investment and advisory firm. Also, included in the balance
is $0.1 million of the notes held by officers and directors of the Company.
 

27
 

 
Promissory Note and Capital Lease
 
As part of the December 2009 acquisition,
the Company assumed approximately $0.6 million in capital lease obligations payable in monthly installments through April
2011 and issued approximately $0.3 million in subordinated seller notes to the sellers, due in monthly installments and payable
in full by October 2010.  The Company paid in full both the subordinated seller notes and the capital lease obligations
as of September 30, 2011.
 
As part of the June 2011 acquisition of
PacketExchange, the Company assumed a promissory note of approximately $0.7 million.
 
Contractual Obligations and Commitments
 
As of December 31,
2011, the Company had total contractual obligations of approximately $97.8 million. Of these obligations, approximately $68.3 million,
or 70% are supplier agreements associated with the telecommunications services that the Company has contracted to purchase from
its vendors through 2016. The Company generally tries to structure its contracts so the terms and conditions in the vendor and
client customer contracts are substantially the same in terms of duration and capacity. The back-to-back nature of the Company’s
contracts means that the largest component of its contractual obligations is generally mirrored by its customer’s commitment
to purchase the services associated with those obligations. However, in certain instances relating to network infrastructure, the
Company will enter into purchase commitments with vendors that do not directly tie to underlying customer commitments.
 
Approximately $27.9 million,
or 28%, of the total contractual obligations are associated with the Company’s debt which matures between 2012 and 2016.
 
Operating leases amount
to $1.6 million, or 2% of total contractual obligations, which consist of building leases.
 
ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE
DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
Interest Rate Sensitivity
 
Interest due on the
Company’s loans is based upon the applicable stated fixed contractual rate with the lender. Interest earned on the Company’s
bank accounts is linked to the applicable base interest rate. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company
had interest expense, net of interest income, of approximately $2.5 million and $1.4 million, respectively. The Company
believes that its results of operations are not materially affected by changes in interest rates.
 
Exchange Rate Sensitivity
 
Approximately 28% of
the Company’s revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011 is derived from services provided outside of the United States.
As a consequence, a material percentage of the Company’s revenue is billed in British Pounds Sterling or Euros. Since we
operate on a global basis, we are exposed to various foreign currency risks. First, our consolidated financial statements are denominated
in U.S. Dollars, but a significant portion of our revenue is generated in the local currency of our foreign subsidiaries.
Accordingly, changes in exchange rates between the applicable foreign currency and the U.S. Dollar will affect the translation
of each foreign subsidiary’s financial results into U.S. Dollars for purposes of reporting consolidated financial results.
 
In addition, because
of the global nature of our business, we may from time to time be required to pay a supplier in one currency while receiving payments
from the underlying customer of the service in another currency. Although it is the Company’s general policy to pay its suppliers
in the same currency that it will receive cash from customers, where these circumstances arise with respect to supplier invoices
in one currency and customer billings in another currency, the Company’s gross margins may increase or decrease based upon
changes in the exchange rate. Such factors did not have a material impact on the Company’s results in the year ended December 31,
2011.
 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY
DATA
 
Reference is made to
the consolidated financial statements, the notes thereto, and the reports thereon, commencing on page F-1 of this report, which
consolidated financial statements, notes, and report are incorporated herein by reference.
 

28
 

 
ITEM 9A.  CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
 
As of the end of the
period covered by this Annual Report, an evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s
management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation
of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934) and internal control over financial reporting.
 
The evaluation of the
Company’s disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting included a review of our objectives
and processes, implementation by the Company and the effect on the information generated for use in this Annual Report. In the
course of this evaluation and in accordance with Section 302 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, we sought to identify material
weaknesses in our controls, to determine whether we had identified any acts of fraud involving personnel who have a significant
role in our internal control over financial reporting that would have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements,
and to confirm that any necessary corrective action, including process improvements, were being undertaken. Our evaluation of our
disclosure controls and procedures is done quarterly and management reports the effectiveness of our controls and procedures in
our periodic reports filed with the SEC. Our internal control over financial reporting is also evaluated on an ongoing basis by
personnel in the Company’s finance organization. The overall goals of these evaluation activities are to monitor our disclosure
controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting and to make modifications as necessary. We periodically evaluate
our processes and procedures and make improvements as required.
 
Because of its inherent
limitations, disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Management
applies its judgment in assessing the benefits of controls relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all
control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any,
within the Company have been detected. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the
likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all
potential future conditions, regardless of how remote.
 
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
 
Disclosure controls
and procedures are designed with the objective of ensuring that (i) information required to be disclosed in the Company’s
reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and (ii) information is accumulated and communicated to management, including
our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Accounting Officer evaluated the effectiveness of the our disclosure controls and procedures
in place at the end of the period covered by this Annual Report pursuant to Rule 13a-15(b) of the Exchange Act. Based on this
evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Accounting Officer concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in the Exchange Act Rule 13(a)-15(e)) were effective as of December 31, 2011.
 
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting
 
The Company’s
management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is
defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of the Company management, including
our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control
over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation under the framework in Internal Control —
Integrated Framework, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31,
2011.
 
This annual report does
not include an attestation report of the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm regarding internal control
over financial reporting. Management’s report was not subject to attestation by the Company’s independent registered
public accounting firm pursuant to rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit the Company to provide only management’s
report in this Annual Report.
 

29
 

 
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
 
There have been no significant
changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the most recently completed fiscal quarter ended December 31,
2011 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
 
PART III
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 
The information required
by this Item relating to our directors and corporate governance is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement
to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A of the Exchange Act for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The information required
by this Item relating to our executive officers is included in Item 1, “Business — Executive Officers”
of this report.
 
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
The information required
by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A
of the Exchange Act for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 
ITEM 12.  SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
The information required
by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A
of the Exchange Act for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
 
The information required
by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A
of the Exchange Act for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 
ITEM 14.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND
SERVICES
 
The information required
by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A
of the Exchange Act for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 
PART IV
 
ITEM 15.  EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT
SCHEDULES
 
(a)  Financial
Statements
 

(1)Financial Statements are listed in the Index to Financial Statements on page F-1 of this report.
 

(2)Schedules have been omitted because they are not applicable or because the information required
to be set forth therein is included in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.
 

30
 

 
(b)  Exhibits
 
The following exhibits,
which are numbered in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K, are filed herewith or, as noted, incorporated by reference
herein:
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 



Exhibit
Number
 
Description
    of Document

3.1(1)
 
Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation dated October 16, 2006.

3.2(1)
 
Amended and Restated Bylaws dated October 15, 2006.

4.1(4)
 
Specimen of Common Stock Certificate of the Company.

4.2(4)
 
Specimen of Class W Warrant Certificate of the Company.

4.3(4)
 
Specimen of Class Z Warrant Certificate of the Company.

4.4(3)
 
Unit Purchase Option granted to HCFP/Brenner Securities LLC.

4.5(3)
 
Warrant Agreement between American Stock Transfer & Trust Company and the Registrant.

10.5(3)
 
Investment Management Trust Agreement between American Stock Transfer & Trust Company and the Registrant.

10.6(1)
 
Employment Agreement for H. Brian Thompson, dated October 15, 2006.

10.8(1)
 
Form of Lock-up letter agreement entered into by the Registrant and the stockholders of Global Internetworking, Inc., dated October 15, 2006.

10.9(4)
 
2006 Employee, Director and Consultant Stock Plan, as amended. On November 30, 2006, the Plan was amended to (i) change the termination date to May 21, 2016 and (ii) reflect the Company’s new corporate name.

10.10(2)
 
Form of Registration Rights Agreement.

10.11(1)
 
Form of Promissory Note issued to the stockholders of Global Internetworking, Inc., dated October 15, 2006.

10.12(5)
 
Note Amendment Agreement entered into by the Registrant and the former stockholders of Global Internetworking, Inc., dated November 13, 2007.

10.13(6)
 
Form of Stock Option Agreement.

10.14(6)
 
Form of Restricted Stock Agreement.

10.15(7)
 
Separation Agreement for D. Michael Keenan, dated February 23, 2007.

10.16(8)
 
Employment Agreement for Richard D. Calder, Jr., dated May 7, 2007.

10.17(5)
 
Form of Exchange Agreement entered into by the Registrant and certain holders of promissory notes.

10.18(5)
 
Form of 10% Convertible Unsecured Subordinated Promissory Note.

10.19(9)
 
Loan and Security Agreement entered into by the Registrant, its subsidiary Global Telecom & Technology Americas, Inc. and Silicon Valley Bank, dated March 17, 2008.

10.20(10)
 
Amendment No. 1 to the Employment Agreement for Richard D. Calder, Jr., dated July 18, 2008.

10.21(11)
 
Employment Agreement for Eric A. Swank, dated February 2, 2009.

10.22(12)
 
Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement, dated June 16, 2009, between Silicon Valley Bank, Global Telecom & Technology, Inc. and Global Telecom & Technology Americas, Inc.

10.23(13)
 
Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 3, 2009, by and among Global Telecom & Technology Americas, Inc., GTT-EMEA, Limited, WBS Connect, LLC, TEK Channel Consulting, LLC, WBS Connect Europe Ltd., Scott Charter and Michael Hollander.

10.24(14)
 
Amendment, dated December 16, 2009, to the Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 2, 2009, by and among Global Telecom & Technology Americas, Inc., GTT-EMEA, Limited, WBS Connect, LLC, TEK Channel Consulting, LLC, WBS Connect Europe Ltd., Scott Charter and Michael Hollander.

10.25(14)
 
Waiver, dated December 16, 2009, executed by Global Telecom & Technology Americas, Inc.

10.26(14)
 
Promissory Note, dated December 16, 2009, executed by Global Telecom & Technology Americas, Inc. in favor of Scott Charter.

10.27(14)
 
Promissory Note, dated December 16, 2009, executed by Global Telecom & Technology Americas, Inc. in favor Michael Hollander.

10.28(14)
 
Guaranty, dated December 16, 2009, between Global Telecom & Technology, Inc. and Scott Charter.

10.29(14)
 
Guaranty, dated December 16, 2009, between Global Telecom & Technology, Inc. and Michael Hollander.

10.30(14)
 
Second Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement, dated December 16, 2009, between Silicon Valley Bank, Global Telecom & Technology, Inc., Global Telecom & Technology Americas, Inc., WBS Connect, LLC and GTT-EMEA, Ltd.

10.31(14)
 
Amended and Restated Unconditional Guaranty, dated December 16, 2009, executed by TEK Channel Consulting, LLC and GTT Global Telecom Government Services, LLC in favor of Silicon Valley Bank

10.32(14)
 
GTT-EMEA, Ltd. Debenture in favor of Silicon Valley Bank.

 

31
 

 


10.33(15)
 
Asset Purchase Agreement, dated December 31, 2009, by and among Capital Growth Systems, Inc., Global Capacity Group, Inc., Global Capacity Direct, LLC (f/k/a Vanco Direct USA, LLC) and Global Telecom & Technology Americas, Inc.

10.34(16)
 
Form of Promissory Note of Global Telecom & Technology, Inc. due February 8, 2012.

10.35(16)
 
Form of Note Amendment No. 2, dated as of January 14, 2010, by and between Global Telecom & Technology, Inc. and each holder of Global Telecom & Technology’s 10% promissory notes due December 31, 2010 and issued in October 2006.

10.36(16)
 
Note Amendment effective as of January 14, 2010, by and among Global Telecom & Technology, Inc. and the holders of Global Telecom & Technology’s 10% promissory notes due December 31, 2010 and issued in November 2007.

21.1*
 
Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23.1*
 
Consent of J.H. Cohn LLP.

24.1*
 
Power of Attorney (included on the signature page to this report).

31.1*
 
Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

31.2*
 
Certification of Chief Accounting Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

32.1*
 
Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.2*
 
Certification of Chief Accounting Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

 




 



* 
Filed herewith

 
 

(1)
Previously filed as an Exhibit to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed October 19, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

(2)
Previously filed as an Exhibit to the Registrant’s Amendment No. 1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 333-122303) and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

(3)
Previously filed as an Exhibit to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed March 30, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

(4)
Previously filed as an Exhibit to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q filed November 14, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

(5)
Previously filed as an Exhibit to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed November 14, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

(6)
Previously filed as an Exhibit to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed April 17, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

(7)
Previously filed as an Exhibit to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed February 23, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

(8)
Previously filed as an Exhibit to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed May 10, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

(9)
Previously filed as an Exhibit to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed March 20, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

(10)
Previously filed as an Exhibit to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed August 4, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

(11)
Previously filed as an Exhibit to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed February 5, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

(12)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed June 22, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference

 
 

(13)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed June 22, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference

 
 

(14)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed December 22, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

(15)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed January 6, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

(16)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed February 12, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference.

 

32
 

 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements
of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 


 
GLOBAL TELECOM & TECHNOLOGY, INC.
 

 
 
 
 

 
By:
/s/  Richard D. Calder, Jr
 

 
 
Richard D. Calder, Jr.
 

 
 
President and Chief Executive Officer
 

 
Date: March 23, 2012
 
POWER OF ATTORNEY
 
KNOW ALL PERSONS BY
THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Richard D. Calder, Jr. and Michael
R. Bauer, jointly and severally, his attorney-in-fact, each with the full power of substitution, for such person, in any and all
capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto
and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorney-in-fact and
agent full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection
therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might do or could do in person hereby ratifying and confirming all that each
of said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or his substitute, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.
 
Pursuant to the requirements
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed on or before March 23, 2012 by the following persons on behalf
of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.
 


Signature
 
Title

 
 
 

/s/ Richard D. Calder, Jr.
 
President, Chief Executive Officer and

  Richard D. Calder, Jr.
 
Director (Principal Executive Officer)

 
 
 

/s/ Michael R. Bauer
 
Principal Accounting Officer and Treasurer

  Michael R. Bauer
 
 

 
 
 

/s/ H. Brian Thompson
 
Chairman of the Board and Executive

  H. Brian Thompson
 
  Chairman

 
 
 

/s/ S. Joseph Bruno
 
Director

  S. Joseph Bruno
 
 

 
 
 

/s/ Didier Delepine
 
Director

  Didier Delepine
 
 

 
 
 

/s/ Rhodric C. Hackman
 
Director

  Rhodric C. Hackman
 
 

 
 
 

/s/ Howard Janzen
 
Director

  Howard Janzen
 
 

 
 
 

/s/ Morgan E. O’Brien
 
Director

  Morgan E. O’Brien
 
 

 
 
 

/s/ Theodore B. Smith, III
 
Director

  Theodore B. Smith, III
 
 

 

33
 

 
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 


Global Telecom & Technology, Inc.
 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
F-2

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010
F-3

Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
F-4

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
F-5

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
F-6

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
F-7

 

F-1
 

 
Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm
 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Global Telecom &
Technology, Inc.
 
We have audited the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Global Telecom & Technology, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 31,
2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity and cash flows for the years then
ended. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is
to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the
overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the
consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position
of Global Telecom & Technology, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and their consolidated results
of operations and cash flows for the years then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America.
 
/s/ J.H. Cohn LLP
 
Jericho, New York
March 23, 2012
 

F-2
 

 
Global Telecom & Technology,
Inc.
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(Amounts in thousands, except for share
and per share data)
 


  
December 31, 2011  
December 31,  2010 

  
   
  

ASSETS 
    
   

Current assets: 
    
   

Cash and cash equivalents 
$3,249  
$6,562 

Accounts receivable, net of allowances of $1,516 and $4,123, respectively 
 10,855  
 5,787 

Deferred contract costs 
 1,831  
 536 

Prepaid expenses and other current assets 
 2,197  
 1,105 

Total current assets 
 18,132  
 13,990 

Property and equipment, net 
 3,262  
 1,674 

Intangible assets, net 
 11,828  
 5,732 

Other assets 
 4,153  
 3,519 

Goodwill 
 40,950  
 29,046 

Total assets 
$78,325  
$53,961 

  
    
   

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY 
    
   

Current liabilities: 
    
   

Accounts payable 
$16,457  
$9,279 

Accrued expenses and other current liabilities 
 8,325  
 6,831 

Short-term debt 
 6,677  
 2,245 

Deferred revenue 
 6,157  
 5,898 

Total current liabilities 
 37,616  
 24,253 

  
    
   

Long-term debt 
 21,312  
 12,020 

Deferred revenue and other long-term liabilities 
 1,266  
 605 

Total liabilities 
 60,194  
 36,878 

  
    
   

Commitments and contingencies 
    
   

  
    
   

Stockholders' equity: 
    
   

Common stock, par value $.0001 per share, 80,000,000 shares authorized, 18,674,860 and 17,880,254 shares issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively 
 2  
 2 

Additional paid-in capital 
 62,442  
 61,497 

Accumulated deficit 
 (43,874) 
 (44,129)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss 
 (439) 
 (287)

Total stockholders' equity 
 18,131  
 17,083 

Total liabilities and stockholders' equity 
$78,325  
$53,961 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part
of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

F-3
 

 
Global Telecom & Technology,
Inc.
 
Consolidated Statements of Income
(Amounts in thousands, except for share
and per share data)
 


  
Year Ended December 31, 2011  
Year Ended December 31, 2010 

  
   
  

Revenue: 
    
   

Telecommunications services sold 
$91,188  
$81,075 

  
    
   

Operating expenses: 
    
   

Cost of telecommunications services provided 
 64,198  
 57,022 

Selling, general and administrative expense 
 18,597  
 18,021 

Restructuring costs, employee termination and other items 
 958  
 - 

Depreciation and amortization 
 3,896  
 2,791 

  
    
   

Total operating expenses 
 87,649  
 77,834 

  
    
   

Operating income 
 3,539  
 3,241 

  
    
   

Other income (expense): 
    
   

Interest expense, net 
 (2,491) 
 (1,407)

Other income (expense), net 
 (218) 
 (368)

Total other income (expense) 
 (2,709) 
 (1,775)

  
    
   

Income before income taxes 
 830  
 1,466 

  
    
   

Provision for income taxes 
 575  
 96 

  
    
   

Net income 
$255  
$1,370 

  
    
   

Earnings per share: 
    
   

Basic 
$0.01  
$0.08 

Diluted 
$0.01  
$0.08 

  
    
   

Weighted average shares: 
    
   

Basic 
 18,599,028  
 16,740,882 

Diluted 
 18,820,380  
 16,971,396 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part
of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

F-4
 

 
Global Telecom & Technology,
Inc.
 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’
Equity
(Amounts in thousands, except for share
and per share data)
 


  
   
   
   
   
Accumulated  
  

  
   
   
Additional  
   
Other  
  

  
Common
    Stock  
Paid-In  
Accumulated  
Comprehensive  
  

  
Shares  
Amount  
Capital  
Deficit  
Loss  
Total 

Balance, December 31, 2009 
 15,472,912  
$2  
$58,710  
$(45,499) 
$(199) 
$13,014 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Share-based compensation for options issued 
 -  
 -  
 171  
 -  
 -  
 171 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Share-based compensation for restricted stock issued 
 417,682  
 -  
 473  
 -  
 -  
 473 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Common shares issued in February 2010 units offering, net of refund 
 925,660  
 -  
 1,139  
 -  
 -  
 1,139 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Stock options exercised 
 4,000  
 -  
 1  
 -  
 -  
 1 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Shares issued in connection with December 2010 units offering 
 1,060,000  
 -  
 1,279  
 -  
 -  
 1,279 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Cancellation of shares to be issued related to the December 2009
    acquisition 
 -  
 -  
 (276) 
 -  
 -  
 (276)

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Comprehensive income (loss) 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net income 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 1,370  
 -  
 1,370 

Change in accumulated foreign currency loss on
    translation 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (88) 
 (88)

Comprehensive income 
    
    
    
    
    
 1,282 

Balance, December 31, 2010 
 17,880,254  
 2  
 61,497  
 (44,129) 
 (287) 
 17,083 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Share-based compensation for options issued 
 -  
 -  
 171  
 -  
 -  
 171 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Share-based compensation for restricted stock issued 
 384,606  
 -  
 527  
 -  
 -  
 527 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Shares issued related to December 2009 acquisition 
 210,000  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Shares issued in February 2011 units offering 
 200,000  
 -  
 247  
 -  
 -  
 247 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Comprehensive income (loss): 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net income 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 255  
 -  
 255 

Change in accumulated foreign currency translation
    loss 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (152) 
 (152)

Comprehensive income 
    
    
    
    
    
 103 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Balance, December 31, 2011 
 18,674,860  
$2  
$62,442  
$(43,874) 
$(439) 
$18,131 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part
of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

F-5
 

 
Global Telecom & Technology,
Inc.
 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(Amounts in thousands)
 


  
Year Ended 

  
December 31, 2011  
December 31, 2010 

  
   
  

Cash flows from operating activities: 
    
   

Net income 
$255  
$1,370 

  
    
   

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash used in operating activities 
    
   

Depreciation and amortization 
 3,896  
 2,791 

Shared-based compensation 
 698  
 644 

Debt discount amortization 
 316  
 - 

Change in fair value of warrant liability 
 (42) 
 - 

  
    
   

Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisition: 
    
   

Accounts receivable, net 
 (2,307) 
 3,310 

Deferred contract cost, prepaid expenses, income tax refund receivable and other current assets 
 (564) 
 (265)

Other assets 
 (108) 
 (3,120)

Accounts payable 
 2,829  
 (2,981)

Accrued expenses and other current liabilities 
 (3,124) 
 (3,988)

Deferred revenue and other long-term liabilities 
 (1,877) 
 51 

  
    
   

Net cash used in operating activities 
 (28) 
 (2,188)

  
    
   

Cash flows from investing activities: 
    
   

Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired 
 (14,604) 
 - 

 Purchase of customer list 
 (1,000) 
 - 

Purchases of property and equipment 
 (530) 
 (186)

  
    
   

Net cash used in investing activities 
 (16,134) 
 (186)

  
    
   

Cash flows from financing activities: 
    
   

Promissory note repayment 
 -  
 (250)

Principal payments on capital leases 
 (244) 
 (339)

Borrowing on line of credit 
 762  
 (740)

Repayment of term loan 
 (2,333) 
 9,500 

Payment of notes payable 
 -  
 (4,000)

Payment of convertible notes payable 
 -  
 (3,171)

Issuance of term loan, net of fees 
 14,417  
 - 

Issuance of subordinated notes 
 153  
 1,546 

Issuance of units offering common shares 
 247  
 936 

  
    
   

Net cash provided by financing activities 
 13,002  
 3,482 

  
    
   

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash 
 (153) 
 (94)

  
    
   

Net decrease (increase) in cash and cash equivalents 
 (3,313) 
 1,014 

  
    
   

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 
 6,562  
 5,548 

  
    
   

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 
$3,249  
$6,562 

  
    
   

Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information 
    
   

Cash paid for interest 
$2,175  
$559 

  
    
   

Supplemental disclosure of non cash investing and financing activities: 
    
   

  
    
   

Fair value of PacketExchange liabilities assumed (Note 3) 
$9,869  
$- 

Fair value of PacketExchange assets acquired (Note 3) 
 16,015  
 - 

Fair value of promissory note assumed in PacketExchange acquisition (Note 3) 
 709  
 - 

Non-cash increase in other assets due to the Packet Exchange acquisition 
 544  
 - 

Fair value of warrant liability (Note 4) 
 472  
 - 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part
of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

F-6
 

 
Global Telecom & Technology,
Inc.
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
NOTE 1 — ORGANIZATION AND BUSINESS
 
Organization and Business
 
Global Telecom &
Technology, Inc. (“GTT” or the “Company”) is a Delaware corporation which was incorporated on January 3,
2005. GTT is a global network operator delivering data services to large enterprise, government and carrier customers in over 80
countries worldwide. GTT provides customers with innovative connectivity solutions by utilizing our own network assets - linking
over 100 Points of Presence across North America, Europe and Asia - and extending them through our 800 partners worldwide. Our
Network as a Service proposition delivers flexible, reliable and scalable network infrastructure, capable of both public and secure
private networking. We simplify network deployment by removing the complexity of multi-vendor solutions while offering the cost
efficiencies of a single partner. For over 14 years GTT has provided world class project management, rapid service implementation
and global 24/7 end-to-end solution monitoring and support. GTT is headquartered in the Washington, DC metro region with offices
in London, Dusseldorf, and Denver.
 
GTT serves as the holding
company for two operating subsidiaries, Global Telecom & Technology Americas, Inc. (“GTTA”) and GTT —
EMEA Ltd. (“GTTE”) and their respective subsidiaries (collectively, hereinafter, the “Company”).
 
NOTE 2 — SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
Basis of Presentation of Consolidated Financial
Statements and Use of Estimates
 
The consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of the Company, GTTA, GTTE, and GTTA’s and GTTE’s operating subsidiaries. All significant
intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
GTTA’s subsidiaries
include:
 
GTT Global
Telecom Government Services, LLC
 
WBS Connect
LLC
 
TEK Channel
Consulting, LLC
 
PEUSA
 
PEINC
 
GTTE’s subsidiaries
include:
 
European Telecommunications &
Technology Inc., a Delaware corporation
 
Global
Telecom & Technology Deutschland GmbH (formerly called ETT European Telecommunications & Technology Deutschland
GmbH), a German corporation
 
ETT (European
Telecommunications & Technology) Private Limited, an Indian corporation
 
European Telecommunications &
Technology (S) Pte Limited, a Singapore corporation
 
ETT Network
Services Limited, a United Kingdom corporation
 

F-7
 

 
WBS Connect
Europe, Ltd.
 
PEIRL PacketExchange
Ireland
 
PEX Hong Kong
 
PEX KK (Japan)
 
PEX (Singapore)
 
PEEL PacketExchange
Europe
 
PEUK PacketExchange,
Ltd.
 
PEML PacketExchange
Metro
 
The preparation of the
consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during
the reporting period. Significant accounting estimates to be made by management include allowances for doubtful accounts, valuation
of goodwill and other long-lived assets, accrual for billing disputes, and valuation of equity instruments. Because of the uncertainty
inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
The Company provides
data connectivity solutions, such as dedicated circuit access, access aggregation and hubbing and managed network services to its
customers. Certain of the Company’s current revenue activities have features that may be considered multiple elements. The
Company believes that there is insufficient evidence to determine each element’s fair value and as a result, in those arrangements
where there are multiple elements, revenue is recorded ratably over the term of the arrangement.
 
Network Services
and Support.  The Company’s services are provided pursuant to contracts that typically provide for payments
of recurring charges on a monthly basis for use of the services over a committed term. Each service contract has a fixed monthly
cost and a fixed term, in addition to a fixed installation charge (if applicable). At the end of the initial term of most service
contracts the contracts roll forward on a month-to-month or other periodic basis and continue to bill at the same fixed recurring
rate. If any cancellation or termination charges become due from the customer as a result of early cancellation or termination
of a service contract, those amounts are calculated pursuant to a formula specified in each contract. Recurring costs relating
to supply contracts are recognized ratably over the term of the contract.
 
Non-recurring Fees,
Deferred Revenue.  Non-recurring fees for data connectivity typically take the form of one-time, non-refundable provisioning
fees established pursuant to service contracts. The amount of the provisioning fee included in each contract is generally determined
by marking up or passing through the corresponding charge from the Company’s supplier, imposed pursuant to the Company’s
purchase agreement. Non-recurring revenue earned for providing provisioning services in connection with the delivery of recurring
communications services is recognized ratably over the contractual term of the recurring service starting upon commencement of
the service contract term. Fees recorded or billed from these provisioning services are initially recorded as deferred revenue
then recognized ratably over the contractual term of the recurring service. Installation costs related to provisioning incurred
by the Company from independent third party suppliers, directly attributable and necessary to fulfill a particular service contract,
and which costs would not have been incurred but for the occurrence of that service contract, are recorded as deferred contract
costs and expensed proportionally over the contractual term of service in the same manner as the deferred revenue arising from
that contract. Deferred costs do not exceed deferred upfront fees. Based on operating activity, the Company believes the initial
contractual term is the best estimate of the period of earnings.
 

F-8
 

 
Other Revenue.  From
time to time, the Company recognizes revenue in the form of fixed or determinable cancellation (pre-installation) or termination
(post-installation) charges imposed pursuant to the service contract. This revenue is earned when a customer cancels or terminates
a service agreement prior to the end of its committed term. This revenue is recognized when billed if collectibility is reasonably
assured. In addition, the Company from time to time sells equipment in connection with data networking applications. The Company
recognizes revenue from the sale of equipment at the contracted selling price when title to the equipment passes to the customer
(generally F.O.B. origin) and when collectibility is reasonably assured.
 
Translation of Foreign Currencies
 
These consolidated financial
statements have been reported in U.S. Dollars by translating asset and liability amounts of foreign subsidiaries at the closing
exchange rate, equity amounts at historical rates, and the results of operations and cash flow at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the periods reported.
 
A summary of exchange
rates used is as follows:
 


  
U.S. Dollars / British Pounds Sterling  
U.S. Dollars / Euro 

  
2011  
2010  
2011  
2010 

  
   
   
   
  

Closing exchange rate at December 31 
 1.55  
 1.55  
 1.29  
 1.33 

  
    
    
    
   

Average exchange rate during the period 
 1.60  
 1.55  
 1.39  
 1.33 

 
Transactions denominated
in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at the time of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences
arising upon settlement of a transaction are reported in the consolidated statements of operations in other income.
 
Other Income (Expense), Net
 
The Company recognized
other expense, net of income, of $218,000 and $368,000 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, primarily
comprised of the unrealized and realized transactional gains and losses on foreign exchange.
 
Accounts Receivable, Net
 
Accounts receivable
balances are stated at amounts due from the customer net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. Credit extended is based on an
evaluation of the customer’s financial condition and is granted to qualified customers on an unsecured basis.
 
The Company, pursuant
to its standard service contracts, is entitled to impose a finance charge of a certain percentage per month with respect to all
amounts that are past due. The Company’s standard terms require payment within 30 days of the date of the invoice. The
Company treats invoices as past due when they remain unpaid, in whole or in part, beyond the payment time set forth in the applicable
service contract.
 
The Company determines
its allowance for doubtful accounts by considering a number of factors, including the length of time trade receivables are past
due, the customer’s current ability to pay its obligation to the Company, and the condition of the general economy and the
industry as a whole. Specific reserves are also established on a case-by-case basis by management. The Company writes off accounts
receivable when they become uncollectible. Credit losses have historically been within management’s expectations. Actual
bad debts, when determined, reduce the allowance, the adequacy of which management then reassesses. The Company writes off accounts
after a determination by management that the amounts at issue are no longer likely to be collected, following the exercise of reasonable
collection efforts, and upon management’s determination that the costs of pursuing collection outweigh the likelihood of
recovery. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the total allowance for doubtful accounts was $1.5 million and $4.1 million,
respectively.
 

F-9
 

 
Other Comprehensive Income
 
In addition to net income,
comprehensive income (loss) includes charges or credits to equity occurring other than as a result of transactions with stockholders.
For the Company, this consists of foreign currency translation adjustments.
 
Share-Based Compensation
 
Accounting Standards
Codification (“ASC”) Topic 718, Compensation — Stock Compensation requires the Company to measure
and recognize compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and directors based on estimated fair values.
 
Share-based compensation
expense recognized under ASC Topic 718 was $0.7 million for both the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. For the
years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, share-based compensation expense related to stock option grants were both approximately
$0.2 million.  Share-based compensation expense related to restricted stock awards were $0.5 million for both of the years
ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. Share-based compensation expense is included in selling general and administrative expense on
the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. See Note 10 for additional information.
 
ASC Topic 718 requires
companies to estimate the fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model. The value
of the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest is recognized as expense over the requisite service periods in
the Company’s consolidated statement of operations.
 
Share-based compensation
expense recognized in the Company’s consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011 and
2010, included compensation expense for share-based payment awards based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with
the provisions of ASC Topic 718. The Company follows the straight-line single option method of attributing the value of stock-based
compensation to expense. As stock-based compensation expense recognized in the consolidated statement of operations for the years
ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for estimated forfeitures.
ASC Topic 718 requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual
forfeitures differ from those estimates.
 
The Company uses the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model as its method of valuation for share-based awards granted. The Company’s determination
of fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected by the Company’s
stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not
limited to; the Company’s expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards and the expected term of the awards.
 
The Company accounts
for non-employee stock-based compensation expense in accordance with ASC Topic 505, Equity — Based Payments
to Non-Employees. The Company did not issue any grants to non-employees in 2011. The Company issued non-employee grants of
107,502 shares in 2010.
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
Included in cash and
cash equivalents are deposits with financial institutions as well as short-term money market instruments, certificates of deposit
and debt instruments with maturities of three months or less when purchased.
 
Accounting for Derivative Instruments
 
The Company accounts
for derivative instruments in accordance with ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging, which establishes accounting and reporting
standards for derivative instruments and hedging activities, including certain derivative instruments imbedded in other financial
instruments or contracts. The Company also considers the ASC 815 Subtopic 40, Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity,
which provides criteria for determining whether freestanding contracts that are settled in a company’s own stock, including
common stock warrants, should be designated as either an equity instrument, an asset or as a liability.
 
The Company also considers
in ASC 815, the guidance for determining whether an equity-linked financial instrument (or embedded feature) issued by an entity
is indexed to the entity’s stock, and therefore, qualifying for the first part of the scope exception in paragraph 15-74
of ASC 718, Compensation—Stock Compensation. As a result, the Company recorded a warrant liability in the amount of
$472,000 in 2011. At December 31, 2011, the warrant liability was marked to market which resulted in a gain of $42,000. The balance
of the warrant liability was $430,000 at December 31, 2011, which is included in other long-term liabilities.  
 

F-10
 

 
Taxes
 
The Company accounts
for income taxes in accordance with ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes. Under ASC Topic 740, deferred tax assets are recognized
for future deductible temporary differences and for net operating loss and tax credit carry-forwards, and deferred tax liabilities
are recognized for temporary differences that will result in taxable amounts in future years. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
are measured using the enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the periods in which the deferred tax asset or
liability is expected to be realized or settled. A valuation allowance is provided to offset the net deferred tax asset if, based
upon the available evidence, management determines that it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax asset will
not be realized.
  
The Company may, from
time to time, be assessed interest and/or penalties by taxing jurisdictions, although any such assessments historically have been
minimal and immaterial to its financial results. The Company’s federal tax returns for 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 are still
open. In the event the Company has received an assessment for interest and/or penalties, it has been classified in the statements
of operations as other general and administrative costs.
 
The Company is liable
in certain cases for collecting regulatory fees and/or certain sales taxes from its customers and remitting the fees and taxes
to the applicable governing authorities. The Company records taxes applicable under ASC Topic 605, Subtopic 45, Revenue Recognition —
Principal Agent Considerations, on a net basis.
 
Net Income Per Share
 
Basic income per share
is computed by dividing income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted
earnings per share reflect, in periods with earnings and in which they have a dilutive effect, the effect of common shares issuable
upon exercise of stock options and warrants.
 
The table below details
the calculations of earnings per share (in thousands, except per share data):
  


  
Year Ended December 31, 

  
2011  
2010 

Numerator for basic and diluted EPS – income available to common stockholders 
$255  
$1,370 

Denominator for basic EPS – weighted average shares 
 18,599  
 16,741 

Effect of dilutive securities 
 221  
 230 

Denominator for diluted EPS – weighted average shares 
 18,820  
 16,971 

  
    
   

Earnings per share: Basic and diluted 
$0.01  
$0.08

  

F-11
 

 
The table below details
the anti-dilutive items that were excluded in the computation of earnings per share (in thousands): 
 


  
Year Ended December 31, 

  
2011  
2010 

Class Z warrants 
 12,090  
 12,090 

Stock options 
 658  
 504 

Totals 
 12,748  
 12,594 

 
At December 31,
2011 and 2010, we had 12,090,000 Class Z warrants outstanding, each of which entitles the holder to purchase a share of our
common stock at an exercise price of $5.00 per share on or before April 10, 2012.
 
Software Capitalization
 
Internal Use Software —
The Company recognizes internal use software in accordance with ASC Topic 350-40, Internal-Use Software, which requires
that certain costs incurred in purchasing or developing software for internal use be capitalized as internal use software development
costs and included in fixed assets. Amortization of the software begins when the software is ready for its intended use.
 
Property and Equipment
 
Property and equipment
are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation computed using the straight-line method. Depreciation on these assets is computed
over the estimated useful lives of the assets ranging from three to seven years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the
shorter of the term of the lease, excluding optional extensions, or the useful life. Depreciable lives used by the Company for
its classes of assets are as follows:
 


Furniture and Fixtures
7 years

Telecommunication Equipment
5 years

Leasehold Improvements
up to 10 years

Computer Hardware and Software
3-5 years

Internal Use Software
3 years

 
Goodwill
 
Goodwill is the excess
purchase price paid over identified intangible and tangible net assets of acquired businesses. Goodwill is not amortized, and is
tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually or when there are any indications of impairment, as required by ASC
Topic 350, Intangibles — Goodwill and Other. ASC Topic 350 provides guidance on financial accounting and reporting
related to goodwill and other intangibles, other than the accounting at acquisition for goodwill and other intangibles. A reporting
unit is an operating segment, or component of an operating segment, for which discrete financial information is available and is
regularly reviewed by management. We have one reporting unit to which goodwill is assigned.
 
In September 2011, the
FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2011-08, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing
Goodwill for Impairment. ASU 2011-08 is intended to simplify how entities, both public and nonpublic, test goodwill for impairment.
ASU 2011-08 permits an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is “more likely than not”
that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to
perform the two-step goodwill impairment test described in Topic 350, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other. The first step tests
for impairment by applying fair value-based tests. The second step, if deemed necessary, measures the impairment by applying fair
value-based tests to specific assets and liabilities. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires significant judgments
including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth
for the Company, the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of the Company’s cost of capital. Changes
in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and conclusions on goodwill impairment.
 

F-12
 

 
Intangibles
 
Intangible assets are
accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 350 and ASC Topic 360-10-35, Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets. ASC
Topic 360-10-35 provides guidance for recognition and measurement of the impairment of long-lived assets to be held, used and disposed
of by sale. Intangible assets arose from business combinations and consist of customer contracts, acquired technology and restrictive
covenants related to employment agreements that are amortized, on a straight-line basis, over periods of up to five years.
 
In accordance with ASC
Topic 350, the Company reviews long-lived assets to be held and used for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated
future undiscounted cash flows the asset is considered to be impaired. Impairment losses are measured as the amount by which the
carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying
amount or fair value less costs to sell.
 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
 
The fair values of the
Company’s assets and liabilities that qualify as financial instruments under ASC Topic 825, Financial Instruments,
including cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, short-term debt, and accrued expenses are carried at
cost, which approximates fair value due to the short-term maturity of these instruments. The reported amounts of long-term obligations
approximate fair value, given management’s evaluation of the instruments’ current rates compared to market rates of
interest and other factors.
 
Accrued Carrier Expenses
 
The Company accrues
estimated charges owed to its suppliers for services. The Company bases this accrual on the supplier contract, the individual service
order executed with the supplier for that service, the length of time the service has been active, and the overall supplier relationship.
 
Disputed Carrier Expenses
 
It is common in the
telecommunications industry for users and suppliers to engage in disputes over amounts billed (or not billed) in error or over
interpretation of contract terms. The disputed carrier cost included in the consolidated financial statements includes disputed
but unresolved amounts claimed as due by suppliers, unless management is confident, based upon its experience and its review of
the relevant facts and contract terms, that the outcome of the dispute will not result in liability for the Company. Management
estimates this liability and reconciles the estimates with actual results as disputes are resolved, or as the appropriate statute
of limitations with respect to a given dispute expires.
 
For the year ended
December 31, 2011, open disputes totaled approximately $3.4 million. Based upon its experience with each vendor and similar
disputes in the past, and based upon management review of the facts and contract terms applicable to each dispute, management has
determined that the most likely outcome is that the Company will be liable for approximately $1.3 million in connection with these
disputes as of December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2010, open disputes totaled approximately $1.9 million and the Company determined
the liability from these disputes to be $0.7 million.
 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 
In May 2011, the FASB
issued ASU No. 2011-04, Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs,
which amends the current fair value measurement and disclosure guidance of ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement, to include
increased transparency around valuation inputs and investment categorization. The guidance provided in ASU No. 2011-04 is effective
prospectively for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company does not expect the adoption of these
provisions to have a material impact on its consolidated statements of income and balance sheets.
 
In June 2011, the
FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220)—Presentation of Comprehensive Income (ASU 2011-05).
ASU 2011-05 eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in
stockholders’ equity. Instead, ASU 2011-05 requires entities to report all non-owner changes in stockholders’ equity
in either a single continuous statement of comprehensive income, or in two separate, but consecutive statements. ASU 2011-05 does
not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income, or when an item must be reclassified to net income.  ASU
2011-05 requires retrospective application and is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning
after December 15, 2011. Other than the presentational changes that will be required by ASU 2011-05, the adoption of ASU 2011-05
is not expected to have an impact on our consolidated financial statements.
 

F-13
 

 
In September 2011,
the FASB has issued ASU No. 2011-08, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment. ASU
2011-08 is intended to simplify how entities, both public and nonpublic, test goodwill for impairment. ASU 2011-08 permits an entity
to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is “more likely than not” that the fair value of a reporting
unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment
test described in Topic 350, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other. The more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood
of more than 50%. ASU 2011-08 is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2011. The Company has early adopted the provisions of the ASU and, accordingly, has performed an assessment
of qualitative factors further discussed in Note 5.
 
Management does not
believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards if currently adopted would have a material effect
on the Company’s consolidated financial statements or the Company’s future results of operations.
 
NOTE 3 — ACQUISITION
 
On June 6, 2011, GTT
acquired privately-held PacketExchange. Based in London, PacketExchange provides customized Ethernet network solutions for approximately
500 customers worldwide.  PacketExchange‘s redundant network stretches across over 20 major cities in Europe, the
United States and Asia.
 
The Company accounted
for the acquisition using the purchase method of accounting with GTT treated as the acquiring entity. Accordingly, consideration
paid by the Company to complete the acquisition of PacketExchange has been allocated to PacketExchange’s assets and liabilities
based upon their estimated fair values as of the date of completion of the acquisition, June 6, 2011. The Company estimated the
fair value of PacketExchange’s assets and liabilities based on discussions with PacketExchange’s management, due diligence
and information presented in financial statements.  The intangible assets acquired were related to customer relationships.
 


  
Amounts in thousands 

Purchase Price: 
   

Debt extinguished by GTT at closing 
$11,767 

Accrued liabilities extinguished by GTT at closing 
 4,074 

Total cash consideration 
 15,841 

Fair value of liabilities assumed 
 9,869 

Fair value of debt assumed 
 709 

Fair value of deferred consideration 
 1,500 

Total consideration rendered 
$27,919 

  
   

Purchase Price Allocation: 
   

Acquired Assets: 
   

Current assets, including cash acquired of $1,238 
$5,823 

Property and equipment 
 2,455 

Intangible assets 
 7,578 

Other assets 
 159 

Total fair value of assets acquired 
 16,015 

Goodwill 
 11,904 

Total consideration 
$27,919 

 

F-14
 

 
The following schedule presents unaudited
consolidated pro forma results of operations as if the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2010. This information does not purport
to be indicative of the actual results that would have occurred if the acquisition had actually been completed January 1, 2010,
nor is it necessarily indicative of the future operating results or the financial position of the combined company. The unaudited
pro forma results of operations do not reflect the cost of any integration activities or benefits that may result from synergies
that may be derived from any integration activities.
 


  
Year Ended December 31, 

  
2011  
2010 

Amounts in thousands, except per share data 
   
  

Revenue 
$101,919  
$108,431 

  
    
   

Net loss 
$(528) 
$(1,143)

  
    
   

Net loss per share: 
    
   

Basic 
$(0.03) 
$(0.07)

Diluted 
$(0.03) 
$(0.07)

  
    
   

Basic 
 18,599,028  
 16,740,882 

Diluted 
 18,599,028  
 16,740,882 

 

During the year ended December 31,
2011, the Company settled outstanding contingent consideration resulting from the 2009 acquisition. The Company
issued 210,000 shares of common stock, which had been fair valued as part of the purchase price allocation, and as such, no further
charges were recorded.
 
NOTE 4 — FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
 
The Company accounts
for fair value measurements in accordance with ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements, as it relates to financial assets and financial
liabilities. ASC 820 establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. ASC 820 applies under other previously issued accounting
pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements but does not require any new fair value measurements.
 
  ASC 820 defines
fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
market participants at the measurement date. ASC 820 establishes a fair value hierarchy that distinguishes between (1) market participant
assumptions developed based on market data obtained from independent sources (observable inputs) and (2) an entity’s own
assumptions about market participant assumptions developed based on the best information available in the circumstances (unobservable
inputs).
 
The fair value hierarchy
consists of three broad levels, which gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets
or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). The three levels of the fair value hierarchy
under ASC 820 are described as follows:
 


 
·
Level 1- Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that are accessible at the measurement date.

 
 
 

 
·
Level 2- Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability; and inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means.

 
 
 

 
·
Level 3- Inputs that are unobservable for the asset or liability.

 
The following section describes the valuation
methodologies that we used to measure financial instruments at fair value.
 

F-15
 

 
The Company considers
the valuation of its warrant liability as a Level 3 liability based on unobservable inputs. The Company uses the Black-Scholes
pricing model to measure the fair value of the warrant liability. The model required the input of highly subjective assumptions
including volatility of 64%, expected term of 5 years, risk-free interest rate of 1.6% and a dividend yield of 0%.
 
The following table
presents the liabilities that are measured and recognized at fair value on a recurring basis classified under the appropriate level
of the fair value hierarchy as of December 31, 2011:
 


  
Level 1  
Level 2  
Level 3  
Total 

Liabilities: 
    
    
    
   

Warrant liability 
$—  
$—  
$430,000  
$430,000 

 
Rollforward of Level 3 liabilities are
as follows:
 


Balance at December 31, 2010 
$- 

Issuance of warrants 
 472,000 

Change in fair value of warrant liability 
 (42,000)

Balance at December 31, 2011 
$430,000 

 
The carrying amounts of cash equivalents,
investments, receivables, accounts payable, and accrued expenses approximate fair value due to the immediate or short-term maturity
of these financial instruments. The fair value of notes payable is determined using current applicable rates for similar instruments
as of the balance sheet date and approximates the carrying value of such debt.
 
NOTE 5 — GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
During the third quarter
of 2011, the Company completed its annual goodwill impairment testing in accordance with ASC Topic 350. In September 2011, the
FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment. The amendments
in the ASU permit an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value
of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step
goodwill impairment test described in Topic 350.
 
After performing the
qualitative assessment, the Company determined that the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not greater than its
carrying amount, and therefore the first and second steps of the goodwill impairment test are unnecessary and concluded that no
impairment existed.
 
During the second quarter
of 2011, the Company recorded goodwill in the amount of $11.9 million in connection with the PacketExchange acquisition. Additionally,
$7.6 million of the purchase price was allocated to intangible assets related to customer relationships which are subject
to straight-line amortization.
 
During the third quarter
of 2011, the Company entered into a sales novation agreement which assigned and transferred to the Company certain service level
agreements and all rights under those agreements, as well as certain supply agreements and obligations there under. The Company
valued the customer relationships from the novation and recorded $1.0 million in intangible assets.
 

F-16
 

 
 The following table
summarizes the Company’s intangible assets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 (amounts in thousands):
 


  
   
December 31, 2011 

  
Amortization  
Gross Asset  
Accumulated  
Net Book 

  
Period  
Cost  
Amortization  
Value 

Customer contracts 
 4-7 years  
$13,384  
$2,827  
$10,557 

Carrier contracts 
 1 year  
 151  
 151  
 - 

Noncompete agreements 
 4-5 years  
 3,531  
 3,384  
 147 

Software 
 7 years  
 4,935  
 3,811  
 1,124 

  
    
$22,001  
$10,173  
$11,828 

 


  
   
December 31, 2010 

  
Amortization  
Gross Asset  
Accumulated  
Net Book 

  
Period  
Cost  
Amortization  
Value 

Customer contracts 
 4-5 years  
$4,800  
$1,186  
$3,614 

Carrier contracts 
 1 year  
 151  
 151  
 - 

Noncompete agreements 
 4-5 years  
 3,531  
 3,165  
 366 

Software 
 7 years  
 4,935  
 3,183  
 1,752 

  
    
$13,417  
$7,685  
$5,732 

 
Amortization expense
was $2.5 million and $1.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Estimated amortization
expense related to intangible assets subject to amortization at December 31, 2011 in each of the years subsequent to December 31,
2011 is as follows (amounts in thousands):
 


2012 
$2,889 

2013 
 2,753 

2014 
 2,149 

2015 
 1,286 

2016 
 1,217 

Thereafter 
 1,534 

Total 
$11,828 

 
The following table
summarizes the Company’s goodwill activity during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (amounts in thousands):
 


Balance December 31, 2009 
$29,156 

Measurement period adjustment related to the December 2009 acquisition 
 (110)

Balance December 31, 2010 
 29,046 

Goodwill associated with the PacketExchange acquisition 
 11,904 

Balance December 31, 2011 
$40,950 

 

F-17
 

 
NOTE 6 — PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
 
The following table
summarizes the Company’s property and equipment at December 31, 2011 and 2010 (amounts in thousands):
 


  
2011  
2010 

Network equipment 
$6,840  
$3,803 

Computer software 
 617  
 528 

Leasehold improvements 
 527  
 527 

Furniture and fixtures 
 248  
 248 

Property and equipment, gross 
 8,232  
 5,106 

Less accumulated depreciation and amortization 
 (4,970) 
 (3,432)

  
    
   

Property and equipment, net 
$3,262  
$1,674 

 
Depreciation expense
associated with property and equipment was $1.4 million and $0.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and
2010, respectively.
 
NOTE 7 — ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER CURRENT
LIABILITIES
 
The following table
summarizes the Company’s accrued expenses and other current liabilities as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 (amounts in
thousands):
 


  
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Accrued compensation and benefits 
$1,280  
$1,217 

Accrued interest payable 
 144  
 184 

Accrued taxes 
 856  
 1,343 

Accrued carrier costs 
 4,258  
 3,792 

Accrued other 
 1,787  
 295 

  
    
   

  
$8,325  
$6,831 

 
NOTE 8 — INCOME TAXES

 
The components of the
provision for (benefit from) income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows (amounts in thousands):
 

F-18
 

 


  
2011  
2010 

Current: 
    
   

Federal 
$41 
$70 

State 
 31  
 26 

Foreign 
 308  
 - 

  
    
   

Subtotal 
 380  
 96 

  
    
   

Deferred: 
    
   

Federal 
 271  
 (452)

State 
 500  
 (58)

Foreign 
 104  
 545 

  
    
   

Subtotal 
 875  
 35 

  
    
   

Change in Valuation Allowance 
 (680) 
 (35)

  
    
   

Provision for income taxes 
$575  
$96 

 
The provision for income
taxes differs from the amount computed by applying the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to income before income taxes
for the reasons set forth below for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 


  
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

US federal statutory income tax rate 
 35.00% 
 35.00%

Permanent items 
 1.57   
 0.00 

State taxes, net of federal benefit 
 7.58  
 -2.81 

Foreign tax rate differential 
 9.95  
 -21.06 

Change in valuation allowance 
 -64.88  
 -12.12 

Stock compensation shortfalls 
 46.68  
 0.00 

Intangibles 
 28.16  
 0.00 

Other Items 
 5.28  
 7.57 

  
    
   

Effective Tax Rate 
 69.34% 
 6.58%


 
In 2011, income before
income taxes of $0.8 million consisted of $0.4 million domestic and $0.4 million foreign income. In 2010, income before income
taxes of $1.5 million consisted of $0.4 million domestic and $1.1 million foreign income.
 
As of December 31,
2011, the Company has net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards of approximately $22.2 million for tax purposes
which will be available to offset future income. The NOL carryforwards consist of $19.2 million in foreign NOL carryforward and
$3.0 million in U.S. NOL carryforward. If not used, these carryforwards will expire between 2020 and 2029. The Company’s
U.S. NOL carryforward may be significantly limited under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”).
NOL carryforwards are limited under Section 382 when there is a significant “ownership change” as defined in the
IRC. During 2006, the Company experienced such an ownership change.
 


F-19
 

 
Deferred income taxes
reflect the net effects of net operating loss carryforwards and the temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets
and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of the Company’s
deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows (amounts in thousands):
 


  
2011  
2010 

Deferred tax assets: 
    
   

Net operating loss carryforwards 
$5,951  
$5,201 

Allowance for doubtful accounts 
 315  
 260 

Fixed assets 
 394  
 338 

Stock compensation 
 440  
 1,325 

Miscellaneous items 
 155  
 150 

Total deferred tax assets before valuation allowance 
 7,255  
 7,274 

Less: valuation allowance 
 (6,059) 
 (6,739)

Total deferred tax assets 
 1,196  
 535 

  
    
   

Deferred tax liabilities: 
    
   

Identified intangibles 
 1,349  
 345 

Miscellaneous items 
 211  
 190 

Total deferred tax liabilities 
 1,560  
 535 

  
    
   

Net deferred tax liability 
$364  
$- 

 
ASC Topic 740 provides
for the recognition of deferred tax assets if realization of such assets is more likely than not. The Company believes that it
is more likely than not that all of the deferred tax assets will be realized against future taxable income but does not have objective
evidence to support this future assumption. Based upon the weight of available evidence, which includes the Company’s historical
operating performance and the reported accumulated net losses to date, the Company has provided a full valuation allowance against
its deferred tax assets, except to the extent that those assets are expected to be realized through continuing amortization of
the Company’s deferred tax liabilities for intangible assets.
 
The majority of the
Company’s valuation allowance relates to deferred tax assets in the United Kingdom, the United States, France and Germany.
 
The Company does not
expect to remit earnings from its foreign subsidiaries. Earnings are considered to be permanently reinvested and, accordingly,
no U.S. federal and state income taxes have been provided thereon. Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of dividends
or otherwise, the Company could be subject to both U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and withholding
taxes payable to various foreign countries.
 
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had no uncertain tax positions.
 
NOTE 9 — RESTRUCTURING COSTS, EMPLOYEE
TERMINATION AND OTHER ITEMS
 
During the year ended
December 31, 2011, the Company incurred costs associated with executing and closing the PacketExchange acquisition, including legal
fees, professional fees, transfer taxes and travel.  The Company also incurred costs associated with closing certain
PacketExchange facilities.
  

F-20
 

 
The restructuring charges and accruals
established by the Company, and activities related thereto, are summarized as follows (amounts in thousands): 
 


  
Charges net of reversals  
Cash
Payments  
Total 

Balance, December 31, 2010 
$-  
$-  
$- 

Legal, advisory, consulting fees 
 457  
 (418) 
 39 

Transfer taxes and related fees 
 153  
 (153) 
 - 

Lease abandonment 
 329  
 (211) 
 118 

Travel and other expenses 
 19  
 (19) 
 - 

Balance, December 31, 2011 
$958  
$(801) 
$157 

 
The majority of the remaining balance of
restructuring costs as of December 31, 2011 is expected to be paid in 2012.
 
NOTE 10 — EMPLOYEE SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION
BENEFITS
 
Stock-Based Compensation Plan
 
The Company adopted
its 2006 Employee, Director and Consultant Stock Plan (the “2006 Plan”) in October 2006. In addition to stock options,
the Company may also grant restricted stock or other stock-based awards under the 2006 Plan. The maximum number of shares issuable
over the term of the 2006 Plan is limited to 3,500,000 shares.
 
The Company adopted
its 2011 Employee, Director and Consultant Stock Plan (the “2011 Plan”) in June 2011.  In addition to stock
options, the Company may also grant restricted stock or other stock-based awards under the 2011 Plan. The maximum number of shares
issuable over the term of the 2011 Plan is limited to 3,000,000 shares.  The 2006 Plan will continue according to its
terms.
 
The Plan permits the
granting of stock options and restricted stock to employees (including employee directors and officers) and consultants of the
Company, and non-employee directors of the Company. Options granted under the Plan have an exercise price of at least 100% of the
fair market value of the underlying stock on the grant date and expire no later than ten years from the grant date. The options
generally vest over four years with 25% of the option shares becoming exercisable one year from the date of grant and the remaining
75% annually or quarterly over the following three years. The Compensation committee of the Board of Directors, as administrator
of the Plan, has the discretion to use a different vesting schedule.
 
Stock Options
 
Due to the Company’s
limited history as a public company, the Company has estimated expected volatility based on the historical volatility of certain
comparable companies as determined by management. The risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon observed interest rates
at the time of grant appropriate for the term of the Company’s employee stock options. The dividend yield assumption is based
on the Company’s intent not to issue a dividend under its dividend policy. The Company uses the simplified method under ASC
Topic 718, Compensation — Stock Compensation, to estimate the options’ expected term. Assumptions used
in the calculation of the stock option expense were as follows:
  


  
2011  
2010 

Volatility 
 59.8% - 92.4% 
 93.5% - 97.2% 

Risk free rate 
 1.2% - 2.5%  
 1.5% - 3.0% 

Term 
 6.25  
 6.25 

Dividend yield 
 0.0% 
 0.0%

 
Stock-based compensation
expense recognized in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 is based
on awards ultimately expected to vest, reduced for estimated forfeitures. ASC Topic 718 requires forfeitures to be estimated at
the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Forfeiture
assumptions were based upon management’s estimate.
 

F-21
 

 
The fair value of each
stock option grant to employees is estimated on the date of grant. The fair value of each stock option grant to non-employees is
estimated on the applicable performance commitment date, performance completion date or interim financial reporting date.
 
During both of the years
ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company recognized compensation expense of $0.2 million, related to stock options
issued to employees and consultants, which is included in selling, general and administrative expense on the accompanying consolidated
statements of operations.
 
During the year ended
December 31, 2011, 313,000 options were granted pursuant to the Plan. The following table summarizes information concerning
options outstanding as of December 31, 2011:
 


  
   
   
   
Weighted Average  
  

  
   
Weighted Average  
Weighted Average  
Remaining Contractual  
Aggregate Intrinsic 

  
Options  
Exercise Price  
Fair Value  
Life (Years)  
Value 

  
   
   
   
   
  

Balance at December 31, 2010 
 880,156  
$1.20  
$0.86  
 7.86  
$281,330 

Granted 
 313,500  
 1.21  
 0.91  
 -  
 - 

Exercised 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Forfeited 
 (125,999) 
 1.16  
 0.39  
 -  
 - 

Balance at December 31, 2011 
 1,067,657  
$1.20  
$0.87  
 7.56  
$228,298 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Exercisable 
 280,196  
$0.54  
$0.40  
 6.56  
$180,003 

 
The Company expects the total options outstanding at
December 31, 2011 to vest.
 
As of December 31,
2011, the unvested portion of share-based compensation expense attributable to stock options and the period in which such expense
is expected to vest and be recognized is as follows (amounts in thousands):
 


Year ending December 2012 
$147 

Year ending December 2013 
 130 

Year ending December 2014 
 82 

Year ending December 2015 
 13 

Total 
$372 

 
The fair value of share
based compensation for options that vested as of December 31, 2011 was $0.4 million.
 
Restricted Stock
 
The Company expenses
restricted shares granted in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 718. The fair value of the restricted shares issued is
amortized on a straight-line basis over the vesting periods. During both of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the
Company recognized compensation expense related to restricted stock of $0.5 million, which is included in selling, general
and administrative expense on the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
 

F-22
 

 
The following table summarizes restricted
stock activity during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010: 
 


  
2011  
2010 

  
   
Weighted  
   
Weighted 

  
   
Average  
   
Average 

  
   
Fair  
   
Fair 

  
Shares  
Value  
Shares  
Value 

Nonvested Balance at January 1, 
 667,499  
$0.91  
 667,499  
$0.91 

Granted 
 386,387  
 1.20  
 417,682  
 1.24 

Forfeited 
 (90,375) 
 1.07  
 -  
 - 

Vested 
 (376,422) 
 1.19  
 (417,682) 
 1.19 

Nonvested Balance at December 31, 
 587,089  
$0.91  
 667,499  
$0.91 

 
As of December 31,
2011, the unvested portion of share-based compensation expense attributable to restricted stock amounts to $0.4 million which
is expected to vest and be recognized during a weighted-average period of 1.3 years.
 
NOTE 11 — DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLAN
 
The Company has a defined
contribution retirement plan under Section 401(k) of the IRC that covers substantially all US based employees. Eligible employees
may contribute amounts to the plan, via payroll withholding, subject to certain limitations. During 2011 and 2010, the Company
matched 35% and 25%, respectively, of employees’ contributions to the plan. The Company’s 401(k) expense was $59,000
in 2011 and $63,000 in 2010.
 
NOTE 12 — DEBT
 
The following summarizes
the debt activity of the Company during 2011 (amounts in thousands):
 


  
Total Debt  
SVB Term Loan  
SVB Line of
    Credit  
BIA Note  
Subordinated
    Notes  
Capital Lease/
    Promissory Note 

  
   
   
   
   
   
  

Debt obligation as of December 31, 2010 
$14,265  
$9,500  
$2,338  
$-  
$2,183  
$244 

Subordinated notes issuance 
 153  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 153  
 - 

Issuance of BIA Note, net of discount 
 8,028  
 -  
 -  
 8,028  
 -  
 - 

Debt discount amortization 
 316  
 -  
 -  
 50  
 266  
 - 

Draw on Line of Credit 
 762  
 -  
 762  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Increase in SVB Term Loan 
 6,333  
 6,333  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Repayment of SVB Term Loan 
 (2,333) 
 (2,333) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Principal payments on capital lease 
 (244) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (244)

Seller Note Assumed 
 709  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 709 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Debt obligation as of December 31, 2011 
$27,989  
$13,500  
$3,100  
$8,078  
$2,602  
$709 

 

F-23
 

 
Estimated annual commitments
for debt maturities net of unamortized discounts are as follows at December 31, 2011 (amounts in thousands): 
 


  
Total Debt 

2012 
$6,677 

2013 
 5,734 

2014 
 3,000 

2015 
 11,078 

2016 
 1,500 

  
$27,989 

 
Term Loan and Line of Credit
 
On June 6, 2011, immediately
following the PacketExchange acquisition, the Company and its subsidiaries GTTA, GTTE, WBS Connect LLC, a Colorado limited liability
company (“WBS”, and together with the Company, GTTA and GTTE, collectively, the “Existing Borrower”), PacketExchange
(Ireland) Limited, a company incorporated and existing under the laws of Ireland (“PEIRL”), PacketExchange (Europe)
Limited, a private limited company incorporated and registered in England and Wales (“PELTD”), PacketExchange (USA),
Inc., a Delaware corporation (“PEUSA”), PacketExchange, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“PEINC”, and together
with PEIRL, PELTD and PEUSA, collectively, the “New Borrower”) (the New Borrower and the Existing Borrower together
are the “Borrower”) entered into a joinder and first loan modification agreement (the “Modification Agreement”)
with Silicon Valley Bank, which amends that certain Loan and Security Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”), dated September
30, 2010, by and among Silicon Valley Bank and the Existing Borrower.
 
The Modification Agreement
increases the amount of the term loan facility from $10 million to $15 million (the “Term Loan”), while the revolving
line of credit facility in the aggregate principal amount of up to $5 million (the “Line of Credit”) remains unchanged.
The Modification Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants of the Borrower and customary events of
default. In connection with negotiating the terms of the Modification Agreement, it was noted that the Company would benefit by
separating the financing provided under the Loan Agreement into separate U.S. and non-U.S. financings. Accordingly, the Company
and Silicon Valley Bank restructured the terms of the Loan Agreement on June 29, 2011 to implement this separation. The obligations
of the Borrower under the Modification Agreement are secured by substantially all of Borrower’s tangible and intangible assets
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.
 
The Term Loan matures
on June 1, 2016. The Borrower shall repay the Term Loan in sixty (60) equal installments of principal and interest, with interest
accruing at a floating per annum rate equal to Silicon Valley Bank’s prime rate plus 3.75%, unless the Borrower achieves
certain performance criteria, in which case the interest rate shall be equal to Silicon Valley Bank’s prime rate plus 2.75%.
 
The Line of Credit
will continue to mature on September 29, 2012 and the principal amount outstanding under the Line of Credit shall continue to accrue
interest at a floating per annum rate equal to Silicon Valley Bank’s prime rate plus 2%, unless the Borrower achieves certain
performance criteria, in which case the interest rate shall be equal to Silicon Valley Bank’s prime rate plus 1.0%.
 
Note Purchase Agreement for Second
Lien Credit Facility
 
Concurrent with entering
in to the Modification Agreement, on June 6, 2011, the Company and its subsidiaries GTTA, WBS, PEUSA and PEINC (collectively, the
“Note Borrower”) entered into a note purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) with the BIA Digital
Partners SBIC II LP (“BIA”).  The Purchase Agreement provided for a total commitment of $12.5 million, of
which $7.5 million was immediately funded (the “Notes”).  The Notes were issued at a discount to face value
of $0.4 million and the discount is being amortized, into interest expense, over the life of the notes. The remaining $5.0
million of the committed financing was available to be called by the Note Borrower on or before August 11, 2011, subject to extension
to December 31, 2011 at the sole option of BIA.  On September 19, 2011, BIA agreed to extend the commitment period and
funded the Note Borrower an additional $1.0 million. The additional funding was issued at a discount to face value of $45,000,
due to the issuance of warrants, and the discount is being amortized, into interest expense, over the life of the notes. The Purchase
Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants of the Note Borrower and customary events of default. The
obligations of the Note Borrower under the Purchase Agreement are secured by substantially all of Borrower’s tangible and
intangible assets pursuant to the Purchase Agreement.
 

F-24
 

 
The Notes mature on
June 6, 2016. The obligations evidenced by the Notes shall bear interest at a rate of 13.5% per annum, of which (i) at least 11.5%
per annum shall be payable, in cash, monthly (“Cash Interest Portion”) and (ii) 2.0% per annum shall be, at the Note
Borrower’s option, paid in cash or paid-in-kind. If the Note Borrower achieves certain performance criteria, the obligations
evidenced by the Notes shall bear interest at a rate of 12.0% per annum, with a Cash Interest Portion of at least 11.0% per annum.
 
The obligations of
the Note Borrower under the Note Purchase Agreement are guaranteed by TEK and GTGS (GTGS and TEK, together, the “Note Guarantors”)
pursuant to unconditional guaranties executed by each Guarantor in favor of BIA (each a “Note Guaranty”). Each Guaranty
is secured by a second lien on each Guarantor’s tangible and intangible assets pursuant to a security agreement containing
representations, warranties and covenants substantially similar to those made under the Note Purchase Agreement with respect to
the Note Borrower. Pursuant to a pledge agreement (the “Pledge Agreement”), dated June 6, 2011, by and between BIA
and the Company and GTTA, the obligations of the Note Borrower under the Note Purchase Agreement are also secured by a pledge in
all of the equity interests of the Company and GTTA in their respective United States subsidiaries and a pledge of 65% of the voting
equity interests and all of the non-voting equity interests of the Company and GTTA in their respective non-United States subsidiaries.
 
Concurrent with entering
into the Note Purchase Agreement, Silicon Valley Bank and BIA entered into an Intercreditor and Subordination Agreement which governs,
among other things, ranking and collateral access for the respective lenders.
 
Warrants
 
On June 6, 2011, pursuant
to the Purchase Agreement, the Company issued to BIA a warrant to purchase from the Company 634,648 shares of the Company’s
common stock, at an exercise price equal to $1.144 per share (as adjusted from time to time as provided in the Purchase Agreement).
Upon the additional $1.0 million funding, the Company issued to BIA an additional warrant (together the “Warrants”)
to purchase from the Company 63,225 shares of the Company’s common stock, at an exercise price equal to $1.181 per share.
 
The Company evaluated
the down round ratchet feature embedded in the Warrants and after considering ASC 480, Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity
, which establishes standards for how an issuer classifies and measures in its statement of financial position certain financial
instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity, and ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging.  The Company
concluded the warrants should be treated as a derivative and recorded a liability for the amount of $472,000.  At December
31, 2011, the warrant liability was marked to market which resulted in a gain of $42,000 for the year end.  The balance
of the warrant liability was $430,000 at December 31, 2011, which is included in other long-term liabilities.
 
Subordinated Notes
 
On February 8,
2010, the Company completed a units offering (“February 2010 Units”) in which it sold 500 units consisting of
debt and common stock at a purchase price of $10,000 per unit, resulting in $5.0 million of proceeds to the Company.  Each
unit consisted of 2,970 shares of the Company’s common stock, and $7,000 in principal amount of the Company’s
subordinated promissory notes due February 8, 2012.  The subordinated promissory notes were issued at a discount
to face value of $0.2 million and the discount is being amortized, into interest expense, over the life of the notes. Interest
on the subordinated promissory notes accrues at 10% per annum.  Accrued but unpaid interest was $178,000 as of December
31, 2011.
  
The proceeds from
the February 2010 Units were to be applied by the Company to finance a portion of the purchase price under an asset purchase agreement
with a potential acquisition target. On April 30, 2010, the asset purchase agreement with the potential acquisition target
expired without consummation of the acquisition.  On May 13, 2010, investors representing $1.5 million in aggregated
principal amount of the Company’s subordinated promissory notes and $0.9 million of the Company’s common stock
waived the right to receive their refund and elected to retain some or all of their subordinated promissory notes. In May 2011,
$1.4 million of the February 2010 Units subordinated notes were amended to mature in four equal installments on March 31, June
30, September 30 and December 31, 2013, and are included in long-term debt as of December 31, 2011. The remaining $0.1 million
of the February 2010 Units subordinated notes are included in short-term debt as of December 31, 2011.
 

F-25
 

 
On December 31,
2010, the Company completed a financing transaction in which it issued 212 Units, valued at $10,000 per unit (“December 2013
Units”).  Each unit consisted of 5,000 shares of the Company’s common stock, and $5,000 in principal
amount of the Company’s subordinated promissory notes due December 31, 2013.  The subordinated promissory
notes were issued at a discount to face value of $0.2 million and the discount is being amortized, into interest expense,
over the life of the notes.  In total, the Company issued 1,060,000 shares of the Company’s common stock and
$1.1 million in principal amount of subordinated promissory notes.
 
On February 16,
2011, the Company and the holders of the December 2013 Units amended the offering solely to increase the aggregate principal amount
available for issuance from $1.1 million to $1.6 million. On February 16, 2011, the Company also completed a financing
transaction in which it issued 40 Units, at a purchase price of $10,000 per Unit, for gross proceeds of $0.4 million. Each Unit
was comprised of 5,000 shares of the Company’s common stock, and $5,000 in principal amount of subordinated promissory
notes.  The subordinated promissory notes were issued at a discount to face value of $47,000 and the discount is being
amortized, into interest expense, over the life of the notes.
 
As of December 31,
2011, the subordinated notes payable had a balance of $2.6 million. The balance includes notes totaling $2.1 million
due to a related party, Universal Telecommunications, Inc. H. Brian Thompson, the Company’s Executive Chairman of the Board
of Directors, is also the head of Universal Telecommunications, Inc., his own private equity investment and advisory firm. Also,
included in the balance is $0.1 million of the notes held by officers and directors of the Company.
 
Promissory Note and Capital Lease
 
As part of the December
2009 acquisition, the Company assumed approximately $0.6 million in capital lease obligations payable in monthly installments
through April 2011 and issued approximately $0.3 million in subordinated seller notes to the sellers, due in monthly installments
and payable in full by October 2010.  The Company paid in full both the subordinated seller notes and the capital lease
obligations as of September 30, 2011.
 
As part of the June
2011 acquisition of PacketExchange, the Company assumed a promissory note of approximately $0.7 million.
 
NOTE 13 — CONCENTRATIONS
 
Financial instruments
potentially subjecting the Company to a significant concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents.
At times during the periods presented, the Company had funds in excess of $250,000 insured by the US Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, or in excess of similar Deposit Insurance programs outside of the United States, on deposit at various financial institutions.
As of December 31, 2011, approximately $2.4 million of the Company’s deposits were held at institutions as balances
in excess of the US Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and international insured deposit limits for those institutions. However,
management believes the Company is not exposed to significant credit risk due to the financial position of the depository institutions
in which those deposits are held.
 
For the year ended December 31,
2011, no single customer exceeded 7% of total consolidated revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2010, no single customer
exceeded 5% of total consolidated revenue.
 
NOTE 14 — COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

 
Commitment — Leases
 
GTTA is required to
provide its landlord with a letter of credit to provide protection from default under the lease for the Company’s headquarters.
GTTA has provided the landlord with a letter of credit in the amount of $100,000 supported by hypothecation of a Certificate of
Deposit held by the underlying bank in the same amount.
 
Office Space and Operating Leases
 
Office facility leases
may provide for escalations of rent or rent abatements and payment of pro rata portions of building operating expenses. The Company
currently leases facilities located in McLean, Virginia (lease expires December 2014), London (United Kingdom), (lease expires
June 2012), Düsseldorf (Germany), (lease expires May 2012), and Denver, Colorado (lease expires January 2013). The Company
gained additional lease obligations with the acquisition of PacketExchange in Los Angeles, California (lease expires June 2012)
and in London (United Kingdom), (lease expires April 2014). The Company records rent expense using the straight-line method over
the term of the lease agreement. Office facility rent expense was $1.3 million and $0.8 million for the years ended December 31,
2011 and 2010, respectively.
 

F-26
 

 
The Company terminated
the operating lease agreements related to vehicles as of December 31, 2011. Total expense under vehicle leases was $25,000 and
$33,000 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Estimated annual commitments
under non-cancelable operating leases are as follows at December 31, 2011 (amounts in thousands):
 


  
Office Space 

  
  

2012 
$731 

2013 
 481 

2014 
 387 

  
$1,599 

 
Commitments-Supply agreements
 
As of December 31,
2011, the Company had supplier agreement purchase obligations of $68.0 million associated with the telecommunications services
that the Company has contracted to purchase from its vendors. The Company’s contracts are generally such that the terms and
conditions in the vendor and client customer contracts are substantially the same in terms of duration. The back-to-back nature
of the Company’s contracts means that the largest component of its contractual obligations is generally mirrored by its customer’s
commitment to purchase the services associated with those obligations.
 
Estimated annual commitments
under supplier contractual agreements are as follows at December 31, 2011 (amounts in thousands):
 


  
Supplier Agreements 

  
  

2012 
$10,538 

2013 
 17,943 

2014 
 11,411 

2015 
 24,015 

2016 
 4,357 

  
$68,264 

 
If a customer disconnects
its service before the term ordered from the vendor expires, and if GTT were unable to find another customer for the capacity,
GTT may be subject to an early termination liability. Under standard telecommunications industry practice (commonly referred to
in the industry as “portability”), this early termination liability may be waived by the vendor if GTT were to order
replacement service with the vendor of equal or greater value to the service cancelled. Additionally, the Company maintains some
fixed network costs and from time to time if it deems portions of the network are not economically beneficial, the Company may
disconnect those portions and potentially incur early termination liabilities. As of December 31, 2011, the Company has $0.5 million
accrued for early termination liabilities.
 
“Take-or-Pay” Purchase Commitments
 
Some of the Company’s
supplier purchase agreements call for the Company to make monthly payments to suppliers whether or not the Company is currently
utilizing the underlying capacity in that particular month (commonly referred to in the industry as “take-or-pay” commitments).
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company’s aggregate monthly obligations under such take-or-pay commitments over
the remaining term of all of those contracts totaled $1.1 million and $2.6 million, respectively.
 

F-27
 

 
Contingencies-Legal proceedings
 
The Company is subject
to legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of those
matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or
liquidity. No material reserves have been established for any pending legal proceeding, either because a loss is not probable or
the amount of a loss, if any, cannot be reasonably estimated.
 
NOTE 15 — FOREIGN OPERATIONS 
 
The Company’s
operations are located primarily in the United States and Europe. The Company’s financial data by geographic area is as follows:
 


  
US  
UK  
Germany  
Japan  
Total GTT 

2011 
    
    
    
    
   

Revenues by geographic area 
$65,364  
$19,522  
$6,044  
$258  
$91,188 

Long-lived assets at December 31 
$44,430  
$14,065  
$41  
$-  
$58,536 

  
    
    
    
    
   

2010 
    
    
    
    
   

Revenues by geographic area 
$61,685  
$11,857  
$7,533  
$-  
$81,075 

Long-lived assets at December 31 
$39,571  
$509  
$8  
$-  
$40,088 

  

F-28
 






