
10-K
1
d282145d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


FORM 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549   
  FORM 10-K
  


x
Annual report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011,  or   


¨
Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
For the transition period from             to
            .  Commission File Number 1-32663
    
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC.  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   






Delaware
 
86-0812139

 (State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
 
 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)




 200 East Basse Road San Antonio, Texas
 
78209

(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(Zip code)
 (210) 832-3700  (Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)  Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   






 Title of Each Class
 
 Name of Exchange on Which Registered

Class A Common Stock, $.01 par value per share
 
New York Stock Exchange
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
None.   
  Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    YES  ¨    NO  x  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
YES  ¨    NO  x  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    YES  x    NO  ¨  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule
405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    YES  x    NO  ¨  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 
 










Large accelerated filer
 
¨
  
Accelerated filer
 
x






Non-accelerated filer
 
¨
  
Smaller reporting company
 
¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).    YES  ¨    NO  x  As of June 30, 2011, the aggregate market value of the common stock beneficially held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $518.7 million based on the closing sales price of the
Class A common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.  On January 31, 2012, there were 41,048,463 outstanding shares of
Class A common stock (excluding 109,755 shares held in treasury) and 315,000,000 outstanding shares of Class B common stock.   
  DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  Portions of our Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting, expected to be filed within 120
days of our fiscal year end, are incorporated by reference into Part III.   
   


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. 
INDEX TO FORM 10-K 










 
 
 
  
Page
 

 
 
 
  
Number
 

 PART I
 

  








 Item 1.
 
 Business
  
 
1
  





 Item 1A.
 
 Risk Factors
  
 
10
  





 Item 1B.
 
 Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
23
  





 Item 2.
 
 Properties
  
 
23
  





 Item 3.
 
 Legal Proceedings
  
 
24
  





 Item 4.
 
 Mine Safety Disclosures
  
 
25
  





 PART II
 

  








 Item 5.
 
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
  
 
27
  





 Item 6.
 
 Selected Financial Data
  
 
29
  





 Item 7.
 
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
  
 
31
  





 Item 7A.
 
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
  
 
56
  





 Item 8.
 
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
57
  





 Item 9.
 
 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
 
100
  





 Item 9A.
 
 Controls and Procedures
  
 
100
  





 Item 9B.
 
 Other Information
  
 
102
  





 PART III
 

  








 Item 10.
 
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
103
  





 Item 11.
 
 Executive Compensation
  
 
103
  





 Item 12.
 
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters
  
 
103
  





 Item 13.
 
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
103
  





 Item 14.
 
 Principal Accounting Fees and Services
  
 
103
  





 PART IV
 

  








 Item 15.
 
 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
  
 
104
  



Table of Contents
PART I 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS  The Company  Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. (“the
Company”), a Delaware corporation, provides clients with advertising opportunities through billboards, street furniture displays, transit displays and other out-of-home advertising displays, such as wallscapes, spectaculars, neons and mall
displays, which we own or operate in key markets worldwide. Our business consists of two reportable operating segments: Americas and International. As of December 31, 2011, we owned or operated more than 750,000 advertising displays worldwide.
For the year ended December 31, 2011, we generated consolidated revenue of approximately $3.0 billion, with $1.3 billion and $1.7 billion from our Americas and International segments, respectively. 
Our History  We were
incorporated in August 1995 under the name “Eller Media Company.” In 1997, Clear Channel Communications, Inc. (“Clear Channel Communications”), our parent company, entered the outdoor advertising industry with its acquisition of
Eller Media Company. We changed our name to Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. in August 2005.  On November 11, 2005,
we became a publicly traded company through an initial public offering, or IPO, in which we sold 10%, or 35.0 million shares, of our Class A common stock. Prior to our IPO, we were an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Clear Channel
Communications. As of December 31, 2011, Clear Channel Communications owned all of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock and 1,553,971 shares of our Class A common stock, collectively representing approximately 89% of the
outstanding shares of our common stock and approximately 99% of the total voting power of our common stock.  Prior to or at
the time of our IPO, we entered into agreements with Clear Channel Communications that govern the relationship between Clear Channel Communications and us and provide for, among other things, the provision of services by Clear Channel Communications
to us and the allocation of employee benefit, tax and other liabilities and obligations attributable to our operations. These agreements include the Master Agreement, Corporate Services Agreement, Employee Matters Agreement and Tax Matters
Agreement. All of the agreements relating to our ongoing relationship with Clear Channel Communications were made in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship and the terms of these agreements may be more or less favorable to us than if they
had been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties.  Clear Channel Communications has the right to terminate these agreements
in various circumstances. As of the date of the filing of this report, no notice of termination of any of these agreements has been received from Clear Channel Communications.  As long as Clear Channel Communications continues to own shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, it will have the ability to direct the
election of all members of our Board of Directors and, therefore, to exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations, our acquisition or disposition
of assets, our incurrence of indebtedness, our issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities, our repurchase or redemption of common stock or any preferred stock, if applicable, and our payment of dividends. Similarly, Clear
Channel Communications will have the power to determine the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the power to prevent an acquisition or any other change in control, and to take other actions that might be favorable
to Clear Channel Communications.  On July 30, 2008, Clear Channel Communications completed its merger with a subsidiary
of CC Media Holdings, Inc. (“CC Media Holdings”), a company formed by a group of private equity funds sponsored by Bain Capital Partners, LLC and Thomas H. Lee Partners, L.P. Clear Channel Communications is now owned indirectly by CC Media
Holdings. 
  1 


Table of Contents
You can find more information about us at our Internet website located at
www.clearchanneloutdoor.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports are available free of charge through our Internet website as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The contents of our website are not deemed to be part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any of
our other filings with the SEC.  Our principal executive offices are located at 200 East Basse Road, San Antonio, Texas 78209
(telephone: 210-832-3700).  Our Business Segments  We have two reportable business segments, Americas outdoor advertising (“Americas”) and International outdoor advertising (“International”), which represented 44% and 56% of our 2011
revenue, respectively.  We are a leading global outdoor advertising company providing clients with advertising opportunities
through billboards, street furniture displays, transit displays and other out-of-home advertising displays. Through our extensive display inventory, we have the ability to deliver innovative, effective marketing campaigns for advertisers and
marketing, creative and strategic partners in communities across the Americas and internationally.  We are focused on building
the leadership position of our diverse global assets and maximizing our financial performance while serving our local communities. We intend to continue to execute upon our long-standing outdoor advertising strategies, while closely managing
expenses and focusing on achieving operating efficiencies throughout our businesses. Part of our long-term strategy is to pursue the technology of digital displays, including flat screens, LCDs and LEDs, as alternatives to traditional methods of
displaying our clients’ advertisements. We are currently installing these technologies in certain markets, both domestically and internationally.  For more information about our revenue, gross profit and assets by segment and our revenue and long-lived assets by geographic area, see Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements located in
Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Americas Outdoor Advertising 
We are the largest outdoor advertising company in the Americas (based on revenues), which includes the United States, Canada and Latin
America. Approximately 89%, 89% and 91% of our revenue in our Americas segment was derived from the United States for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. We own or operate approximately 125,000 display structures in
our Americas segment with operations in 48 of the 50 largest markets in the United States, including all of the 20 largest markets.  Our Americas assets consist of billboards, street furniture and transit displays, airport displays, mall displays, and wallscapes and other spectaculars, which we own or operate under lease management
agreements. Our Americas advertising business is focused on metropolitan areas with dense populations.  Strategy 
We seek to capitalize on our Americas network and diversified product mix to maximize revenue. In addition, by sharing best practices
among our business segments, we believe we can quickly and effectively replicate our successes in other markets in which we operate. Our outdoor strategy focuses on leveraging our diversified product mix and long-standing presence in many of our
existing markets, which provides us with the ability to launch new products and test new initiatives in a reliable and cost-effective manner.  Promote Outdoor Media Spending. Given the attractive industry fundamentals of outdoor media and our depth and breadth of relationships with both local and national advertisers, we believe we can
drive outdoor advertising’s share of total media spending by utilizing our dedicated national sales team to highlight the value of outdoor advertising relative to other media. Outdoor advertising only represented 4% of total dollars spent on
advertising in the United States in 2010. We have made and continue to make significant investments in research 
  2 


Table of Contents

tools that enable our clients to better understand how our displays can successfully reach their target audiences and promote their advertising campaigns. Also, we are working closely with
clients, advertising agencies and other diversified media companies to develop more sophisticated systems that will provide improved audience metrics for outdoor advertising. For example, we have implemented the EYES ON audience measurement system
which: (1) separately reports audiences for each of the nearly 400,000 units of inventory across the industry in the United States, (2) reports those audiences using the same demographics available and used by other media permitting reach
and frequency measures, (3) provides the same audience measures across more than 200 markets, and (4) reports which advertisement is most likely to be seen. We believe that measurement systems such as EYES ON will further enhance the
attractiveness of outdoor advertising for both existing clients and new advertisers and further foster outdoor media spending growth.  Continue to Deploy Digital Displays. Digital outdoor advertising provides significant advantages over traditional outdoor media. Our electronic displays are linked through centralized computer
systems to instantaneously and simultaneously change advertising copy on a large number of displays, allowing us to sell more slots to advertisers. The ability to change copy by time of day and quickly change messaging based on advertisers’
needs creates additional flexibility for our customers. Although digital displays require more capital to construct compared to traditional bulletins, the advantages of digital allow us to penetrate new accounts and categories of advertisers as well
as serve a broader set of needs for existing advertisers. Digital displays allow for high-frequency, 24-hour advertising changes in high traffic locations and allow us to offer our clients optimal flexibility, distribution, circulation and
visibility. We expect this trend to continue as we increase our quantity of digital inventory. As of December 31, 2011, we have deployed more than 850 digital billboards in 37 markets in the United States. 
Sources of Revenue 
Americas generated 44%, 46% and 46% of our revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Americas revenue is derived from the sale of
advertising copy placed on our digital displays and our traditional displays. Our display inventory consists primarily of billboards, street furniture displays and transit displays. The margins on our billboard contracts, including those related to
digital billboards, tend to be higher than those on contracts for other displays, due to their greater size, impact and location along major roadways that are highly trafficked. Billboards comprise approximately two-thirds of our display revenues.
The following table shows the approximate percentage of revenue derived from each category for our Americas advertising inventory:   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Billboards:
  



  



  




 Bulletins
  
 
53%
  
  
 
53%
  
  
 
51%
  

 Posters
  
 
13%
  
  
 
14%
  
  
 
14%
  

 Street furniture displays
  
 
7%
  
  
 
6%
  
  
 
5%
  

 Transit displays
  
 
16%
  
  
 
15%
  
  
 
17%
  

 Other displays (1)
  
 
11%
  
  
 
12%
  
  
 
13%
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
100%
  
  
 
100%
  
  
 
100%
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Includes spectaculars, mall displays and wallscapes.  Our Americas segment generates revenues from local, regional and national sales. Our advertising rates are based on a number of different factors including location, competition, size of display,
illumination, market and gross ratings points. Gross ratings points are the total number of impressions delivered, expressed as a percentage of a market population, of a display or group of displays. The number of impressions delivered by a display
is measured by the number of people passing the site during a defined period of time. For all of our billboards in the United States, we use independent, third-party auditing companies to verify the number of impressions delivered by a display.
“Reach” is the percent of a target audience exposed to an advertising message at least once during a specified period of time, typically during a period of four weeks. “Frequency” is the average number of exposures an individual
has to an advertising message during a specified period of time. Out-of-home frequency is typically measured over a four-week period. 
  3 


Table of Contents
While location, price and availability of displays are important competitive factors, we
believe that providing quality customer service and establishing strong client relationships are also critical components of sales. In addition, we have long-standing relationships with a diversified group of advertising brands and agencies that
allow us to diversify client accounts and establish continuing revenue streams.  Billboards 
Our billboard inventory primarily includes bulletins and posters. 
 


 
•
 
 Bulletins. Bulletins vary in size, with the most common size being 14 feet high by 48 feet wide. Digital bulletins display static messages that
resemble standard printed bulletins when viewed, but also allow advertisers to change messages throughout the course of a day. Our electronic displays are linked through centralized computer systems to instantaneously and simultaneously change
advertising copy as needed. Because of their greater size, impact, high-frequency and 24-hour advertising changes, we typically receive our highest rates for digital bulletins. Almost all of the advertising copy displayed on traditional bulletins is
computer printed on vinyl and transported to the bulletin where it is secured to the display surface. Bulletins generally are located along major expressways, primary commuting routes and main intersections that are highly visible and heavily
trafficked. Our clients may contract for individual bulletins or a network of bulletins, meaning the clients’ advertisements are rotated among bulletins to increase the reach of the campaign. Our client contracts for bulletins, either
traditional or digital, generally have terms ranging from four weeks to one year.   


 
•
 
 Posters. Digital posters are available in addition to the traditional 30-sheet or 8-sheet displays. Similar to digital bulletins, digital
posters display static messages that resemble standard printed posters when viewed, and are linked through centralized computer systems to instantaneously and simultaneously change messages throughout the course of a day. The traditional 30-sheet
posters are approximately 11 feet high by 23 feet wide, and the traditional 8-sheet posters are approximately 5 feet high by 11 feet wide. Advertising copy for traditional 30-sheet posters is digitally printed on a single piece of polyethylene
material that is then transported and secured to the poster surfaces. Advertising copy for traditional 8-sheet posters is printed using silk screen, lithographic or digital process to transfer the designs onto paper that is then transported and
secured to the poster surfaces. Posters generally are located in commercial areas on primary and secondary routes near point-of-purchase locations, facilitating advertising campaigns with greater demographic targeting than those displayed on
bulletins. Our poster rates typically are less than our bulletin rates, and our client contracts for posters generally have terms ranging from four weeks to one year. Premiere displays, which consist of premiere panels and squares, are innovative
hybrids between bulletins and posters that we developed to provide our clients with an alternative for their targeted marketing campaigns. The premiere displays utilize one or more poster panels, but with vinyl advertising stretched over the panels
similar to bulletins. Our intent is to combine the creative impact of bulletins with the additional reach and frequency of posters.  Street Furniture Displays  Our street furniture displays include
advertising surfaces on bus shelters, information kiosks, freestanding units and other public structures, are available in both traditional and digital formats, and are primarily located in major metropolitan areas and along major commuting routes.
Generally, we own the street furniture structures and are responsible for their construction and maintenance. Contracts for the right to place our street furniture displays in the public domain and sell advertising space on them are awarded by
municipal and transit authorities in competitive bidding processes governed by local law. Generally, these contracts have terms ranging from 10 to 20 years. As compensation for the right to sell advertising space on our street furniture structures,
we pay the municipality or transit authority a fee or revenue share that is either a fixed amount or a percentage of the revenue derived from the street furniture displays. Typically, these revenue sharing arrangements include payments by us of
minimum guaranteed amounts. Client contracts for street furniture displays typically have terms ranging from four weeks to one year, and are typically for network packages of multiple street furniture displays. 
  4 


Table of Contents
Transit Displays  Our transit displays are advertising surfaces on various types of vehicles or within transit systems, including on the interior and exterior sides of buses, trains, trams, and within the common areas of
rail stations and airports, and are available in both traditional and digital formats. Similar to street furniture, contracts for the right to place our displays on such vehicles or within such transit systems and to sell advertising space on them
generally are awarded by public transit authorities in competitive bidding processes or are negotiated with private transit operators. Generally, these contracts have terms ranging up to nine years. Our client contracts for transit displays
generally have terms ranging from four weeks to one year.  Other Inventory 
The balance of our display inventory consists of spectaculars, wallscapes and mall displays. Spectaculars are customized display
structures that often incorporate video, multidimensional lettering and figures, mechanical devices and moving parts and other embellishments to create special effects. The majority of our spectaculars are located in Times Square in New York City,
Dundas Square and the Gardiner Expressway in Toronto, Fashion Show Mall in Las Vegas, Miracle Mile Shops in Las Vegas and across from the Target Center in Minneapolis. Client contracts for spectaculars typically have terms of one year or longer. A
wallscape is a display that drapes over or is suspended from the sides of buildings or other structures. Generally, wallscapes are located in high-profile areas where other types of outdoor advertising displays are limited or unavailable. Clients
typically contract for individual wallscapes for extended terms. We also own displays located within the common areas of malls on which our clients run advertising campaigns for periods ranging from four weeks to one year. 
Advertising Inventory and Markets  As of December 31, 2011, we owned or operated approximately 125,000 display structures in our Americas segment with operations in 48 of the 50 largest markets in the United States, including all of
the 20 largest markets. Therefore, no one property is material to our overall operations. We believe that our properties are in good condition and suitable for our operations. During 2011, we conformed our methodology for counting airport displays
to be consistent with the remainder of our domestic inventory.  Our displays are located on owned land, leased land or land
for which we have acquired permanent easements. The majority of the advertising structures on which our displays are mounted require permits. Permits are granted for the right to operate an advertising structure as long the structure is used in
compliance with the laws and regulations of the applicable jurisdiction.  Production 
In a majority of our markets, our local production staff performs the full range of activities required to create and install advertising
copy. Production work includes creating the advertising copy design and layout, coordinating its printing and installing the copy on displays. We provide creative services to smaller advertisers and to advertisers not represented by advertising
agencies. National advertisers often use preprinted designs that require only installation. Our creative and production personnel typically develop new designs or adopt copy from other media for use on our inventory. Our creative staff also can
assist in the development of marketing presentations, demonstrations and strategies to attract new clients.  Construction and Operation
 We typically own the physical structures on which our clients’ advertising copy is displayed. We build some of
the structures at our billboard fabrication business in Illinois and erect them on sites we either lease or own or for which we have acquired permanent easements. The site lease terms generally range from one to 20 years. In addition to the site
lease, we must obtain a permit to build the sign. Permits are typically issued in perpetuity by the state or local government and typically are transferable or renewable for a minimal, or no, fee. Traditional bulletin

  5 


Table of Contents

and poster advertising copy is either printed with computer generated graphics on a single sheet of vinyl or placed on lithographed or silk-screened paper sheets supplied by the advertiser. These
advertisements are then transported to the site and in the case of vinyl, wrapped around the face of the site, and in the case of paper, pasted and applied like wallpaper to the site. The operational process also includes conducting visual
inspections of the inventory for display defects and taking the necessary corrective action within a reasonable period of time.  Client
Categories  In 2011, the top five client categories in our Americas segment were retail, business services, banking and
financial services, media and telecommunications.  Competition 
The outdoor advertising industry in the Americas is fragmented, consisting of several larger companies involved in outdoor advertising,
such as CBS and Lamar Advertising Company, as well as numerous smaller and local companies operating a limited number of displays in a single market or a few local markets. We also compete with other advertising media in our respective markets,
including broadcast and cable television, radio, print media, direct mail, the Internet and other forms of advertisement. 
Outdoor advertising companies compete primarily based on ability to reach consumers, which is driven by location of the display.
 International Outdoor Advertising  Our International segment includes our operations in Asia, Australia and Europe, with approximately 34%, 37%, and 39% of our revenue in this segment derived from France and the United Kingdom for the
years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, we owned or operated more than 630,000 displays across 30 countries.  Our International assets consist of street furniture and transit displays, billboards, mall displays, Smartbike schemes, wallscapes and other spectaculars, which we own or operate under lease agreements.
Our International business is focused on metropolitan areas with dense populations.  Strategy 
Similar to our Americas business, we believe our International business has attractive industry fundamentals including a broad audience
reach and a highly cost effective media for advertisers as measured by cost per thousand persons reached compared to other traditional media. Our International business focuses on the following strategies: 
Promote Overall Outdoor Media Spending. Our strategy is to promote growth in outdoor advertising’s share of total media
spending by leveraging our international scale and local reach. We are focusing on developing and implementing better and improved outdoor audience delivery measurement systems to provide advertisers with tools to determine how effectively their
message is reaching the desired audience.  Capitalize on Product and Geographic Opportunities. We are also focused on
growing our business internationally by working closely with our advertising customers and agencies in meeting their needs, and through new product offerings, optimization of our current display portfolio and selective investments targeting
promising growth markets. We have continued to innovate and introduce new products in international markets based on local demands. Our core business is our street furniture business and that is where we plan to focus much of our investment. We plan
to continue to evaluate municipal contracts that may come up for bid and will make prudent investments where we believe we can receive attractive returns. We will also continue to invest in markets such as China, Turkey and Poland, where we believe
there is high growth potential.  Continue to Deploy Digital Display Networks. Internationally, digital out-of-home
displays are a dynamic medium which enables our customers to engage in real-time, tactical, topical and flexible advertising. We will continue our focused and dedicated digital strategy as we remain committed to the digital development of
out-of-home communication solutions internationally. Through our new international digital brand, Clear Channel Play, 
  6 


Table of Contents

we are able to offer networks of digital displays in multiple formats and multiple environments including bus shelters, airports, transit, malls and flagship locations. We seek to achieve greater
consumer engagement and flexibility by delivering powerful, flexible and interactive campaigns that open up new possibilities for advertisers to engage with their target audiences. With digital network launches in Sweden, Belgium and the U.K.
accelerating our expansion program during 2011, we had more than 2,900 digital displays in twelve countries across Europe and Asia as of December 31, 2011.  Sources of Revenue  Our International segment generated 56%, 54% and
54% of our revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. International revenue is derived from the sale of traditional advertising copy placed on our display inventory and electronic displays which are part of our network of digital displays. Our
International display inventory consists primarily of street furniture displays, billboards, transit displays and other out-of-home advertising displays, such as neon displays. The following table shows the approximate percentage of revenue derived
from each inventory category of our International segment:   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Street furniture displays
  
 
43%
  
  
 
42%
  
  
 
40%
  

 Billboards (1)
  
 
27%
  
  
 
30%
  
  
 
32%
  

 Transit displays
  
 
9%
  
  
 
8%
  
  
 
8%
  

 Other (2)
  
 
21%
  
  
 
20%
  
  
 
20%
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
100%
  
  
 
100%
  
  
 
100%
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Includes revenue from posters and neon displays.   


(2)
Includes advertising revenue from mall displays, other small displays, and non-advertising revenue from sales of street furniture equipment, cleaning and maintenance
services, operation of Smartbike schemes and production revenue.  Our International segment generates revenues
worldwide from local, regional and national sales. Similar to our Americas business, advertising rates generally are based on the gross ratings points of a display or group of displays. The number of impressions delivered by a display, in some
countries, is weighted to account for such factors as illumination, proximity to other displays and the speed and viewing angle of approaching traffic.  While location, price and availability of displays are important competitive factors, we believe that providing quality customer service and establishing strong client relationships are also critical
components of sales. Our entrepreneurial culture allows local management to operate their markets as separate profit centers, encouraging customer cultivation and service.  Street Furniture Displays  Our International street furniture displays,
available in traditional and digital formats, are substantially similar to their Americas street furniture counterparts, and include bus shelters, freestanding units, various types of kiosks, benches and other public structures. Internationally,
contracts with municipal and transit authorities for the right to place our street furniture in the public domain and sell advertising on such street furniture typically provide for terms ranging from 10 to 15 years. The major difference between our
International and Americas street furniture businesses is in the nature of the municipal contracts. In our International business, these contracts typically require us to provide the municipality with a broader range of metropolitan amenities such
as bus shelters with or without advertising panels, information kiosks and public wastebaskets, as well as space for the municipality to display maps or other public information. In exchange for providing such metropolitan amenities and display
space, we are authorized to sell advertising space on certain sections of the structures we erect in the public domain. Our International street furniture is typically sold to clients as network packages of multiple street furniture displays, with
contract terms ranging from one to two weeks. Client contracts are also available with terms of up to one year. 
  7 


Table of Contents
Billboards  The sizes of our International billboards are not standardized. The billboards vary in both format and size across our networks, with the majority of our International billboards being similar in size to
our posters used in our Americas business (30-sheet and 8-sheet displays). Our International billboards are sold to clients as network packages with contract terms typically ranging from one to two weeks. Long-term client contracts are also
available and typically have terms of up to one year. We lease the majority of our billboard sites from private landowners. Billboards include posters and our neon displays, and are available in traditional and digital formats. Defi Group SAS, our
International neon subsidiary, is a global provider of neon signs with approximately 296 displays in 16 countries worldwide. Client contracts for International neon displays typically have terms of approximately five years. 
Transit Displays  Our
International transit display contracts are substantially similar to their Americas transit display counterparts, and typically require us to make only a minimal initial investment and few ongoing maintenance expenditures. Contracts with public
transit authorities or private transit operators typically have terms ranging from three to seven years. Our client contracts for transit displays, either traditional or digital, generally have terms ranging from one week to one year, or longer.
 Other International Inventory and Services  The balance of our revenue from our International segment consists primarily of advertising revenue from mall displays, other small displays and non-advertising revenue from sales of street furniture
equipment, cleaning and maintenance services and production revenue. Internationally, our contracts with mall operators generally have terms ranging from five to ten years and client contracts for mall displays generally have terms ranging from one
to two weeks, but are available for periods up to six months. Our International inventory includes other small displays that are counted as separate displays since they form a substantial part of our network and International revenue. We also have a
Smartbike bicycle rental program which provides bicycles for rent to the general public in several municipalities. In exchange for providing the bike rental program, we generally derive revenue from advertising rights to the bikes, bike stations,
additional street furniture displays, or fees from the local municipalities. In several of our International markets, we sell equipment or provide cleaning and maintenance services as part of a billboard or street furniture contract with a
municipality.  Advertising Inventory and Markets  As of December 31, 2011, we owned or operated more than 630,000 displays in our International segment, with operations across 30 countries. Our International display count includes display faces,
which may include multiple faces on a single structure. As a result, our International display count is not comparable to our Americas display count, which includes only unique displays. No one property is material to our overall operations. We
believe that our properties are in good condition and suitable for our operations.  Production 
The majority of our International clients are advertisers targeting national audiences whose business generally is placed with us through
advertising agencies. These agencies often provide our International clients creative services to design and produce both the advertising copy and the physical printed advertisement. Traditional advertising copy, both paper and vinyl, is shipped to
centralized warehouses operated by us. The copy is then sorted and delivered to sites where it is installed on our displays. 
Construction and Operation  The International manufacturing process largely consists of two elements: the manufacture and installation of advertising structures and the weekly preparation of advertising posters for distribution
throughout our networks. Generally, we outsource the manufacturing of advertising structures to third parties and regularly seek competitive bids. We use a wide range of suppliers, located in each of our markets. The design of street furniture
structures 
  8 


Table of Contents

(such as bus shelters, bicycle racks and kiosks) is typically done in conjunction with a third party design or architectural firm. These street furniture designs then form the basis of a
competitive bidding process to select a manufacturer. Our street furniture sites are posted by our own employees or subcontractors who also clean and maintain the sites. The decision to use our own employees or subcontractors is made on a
market-by-market basis taking into consideration the mix of products in the market and local labor costs.  Client Categories
 In 2011, the top five client categories in our International segment, based on International revenue derived from
these categories, were retail, food and food products, telecommunications, automotive, and fashion and apparel.  Competition
 The international outdoor advertising industry is fragmented, consisting of several larger companies involved in
outdoor advertising, such as JCDecaux and CBS, as well as numerous smaller and local companies operating a limited number of displays in a single market or a few local markets. We also compete with other advertising media in our respective markets,
including broadcast and cable television, radio, print media, direct mail, the Internet and other forms of advertisement. 
Outdoor companies compete primarily based on ability to reach consumers, which is driven by location of the display. 
Employees  As of
January 31, 2012, we had approximately 2,000 domestic employees and approximately 5,800 international employees, of which approximately 1,740 were employed in corporate related activities. Approximately 150 of our employees in the United States
and approximately 265 of our employees outside the United States are subject to collective bargaining agreements in their respective countries. We are a party to numerous collective bargaining agreements, none of which represent a significant number
of employees. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good.  Seasonality 
Required information is located within Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Regulation of our Business  The outdoor advertising industry in the United States is subject to governmental regulation at the Federal, state and local levels. These regulations may include, among others, restrictions on the
construction, repair, maintenance, lighting, upgrading, height, size, spacing and location of and, in some instances, content of advertising copy being displayed on outdoor advertising structures. In addition, international regulations have a
significant impact on the outdoor advertising industry. International regulation of the outdoor advertising industry can vary by municipality, region and country, but generally limits the size, placement, nature and density of out-of-home displays.
Other regulations may limit the subject matter and language of out-of-home displays.  From time to time, legislation has been
introduced in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions attempting to impose taxes on revenue from outdoor advertising or for the right to use outdoor advertising assets. Several jurisdictions have already imposed such taxes as a percentage
of our outdoor advertising revenue in that jurisdiction. In addition, some jurisdictions have taxed our personal property and leasehold interests in advertising locations using various valuation methodologies. While these taxes have not had a
material impact on our business and financial results to date, we expect U.S. and foreign jurisdictions to continue to try to impose such taxes as a way of increasing revenue. In recent years, outdoor advertising also has become the subject of
targeted taxes and fees. These laws may affect prevailing competitive conditions in our markets in a variety of ways. Such laws may reduce our expansion opportunities or may increase or reduce competitive pressure from other members of the outdoor
advertising industry. No assurance can be given that existing or future laws or regulations, and the enforcement thereof, will not materially and adversely affect the outdoor advertising industry. However, we contest laws and regulations that we
believe unlawfully restrict our constitutional or other legal rights and may adversely impact the growth of our outdoor advertising business. 
  9 


Table of Contents
In the United States, Federal law, principally the Highway Beautification Act
(“HBA”), regulates outdoor advertising on Federal-Aid Primary, Interstate and National Highway Systems roads within the United States (“controlled roads”). The HBA regulates the size and placement of billboards, requires the
development of state standards, mandates a state’s compliance program, promotes the expeditious removal of illegal signs and requires just compensation for takings.  To satisfy the HBA’s requirements, all states have passed billboard control statutes and regulations that regulate, among other things, construction, repair, maintenance, lighting, height, size,
spacing and the placement and permitting of outdoor advertising structures. We are not aware of any state that has passed control statutes and regulations less restrictive than the prevailing federal requirements, including the requirement that an
owner remove any non-grandfathered, non-compliant signs along the controlled roads, at the owner’s expense and without compensation. Local governments generally also include billboard control as part of their zoning laws and building codes
regulating those items described above and include similar provisions regarding the removal of non-grandfathered structures that do not comply with certain of the local requirements. Some local governments have initiated code enforcement and permit
reviews of billboards within their jurisdiction challenging billboards located within their jurisdiction, and in some instances we have had to remove billboards as a result of such reviews. 
As part of their billboard control laws, state and local governments regulate the construction of new signs. Some jurisdictions prohibit
new construction, some jurisdictions allow new construction only to replace existing structures and some jurisdictions allow new construction subject to the various restrictions discussed above. In certain jurisdictions, restrictive regulations also
limit our ability to relocate, rebuild, repair, maintain, upgrade, modify or replace existing legal non-conforming billboards. 
U.S. Federal law neither requires nor prohibits the removal of existing lawful billboards, but it does mandate the payment of
compensation if a state or political subdivision compels the removal of a lawful billboard along the controlled roads. In the past, state governments have purchased and removed existing lawful billboards for beautification purposes using Federal
funding for transportation enhancement programs, and these jurisdictions may continue to do so in the future. From time to time, state and local government authorities use the power of eminent domain and amortization to remove billboards. Thus far,
we have been able to obtain satisfactory compensation for our billboards purchased or removed as a result of these types of governmental action, although there is no assurance that this will continue to be the case in the future. 
We have introduced and intend to expand the deployment of digital billboards that display static digital advertising copy from various
advertisers that change up to several times per minute. We have encountered some existing regulations in the U.S. and across some international jurisdictions that restrict or prohibit these types of digital displays. However, since digital
technology for changing static copy has only recently been developed and introduced into the market on a large scale, and is in the process of being introduced more broadly in our international markets, existing regulations that currently do not
apply to digital technology by their terms could be revised to impose greater restrictions. These regulations may impose greater restrictions on digital billboards due to alleged concerns over aesthetics or driver safety. 
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  Risks Related to Our Business  Our results have been in the past, and could be in the
future, adversely affected by economic uncertainty or deteriorations in economic conditions  Expenditures by
advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. Periods of a slowing economy or recession, or periods of economic uncertainty, may be accompanied by a decrease in advertising. The global economic
downturn that began in 2008 resulted in a decline in advertising and marketing by our customers, which resulted in a decline in advertising revenues across our businesses. This reduction in advertising revenues had an adverse effect on our revenue,
profit margins, cash flow and liquidity. Although we believe that global economic conditions are improving, economic conditions remain uncertain. If economic conditions do not continue to improve, economic uncertainty increases or economic
conditions deteriorate 
  10 


Table of Contents

again, global economic conditions may once again adversely impact our revenue, profit margins, cash flow and liquidity. Furthermore, because a significant portion of our revenue is derived from
local advertisers, our ability to generate revenues in specific markets is directly affected by local and regional conditions, and unfavorable regional economic conditions also may adversely impact our results. In addition, even in the absence of a
downturn in general economic conditions, an individual business sector or market may experience a downturn, causing it to reduce its advertising expenditures, which also may adversely impact our results. 
We performed impairment tests on our goodwill and other intangible assets during the fourth quarter of 2011 and 2010 and recorded
non-cash impairment charges of $7.6 million and $11.5 million, respectively. Additionally, we performed impairment tests in 2008 and 2009 on our indefinite-lived assets and goodwill and, as a result of the global economic downturn and the
corresponding reduction in our revenues, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $3.2 billion and $890.7 million, respectively. Although we believe we have made reasonable estimates and used appropriate assumptions to calculate the fair value of
our billboard permits and reporting units, it is possible a material change could occur. If actual market conditions and operational performance for the respective reporting units underlying the intangible assets were to deteriorate, or if facts and
circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the estimated fair value of the indefinite-lived assets or goodwill for these reporting units below their adjusted carrying amounts, we may also be required to recognize additional
impairment charges in future periods, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  To
service our debt obligations and to fund capital expenditures, we will require a significant amount of cash to meet our needs, which depends on many factors beyond our control 
Our ability to service our debt obligations and to fund capital expenditures for display construction or renovation will require a
significant amount of cash. Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations. Based on our current and anticipated levels of operations and conditions in our markets, we believe that cash on hand as well as cash flow from operations will
enable us to meet our working capital, capital expenditure, debt service and other funding requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, our ability to fund our working capital needs, debt service and other obligations and to comply
with the financial covenants under our financing agreements depends on our future operating performance and cash flow, which are in turn subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our future
operating performance does not meet our expectation or our plans materially change in an adverse manner or prove to be materially inaccurate, we may need additional financing. In addition, the purchase price of possible acquisitions, capital
expenditures for deployment of digital billboards and/or other strategic initiatives could require additional indebtedness or equity financing on our part. Adverse securities and credit market conditions, such as those experienced during 2008 and
2009, could significantly affect the availability of equity or credit financing. Consequently, there can be no assurance that such financing, if permitted under the terms of our financing agreements, will be available on terms acceptable to us or at
all. The inability to obtain additional financing in such circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and on our ability to meet our obligations or pursue strategic initiatives. Additional indebtedness could
increase our leverage and make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. 
Downgrades in our credit ratings may adversely affect our borrowing costs, limit our financing options, reduce our flexibility under future
financings and adversely affect our liquidity, and also may adversely impact our business operations  Our and Clear
Channel Communications’ corporate credit ratings by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Service are speculative-grade and have been downgraded and upgraded at various times during the past several years.
Any reductions in our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs, reduce the availability of financing to us or increase the cost of doing business or otherwise negatively impact our business operations. 
  11 


Table of Contents
Our financial performance may be adversely affected by many factors beyond our control
 Certain factors that could adversely affect our financial performance by, among other things, leading to decreases in
overall revenues, the numbers of advertising customers, advertising fees, or profit margins include:   


 
•
 
 unfavorable economic conditions, which may cause companies to reduce their expenditures on advertising; 


 
•
 
 an increased level of competition for advertising dollars, which may lead to lower advertising rates as we attempt to retain customers or which may
cause us to lose customers to our competitors who offer lower rates that we are unable or unwilling to match; 


 
•
 
 unfavorable fluctuations in operating costs, which we may be unwilling or unable to pass through to our customers; 


 
•
 
 technological changes and innovations that we are unable to successfully adopt or are late in adopting that offer more attractive advertising
alternatives than what we offer, which may lead to a loss of advertising customers or to lower advertising rates; 


 
•
 
 changes in governmental regulations and policies and actions of regulatory bodies, including changes to restrictions on rebuilding non-conforming
structures, which could increase our taxes or other costs, restrict the advertising media that we employ or restrict some or all of our customers that operate in regulated areas from using certain advertising media or from advertising at all;



 
•
 
 unfavorable shifts in population and other demographics, which may cause us to lose advertising customers as people migrate to markets where we have a
smaller presence or which may cause advertisers to be willing to pay less in advertising fees if the general population shifts into a less desirable age or geographical demographic from an advertising perspective; and 


 
•
 
 unfavorable changes in labor conditions, which may impair our ability to operate or require us to spend more to retain and attract key employees.
 We face intense competition in the outdoor advertising business 
We operate in a highly competitive industry, and we may not be able to maintain or increase our current advertising and sales revenues.
We compete for advertising revenue with other outdoor advertising businesses, as well as with other media, such as radio, newspapers, magazines, television, direct mail, smart mobile phones, satellite radio and Internet-based media, within their
respective markets. Market shares are subject to change, which could have the effect of reducing our revenue in that market. Our competitors may develop services or advertising media that are equal or superior to those we provide or that achieve
greater market acceptance and brand recognition than we achieve. It also is possible that new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share in any of our business segments. An increased level of competition for advertising
dollars may lead to lower advertising rates as we attempt to retain customers or may cause us to lose customers to our competitors who offer lower rates that we are unable or unwilling to match. 
Our business is dependent on our management team and other key individuals 
Our business is dependent upon the performance of our management team and other key individuals. A number of key individuals have
joined us over the past two years, including Robert W. Pittman, who became our Executive Chairman on October 2, 2011. Although we have entered into agreements with some members of our management team and certain other key individuals, we
can give no assurance that all or any of our management team and other key individuals will remain with us. Competition for these individuals is intense and many of our key employees are at-will employees who are under no legal obligation to remain
with us, and may decide to leave for a variety of personal or other reasons beyond our control. If members of our management or key individuals decide to leave us in the future, or if we are not successful in attracting, motivating and retaining
other key employees, our business could be adversely affected.  Government regulation of outdoor advertising may restrict our outdoor
advertising operations  U.S. Federal, state and local regulations have a significant impact on the outdoor advertising
industry and our business. One of the seminal laws is the HBA, which regulates outdoor advertising on Federal-Aid Primary, Interstate and National Highway Systems’ roads in the United States. The HBA regulates the size and location of
billboards, mandates a state compliance program, requires the development of state standards, promotes the expeditious removal of illegal signs and requires just compensation for takings. Construction, repair, maintenance, lighting, upgrading,
height, size, spacing, the location and permitting of billboards and the use of new technologies for changing displays, such as digital displays, are regulated by federal, state and local governments. From time to

  12 


Table of Contents

time, states and municipalities have prohibited or significantly limited the construction of new outdoor advertising structures. Changes in laws and regulations affecting outdoor advertising at
any level of government, including laws of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, could have a significant financial impact on us by requiring us to make significant expenditures or otherwise limiting or restricting some of our operations.
Due to such regulations, it has become increasingly difficult to develop new outdoor advertising locations.  From time to
time, certain state and local governments and third parties have attempted to force the removal of our displays under various state and local laws, including zoning ordinances, permit enforcement, condemnation and amortization. Amortization is the
attempted forced removal of legal non-conforming billboards (billboards which conformed with applicable laws and regulations when built, but which do not conform to current laws and regulations) or the commercial advertising placed on such
billboards after a period of years. Pursuant to this concept, the governmental body asserts that just compensation is earned by continued operation of the billboard over time. Amortization is prohibited along all controlled roads and generally
prohibited along non-controlled roads. Amortization has, however, been upheld along non-controlled roads in limited instances where provided by state and local law. Other regulations limit our ability to rebuild, replace, repair, maintain and
upgrade non-conforming displays. In addition, from time to time third parties or local governments assert that we own or operate displays that either are not properly permitted or otherwise are not in strict compliance with applicable law. For
example, court rulings have upheld regulations in the City of New York that have impacted our displays in certain areas within the city. Such regulations and allegations have not had a material impact on our results of operations to date, but if we
are increasingly unable to resolve such allegations or obtain acceptable arrangements in circumstances in which our displays are subject to removal, modification or amortization, or if there occurs an increase in such regulations or their
enforcement, our operating results could suffer.  A number of state and local governments have implemented or initiated taxes,
fees and registration requirements in an effort to decrease or restrict the number of outdoor signs and/or to raise revenue. From time to time, legislation also has been introduced in foreign jurisdictions attempting to impose taxes on revenue from
outdoor advertising or for the right to use outdoor advertising assets. In addition, a number of jurisdictions, including the City of Los Angeles, have implemented legislation or interpreted existing legislation to restrict or prohibit the
installation of new digital billboards. While these measures have not had a material impact on our business and financial results to date, we expect these efforts to continue. The increased imposition of these measures, and our inability to overcome
any such measures, could reduce our operating income if those outcomes require removal or restrictions on the use of preexisting displays. In addition, if we are unable to pass on the cost of these items to our clients, our operating income could be
adversely affected.  International regulation of the outdoor advertising industry can vary by municipality, region and
country, but generally limits the size, placement, nature and density of out-of-home displays. Other regulations limit the subject matter and language of out-of-home displays. Our failure to comply with these or any future international regulations
could have an adverse impact on the effectiveness of our displays or their attractiveness to clients as an advertising medium and may require us to make significant expenditures to ensure compliance. As a result, we may experience a significant
impact on our operations, revenue, international client base and overall financial condition.  Additional restrictions on outdoor
advertising of tobacco, alcohol and other products may further restrict the categories of clients that can advertise using our products  Out-of-court settlements between the major U.S. tobacco companies and all 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and four other U.S. territories include a ban on the outdoor
advertising of tobacco products. Other products and services may be targeted in the U.S. in the future, including alcohol products. Most European Union countries, among other nations, also have banned outdoor advertisements for tobacco products and
legislation regulating alcohol advertising has been introduced in a number of European countries in which we conduct business and could have a similar impact. Any significant reduction in alcohol-related advertising or advertising of other products
due to content-related restrictions could cause a reduction in our direct revenues from such advertisements and an increase in the available space on the existing inventory of billboards in the outdoor advertising industry. 
  13 


Table of Contents
Environmental, health, safety and land use laws and regulations may limit or restrict some of our
operations  As the owner or operator of various real properties and facilities, we must comply with various foreign,
federal, state and local environmental, health, safety and land use laws and regulations. We and our properties are subject to such laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, disposal, emission and release of hazardous and non-hazardous
substances and employee health and safety as well as zoning restrictions. Historically, we have not incurred significant expenditures to comply with these laws. However, additional laws which may be passed in the future, or a finding of a violation
of or liability under existing laws, could require us to make significant expenditures and otherwise limit or restrict some of our operations. 
Doing business in foreign countries exposes us to certain risks not found when doing business in the United States 
Doing business in foreign countries carries with it certain risks that are not found when doing business in the United States. These
risks could result in losses against which we are not insured. Examples of these risks include:   


 
•
 
 potential adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign countries with the United States; 


 
•
 
 hostility from local populations; 


 
•
 
 the adverse effect of foreign exchange controls; 


 
•
 
 government policies against businesses owned by foreigners; 


 
•
 
 investment restrictions or requirements; 


 
•
 
 expropriations of property without adequate compensation; 


 
•
 
 the potential instability of foreign governments; 


 
•
 
 the risk of insurrections; 


 
•
 
 risks of renegotiation or modification of existing agreements with governmental authorities; 


 
•
 
 difficulties collecting receivables and otherwise enforcing contracts with governmental agencies and others in some foreign legal systems;



 
•
 
 withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; 


 
•
 
 changes in tax structure and level; and 


 
•
 
 changes in laws or regulations or the interpretation or application of laws or regulations. 
In addition, because we own assets in foreign countries and derive revenues from our International operations, we may incur currency
translation losses due to changes in the values of foreign currencies and in the value of the U.S. dollar. We cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. 
Our International operations involve contracts with, and regulation by, foreign governments. We operate in many parts of the world that
experience corruption to some degree. Although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance (including with respect to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act
2010), our employees, subcontractors and agents could take actions that violate applicable anticorruption laws or regulations. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial position and results of operations.  The success of our street furniture and transit products is dependent on our obtaining
key municipal concessions, which we may not be able to obtain on favorable terms  Our street furniture and transit
products businesses require us to obtain and renew contracts with municipalities and other governmental entities. Many of these contracts, which require us to participate in competitive bidding processes at each renewal, typically have terms ranging
from three to 20 years and have revenue share and/or fixed payment components. Our inability to successfully negotiate, renew or complete these contracts due to governmental demands and delay and the highly competitive bidding processes for these
contracts could affect our ability to offer these products to our clients, or to offer them to our clients at rates that are competitive to other forms of advertising, without adversely affecting our financial results. 
  14 


Table of Contents
Future acquisitions and other strategic transactions could pose risks 
We frequently evaluate strategic opportunities both within and outside our existing lines of business. We expect from time to time to
pursue additional acquisitions and may decide to dispose of certain businesses. These acquisitions or dispositions could be material. Our acquisition strategy involves numerous risks, including: 
 


 
•
 
 our acquisitions may prove unprofitable and fail to generate anticipated cash flows; 


 
•
 
 to successfully manage our large portfolio of outdoor advertising and other properties, we may need to: 


 
•
 
 recruit additional senior management as we cannot be assured that senior management of acquired businesses will continue to work for us and we cannot
be certain that any of our recruiting efforts will succeed, and 


 
•
 
 expand corporate infrastructure to facilitate the integration of our operations with those of acquired businesses, because failure to do so may cause
us to lose the benefits of any expansion that we decide to undertake by leading to disruptions in our ongoing businesses or by distracting our management; 


 
•
 
 we may enter into markets and geographic areas where we have limited or no experience; 


 
•
 
 we may encounter difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; and 


 
•
 
 our management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns. 
Additional acquisitions by us may require antitrust review by federal antitrust agencies and may require review by foreign antitrust
agencies under the antitrust laws of foreign jurisdictions. We can give no assurances that the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”), the U.S. Federal Trade Commission or foreign antitrust agencies will not seek to bar us from acquiring
additional outdoor advertising businesses in any market where we already have a significant position. The DOJ actively reviews proposed acquisitions of outdoor advertising businesses. In addition, the antitrust laws of foreign jurisdictions will
apply if we acquire international outdoor advertising businesses.  Risks Related to Our Relationship with Clear Channel Communications
 Because Clear Channel Communications controls substantially all of the total voting power of our common stock, investors will not be
able to affect the outcome of any stockholder vote  As of December 31, 2011, Clear Channel Communications
indirectly owned (1) all of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock and (2) 1,553,971 shares of our Class A common stock, collectively representing approximately 89% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Each share of
our Class B common stock entitles its holder to 20 votes and each share of our Class A common stock entitles its holder to one vote on all matters on which stockholders are entitled to vote. As a result, as of December 31, 2011, Clear
Channel Communications controlled approximately 99% of the total voting power of our common stock.  As long as Clear Channel
Communications continues to own shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, it will have the ability to direct the election of all members of our Board of Directors and, therefore, to exercise
a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations, our acquisition or disposition of assets, our incurrence of indebtedness, our issuance of any additional
common stock or other equity securities, our repurchase or redemption of common stock or preferred stock, if applicable, and our payment of dividends. Similarly, Clear Channel Communications will have the power to determine the outcome of matters
submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the power to prevent an acquisition or any other change in control. Because Clear Channel Communications’ interests as our controlling stockholder may differ from other stockholders’
interests, actions taken by Clear Channel Communications with respect to us may not be favorable to all stockholders. 
  15 


Table of Contents
We have entered into agreements with Clear Channel Communications that impose obligations on us with
respect to cash management and other corporate services, financing activities, acquisitions and other business activities  We have entered into a Master Agreement, a Corporate Services Agreement, a Tax Matters Agreement, a Trademark License Agreement and a number of other agreements with Clear Channel Communications setting
forth various matters governing our relationship with Clear Channel Communications while it remains a significant stockholder in us. These agreements govern our relationship with Clear Channel Communications and allow Clear Channel Communications to
retain control over many aspects of our operations. We are not able to terminate these agreements or amend them in a manner we deem more favorable so long as Clear Channel Communications continues to own shares of our common stock representing more
than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock.  Pursuant to the Corporate Services Agreement, we are obligated to use
various corporate services provided by Clear Channel Communications and its affiliates, including treasury, payroll and other financial services, certain executive officer services, human resources and employee benefit services, legal services,
information systems and network services and procurement and sourcing support. Also pursuant to the Corporate Services Agreement, substantially all of the cash generated from our domestic Americas operations is transferred daily into accounts of
Clear Channel Communications (after satisfying our controlled disbursement accounts and the funding requirements of the trustee account under the senior notes issued in December 2009 by Clear Channel Worldwide Holdings, Inc., an indirect,
wholly-owned subsidiary of ours), where funds of ours and of Clear Channel Communications are commingled, and recorded as “Due from/to Clear Channel Communications” on the consolidated balance sheet. Net amounts owed between us and Clear
Channel Communications are evidenced by revolving promissory notes. We do not have a commitment from Clear Channel Communications to advance funds to us, and we have no access to the cash transferred from us to Clear Channel Communications. If Clear
Channel Communications were to become insolvent, we would be an unsecured creditor of Clear Channel Communications. In such event, we would be treated the same as other unsecured creditors of Clear Channel Communications and, if we were not entitled
to the cash previously transferred to Clear Channel Communications, or could not obtain such cash on a timely basis, we could experience a liquidity shortfall. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the asset recorded in “Due from Clear Channel
Communications” on the consolidated balance sheet was $656.0 million and $383.8 million, respectively.  In addition, the
Master Agreement includes restrictive covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to:   


 
•
 
 issue any shares of capital stock or securities convertible into capital stock; 


 
•
 
 incur additional indebtedness; 


 
•
 
 make certain acquisitions and investments; 


 
•
 
 repurchase our stock; 


 
•
 
 dispose of certain assets; and 


 
•
 
 merge or consolidate.  The rights of Clear Channel Communications under these agreements may allow Clear Channel Communications to delay or prevent an acquisition of us that our other stockholders may consider favorable. In
addition, the restrictions contained in these agreements limit our ability to finance operations and capital needs, make acquisitions or engage in other business activities, including our ability to grow and increase our revenue or respond to
competitive changes.  The terms of our arrangements with Clear Channel Communications may be more favorable than we would be able to
obtain from an unaffiliated third party, and we may be unable to replace the services Clear Channel Communications provides us in a timely manner or on comparable terms 
We negotiated our arrangements with Clear Channel Communications in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship prior to the initial
public offering of our Class A common stock. Although Clear Channel Communications is contractually obligated to provide us with services during the term of the Corporate Services Agreement, we cannot assure you these services will be sustained
at an appropriate level, or that we will be able to replace these services in a timely manner or on comparable terms. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that the 
  16 


Table of Contents

amount we pay Clear Channel Communications for the services will be as favorable to us as that which may be available for comparable services provided by unrelated third parties. Other agreements
with Clear Channel Communications also govern our relationship with Clear Channel Communications and provide for the allocation of employee benefit, tax and other liabilities and obligations attributable to our operations. The agreements also
contain terms and provisions that may be more favorable than terms and provisions we might have obtained in arm’s length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. If Clear Channel Communications ceases to provide services to us pursuant to
those agreements, our costs of procuring those services from third parties may increase.  Conflicts of interest may arise between Clear
Channel Communications and us that could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us  Questions relating to conflicts of
interest may arise between Clear Channel Communications and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Clear Channel Communications is owned indirectly by CC Media Holdings. Three of our directors serve as directors of
CC Media Holdings. Three of our other directors are affiliated with CC Media Holdings and its stockholders. In addition, five of our executive officers serve as executive officers of CC Media Holdings. 
Areas in which conflicts of interest between Clear Channel Communications and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the
following:   


 
•
 
 Cross officerships, directorships and stock ownership. The ownership interests of our directors or executive officers in the common stock of CC
Media Holdings or service as a director or officer of both CC Media Holdings and us could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when directors and executive officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for
the two companies. For example, these decisions could relate to: (1) the nature, quality and cost of services rendered to us by Clear Channel Communications; (2) disagreement over the desirability of a potential acquisition opportunity;
(3) employee retention or recruiting; or (4) our capital structure, including our level of indebtedness and our dividend policy. 


 
•
 
 Intercompany transactions. From time to time, Clear Channel Communications or its affiliates may enter into transactions with us or our
subsidiaries or other affiliates. Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between employees of Clear Channel Communications and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of the independent
directors on our Board or a committee of disinterested directors, there can be no assurance the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained in arm’s length
negotiations. 


 
•
 
 Intercompany agreements. We have entered into certain agreements with Clear Channel Communications pursuant to which it provides us certain
management, administrative, accounting, tax, legal and other services, for which we reimburse Clear Channel Communications on a cost basis. In addition, we entered into a number of intercompany agreements covering matters such as tax sharing and our
responsibility for certain liabilities previously undertaken by Clear Channel Communications for certain of our businesses. Pursuant to the Corporate Services Agreement between Clear Channel Communications and us, we are contractually obligated to
utilize the services of certain executive officers of Clear Channel Communications as our executive officers until Clear Channel Communications owns shares of our common stock representing less than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock,
or we provide Clear Channel Communications with six months prior written notice of termination. The terms of these agreements were established while we were a wholly owned subsidiary of Clear Channel Communications and were not the result of
arm’s length negotiations. In addition, conflicts could arise in the interpretation or any extension or renegotiation of these existing agreements.  If Clear Channel Communications engages in the same type of business we conduct or takes advantage of business opportunities that might be attractive to us, our ability to successfully operate and
expand our business may be hampered  Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to
any contractual provision to the contrary, Clear Channel Communications will have no obligation to refrain from:   


 
•
 
 engaging in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as us; or 


 
•
 
 doing business with any of our clients, customers or vendors. 
  17 


Table of Contents
In addition, the corporate opportunity policy set forth in our amended and restated
certificate of incorporation addresses potential conflicts of interest between our company, on the one hand, and Clear Channel Communications or CC Media Holdings and its officers and directors who are officers or directors of our company, on the
other hand. The policy provides that if Clear Channel Communications or CC Media Holdings acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or matter which may be a corporate opportunity for both Clear Channel Communications and us, we will have
renounced our interest in the corporate opportunity. It also provides that if one of our directors or officers who is also a director or officer of Clear Channel Communications or CC Media Holdings learns of a potential transaction or matter that
may be a corporate opportunity for both Clear Channel Communications and us, we will have renounced our interest in the corporate opportunity, unless that opportunity is expressly offered to that person in writing solely in his or her capacity as
our director or officer.  If one of our officers or directors, who also serves as a director or officer of Clear Channel
Communications or CC Media Holdings, learns of a potential transaction or matter that may be a corporate opportunity for both Clear Channel Communications and us, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the director or
officer will have no duty to communicate or present that corporate opportunity to us and will not be liable to us or our stockholders for breach of fiduciary duty by reason of Clear Channel Communications’ actions with respect to that corporate
opportunity.  This policy could result in Clear Channel Communications having rights to corporate opportunities in which both
we and Clear Channel Communications have an interest.  We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock
Exchange (“NYSE”) rules and, as a result, qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that may not provide as many protections as those afforded to stockholders of other companies
 Clear Channel Communications owns shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of
our common stock and, as a result, we have elected to be treated as a “controlled company” under the NYSE corporate governance standards. As a controlled company, we are exempt from the provisions of the NYSE’s corporate governance
standards requiring that: (1) a majority of our Board consists of independent directors; (2) we have a nominating and governance committee composed entirely of independent directors and governed by a written charter addressing the
nominating and governance committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and (3) we have a compensation committee composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the compensation committee’s purpose and
responsibilities. Although we currently have a compensation committee composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the compensation committee’s purpose and responsibilities, we currently do not have a nominating
and governance committee and a majority of our Board of Directors currently does not consist of independent directors. We intend to continue using certain of these exemptions and, as a result: (1) we may not create or maintain a nominating and
governance committee; (2) the nominating and governance committee (if one is created) and the compensation committee may not consist entirely of independent directors; and (3) our Board of Directors may not consist of a majority of
independent directors. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.  We do not have control over our tax decisions and could be liable for income taxes owed by Clear Channel Communications 
As long as Clear Channel Communications continues to own shares of our common stock representing at least 80% of the total voting power
and value of our common stock, we and certain of our subsidiaries will be included in Clear Channel Communications’ consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes for all pre-merger periods and CC Media Holdings’ consolidated
group for post-merger periods. In addition, we or one or more of our subsidiaries may be included in the combined, consolidated or unitary tax returns of Clear Channel Communications for pre-merger periods and CC Media Holdings for post-merger
periods or one or more of its subsidiaries for foreign, state and local income tax purposes. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, we pay to Clear 
  18 


Table of Contents

Channel Communications the amount of federal, foreign, state and local income taxes that we would be required to pay to the relevant taxing authorities if we and our subsidiaries filed combined,
consolidated or unitary tax returns and were not included in the consolidated, combined or unitary tax returns of Clear Channel Communications or its subsidiaries. In addition, by virtue of its controlling ownership and the Tax Matters Agreement,
Clear Channel Communications effectively controls all of our tax decisions. The Tax Matters Agreement provides that Clear Channel Communications has the sole authority to respond to and conduct all tax proceedings (including tax audits) relating to
us, to file all income tax returns on our behalf and to determine the amount of our liability to (or entitlement to payment from) Clear Channel Communications under the Tax Matters Agreement. This arrangement may result in conflicts of interest
between Clear Channel Communications and us. For example, under the Tax Matters Agreement, Clear Channel Communications is able to choose to contest, compromise, or settle any adjustment or deficiency proposed by the relevant taxing authority in a
manner that may be beneficial to Clear Channel Communications and detrimental to us.  Moreover, notwithstanding the Tax
Matters Agreement, federal law provides that each member of a consolidated group is liable for the group’s entire tax obligation. Thus, to the extent Clear Channel Communications or other members of the group fail to make any United
States federal income tax payments required by law, we would be liable for the shortfall. Similar principles may apply for foreign, state and local income tax purposes where we file combined, consolidated or unitary returns with Clear Channel
Communications or its subsidiaries for federal, foreign, state and local income tax purposes.  If Clear Channel Communications spins off
our Class B common stock to the CC Media Holdings stockholders, we have agreed in the Tax Matters Agreement to indemnify Clear Channel Communications for its tax-related liabilities in certain circumstances 
If Clear Channel Communications spins off our Class B common stock to the CC Media Holdings stockholders in a distribution intended
to be tax-free under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to herein as the Code, we have agreed in the Tax Matters Agreement to indemnify Clear Channel Communications and its affiliates against any and
all tax-related liabilities if such a spin-off fails to qualify as a tax-free distribution (including as a result of Section 355(e) of the Code) due to actions, events or transactions relating to our stock, assets or business, or a breach of
the relevant representations or covenants made by us in the Tax Matters Agreement. If neither we nor Clear Channel Communications is responsible under the Tax Matters Agreement for any such spin-off not being tax-free under Section 355 of the
Code, we and Clear Channel Communications have agreed to each be responsible for 50% of the tax-related liabilities arising from the failure of such a spin-off to so qualify.  Any deterioration in the financial condition of Clear Channel Communications could adversely affect our access to the credit markets and increase our borrowing costs 
As long as Clear Channel Communications maintains significant control over us, a deterioration in the financial condition of Clear
Channel Communications could have the effect of increasing our borrowing costs or impairing our access to the capital markets because of our reliance on Clear Channel Communications for availability under our “Due from Clear Channel
Communications” account and its revolving credit facility. To the extent we do not pass on our increased borrowing costs to our clients, our profitability, and potentially our ability to raise capital, could be materially affected. Also, until
the first date Clear Channel Communications owns shares of our common stock representing less than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, pursuant to the Master Agreement between us and Clear Channel Communications, Clear Channel
Communications will have the ability to limit our ability to incur debt or issue equity securities, among other limitations, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our liquidity needs or to grow our business. 
  19 


Table of Contents
Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock 
Our stock ownership by Clear Channel Communications, provisions in our agreements with Clear Channel Communications and our corporate governance
documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that our other stockholders may consider favorable, which could decrease the value of your shares of Class A common stock 
As long as Clear Channel Communications continues to own shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power
of our common stock, it will have the ability to control decisions regarding an acquisition of us by a third party. As a controlled company, we are exempt from some of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE, including the requirement that
our Board of Directors be comprised of a majority of independent directors. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire
us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to remove directors, supermajority voting requirements for stockholders to amend our organizational documents, restrictions on
a classified board of directors and limitations on action by our stockholders by written consent. Some of these provisions, such as the limitation on stockholder action by written consent, only become effective once Clear Channel Communications no
longer controls us. In addition, our Board of Directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. Delaware law also imposes certain
restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These restrictions under Delaware law do not apply to Clear Channel Communications while it retains at least 15% or
more of our Class B common stock. Although we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers
to negotiate with our Board of Directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. 
If Clear Channel Communications spins off our Class B common stock to the CC Media Holdings stockholders and such shares do not convert into
Class A common stock upon a sale or other transfer subsequent to such distribution, the voting rights of our Class A common stock will continue to be disproportionately lower than the voting rights of our Class B common stock
 In connection with any distribution of shares of our Class B common stock to CC Media Holdings’ common
stockholders in a spin-off, Clear Channel Communications may elect in its sole discretion whether our Class B common stock so distributed will automatically convert into shares of Class A common stock upon a transfer or sale by the
recipient subsequent to the spin-off or whether the Class B common stock will continue as Class B common stock after the distribution. In the event the Class B common stock does not convert into Class A common stock upon a sale
or transfer subsequent to a spin-off, the voting rights of Class A common stock will continue to be disproportionately lower than the voting rights of our Class B common stock. Therefore, the holders of our Class B common stock will
continue to be able to direct the election of all the members of our Board of Directors and exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs.  An increase in the concentration of our stock ownership by Clear Channel Communications could depress the market price for shares of our Class A common stock 
As a result of the significant concentration of our stock ownership, we have a relatively small public float compared to the number of
our shares outstanding, which may adversely affect the trading price for our Class A common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. On August 9, 2010, Clear Channel
Communications, our indirect parent entity, announced a stock purchase program under which Clear Channel Communications or its subsidiaries may purchase up to an aggregate of $100 million of our Class A common stock and/or the Class A
common stock of CC Media Holdings, Inc. As of December 31, 2011, a subsidiary of Clear Channel Communications purchased 1,553,971 shares of our Class A common stock through open market purchases. Future stock purchases under this program
would result in additional concentration of our stock ownership and further reduce our public float. 
  20 


Table of Contents
Future sales or distributions of our shares by Clear Channel Communications could depress the market
price for shares of our Class A common stock  Clear Channel Communications may sell all or part of the shares of
our common stock it owns or distribute those shares to the CC Media Holdings stockholders, including pursuant to demand registration rights described in the Registration Rights Agreement between us and Clear Channel Communications. Sales or
distributions by Clear Channel Communications of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or to the CC Media Holdings stockholders could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Class A common stock. Clear Channel
Communications has advised us it currently intends to continue to hold all of our common stock it owns. However, Clear Channel Communications is not subject to any contractual obligation that would prohibit it from selling, spinning off, splitting
off or otherwise disposing of any shares of our common stock. Consequently, we cannot assure you Clear Channel Communications will maintain its ownership of our common stock.  We currently do not pay dividends on our Class A common stock 
To date, we have never paid dividends on our Class A common stock and are subject to restrictions on our ability to pay dividends
should we seek to do so in the future. We are a holding company with no independent operations and no significant assets other than the stock of our subsidiaries. We therefore are dependent upon the receipt of dividends or other distributions from
our subsidiaries to pay dividends. In addition, our senior notes contain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. If we elect not to pay dividends in the future or are prevented from doing so, the price of our Class A common stock must
appreciate in order to realize a gain on your investment. This appreciation may not occur.  Risks Related to Our Indebtedness
 We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to
satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful  We have a substantial amount of
indebtedness. At December 31, 2011, we had $2.55 billion of total indebtedness outstanding, including: (1) $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of Clear Channel Worldwide Holdings, Inc. Senior Notes; and (2) $45.9 million
outstanding of other debt. This large amount of indebtedness could have negative consequences for us, including, without limitation:   


 
•
 
 requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, thereby reducing cash
available for other purposes, including to fund operations and capital expenditures, invest in new technology and pursue other business opportunities; 


 
•
 
 limiting our liquidity and operational flexibility and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures,
debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; 


 
•
 
 limiting our ability to adjust to changing economic, business and competitive conditions; 


 
•
 
 requiring us to defer planned capital expenditures, reduce discretionary spending, sell assets, restructure existing indebtedness or defer acquisitions
or other strategic opportunities; 


 
•
 
 limiting our ability to refinance any of our indebtedness or increasing the cost of any such financing in any downturn in our operating performance or
decline in general economic conditions; 


 
•
 
 making us more vulnerable to a downturn in our operating performance or a decline in general economic or industry conditions; and



 
•
 
 making us more susceptible to changes in credit ratings, which could impact our ability to obtain financing in the future and increase the cost of such
financing.  If compliance with our debt obligations materially hinders our ability to operate our business
and adapt to changing industry conditions, we may lose market share, our revenue may decline and our operating results may suffer.  Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to
certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.

  21 


Table of Contents
If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service
obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to take any of these actions, and these actions may not be
successful or permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Furthermore, these actions may not be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements. 
Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such
time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and increase our debt service obligations and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or
future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our
indebtedness we will be in default under one or more of our debt agreements and, as a result we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 
Because we derive a substantial portion of operating income from our subsidiaries, our ability to repay our debt depends upon the performance of
our subsidiaries and their ability to dividend or distribute funds to us  We derive a substantial portion of operating
income from our subsidiaries. As a result, our cash flow and the ability to service our indebtedness depend on the performance of our subsidiaries and the ability of those entities to distribute funds to us. We cannot assure you that our
subsidiaries will be able to, or be permitted to, pay to us the amounts necessary to service our debt.  The documents governing our
indebtedness contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business  Our material financing
agreements contain various covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to:   


 
•
 
 make acquisitions or investments; 


 
•
 
 make loans or otherwise extend credit to others; 


 
•
 
 incur indebtedness or issue shares or guarantees; 


 
•
 
 create liens; 


 
•
 
 sell, lease, transfer or dispose of assets; 


 
•
 
 merge or consolidate with other companies; and 


 
•
 
 make a substantial change to the general nature of our business. 
These restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to react to market conditions or take
advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. For example, such restrictions could adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, make strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances, restructure our organization or finance
our capital needs. Additionally, our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control. These include prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If we breach any of these covenants or
restrictions, we could be in default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, and as a result we would be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.  Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements  The Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Except for the historical information, this report contains various forward-looking statements which represent our
expectations or beliefs concerning future events, including, without limitation, our future operating and financial performance, our ability to comply with the covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness and the availability of capital
and the terms thereof. Statements expressing expectations and projections with respect to future matters are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We caution that these forward-looking
statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties and are subject to many variables which could impact our future performance. These 
  22 


Table of Contents

statements are made on the basis of management’s views and assumptions, as of the time the statements are made, regarding future events and performance. There can be no assurance, however,
that management’s expectations will necessarily come to pass. We do not intend, nor do we undertake any duty, to update any forward-looking statements.  A wide range of factors could materially affect future developments and performance, including:   


 
•
 
 risks associated with a global economic downturn and its impact on capital markets; 


 
•
 
 other general economic and political conditions in the United States and in other countries in which we currently do business, including those
resulting from recessions, political events and acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts; 


 
•
 
 industry conditions, including competition; 


 
•
 
 the level of expenditures on advertising; 


 
•
 
 legislative or regulatory requirements; 


 
•
 
 fluctuations in operating costs; 


 
•
 
 technological changes and innovations; 


 
•
 
 changes in labor conditions and management; 


 
•
 
 capital expenditure requirements; 


 
•
 
 risks of doing business in foreign countries; 


 
•
 
 fluctuations in exchange rates and currency values; 


 
•
 
 the outcome of pending and future litigation; 


 
•
 
 changes in interest rates; 


 
•
 
 taxes and tax disputes; 


 
•
 
 shifts in population and other demographics; 


 
•
 
 access to capital markets and borrowed indebtedness; 


 
•
 
 our ability to implement our business strategies; 


 
•
 
 the risk that we may not be able to integrate the operations of acquired businesses successfully; 


 
•
 
 the risk that our cost savings initiatives may not be entirely successful or that any cost savings achieved from those initiatives may not persist;



 
•
 
 the impact of our substantial indebtedness, including the effect of our leverage on our financial position and earnings; 


 
•
 
 our relationship with Clear Channel Communications; 


 
•
 
 the impact of the above and similar factors on Clear Channel Communications, our primary direct or indirect external source of capital; and



 
•
 
 certain other factors set forth in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
This list of factors that may affect future performance and the accuracy of forward-looking statements is illustrative and is not
intended to be exhaustive. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty.  ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  None. 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES  Our worldwide corporate headquarters is in San Antonio, Texas, where Clear Channel Communications owns an approximately 55,000 square foot executive office building and an approximately 123,000 square
foot data and administrative service center. The headquarters of our Americas operations is in Phoenix, Arizona, and the headquarters of our International operations is in London, England. The types of properties required to support each of our
outdoor advertising branches include offices, production facilities and structure sites. An outdoor branch and production facility is generally located in an industrial or warehouse district. In addition, certain of our executive offices are located
in New York, New York. 
  23 


Table of Contents
With respect to each of the Americas and International segments, we primarily lease our
outdoor display sites and own or have acquired permanent easements for relatively few parcels of real property that serve as the sites for our outdoor displays. Our leases generally range from month-to-month to year-to-year and can be for terms of
10 years or longer, and many provide for renewal options.  There is no significant concentration of displays under any one
lease or subject to negotiation with any one landlord. We believe that an important part of our management activity is to negotiate suitable lease renewals and extensions. For additional information regarding our CCME and outdoor properties, see
“Item 1. Business.”  ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
We currently are involved in certain legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business and, as required, have accrued an
estimate of the probable costs for the resolution of those claims for which the occurrence of loss is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. These estimates have been developed in consultation with counsel and are based upon an
analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. It is possible, however, that future results of operations for any particular period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions or the
effectiveness of our strategies related to these proceedings. Additionally, due to the inherent uncertainty of litigation, there can be no assurance that the resolution of any particular claim or proceeding would not have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition or results of operations.  On or about July 12, 2006 and April 12, 2007, two of
our operating businesses (L&C Outdoor Ltda. (“L&C”) and Publicidad Klimes São Paulo Ltda. (“Klimes”), respectively) in the São Paulo, Brazil market received notices of infraction from the state taxing
authority, seeking to impose a value added tax (“VAT”) on such businesses, retroactively for the period from December 31, 2001 through January 31, 2006. The taxing authority contends that these businesses fall within the
definition of “communication services” and as such are subject to the VAT.  L&C and Klimes have filed separate
petitions to challenge the imposition of this tax. L&C’s challenge in the administrative courts was unsuccessful at the first level, but successful at the second administrative level. The state taxing authority filed an appeal to the third
and final administrative level, which required consideration by a full panel of 16 administrative law judges. On September 27, 2010, L&C received an unfavorable ruling at this final administrative level, which concluded that the VAT
applied. On December 15, 2011, a Special Chamber of the administrative court considered the reasonableness of the amount of the penalty assessed against L&C and significantly reduced the penalty. With the reduction, the amounts allegedly
owed by L&C are approximately $8.6 million in taxes, approximately $4.3 million in penalties and approximately $18.4 million in interest (as of December 31, 2011 at an exchange rate of 0.534). On January 27, 2012, L&C filed a writ
of mandamus in the 8th lower public treasury court in São Paulo, State of São Paulo, appealing the administrative court’s decision that the VAT applies. On that same day, L&C filed a motion for an injunction barring the taxing
authority from collecting the tax, penalty and interest while the appeal is pending. The court denied the motion on January 30, 2012. L&C filed a motion for reconsideration, and in early February 2012, the court granted that motion and
issued an injunction.  Klimes’ challenge was unsuccessful at the first level of the administrative courts, and denied at
the second administrative level on or about September 24, 2009. On January 5, 2011, the administrative law judges at the third administrative level published a ruling that the VAT applies but significantly reduced the penalty assessed by
the taxing authority. With the penalty reduction, the amounts allegedly owed by Klimes are approximately $9.7 million in taxes, approximately $4.8 million in penalties and approximately $20.1 million in interest (as of December 31, 2011 at an
exchange rate of 0.534). In late February 2011, Klimes filed a writ of mandamus in the 13th lower public treasury court in São Paulo, State of São Paulo, appealing the administrative court’s decision that the VAT applies. On that
same day, Klimes filed a motion for an injunction barring the taxing authority from collecting the tax, penalty and interest while the appeal is pending. The court denied the motion in early April 2011. Klimes filed a motion for reconsideration with
the court and also appealed that ruling to the São Paulo State Higher Court, which affirmed in late April 2011. On June 20, 2011, the 13th lower public treasury court in São Paulo reconsidered its prior ruling and granted Klimes
an injunction suspending any collection effort by the taxing authority until a decision on the merits is obtained at the first judicial level. 
  24 


Table of Contents
On August 8, 2011, Brazil’s National Council of Fiscal Policy (CONFAZ) published a
rule authorizing a general amnesty to sixteen states, including the State of São Paulo, to reduce the principal amount of VAT allegedly owed for communications services and reduce or waive related interest and penalties. The State of
São Paulo ratified the amnesty in late August 2011. However, in late 2011, the State of São Paulo decided not to pursue the general amnesty, but it has indicated that it would be willing to consider a special amnesty for the
out-of-home industry. Klimes and L&C are actively exploring this opportunity but do not know whether the State ultimately will offer a special amnesty or what the terms of any special amnesty might be. Accordingly, the businesses continue
to vigorously pursue their appeals in the lower public treasury court.  At December 31, 2011, the range of reasonably
possible loss is from zero to approximately $31.2 million in the L&C matter and is from zero to approximately $34.6 million in the Klimes matter. The maximum loss that could ultimately be paid depends on the timing of the final resolution at the
judicial level and applicable future interest rates. Based on our review of the law, the outcome of similar cases at the judicial level and the advice of counsel, we have not accrued any costs related to these claims and believe the occurrence of
loss is not probable.  ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
Not applicable.  EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  The following information with respect to our executive officers is presented as of
February 15, 2012:   




000000

000000

 Name
  
     Age    
  
 Position

Robert W. Pittman
  
58
  
Executive Chairman and Director

C. William Eccleshare
  
56
  
Chief Executive Officer

Jonathan D. Bevan
  
40
  
Managing Director and Chief Operating Officer—Clear Channel International

Thomas W. Casey
  
49
  
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Scott D. Hamilton
  
42
  
Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Assistant Secretary

Franklin G. Sisson, Jr.
  
59
  
Chief Revenue Officer

Robert H. Walls, Jr.
  
51
  
Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
 The officers named above serve until the next Board of Directors meeting immediately following the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders or until their respective successors are elected and qualified, in each case unless the officer sooner dies, resigns or is removed. We expect to retain the individuals named above as our executive officers at such next Board
of Directors meeting immediately following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders.  Robert W. Pittman was appointed as
Chief Executive Officer and a director of CC Media Holdings and Clear Channel Communications and as Executive Chairman and a director of Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings on October 2, 2011. Prior thereto, Mr. Pittman served as Chairman of
Media and Entertainment Platforms for CC Media Holdings and Clear Channel Communications since November 2010. He has been a member of, and an investor in, Pilot Group Manager, LLC, Pilot Group GP, LLC, and Pilot Group LP, a private equity
partnership, since April 2003, and Pilot Group II GP, LLC, and Pilot Group II LP, a private equity partnership, since 2006. Mr. Pittman was formerly Chief Operating Officer of AOL Time Warner, Inc. from May 2002 to July 2002. He also served as
Co-Chief Operating Officer of AOL Time Warner, Inc. from January 2001 to May 2002, and earlier, as President and Chief Operating Officer of America Online, Inc. from February 1998 to January 2001. Mr. Pittman serves on the boards of numerous
charitable organizations, including the Alliance for Lupus Research, the New York City Ballet, Public Theater, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Foundation and the Robin Hood Foundation, where he has served as past Chairman. 
  25 


Table of Contents
C. William Eccleshare was appointed as our Chief Executive Officer and as Chief
Executive Officer—Outdoor of CC Media Holdings and Clear Channel Communications on January 24, 2012. Prior thereto, he served as our Chief Executive Officer—International since September 1, 2009. He also served as Chief Executive
Officer—Clear Channel Outdoor—International of CC Media Holdings and Clear Channel Communications from February 17, 2011 until January 24, 2012. Previously, he was Chairman and CEO of BBDO EMEA from 2005 to 2009. Prior thereto, he was
Chairman and CEO of Young & Rubicam EMEA since 2002.  Jonathan D. Bevan was appointed as our Managing Director and
Chief Operating Officer — Clear Channel International on February 1, 2012. Prior thereto, he served as our Chief Operating Officer — International since October 2009. He served as our Chief Financial Officer — International and
Director of Corporate Development from November 2006 to November 2009. Prior thereto, he served as our Chief Financial Officer — International from January 2006 to November 2006. 
Thomas W. Casey was appointed as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and as Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of CC Media Holdings and Clear Channel Communications, effective as of January 4, 2010. On March 31, 2011, Mr. Casey was appointed to serve in the newly-created Office of the Chief Executive Officer of Clear
Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc., Clear Channel Communications and CC Media Holdings, in addition to his existing offices. Mr. Casey served in the Office of the Chief Executive Officer of Clear Channel Communications and CC Media Holdings until
October 2, 2011, and served in the Office of the Chief Executive Officer of Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. until January 24, 2012. Prior to January 4, 2010, Mr. Casey served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of Washington Mutual, Inc. from November 2002 until October 2008. Washington Mutual, Inc. filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in September 2008. Prior to November 2002, Mr. Casey served as Vice
President of General Electric Company and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of GE Financial Assurance since 1999.  Scott D. Hamilton was appointed as our Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Assistant Secretary, and as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Assistant Secretary of CC
Media Holdings and Clear Channel Communications, on April 26, 2010. Previously, Mr. Hamilton served as Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Avaya Inc. (“Avaya”), a multinational telecommunications company, from October 2008
to April 2010. Prior thereto, Mr. Hamilton served in various accounting and finance positions at Avaya, beginning in October 2004. Prior thereto, Mr. Hamilton was employed by PricewaterhouseCoopers from September 1992 until September 2004.
 Franklin G. Sisson, Jr. was appointed Chief Revenue Officer on February 1, 2012. Prior thereto, he served as our
Executive Vice President — Sales and Marketing since 2001.  Robert H. Walls, Jr. was appointed as our Executive
Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, and as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of CC Media Holdings and Clear Channel Communications on January 1, 2010. On March 31, 2011, Mr. Walls was appointed to
serve in the newly-created Office of the Chief Executive Officer of Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc., Clear Channel Communications and CC Media Holdings, in addition to his existing offices. Mr. Walls served in the Office of the Chief
Executive Officer of Clear Channel Communications and CC Media Holdings until October 2, 2011, and served in the Office of the Chief Executive Officer of Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. until January 24, 2012. Mr. Walls was a
founding partner of Post Oak Energy Capital, LP and served as Managing Director through December 31, 2009, and remains an advisor to and a partner of Post Oak Energy Capital, LP. Prior thereto, Mr. Walls was Executive Vice President and
General Counsel of Enron Corp., and a member of its Chief Executive Office since 2002. Prior thereto, he was Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Enron Global Assets and Services, Inc. and Deputy General Counsel of Enron Corp. 
  26 


Table of Contents
PART II 
 


ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
Our Class A common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol “CCO.” There were 79
shareholders of record as of January 31, 2012. This figure does not include an estimate of the indeterminate number of beneficial holders whose shares may be held of record by brokerage firms and clearing agencies. The following table sets
forth, for the calendar quarters indicated, the reported high and low sales prices of our Class A common stock as reported on the NYSE:   





00000



00000


00000

00000


00000



00000


 
  
Class A
 
  
 
  
 
  
Class A
 

 
  
Common StockMarket Price
 
  
 
  
 
  
Common StockMarket Price
 

 
  
High
 
  
Low
 
  
 
  
 
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 2011
  



  



  

  
2010
  



  




 First Quarter
  
 
$15.47
  
  
 
$12.80
  
  

  
    First Quarter
  
 
$12.10
  
  
 
$9.00
  

 Second Quarter
  
 
15.38
  
  
 
12.70
  
  

  
    Second Quarter
  
 
13.25
  
  
 
8.43
  

 Third Quarter
  
 
13.67
  
  
 
9.31
  
  

  
    Third Quarter
  
 
11.99
  
  
 
8.08
  

 Fourth Quarter
  
 
12.60
  
  
 
8.66
  
  

  
    Fourth Quarter
  
 
14.46
  
  
 
10.97
  
 There is no established public trading market for our Class B common Stock. There were 315,000,000 Class
B common shares outstanding on January 31, 2012. Clear Channel Communications indirectly holds all of the shares of Class B common stock outstanding, representing approximately 89% of the shares outstanding and approximately 99% of the voting
power. The holders of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock have identical rights, except holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share while holders of Class B common stock are entitled to 20 votes per
share. The Class B shares of common stock are convertible, at the option of the holder at any time or upon any transfer, into shares of Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to certain limited exceptions. 
Dividend Policy  To
date, we have never paid dividends on our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is subject to restrictions should we seek to do so in the future. We are a holding company with no independent operations and no
significant assets other than the stock of our subsidiaries. We, therefore, are dependent on the receipt of dividends or other distributions from our subsidiaries to pay dividends. In addition, the indenture governing our Series B senior notes
contains restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. If we were to declare and pay cash dividends in the future, holders of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock would share equally, on a per share basis, in any such cash
dividend. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Sources of Capital — Clear Channel Worldwide Holdings Senior Notes” and Note 6 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.  Sales of Unregistered Securities 
We did not sell any equity securities during 2011 that were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933. 
  27 


Table of Contents
Purchases of Equity Securities 
The following table sets forth the purchases made during the quarter ended December 31, 2011 by us or on our behalf or by or on
behalf of an affiliated purchaser of shares of our Class A common stock registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act:   




















 Period
  
Total Numberof SharesPurchased
(1)
 
  
AveragePrice Paid    per Share    
 
  
Total Number ofShares 
Purchasedas Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs
 
  
Maximum Number(or ApproximateDollar Value)
ofShares that May YetBe Purchased Underthe Plans orPrograms
 

 October 1 through October 31
  
 
394    
  
  
 
$        10.84  
  
  
 
—    
  
  
 
(2
) 

 November 1 through November 30
  
 
555,721    
  
  
 
$        10.35  
  
  
 
555,721    
  
  
 
(2
) 

 December 1 through December 31
  
 
15,581    
  
  
 
$        11.66  
  
  
 
—    
  
  
 
(2
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
571,696    
  
  
 
$        10.38  
  
  
 
555,721    
  
  
 
$      83,627,310 (2
) 
  


 
(1)
The shares indicated consist of (a) 15,975 shares tendered by employees to us during the three months ended December 31, 2011 to satisfy the employees’
tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting and release of restricted shares, which are repurchased by us based on their fair market value on the date the relevant transaction occurs and (b) 555,721 shares of our Class A
common stock purchased pursuant to a stock purchase program, as described in footnote (2) below.   


 
(2)
On August 9, 2010, Clear Channel Communications announced that its board of directors approved a stock purchase program under which Clear Channel Communications or
its subsidiaries may purchase up to an aggregate of $100 million of our Class A common stock and/or the Class A common stock of CC Media Holdings. No shares of the Class A common stock of CC Media Holdings were purchased under
the stock purchase program during the three months ended December 31, 2011. However, during the three months ended December 31, 2011, a subsidiary of Clear Channel Communications purchased $5,749,343 of our Class A common stock
(555,721 shares) through open market purchases, which, together with previous purchases under the program, leaves an aggregate of $83,627,310 available under the stock purchase program to purchase the Class A common stock of CC Media Holdings
and/or our Class A common stock. The stock purchase program does not have a fixed expiration date and may be modified, suspended or terminated at any time at Clear Channel Communications’ discretion. 
  28 


Table of Contents
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
The following tables set forth our summary historical consolidated financial and other data as of the dates and for the periods
indicated. The summary historical financial data are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2011 presentation. Historical results are not necessarily
indicative of the results to be expected for future periods. Acquisitions and dispositions impact the comparability of the historical consolidated financial data reflected in this schedule of Selected Financial Data. 
The summary historical consolidated financial and other data should be read in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto located within Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The statement of operations for the year
ended December 31, 2008 is comprised of two periods: post-merger and pre-merger. We applied purchase accounting adjustments to the opening balance sheet on July 31, 2008 as the merger occurred at the close of business on July 30,
2008. The merger resulted in a new basis of accounting beginning on July 31, 2008.   





september 30



september 30



september 30



september 30



september 30


(In thousands)
  
For the Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007 (1)
 

 
  
Post-Merger
 
 
Post-Merger
 
 
Post-Merger
 
 
Combined
 
 
Pre-Merger
 

 Results of Operations Data:
  



 



 



 



 




 Revenue
  
$
3,003,874
  
 
$
2,797,994
  
 
$
2,698,024
  
 
$
3,289,287
  
 
$
3,281,836
  

 Operating expenses:
  



 



 



 



 




 Direct operating expenses
  
 
1,638,801
  
 
 
1,559,972
  
 
 
1,625,083
  
 
 
1,882,136
  
 
 
1,734,845
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
540,872
  
 
 
494,656
  
 
 
484,404
  
 
 
606,370
  
 
 
537,994
  

 Corporate expenses
  
 
90,205
  
 
 
107,596
  
 
 
65,247
  
 
 
71,045
  
 
 
66,080
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
432,035
  
 
 
413,588
  
 
 
439,647
  
 
 
472,350
  
 
 
399,483
  

 Impairment charges (2)
  
 
7,614
  
 
 
11,493
  
 
 
890,737
  
 
 
3,217,649
  
 
 
—
  

 Other operating income (expense) — net
  
 
8,591
  
 
 
(23,753
) 
 
 
(8,231
) 
 
 
15,848
  
 
 
11,824
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
302,938
  
 
 
186,936
  
 
 
(815,325
) 
 
 
(2,944,415
) 
 
 
555,258
  

 Interest expense — net (including interest on debt with Clear Channel Communications)
  
 
196,976
  
 
 
219,993
  
 
 
154,195
  
 
 
161,650
  
 
 
157,881
  

 Loss on marketable securities
  
 
(4,827
) 
 
 
(6,490
) 
 
 
(11,315
) 
 
 
(59,842
) 
 
 
—
  

 Equity in earnings (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliates
  
 
6,029
  
 
 
(9,936
) 
 
 
(31,442
) 
 
 
68,733
  
 
 
4,402
  

 Other income (expense)— net
  
 
(649
) 
 
 
(5,335
) 
 
 
(9,368
) 
 
 
25,479
  
 
 
10,113
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income taxes
  
 
106,515
  
 
 
(54,818
) 
 
 
(1,021,645
) 
 
 
(3,071,695
) 
 
 
411,892
  

 Income tax benefit (expense)
  
 
(43,296
) 
 
 
(21,599
) 
 
 
149,110
  
 
 
220,319
  
 
 
(146,641
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Consolidated net income (loss)
  
 
63,219
  
 
 
(76,417
) 
 
 
(872,535
) 
 
 
(2,851,376
) 
 
 
265,251
  

 Less amount attributable to noncontrolling interest
  
 
20,273
  
 
 
11,106
  
 
 
(4,346
) 
 
 
(293
) 
 
 
19,261
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to the Company
  
$
42,946
  
 
$
(87,523
) 
 
$
(868,189
) 
 
$
(2,851,083
) 
 
$
245,990
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  29 


Table of Contents
 





september 30



september 30



september 30



september 30



september 30


(In thousands, except per share data)
  
For the Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2008
 
  
2007 (1)
 

 
  
Post-Merger
 
  
Post-Merger
 
  
Post-Merger
 
  
Combined
 
  
Pre-Merger
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to the Company per common share:
  



  



  



  



  




 Basic
  
  $
0.11 
  
  
  $
(0.26)  
  
  
  $
(2.46)  
  
  
  $
(8.03)  
  
  
  $
0.69 
  

 Weighted average common shares
  
 
355,907 
  
  
 
355,568  
  
  
 
355,377  
  
  
 
355,233  
  
  
 
354,838 
  








 Diluted
  
  $
0.11 
  
  
  $
(0.26)  
  
  
  $
(2.46)  
  
  
  $
(8.03)  
  
  
  $
0.69 
  

 Weighted average common shares
  
 
356,528 
  
  
 
355,568  
  
  
 
355,377  
  
  
 
355,233  
  
  
 
355,806 
  




(In thousands)
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2008
 
  
2007 (1)
 

 
  
Post-Merger
 
  
Post-Merger
 
  
Post-Merger
 
  
Post-Merger
 
  
Pre-Merger
 

 Balance Sheet Data:
  



  



  



  



  




 Current assets
  
  $
  1,453,728 
  
  
  $
  1,550,493 
  
  
  $
  1,640,545 
  
  
  $
  1,554,652 
  
  
  $
  1,607,107 
  

 Property, plant and equipment – net
  
 
2,246,710 
  
  
 
2,297,724 
  
  
 
2,440,638 
  
  
 
2,586,720 
  
  
 
2,244,108 
  

 Total assets
  
 
7,088,185 
  
  
 
7,076,565 
  
  
 
7,192,422 
  
  
 
8,050,761 
  
  
 
5,935,604 
  

 Current liabilities
  
 
720,983 
  
  
 
765,936 
  
  
 
771,093 
  
  
 
791,865 
  
  
 
921,292 
  

 Long-term debt, including current maturities
  
 
2,545,909 
  
  
 
2,563,809 
  
  
 
2,608,878 
  
  
 
2,601,854 
  
  
 
2,682,021 
  

 Shareholders’ equity
  
 
2,740,227 
  
  
 
2,708,055 
  
  
 
2,761,377 
  
  
 
3,543,823 
  
  
 
2,198,594 
  
    


 
(1)
Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, codified in ASC 740-10. In accordance
with the provisions of ASC 740-10, the effects of adoption were accounted for as a cumulative-effect adjustment recorded to the balance of retained earnings on the date of adoption. 
 


 
(2)
We recorded non-cash impairment charges of $7.6 million and $11.5 million during 2011 and 2010, respectively. We also recorded non-cash impairment charges of $890.7
million in 2009 and $3.2 billion in 2008 as a result of the global economic downturn which adversely affected advertising revenues across our businesses. Our impairment charges are discussed more fully in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K. 
  30 


Table of Contents
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  OVERVIEW  Clear Channel Communications’ Merger  On July 30, 2008, Clear
Channel Communications, Inc. (“Clear Channel Communications”), our parent company, completed its merger with a subsidiary of CC Media Holdings, Inc. (“CC Media Holdings”), a company formed by a group of private equity funds
sponsored by Bain Capital Partners, LLC and Thomas H. Lee Partners, L.P. (together, the “Sponsors”). Clear Channel Communications is now owned indirectly by CC Media Holdings. The merger was accounted for as a purchase business combination
in conformity with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, Business Combinations, and Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 88-16, Basis in Leveraged Buyout Transactions. ASC 805-50-S99-1 requires the application of push
down accounting in situations where the ownership of an entity has changed. As a result, the post-merger financial statements reflect a new basis of accounting. A portion of the consideration paid was allocated to the assets and liabilities acquired
at their respective fair values at July 30, 2008. The remaining portion was recorded at the continuing shareholders basis, due to the fact that certain shares of Clear Channel Communications were exchanged for shares of CC Media Holdings’
Class A common stock. Excess consideration after this allocation was recorded as goodwill.  Format of Presentation 
Management’s discussion and analysis of our results of operations and financial condition (“MD&A”) should be read in
conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related footnotes. Our discussion is presented on both a consolidated and segment basis. Our reportable operating segments are Americas outdoor advertising (“Americas”) and
International outdoor advertising (“International”). Our Americas and International segments provide outdoor advertising services in their respective geographic regions using various digital and traditional display types. 
We manage our operating segments primarily focusing on their operating income, while Corporate expenses, Impairment charges, Other
operating income (expense) - net, Interest expense, Loss on marketable securities, Equity in earnings (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliates, Other income (expense) – net and Income tax benefit (expense) are managed on a total company basis and
are, therefore, included only in our discussion of consolidated results.  Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified
to conform to the 2011 presentation.  Description of Our Business 
Our revenue is derived from selling advertising space on the displays we own or operate in key markets worldwide, consisting primarily of
billboards, street furniture and transit displays. Part of our long-term strategy is to pursue the technology of digital displays, including flat screens, LCDs and LEDs, as alternatives to traditional methods of displaying our clients’
advertisements. We are currently installing these technologies in certain markets, both domestically and internationally.  We
own the majority of our advertising displays, which typically are located on sites that we either lease or own or for which we have acquired permanent easements. Our advertising contracts with clients typically outline the number of displays
reserved, the duration of the advertising campaign and the unit price per display.  Management typically monitors our business
by reviewing the average rates, average revenue per display, or yield, occupancy, and inventory levels of each of our display types by market.  The significant expenses associated with our operations include (i) direct production, maintenance and installation expenses, (ii) site lease expenses for land under our displays and
(iii) revenue-sharing or minimum guaranteed amounts payable under our billboard, street furniture and transit display contracts. Our direct production, maintenance and installation expenses include costs for printing, transporting and changing
the advertising copy on our displays, the related labor costs, the vinyl and paper costs, electricity costs and the costs for cleaning and maintaining our displays. Vinyl and paper costs vary according to the complexity of the advertising

  31 


Table of Contents

copy and the quantity of displays. Our site lease expenses include lease payments for use of the land under our displays, as well as any revenue-sharing arrangements or minimum guaranteed amounts
payable that we may have with the landlords. The terms of our site leases and revenue-sharing or minimum guaranteed contracts generally range from one to 20 years.  Americas  Our advertising rates are based on a number of different
factors including location, competition, size of display, illumination, market and gross ratings points. Gross ratings points are the total number of impressions delivered by a display or group of displays, expressed as a percentage of a market
population. The number of impressions delivered by a display is measured by the number of people passing the site during a defined period of time. For all of our billboards in the United States, we use independent, third-party auditing
companies to verify the number of impressions delivered by a display.  Client contract terms typically range from four weeks
to one year for the majority of our display inventory in the United States. Generally, we own the street furniture structures and are responsible for their construction and maintenance. Contracts for the right to place our street furniture and
transit displays and sell advertising space on them are awarded by municipal and transit authorities in competitive bidding processes governed by local law or are negotiated with private transit operators. Generally, these contracts have terms
ranging from 10 to 20 years.  International  Similar to our Americas business, advertising rates generally are based on the gross ratings points of a display or group of displays. The number of impressions delivered by a display, in some countries,
is weighted to account for such factors as illumination, proximity to other displays and the speed and viewing angle of approaching traffic. In addition, because our International operations are conducted in foreign markets, primarily Europe and
Asia, management reviews the operating results from our foreign operations on a constant dollar basis. A constant dollar basis allows for comparison of operations independent of foreign exchange movements. 
Our International display inventory is typically sold to clients through network packages, with client contract terms typically ranging
from one to two weeks with terms of up to one year available as well. Internationally, contracts with municipal and transit authorities for the right to place our street furniture and transit displays typically provide for terms ranging from three
to 15 years. The major difference between our International and Americas street furniture businesses is in the nature of the municipal contracts. In our International business, these contracts typically require us to provide the municipality with a
broader range of metropolitan amenities in exchange for which we are authorized to sell advertising space on certain sections of the structures we erect in the public domain. A different regulatory environment for billboards and competitive bidding
for street furniture and transit display contracts, which constitute a larger portion of our business internationally, may result in higher site lease costs in our International business. As a result, our margins are typically lower in our
International business than in the Americas.  Macroeconomic Indicators 
Our advertising revenue for our Americas and International segments is highly correlated to changes in gross domestic product
(“GDP”) as advertising spending has historically trended in line with GDP. According to the U.S. Department of Commerce, estimated U.S. GDP growth for 2011 was 1.7%. Internationally, our results are impacted by fluctuations in foreign
currency exchange rates as well as the economic conditions in the foreign markets in which we have operations.  Executive Summary
 The key highlights of our business for the year ended December 31, 2011 are summarized below: 
 


 
•
 
 Consolidated revenue increased $205.9 million during 2011 compared to 2010. 


 
•
 
 Americas revenue increased $46.6 million during 2011 compared to 2010, driven by revenue growth across our bulletin, airport and shelter displays,
particularly digital displays. During 2011, we deployed 242 digital billboards in the United States, compared to 158 for 2010. We continue to see opportunities to invest in digital displays and expect our digital display deployments will continue
throughout 2012. 
  32 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 International revenue increased $159.3 million during 2011 compared to 2010, primarily as a result of increased street furniture revenues and the
effects of movements in foreign exchange. The weakening of the U.S. Dollar throughout 2011 has significantly contributed to revenue growth in our International business. The revenue increase attributable to movements in foreign exchange was
$82.0 million for 2011.  The key highlights of our business for the year ended December 31, 2010 are
summarized below:   


 
•
 
 Consolidated revenue increased $100.0 million during 2010 compared to 2009, primarily as a result of improved economic conditions.



 
•
 
 Americas revenue increased $51.9 million during 2010 compared to 2009, driven by revenue growth across our advertising inventory, particularly digital.



 
•
 
 International revenue increased $48.1 million during 2010 compared to 2009, primarily as a result of increased revenue from street furniture across
most countries, partially offset by a decrease from movements in foreign exchange of $10.3 million. 


 
•
 
 During 2010, we received $51.0 million in Federal income tax refunds. 


 
•
 
 On October 15, 2010, we transferred our interest in our Branded Cities operations to our joint venture partner, The Ellman Companies. We
recorded a loss of $25.3 million in “Other operating income (expense) – net” related to the transfer. 
Relationship with Clear Channel Communications  There are several agreements which govern our relationship with Clear Channel Communications including the Master Agreement, Corporate Services Agreement, Employee Matters Agreement and Tax Matters
Agreement. Clear Channel Communications has the right to terminate these agreements in various circumstances. As of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, no notice of termination of any of these agreements has been received from
Clear Channel Communications. Our agreements with Clear Channel Communications continue under the same terms and conditions subsequent to Clear Channel Communications’ merger. 
In accordance with the Master Agreement, our branch managers follow a corporate policy allowing Clear Channel Communications to use,
without charge, Americas’ displays they believe would otherwise be unsold. Our sales personnel receive partial revenue credit for that usage for compensation purposes. This partial revenue credit is not included in our reported revenue. Clear
Channel Communications bears the cost of producing the advertising and we bear the costs of installing and removing this advertising. In 2011, we estimated this discounted revenue would have been less than 1% of our Americas revenue. 
Under the Corporate Services Agreement, Clear Channel Communications provides management services to us. These services are charged to us
based on actual direct costs incurred or allocated by Clear Channel Communications based on headcount, revenue or other factors on a pro rata basis. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recorded approximately $26.4 million,
$38.1 million and $28.5 million, respectively, as a component of corporate expenses for these services.  On August 9,
2010, Clear Channel Communications announced that its board of directors approved a stock purchase program under which Clear Channel Communications or its subsidiaries may purchase up to an aggregate of $100 million of our Class A common stock
and/or the Class A common stock of CC Media Holdings. No shares of the Class A common stock of CC Media Holdings were purchased under the stock purchase program during the year ended December 31, 2011. However, during the year ended
December 31, 2011, a subsidiary of Clear Channel Communications purchased $16.4 million of our Class A common stock (1,553,971 shares) through open market purchases, leaving an aggregate of $83.6 million available under the stock purchase
program to purchase the Class A common stock of CC Media Holdings and/or our Class A common stock. The stock purchase program does not have a fixed expiration date and may be modified, suspended or terminated at any time at Clear Channel
Communications’ discretion. 
  33 


Table of Contents
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Consolidated Results of Operations  The comparison of our historical
results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 to the year ended December 31, 2010 is as follows:   
















(In thousands)
  
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
%
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
Change
 

 Revenue
  
$
3,003,874
  
 
$
2,797,994
  
 
 
7
% 

 Operating expenses:
  



 



 




 Direct operating expenses (excludes depreciation and amortization)
  
 
1,638,801
  
 
 
1,559,972
  
 
 
5
% 

 Selling, general and administrative expenses (excludes depreciation and amortization)
  
 
540,872
  
 
 
494,656
  
 
 
9
% 

 Corporate expenses (excludes depreciation and amortization)
  
 
90,205
  
 
 
107,596
  
 
 
(16
%) 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
432,035
  
 
 
413,588
  
 
 
5
% 

 Impairment charges
  
 
7,614
  
 
 
11,493
  
 




 Other operating income (expense) – net
  
 
8,591
  
 
 
(23,753
) 
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Operating income
  
 
302,938
  
 
 
186,936
  
 




 Interest expense
  
 
242,435
  
 
 
239,453
  
 




 Interest income on Due From Clear Channel Communications
  
 
45,459
  
 
 
19,460
  
 




 Loss on marketable securities
  
 
(4,827
) 
 
 
(6,490
) 
 




 Equity in earnings (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliates
  
 
6,029
  
 
 
(9,936
) 
 




 Other expense – net
  
 
(649
) 
 
 
(5,335
) 
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Income (loss) before income taxes
  
 
106,515
  
 
 
(54,818
) 
 




 Income tax expense
  
 
(43,296
) 
 
 
(21,599
) 
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Consolidated net income (loss)
  
 
63,219
  
 
 
(76,417
) 
 




 Less amount attributable to noncontrolling interest
  
 
20,273
  
 
 
11,106
  
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Net income (loss) attributable to the Company
  
$
42,946
  
 
$
(87,523
) 
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 Consolidated Revenue  Our consolidated revenue increased $205.9 million during 2011 compared to 2010. Americas revenue increased $46.6 million, driven by increases in revenue across bulletin, airport and shelter displays,
particularly digital displays, as a result of our continued deployment of new digital displays and increased rates. Our International revenue increased $159.3 million, primarily from increased street furniture revenue across our markets and an $82.0
million increase from the impact of movements in foreign exchange.  Consolidated Direct Operating Expenses 
Direct operating expenses increased $78.8 million during 2011 compared to 2010. Americas direct operating expenses increased $18.6
million, primarily due to increased site lease expense associated with higher airport and bulletin revenue, particularly digital displays, and the increased deployment of digital displays. Direct operating expenses in our International segment
increased $60.2 million, primarily from a $52.0 million increase from movements in foreign exchange.  Consolidated Selling, General and
Administrative (“SG&A”) Expenses  SG&A expenses increased $46.2 million during 2011 compared to 2010.
SG&A expenses increased $6.4 million in our Americas segment, which was primarily as a result of increased commission expense associated with the increase in revenue. Our International SG&A expenses increased $39.8 million primarily due to a
$15.9 million increase from movements in foreign exchange, a $6.5 million increase related to the unfavorable impact of litigation and increased selling and marketing expenses associated with the increase in revenue. 
  34 


Table of Contents
Corporate Expenses  Corporate expenses decreased by $17.4 million during 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to a decrease in bonus expense related to our variable compensation plans and general corporate infrastructure
support services being offset by an increase in divisional corporate expenses.  Depreciation and Amortization 
Depreciation and amortization increased $18.4 million during 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to increases in accelerated depreciation
and amortization related to the removal of various structures, including the removal of traditional billboards in connection with the continued deployment of digital billboards. In addition, movements in foreign exchange contributed an increase of
$7.4 million during 2011.  Impairment Charges  We performed our annual impairment test on October 1, 2011 on our goodwill, billboard permits and other intangible assets and recorded impairment charges of $7.6 million. We also performed our annual
impairment test on October 1, 2010 and recorded impairment charges of $11.5 million. Please see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further description of
the impairment charges.  Other Operating Income (Expense) – Net 
Other operating income of $8.6 million in 2011 primarily related to proceeds received from condemnations of bulletins. 
Other operating expense of $23.8 million for 2010 primarily related to a $25.3 million loss recorded as a result of the transfer of our
interest in our Branded Cities business.  Interest Income on Due From Clear Channel Communications 
Interest income increased $26.0 million during 2011 compared to 2010 due to the increase in the Due from Clear Channel Communications
during 2011. In connection with the issuance of the Clear Channel Worldwide Holdings Notes (“CCWH Notes”) in 2009 described elsewhere in this MD&A, we and Clear Channel Communications modified the terms of the revolving promissory
notes (recorded as Due from/to Clear Channel Communications account on the consolidated balance sheets) to change the interest rate on each revolving promissory note to equal the interest rate on the CCWH Notes, which bear interest at a fixed rate
of 9.25% per annum.  Loss on Marketable Securities  The loss on marketable securities of $4.8 million and $6.5 million during 2011 and 2010, respectively, primarily related to the impairment of Independent News & Media PLC (“INM”). The
fair value of INM was below cost for an extended period of time. As a result, we considered the guidance in ASC 320-10-S99 and reviewed the length of the time and the extent to which the market value was less than cost, the financial condition and
the near-term prospects of the issuer. After this assessment, we concluded that the impairment at each date was other than temporary and recorded non-cash impairment charges to our investment in INM, as noted above. 
Equity in Earnings (Loss) of Nonconsolidated Affiliates  Equity in loss of nonconsolidated affiliates of $9.9 million for 2010 included an $8.3 million impairment related to an equity investment in our International segment. 
  35 


Table of Contents
Other Expense – Net 
Other expense recorded for 2011 and 2010 primarily related to foreign exchange transaction gains/losses on short-term intercompany
accounts.  Income Tax Expense  Our operations are included in a consolidated income tax return filed by Clear Channel Communications for pre-merger periods and CC Media Holdings for post-merger periods. However, for our financial
statements, our provision for income taxes was computed as if we file separate consolidated Federal income tax returns with our subsidiaries.  Our effective tax rate for 2011 was 40.6%, primarily impacted by the Company’s inability to benefit losses in certain foreign jurisdictions as well as additional tax expense recorded for interest on
uncertain tax positions. The effects of the items mentioned above were partially offset by a reduction in tax expense recorded during 2011 related to the settlement of U.S. Federal and state tax examinations during the year. 
Our effective tax rate for 2010 was (39.4%), primarily impacted by the Company’s inability to benefit from tax losses in certain
foreign jurisdictions due to the uncertainty of the ability to utilize those losses in future years. In addition, we recorded a valuation allowance of $13.6 million in 2010 against deferred tax assets related to capital allowances in foreign
jurisdictions due to the uncertainty of the ability to realize those assets in future periods.  Americas Results of Operations
 Our Americas operating results were as follows: 
 














(In thousands)
  
Years Ended December 31,
 
  
%Change

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  

 Revenue
  
$
1,336,592
  
  
$
1,290,014
  
  
4%

 Direct operating expenses
  
 
607,210
  
  
 
588,592
  
  
3%

 SG&A expenses
  
 
225,217
  
  
 
218,776
  
  
3%

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
222,554
  
  
 
209,127
  
  
6%


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 Operating income
  
$
281,611
  
  
$
273,519
  
  
3%


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  

 Our Americas revenue increased $46.6 million during 2011 compared to 2010, driven primarily by revenue
increases from bulletin, airport and shelter displays, and particularly digital displays. Bulletin revenues increased primarily due to digital growth driven by the increased number of digital displays, in addition to increased rates. Airport and
shelter revenues increased primarily on higher average rates.  Direct operating expenses increased $18.6 million, primarily
due to increased site lease expense associated with higher airport and bulletin revenue, particularly digital displays, and the increased deployment of digital displays. SG&A expenses increased $6.4 million, primarily as a result of increased
commission expense associated with the increase in revenue.  Depreciation and amortization increased $13.4 million, primarily
due to increases in accelerated depreciation and amortization related to the removal of various structures, including the removal of traditional billboards in connection with the continued deployment of digital billboards. 
  36 


Table of Contents
International Results of Operations 
Our International operating results were as follows:   














(In thousands)
  
Years Ended December 31,
 
  
%Change

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  

 Revenue
  
$
1,667,282
  
  
$
1,507,980
  
  
11%

 Direct operating expenses
  
 
1,031,591
  
  
 
971,380
  
  
6%

 SG&A expenses
  
 
315,655
  
  
 
275,880
  
  
14%

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
208,410
  
  
 
204,461
  
  
2%


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 Operating income
  
$
111,626
  
  
$
56,259
  
  
98%


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  

 International revenue increased $159.3 million during 2011 compared to 2010, primarily as a result of
increased street furniture revenue across most of our markets. Improved yields and additional displays contributed to the revenue increase in China, and improved yields in combination with a new contract drove the revenue increase in Sweden. The
increases from street furniture were partially offset by declines in billboard revenue across several of our markets, primarily Italy and the U.K. Foreign exchange movements resulted in an $82.0 million increase in revenue. 
Direct operating expenses increased $60.2 million, attributable to a $52.0 million increase from movements in foreign exchange. In
addition, increased site lease expense of $10.7 million associated with the increase in revenue was partially offset by an $8.8 million decline in restructuring expenses. SG&A expenses increased $39.8 million primarily due to a $15.9 million
increase from movements in foreign exchange, a $6.5 million increase related to the unfavorable impact of litigation and higher selling expenses associated with the increase in revenue. 
  37 


Table of Contents
Consolidated Results of Operations 
The comparison of our historical results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 to the year ended December 31, 2009
is as follows:   














(In thousands)
  
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
%

 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
Change

 Revenue
  
$
2,797,994
  
 
$
2,698,024
  
 
4%

 Operating expenses:
  



 



 


 Direct operating expenses (excludes depreciation and amortization)
  
 
1,559,972
  
 
 
1,625,083
  
 
(4%)

 Selling, general and administrative expenses (excludes depreciation and amortization)
  
 
494,656
  
 
 
484,404
  
 
2%

 Corporate expenses (excludes depreciation and amortization)
  
 
107,596
  
 
 
65,247
  
 
65%

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
413,588
  
 
 
439,647
  
 
(6%)

 Impairment charges
  
 
11,493
  
 
 
890,737
  
 


 Other operating expense – net
  
 
(23,753
) 
 
 
(8,231
) 
 



  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 


 Operating income (loss)
  
 
186,936
  
 
 
(815,325
) 
 


 Interest expense
  
 
239,453
  
 
 
154,919
  
 


 Interest income on Due From Clear Channel Communications
  
 
19,460
  
 
 
724
  
 


 Loss on marketable securities
  
 
(6,490
) 
 
 
(11,315
) 
 


 Equity in loss of nonconsolidated affiliates
  
 
(9,936
) 
 
 
(31,442
) 
 


 Other expense – net
  
 
(5,335
) 
 
 
(9,368
) 
 



  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 


 Loss before income taxes
  
 
(54,818
) 
 
 
(1,021,645
) 
 


 Income tax benefit (expense)
  
 
(21,599
) 
 
 
149,110
  
 



  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 


 Consolidated net loss
  
 
(76,417
) 
 
 
(872,535
) 
 


 Less amount attributable to noncontrolling interest
  
 
11,106
  
 
 
(4,346
) 
 



  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 


 Net loss attributable to the Company
  
$
(87,523
) 
 
$
(868,189
) 
 



  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 Consolidated Revenue  Consolidated revenue increased $100.0 million during 2010 compared to 2009. Americas revenue increased $51.9 million, driven by revenue increases across most of our advertising inventory, particularly
digital. Our International revenue increased $48.1 million, primarily due to revenue growth from street furniture across most countries, partially offset by a $10.3 million decrease from the effects of movements in foreign exchange. 
Consolidated Direct Operating Expenses  Direct operating expenses decreased $65.1 million during 2010 compared to 2009. Americas direct operating expenses decreased $19.5 million, primarily as a result of the disposition of our taxi advertising
business (as described in the “Disposition of Taxi Business” section within this MD&A), partially offset by an increase in site lease expenses associated with the increase in revenue. Direct operating expenses in our
International segment decreased $45.6 million, primarily as a result of a $20.4 million decline in expenses incurred in connection with our restructuring program in addition to decreased site lease expenses associated with cost savings from our
restructuring program, and included an $8.2 million decrease from movements in foreign exchange.  Consolidated SG&A Expenses
 Our SG&A expenses increased $10.3 million during 2010 compared to 2009. SG&A expenses increased $16.6 million
in our Americas segment, primarily as a result of increased selling and marketing costs associated with the increase in revenue in addition to the unfavorable impact of litigation. Our International SG&A expenses decreased $6.3 million,
primarily as a result of a decrease in business tax related to a change in French tax law, and included a $2.3 million decrease from movements in foreign exchange. 
  38 


Table of Contents
Corporate Expenses  Corporate expenses increased $42.3 million during 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to increases in bonus expense from improved operating performance and increases related to headcount from
centralization efforts and the expansion of corporate capabilities.  Depreciation and Amortization 
Depreciation and amortization decreased $26.1 million during 2010 compared to 2009, primarily as a result of assets in our International
segment that became fully amortized during 2009.  Impairment Charges 
We performed our annual impairment test on October 1, 2010 on our goodwill, billboard permits and other intangible assets and
recorded impairment charges of $11.5 million. We also performed impairment tests in 2009 on our goodwill, billboard permits and other intangible assets and recorded impairment charges of $890.7 million. Please see the notes to the consolidated
financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further description of the impairment charges.  A rollforward of our goodwill balance from December 31, 2008 through December 31, 2009 by reporting unit is as follows: 
 
































(In thousands)
  
Balances
asof December31,2008
 
  
Acquisitions
 
  
Dispositions
 
  
ForeignCurrency
 
  
Impairment
 
 
Adjustments
 
 
Balances asof December31, 2009
 

 United States Outdoor Markets
  
$
824,730
  
  
$
2,250
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
(324,892
) 
 
$
69,844
  
 
$
571,932
  

 Switzerland
  
 
56,885
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,276
  
  
 
(7,827
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
50,334
  

 Ireland
  
 
14,285
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
223
  
  
 
(12,591
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,917
  

 Baltics
  
 
10,629
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
(10,629
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Americas – Mexico
  
 
8,729
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
7,440
  
  
 
(10,085
) 
 
 
(442
) 
 
 
5,642
  

 Americas – Chile
  
 
3,964
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
4,417
  
  
 
(8,381
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Americas – Peru
  
 
45,284
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
(37,609
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
7,675
  

 Americas – Brazil
  
 
4,971
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
4,436
  
  
 
(9,407
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 All Others – International
  
 
205,744
  
  
 
110
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
15,913
  
  
 
(42,717
) 
 
 
45,042
  
 
 
224,092
  

 Americas – Canada
  
 
4,920
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
(4,920
) 
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
1,180,141
  
  
$
2,360
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
33,705
  
  
$
(464,138
) 
 
$
109,524
  
 
$
861,592
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Other Operating Expense – Net  Other operating expense of $23.8 million for 2010 primarily related to a $25.3 million loss recorded as a result of the transfer of our interest in our Branded Cities business. 
Other operating expense for 2009 was $8.2 million and primarily related to a loss of $20.9 million on the sale of our taxi advertising
business. The loss was partially offset by a $10.1 million gain on the sale of Americas and International assets.  Interest Expense
 Interest expense increased $84.5 million during 2010 compared to 2009. The increase was primarily attributable to the
issuance by our subsidiary, Clear Channel Worldwide Holdings, Inc. (“CCWH”), of $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes in December 2009 (the “CCWH Notes”), which bear interest at a fixed rate of 9.25% per
annum. The senior notes were issued at a higher interest rate than the $2.5 billion note to Clear Channel Communications, which was prepaid and retired in December 2009. 
  39 


Table of Contents
Interest Income on Due From Clear Channel Communications 
Interest income increased $18.7 million during 2010 compared to 2009. In connection with the issuance of the CCWH Notes described
elsewhere in this MD&A, we and Clear Channel Communications modified the terms of the revolving promissory notes (recorded as Due from/to Clear Channel Communications account on the consolidated balance sheets) to change the interest rate on
each revolving promissory note to equal the interest rate on the CCWH Notes, which bear interest at a fixed rate of 9.25% per annum. Prior to the amendment of the revolving promissory notes in December 2009, interest on the revolving promissory
note owed by Clear Channel Communications accrued on the daily net positive cash position based upon the average one-month generic treasury bill rate.  Loss on Marketable Securities  The loss on marketable securities of
$6.5 million and $11.3 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively, primarily related to the impairment of INM. The fair value of INM was below cost for an extended period of time. As a result, we considered the guidance in ASC 320-10-S99 and reviewed
the length of the time and the extent to which the market was less than cost and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer. After this assessment, we concluded that the impairment at each date was other than temporary and
recorded non-cash impairment charges to our investment in INM, as noted above.  Equity in Loss of Nonconsolidated Affiliates
 Equity in loss of nonconsolidated affiliates in 2010 included an $8.3 million impairment related to an equity
investment in our International segment. Equity in loss of nonconsolidated affiliates of $31.4 million for 2009 primarily related to a $22.9 million impairment of equity investments in our International segment. 
Other Expense – Net  Other expense recorded for 2010 and 2009 primarily related to foreign exchange transaction gains/losses on short-term intercompany accounts.  Income Tax Benefit (Expense)  Our effective tax rate for 2010 was
(39.4%), primarily impacted by the Company’s inability to benefit from tax losses in certain foreign jurisdictions due to the uncertainty of the ability to utilize those losses in future years. In addition, we recorded a valuation allowance of
$13.6 million in 2010 against deferred tax assets related to capital allowances in foreign jurisdictions due to the uncertainty of the ability to realize those assets in future periods. 
Our effective tax rate for 2009 was 14.6% primarily due to the goodwill impairment charge, which is not deductible for tax purposes,
along with our inability to benefit from tax losses in certain foreign jurisdictions as discussed above.  Americas Results of Operations
 Disposition of Taxi Business  On December 31, 2009, our subsidiary, Clear Channel Outdoor, Inc. (“CCOI”), disposed of Clear Channel Taxi Media, LLC (“Taxis”), our taxi advertising business. For the year ended
December 31, 2009, Taxis contributed $41.5 million in revenue, $39.8 million in direct operating expenses and $10.5 million in SG&A expenses. 
  40 


Table of Contents
Our Americas operating results were as follows: 
 














(In thousands)
  
Years Ended December 31,
 
  
%Change

 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  

 Revenue
  
$
1,290,014
  
  
$
1,238,171
  
  
4%

 Direct operating expenses
  
 
588,592
  
  
 
608,078
  
  
(3%)

 SG&A expenses
  
 
218,776
  
  
 
202,196
  
  
8%

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
209,127
  
  
 
210,280
  
  
(1%)


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 Operating income
  
$
273,519
  
  
$
217,617
  
  
26%


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  

 Our Americas revenue increased $51.9 million during 2010 compared to 2009 as a result of revenue growth
across most of our advertising inventory, particularly digital. The increase was driven by increases in both occupancy and rate. Partially offsetting the revenue increase was the decrease in revenue related to the sale of Taxis. 
Our Americas direct operating expenses decreased $19.5 million during 2010 compared to 2009. The decline in direct operating expenses was
due to the disposition of Taxis, partially offset by a $20.2 million increase in site-lease expenses associated with the increase in revenue. SG&A expenses increased $16.6 million as a result of a $6.3 million increase primarily related to the
unfavorable impact of litigation, a $4.7 million increase in consulting costs and a $6.2 million increase primarily due to bonus and commission expenses associated with the increase in revenue, partially offset by the disposition of Taxis.
 International Results of Operations  Our International operating results were as follows:   














(In thousands)
  
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
%Change

 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
 

 Revenue
  
$
1,507,980
  
  
$
1,459,853
  
 
3%

 Direct operating expenses
  
 
971,380
  
  
 
1,017,005
  
 
(4%)

 SG&A expenses
  
 
275,880
  
  
 
282,208
  
 
(2%)

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
204,461
  
  
 
229,367
  
 
(11%)


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 


 Operating income (loss)
  
$
56,259
  
  
$
(68,727
) 
 
182%


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 

 Our International revenue increased $48.1 million during 2010 compared to 2009, primarily as a result of
revenue growth from street furniture across most countries, partially offset by the exit from the businesses in Greece and India. Foreign exchange movements negatively impacted revenue by $10.3 million. 
Direct operating expenses in our International segment decreased $45.6 million during 2010 compared to 2009, primarily as a result of a
$20.4 million decrease in expenses incurred in connection with our restructuring program and a $15.6 million decline in site-lease expenses associated with cost savings from our restructuring program. Also contributing to the decreased expenses was
the exit from the businesses in Greece and India and an $8.2 million decrease from movements in foreign exchange. SG&A expenses decreased $6.3 million during 2010 compared to 2009, primarily as a result of a $5.4 million decrease in business tax
related to a change in French tax law and a $2.3 million decrease from movements in foreign exchange.  Depreciation and
amortization decreased $24.9 million during 2010 compared to 2009 primarily as a result of assets that became fully amortized during 2009. 
  41 


Table of Contents
Reconciliation of Segment Operating Income (Loss) to Consolidated Operating Income (Loss) 
 





00000000



00000000



00000000


(In thousands)
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Americas
  
$
281,611
  
  
$
273,519
  
  
$
217,617
  

 International
  
 
111,626
  
  
 
56,259
  
  
 
(68,727)
  

 Impairment charges
  
 
(7,614)
  
  
 
(11,493)
  
  
 
(890,737)
  

 Corporate (1)
  
 
(91,276)
  
  
 
(107,596)
  
  
 
(65,247)
  

 Other operating income (expense) – net
  
 
8,591
  
  
 
(23,753)
  
  
 
(8,231)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Consolidated operating income (loss)
  
$
302,938
  
  
$
186,936
  
  
$
(815,325)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
(1)
Corporate expenses include expenses related to our Americas and International operating segments. 
Share-Based Compensation Expense  As of December 31, 2011, there was $18.6 million of unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, related to unvested share-based compensation arrangements that will vest based on
service conditions. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately three years.  The
following table indicates non-cash compensation costs related to share-based payments for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively:   





00000000



00000000



00000000


(In thousands)
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Americas
  
$
7,927
  
  
$
9,207
  
  
$
7,977
  

 International
  
 
2,839
  
  
 
2,746
  
  
 
2,412
  

 Corporate
  
 
147
  
  
 
384
  
  
 
1,715
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total share-based compensation expense
  
$
10,913
  
  
$
12,337
  
  
$
12,104
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  The following discussion highlights cash flow activities during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.  Cash Flows   





00000000



00000000



00000000


(In thousands)
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Cash provided by (used for):
  



 



 




 Operating activities
  
$
517,218
  
 
$
525,217
  
 
$
441,264
  

 Investing activities
  
$
(298,934
) 
 
$
(198,705
) 
 
$
(162,864
) 

 Financing activities
  
$
(298,744
) 
 
$
(314,463
) 
 
$
231,656
  
 Operating Activities  2011  The decrease in cash flows from operations in 2011 compared to 2010
was primarily driven by declines in working capital and was partially offset by improved profitability, including a 7% increase in revenue. Our net income, adjusted for $453.7 million of non-cash items, provided positive cash flows of $516.9 million
in 2011. Cash generated by higher operating income in 2011 compared to 2010 was offset by the decrease in accrued expenses in 2011 as a result of higher variable compensation payments in 2011 associated with our employee incentive programs based on
2010 operating performance. In addition, in 2010 we received $51.0 million in U.S. Federal income tax refunds that increased cash flow from operations in 2010. 
  42 


Table of Contents
Non-cash items affecting our net income include depreciation and amortization, deferred
taxes, gain or loss on disposal of operating assets, provision for doubtful accounts, share-based compensation, equity in earnings of nonconsolidated affiliates, amortization of deferred financing charges - net and other reconciling items - net as
presented on the face of the statement of cash flows.  2010 
The increase in cash flows from operations in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily driven by improved profitability, including a 4%
increase in revenue and a 3% decrease in direct operating and SG&A expenses. Our cash paid for interest increased $81.1 million primarily due to the December 2009 issuance of $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes at a higher
rate than the $2.5 billion note to Clear Channel Communications, which was prepaid and retired in December 2009. Partially offsetting the increased interest was the receipt of $51.0 million of Federal income tax refunds during the third quarter of
2010.  2009  The decline in cash flow from operations in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily driven by an 18% decline in consolidated revenues associated with the weak economy and challenging advertising markets. Our
net loss adjusted for non-cash items of $1.3 billion provided positive cash flows of $411.8 million. Changes in working capital provided an additional $29.4 million in operating cash flows for 2009. 
Investing Activities  2011  Cash used for investing activities during 2011 primarily reflected
capital expenditures of $291.1 million. We spent $131.1 million in our Americas segment primarily related to the construction of new digital billboards and $160.0 million in our International segment primarily related to new billboard and street
furniture contracts and renewals of existing contracts.  2010 
Cash used for investing activities during 2010 primarily reflected capital expenditures of $195.3 million, partially offset by proceeds of
$7.8 million from the sale of International and Americas assets. We spent $96.7 million in our Americas segment primarily related to the construction of new digital billboards and $98.6 million in our International segment primarily related to new
billboard and street furniture contracts and renewals of existing contracts.  2009 
In 2009, we spent $84.4 million in our Americas segment for the purchase of property, plant and equipment mostly related to the
construction of new billboards and $91.5 million in our International segment for the purchase of property, plant and equipment related to new billboard and street furniture contracts and renewals of existing contracts. We also received proceeds of
$11.3 million from the sale of International assets and $6.8 million from the sale of Americas assets.  Financing Activities
 2011  Cash used for financing activities of $298.7 million for 2011 primarily reflected payments on credit facilities and long-term debt of $4.2 million and $20.1 million, respectively, and net transfers to
Clear Channel Communications of $272.3 million. The net transfers of cash to Clear Channel Communications represent the activity in the “Due from/to Clear Channel Communications” account. This activity primarily relates to working capital.
 2010  Cash used for financing activities of $314.5 million for 2010 primarily reflected payments on credit facilities and long-term debt of $47.1 million and $13.2 million, respectively, and net transfers to
Clear Channel Communications of $260.5 million. 
  43 


Table of Contents
2009  Cash provided by financing activities of $231.7 million for 2009 primarily reflected the $2.5 billion proceeds from issuance of senior notes in addition to the $500.0 million repayment by Clear Channel
Communications on the “Due from Clear Channel Communications” account offset by the prepayment and retirement of the $2.5 billion intercompany note due to Clear Channel Communications. In addition, we purchased the remaining 15% interest
in our fully consolidated subsidiary, Paneles Napsa S.A., for $13.0 million, and acquired an additional 5% interest in our fully consolidated subsidiary, Clear Channel Jolly Pubblicita SPA, for $12.1 million. 
Clear Channel Communications’ Merger  Clear Channel Communications’ capitalization, liquidity and capital resources substantially changed due to the consummation of its merger on July 30, 2008. Upon the closing of the merger, Clear
Channel Communications incurred additional debt and became highly leveraged. We are not borrowers or guarantors under Clear Channel Communications’ credit agreements other than for direct borrowings by certain of our International subsidiaries
pursuant to the $145.0 million sub-limit included in Clear Channel Communications’ $1.9 billion revolving credit facility and we are not a guarantor of any of Clear Channel Communications’ debt. The obligations of these International
subsidiaries that are borrowers under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed by certain of our material wholly-owned subsidiaries, and secured by substantially all of the assets of such borrowers and guarantors, subject to permitted liens and
other exceptions. As of December 31, 2011, we had no outstanding borrowings under the $145.0 million sub-limit facility. Clear Channel Communications had borrowed the entire sub-limit capacity as of December 31, 2011. 
The interest rate on outstanding balances under the revolving credit facility is based upon LIBOR or, for Euro denominated borrowings,
EURIBOR, plus, in each case, a margin. See discussion below under “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Sources of Capital — Bank Credit Facility.” A deterioration in the financial condition of Clear Channel Communications or
borrowings by Clear Channel Communications under the $145.0 million sub-limit could also further increase our borrowing costs or impair our access to the capital markets because of our reliance on Clear Channel Communications for availability under
this revolving credit facility.  We have a revolving promissory note issued by Clear Channel Communications to us in the
amount of $656.0 million as of December 31, 2011 described more fully below under “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Sources of Capital – Promissory Notes with Clear Channel Communications.” We are an unsecured creditor of
Clear Channel Communications with respect to the revolving promissory note.  Also, so long as Clear Channel Communications
maintains a significant interest in us, pursuant to the Master Agreement between Clear Channel Communications and us, Clear Channel Communications will have the option to limit our ability to incur debt or issue equity securities, among other
limitations, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our liquidity needs.  Anticipated Cash Requirements 
Our primary source of liquidity is cash on hand and cash flow from operations and the revolving promissory note with Clear Channel
Communications. Based on our current and anticipated levels of operations and conditions in our markets, we believe that cash on hand, cash flows from operations and borrowing capacity under or repayment of the revolving promissory note with Clear
Channel Communications will enable us to meet our working capital, capital expenditure, debt service and other funding requirements for at least the next 12 months. In addition, we expect to be in compliance with the covenants governing our
indebtedness in 2012. However, our anticipated results are subject to significant uncertainty and there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants. In addition, our ability to comply with these covenants may
be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions.  Furthermore, in
its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 21, 2012, Clear Channel Communications stated that it expects to be in compliance with the covenants in its material financing agreements in 2012. Clear Channel Communications similarly
stated in such Annual Report that its anticipated results are also 
  44 


Table of Contents

subject to significant uncertainty and there can be no assurance that actual results will be in compliance with the covenants. Moreover, Clear Channel Communications stated in such Annual Report
that its ability to comply with the covenants in its material financing agreements may be affected by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. As discussed therein, the breach of any covenants set
forth in Clear Channel Communications’ financing agreements would result in a default thereunder, and an event of default would permit the lenders under a defaulted financing agreement to declare all indebtedness thereunder to be due and
payable prior to maturity. Moreover, as discussed therein, the lenders under the revolving credit facility under Clear Channel Communications’ senior secured credit facilities would have the option to terminate their commitments to make further
extensions of revolving credit thereunder. In addition, Clear Channel Communications stated in such Annual Report that if Clear Channel Communications is unable to repay its obligations under any secured credit facility, the lenders could proceed
against any assets that were pledged to secure such facility. Finally, Clear Channel Communications stated in such Annual Report that a default or acceleration under any of its material financing agreements could cause a default under other
obligations that are subject to cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions. If Clear Channel Communications were to become insolvent, we would be an unsecured creditor of Clear Channel Communications. In such event, we would be treated the same
as other unsecured creditors of Clear Channel Communications and, if we were not entitled to the cash previously transferred to Clear Channel Communications, or could not obtain such cash on a timely basis, we could experience a liquidity shortfall.
 For so long as Clear Channel Communications maintains significant control over us, a deterioration in the financial condition
of Clear Channel Communications could have the effect of increasing our borrowing costs or impairing our access to capital markets. As of December 31, 2011, Clear Channel Communications had $1.2 billion recorded as “Cash and cash
equivalents” on its consolidated balance sheets.  We frequently evaluate strategic opportunities both within and outside
our existing lines of business. We expect from time to time to pursue additional acquisitions and may decide to dispose of certain businesses. These acquisitions or dispositions could be material. 
Our ability to fund our working capital needs, debt service and other obligations depends on our future operating performance and cash
flow. If our future operating performance does not meet our expectations or our plans materially change in an adverse manner or prove to be materially inaccurate, we may need additional financing. We may not be able to secure any such additional
financing on terms favorable to us or at all.  Sources of Capital 
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had the following debt outstanding, net of cash and cash equivalents and amounts due from Clear
Channel Communications:   





00000000



00000000


(In millions)
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 CCWH Senior Notes
  
$
2,500.0
  
  
$
2,500.0
  

 Other debt
  
 
45.9
  
  
 
63.8
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total debt
  
 
2,545.9
  
  
 
2,563.8
  

 Less: Cash and cash equivalents
  
 
524.7
  
  
 
624.0
  

 Less: Due from Clear Channel Communications
  
 
656.0
  
  
 
383.8
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
1,365.2
  
  
$
1,556.0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 We may from time to time repay our outstanding debt or seek to purchase our outstanding equity
securities. Such transactions, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors.  Bank Credit Facility ($145.0 million sub-limit within Clear Channel Communications’ $1.9 billion revolving credit facility) 
In addition to cash flows from operations, another potential source of liquidity to us is through borrowings under a $145.0 million
sub-limit included in Clear Channel Communications’ multicurrency $1.9 billion revolving credit facility with a maturity in July 2014. Certain of our International subsidiaries may borrow under the sub-limit

  45 


Table of Contents

to the extent Clear Channel Communications has not already borrowed against this capacity and is in compliance with its covenants under the credit facility. The obligations of these International
subsidiaries that are borrowers under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed by certain of our material wholly-owned subsidiaries, and secured by substantially all of the assets of such borrowers and guarantors, subject to permitted liens and
other exceptions. As of December 31, 2011, we had no outstanding borrowings under the $145.0 million sub-limit facility. Clear Channel Communications had borrowed the entire sub-limit capacity as of December 31, 2011. 
Promissory Notes with Clear Channel Communications  As part of the day-to-day cash management services provided by Clear Channel Communications, we maintain accounts that represent net amounts due to or from Clear Channel Communications, which is recorded
as “Due from/to Clear Channel Communications” on the consolidated balance sheet. The accounts represent our revolving promissory note issued by us to Clear Channel Communications and the revolving promissory note issued by Clear Channel
Communications to us in the face amount of $1.0 billion, or if more or less than such amount, the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all advances. The accounts accrue interest and are generally payable on demand. Included in the accounts are the
net activities resulting from day-to-day cash management services provided by Clear Channel Communications. As a part of these services, we maintain collection bank accounts swept daily into accounts of Clear Channel Communications (after satisfying
the funding requirements of the Trustee Account). In return, Clear Channel Communications funds our controlled disbursement accounts as checks or electronic payments are presented for payment. Our claim in relation to cash transferred from our
concentration account is on an unsecured basis and is limited to the balance of the “Due from Clear Channel Communications” account. If Clear Channel Communications were to become insolvent, we would be an unsecured creditor of Clear
Channel Communications with respect to the revolving promissory note issued by Clear Channel Communications to us. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the asset recorded in “Due from Clear Channel Communications” on the consolidated
balance sheet was $656.0 million and $383.8 million, respectively. The net interest income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $45.5 million, $19.5 million and $0.7 million, respectively. At December 31, 2011, the
fixed interest rate on the “Due from Clear Channel Communications” account was 9.25%. At December 31, 2011, we had no borrowings under the revolving promissory note to Clear Channel Communications. 
Unlike the management of cash from our U.S. based operations, the amount of cash, if any, which is transferred from our foreign
operations to Clear Channel Communications is determined on a basis mutually agreeable to us and Clear Channel Communications, and not on a pre-determined basis. In arriving at such mutual agreement, the reasonably foreseeable cash needs of our
foreign operations are evaluated before a cash amount is considered as an excess or surplus amount for transfer to Clear Channel Communications.  Our working capital requirements and capital for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, may be provided to us by Clear Channel Communications, in its sole discretion,
pursuant to a revolving promissory note issued by us to Clear Channel Communications. Without the opportunity to obtain financing from Clear Channel Communications, we may need to obtain additional financing from banks, or through public offerings
or private placements of debt or equity, strategic relationships or other arrangements at some future date. As stated above, we may be unable to successfully obtain additional debt or equity financing on satisfactory terms or at all. 
As long as Clear Channel Communications maintains a significant interest in us, pursuant to the Master Agreement between Clear Channel
Communications and us, Clear Channel Communications will have the option to limit our ability to incur debt or issue equity securities, among other limitations, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our liquidity needs. Under the Master
Agreement with Clear Channel Communications, we are limited in our borrowing from third parties to no more than $400.0 million (including borrowings under the $145.0 million sub-limit of Clear Channel Communications’ $1.9 billion revolving
credit facility).  Clear Channel Worldwide Holdings Senior Notes 
CCWH has outstanding $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of Series A Senior Notes due 2017 (the “Series A Notes”) and $2.0
billion aggregate principal amount of Series B Senior Notes due 2017 (the “Series B Notes” and together with the Series A Notes, the “CCWH Notes”). The CCWH Notes are guaranteed by us, CCOI, and certain of our other direct and
indirect subsidiaries. 
  46 


Table of Contents
The CCWH Notes bear interest on a daily basis and contain customary provisions, including
covenants requiring us to maintain certain levels of credit availability and limitations on incurring additional debt.  The
CCWH Notes are senior obligations that rank pari passu in right of payment to all unsubordinated indebtedness of CCWH and the guarantees of the CCWH Notes rank pari passu in right of payment to all unsubordinated indebtedness of the guarantors.
 The indentures governing the CCWH Notes require CCWH to maintain at least $100 million in cash or other liquid assets or have
cash available to be borrowed under committed credit facilities consisting of (i) $50.0 million at the issuer and guarantor entities (principally the Americas segment) and (ii) $50.0 million at the non-guarantor subsidiaries (principally
the International segment) (together the “Liquidity Amount”), in each case under the sole control of the relevant entity. In the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, or similar proceeding of Clear Channel
Communications for the period thereafter that is the shorter of such proceeding and 60 days, the Liquidity Amount shall be reduced to $50.0 million, with a $25.0 million requirement at the issuer and guarantor entities and a $25.0 million
requirement at the non-guarantor subsidiaries.  In addition, interest on the CCWH Notes accrues daily and is payable into an
account established by the trustee for the benefit of the bondholders (the “Trustee Account”). Failure to make daily payment on any day does not constitute an event of default so long as (a) no payment or other transfer by us or any
of our subsidiaries shall have been made on such day under the cash management sweep with Clear Channel Communications and (b) on each semiannual interest payment date the aggregate amount of funds in the Trustee Account is equal to at least
the aggregate amount of accrued and unpaid interest on the CCWH Notes.  The indenture governing the Series A Notes contains
covenants that limit our and our restricted subsidiaries ability to, among other things:   


 
•
 
 incur or guarantee additional debt to persons other than Clear Channel Communications and its subsidiaries or issue certain preferred stock;



 
•
 
 create liens on our restricted subsidiaries assets to secure such debt; 


 
•
 
 create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to ourselves from our restricted subsidiaries that are not guarantors of the notes;



 
•
 
 enter into certain transactions with affiliates; 


 
•
 
 merge or consolidate with another person, or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; 


 
•
 
 sell certain assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries, to persons other than Clear Channel Communications and its subsidiaries; and



 
•
 
 purchase or otherwise effectively cancel or retire any of the Series A Notes if after doing so the ratio of (a) the outstanding aggregate
principal amount of the Series A Notes to (b) the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the Series B Notes shall be greater than 0.250.  In addition, the indenture governing the Series A Notes provides that if CCWH (i) makes an optional redemption of the Series B Notes or purchases or makes an offer to purchase the Series B Notes at
or above 100% of the principal amount thereof, then CCWH shall apply a pro rata amount to make an optional redemption or purchase a pro rata amount of the Series A Notes or (ii) makes an asset sale offer under the indenture governing the Series
B Notes, then CCWH shall apply a pro rata amount to make an offer to purchase a pro rata amount of Series A Notes.  The
indenture governing the Series A Notes does not include limitations on dividends, distributions, investments or asset sales. 
The indenture governing the Series B Notes contains covenants that limit our and our restricted subsidiaries ability to, among other
things:   


 
•
 
 incur or guarantee additional debt or issue certain preferred stock; 


 
•
 
 redeem, repurchase or retire our subordinated debt; 
  47 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 make certain investments; 


 
•
 
 create liens on our or our restricted subsidiaries’ assets to secure debt; 


 
•
 
 create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to ourselves from our restricted subsidiaries that are not guarantors of the CCWH
Notes; 


 
•
 
 enter into certain transactions with affiliates; 


 
•
 
 merge or consolidate with another person, or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; 


 
•
 
 sell certain assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries; 


 
•
 
 designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; 


 
•
 
 pay dividends, redeem or repurchase capital stock or make other restricted payments; and 


 
•
 
 purchase or otherwise effectively cancel or retire any of the Series B Notes if after doing so the ratio of (a) the outstanding aggregate
principal amount of the Series A Notes to (b) the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the Series B Notes shall be greater than 0.250. This stipulation ensures, among other things, that as long as the Series A Notes are outstanding, the
Series B Notes are outstanding.  The Series A Notes indenture and the Series B Notes indenture restrict our
ability to incur additional indebtedness but permit us to incur additional indebtedness based on an incurrence test. In order to incur additional indebtedness under this test, our debt to adjusted EBITDA ratios (as defined by the indentures) must be
lower than 6.5:1 and 3.25:1 for total debt and senior debt, respectively. The indentures contain certain other exceptions that allow us to incur additional indebtedness. The Series B Notes indenture also permits us to pay dividends from the proceeds
of indebtedness or the proceeds from asset sales if our debt to adjusted EBITDA ratios (as defined by the indentures) are lower than 6.0:1 and 3.0:1 for total debt and senior debt, respectively. The Series A Notes indenture does not limit our
ability to pay dividends. The Series B Notes indenture contains certain exceptions that allow us to incur additional indebtedness and pay dividends, including a $500 million exception for the payment of dividends. We were in compliance with these
covenants as of December 31, 2011.  Consolidated leverage, defined as total debt divided by EBITDA for the preceding four
quarters was 3.2:1 at December 31, 2011, and senior leverage, defined as senior debt divided by EBITDA for the preceding four quarters was also 3.2:1 at December 31, 2011. Our adjusted EBITDA of $807.7 million is calculated as operating
income (loss) before depreciation, amortization, impairment charges and other operating income (expense) – net, plus non-cash compensation, and is further adjusted for the following: (i) an increase of $32.0 million for non-cash items;
(ii) an increase of $21.0 million related to costs incurred in connection with the closure and/or consolidation of facilities, retention charges, consulting fees and other permitted activities; and (iii) an increase of $9.7 million for
various other items.  Prior to the date of the closing of the CCWH Notes offering, we made a demand for and received repayment
of $500.0 million on the “Due from Clear Channel Communications” account. Following such repayment, we contributed $500.0 million to the capital of CCOI, which used the proceeds received by it to prepay $500.0 million of the “Debt
with Clear Channel Communications” account. Subsequent to this repayment, the outstanding balance of the “Debt with Clear Channel Communications” account was $2.0 billion. 
A portion of the proceeds of the CCWH Notes offering were used to (i) pay the fees and expenses of the offering, (ii) fund
$50.0 million of the Liquidity Amount (the $50.0 million Liquidity Amount of the non-guarantor subsidiaries was satisfied) and (iii) make a voluntary prepayment of the remaining $2.0 billion outstanding balance (which is equal to the aggregate
principal amount of the Series B Notes) under the note due to Clear Channel Communications and subsequently retire the “Debt with Clear Channel Communications”, with the balance of the proceeds available to CCOI for general corporate
purposes.  In this regard, CCOI could use all of the remaining proceeds to pay dividends to us. In turn, we could declare a
dividend to our shareholders, of which Clear Channel Communications would receive its proportionate share. Payment of such dividends would not be prohibited by the terms of the CCWH Notes or any of our or CCOI’s loan agreements or credit
facilities.  In connection with the CCWH Notes offering, we and Clear Channel Communications modified the terms of the
revolving promissory notes (recorded as “Due from/to Clear Channel Communications” on the consolidated balance sheets) to extend the maturity of each revolving promissory note to coincide with the maturity date of the CCWH Notes. In
addition, the terms were modified to change the interest rate on each revolving promissory note to a fixed per annum rate equal to 9.25%. 
  48 


Table of Contents
Other debt  Other debt consists primarily of loans with international banks. At December 31, 2011, approximately $45.9 million was outstanding as other debt. 
Debt Covenants 
The Clear Channel Communications’ $1.9 billion revolving credit facility contains a significant financial covenant which requires
Clear Channel Communications to comply on a quarterly basis with a financial covenant limiting the ratio of its consolidated secured debt, net of cash and cash equivalents, to consolidated EBITDA for the preceding four quarters (maximum of 9.5:1).
The financial covenant becomes more restrictive over time beginning in the second quarter of 2013. In its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 21, 2012, Clear Channel Communications stated that it was in compliance with this
covenant as of December 31, 2011.  In addition, we were in compliance with the covenants contained in the Series A Notes
indenture and the Series B Notes indenture as of December 31, 2011.  Clear Channel Communications’ Refinancing Transactions
 During the first six months of 2011 Clear Channel Communications amended its senior secured credit facilities and its
receivables based credit facility (the “Amendments”) and issued $1.75 billion aggregate principal amount of 9.0% Priority Guarantee Notes due 2021 (the “9.0% Priority Guarantee Notes”). In February 2011, Clear Channel
Communications issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of the 9.0% Priority Guarantee Notes (the “February 2011 Offering”), and in June 2011, Clear Channel Communications issued $750.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 9.0%
Priority Guarantee Notes (the “June 2011 Offering”). Clear Channel Communications used a portion of the proceeds from the February 2011 Offering to prepay $500.0 million of the indebtedness outstanding under its senior secured credit
facilities. As a result of the prepayment, the revolving credit commitments under Clear Channel Communications’ revolving credit facility were permanently reduced from $2.0 billion to $1.9 billion and the sub-limit under which certain of our
international subsidiaries may borrow (to the extent that Clear Channel Communications has not already borrowed against this capacity) was reduced from $150.0 million to $145.0 million. The Amendments, among other things, provide greater flexibility
for us and our subsidiaries to incur new debt, provided that the net proceeds distributed to Clear Channel Communications from the issuance of such new debt are used to pay down senior secured credit facility indebtedness. 
Dispositions and Other  On October 15, 2010, we transferred our interest in our Branded Cities operations to our joint venture partner, The Ellman Companies. We recognized a loss of $25.3 million in “Other
operating income (expense) – net” related to this transfer.  During 2010, our International segment sold its outdoor
advertising business in India, resulting in a loss of $3.7 million included in “Other operating income (expense) – net.”  During 2009, we sold International assets for $11.3 million resulting in a gain of $4.4 million in “Other operating income (expense) – net.” In addition, we sold assets for $6.8 million in
our Americas segment and recorded a gain of $4.9 million in “Other operating income (expense) – net.” We sold our taxi advertising business and recorded a loss of $20.9 million in our Americas segment included in “Other operating
income (expense) –net.” 
  49 


Table of Contents
Uses of Capital  Capital Expenditures  Our capital expenditures for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 were as follows:   





000000000



000000000



000000000


(In millions)
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Total capital expenditures
  
$
291.1  
  
  
$
195.3  
  
  
$
176.0  
  
 Our capital expenditures are not of significant size individually and primarily relate to the ongoing
deployment of digital displays and recurring maintenance.  Part of our long-term strategy is to pursue the technology of
digital displays, including flat screens, LCDs and LEDs, as alternatives to traditional methods of displaying our clients’ advertisements. We are currently installing these technologies in certain markets. We believe cash flow from operations
will be sufficient to fund these expenditures because we expect enhanced margins through: (i) lower cost of production as the advertisements will be digital and controlled by a central computer network, (ii) decreased down time on displays
because the advertisements will be digitally changed rather than manually posted paper or vinyl on the face of the display, and (iii) incremental revenue through more targeted and time specific advertisements. 
Acquisitions 
During 2011, our International segment acquired Brouwer & Partners, a street furniture business in Holland, for $12.5 million.
 Purchases of Additional Equity Interests  During 2009, our Americas segment purchased the remaining 15% interest in our consolidated subsidiary, Paneles Napsa S.A., for $13.0 million and our International segment acquired an additional 5%
interest in our consolidated subsidiary, Clear Channel Jolly Pubblicita SPA, for $12.1 million.  Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees
 We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business and, as required, have
accrued our estimate of the probable costs for resolution of those claims for which the occurrence of loss is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. These estimates have been developed in consultation with counsel and are based upon an
analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. It is possible, however, that future results of operations for any particular period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions or the
effectiveness of our strategies related to these proceedings. Please see Item 3. Legal Proceedings within Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Our short and long term cash requirements include minimum annual guarantees for our street furniture contracts and operating leases. Noncancelable contracts and operating lease requirements are included
in our direct operating expenses, which historically have been satisfied by cash flows from operations. For 2012, we are committed to $403.0 million and $283.1 million for minimum annual guarantees and operating leases, respectively. Our long-term
commitments for minimum annual guarantees, operating leases and capital expenditure requirements are included in “Contractual and Other Obligations,” below.  Certain agreements relating to acquisitions provide for purchase price adjustments and other future contingent payments based on the financial performance of the acquired companies generally over a one to
five year period. The aggregate of these contingent payments, if performance targets are met, would not significantly impact our financial position or results of operations.  In addition to the scheduled maturities on debt issued by CCWH, we have future cash obligations under various types of contracts. We lease office space, certain equipment and the majority of the land
occupied by our advertising structures under long-term operating leases. Some of our lease agreements contain renewal options and annual rental escalation clauses (generally tied to the consumer price index), as well as provisions for our payment of
utilities and maintenance. 
  50 


Table of Contents
We have minimum franchise payments associated with non-cancelable contracts that enable us
to display advertising on such media as buses, trains, bus shelters and terminals. The majority of these contracts contain rent provisions that are calculated as the greater of a percentage of the relevant advertising revenue or a specified
guaranteed minimum annual payment.  The scheduled maturities of the $2.5 billion CCWH Notes and other debt outstanding, and
our future minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable lease agreements, minimum payments under other non-cancelable contracts, capital expenditure commitments and other long-term obligations as of December 31, 2011, are as follows:
  





0000000000



0000000000



0000000000



0000000000



0000000000


 (In thousands)
  
Payments Due by Period
 

Contractual Obligations
  
Total
 
  
2012
 
  
2013-2014
 
  
2015-2016
 
  
Thereafter
 

 CCWH Senior Notes:
  



  



  



  



  




 9.25% Series A Senior Notes Due 2017
  
  $
500,000  
  
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
500,000  
  

 9.25% Series B Senior Notes Due 2017
  
 
2,000,000  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,000,000  
  

 Other debt
  
 
45,909  
  
  
 
23,806  
  
  
 
20,929  
  
  
 
120  
  
  
 
1,054  
  

 Interest payments on long-term debt(1)
  
 
1,392,209  
  
  
 
233,557  
  
  
 
464,366  
  
  
 
462,662  
  
  
 
231,624  
  








 Non-cancelable contracts
  
 
1,875,807  
  
  
 
402,974  
  
  
 
553,317  
  
  
 
400,747  
  
  
 
518,769  
  

 Non-cancelable operating leases
  
 
2,037,132  
  
  
 
283,104  
  
  
 
455,911  
  
  
 
362,511  
  
  
 
935,606  
  

 Capital expenditure commitments
  
 
148,878  
  
  
 
67,879  
  
  
 
39,220  
  
  
 
34,858  
  
  
 
6,921  
  

 Unrecognized tax benefits (2)
  
 
43,746  
  
  
 
1,650  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
42,096  
  

 Employment contracts
  
 
10,372  
  
  
 
6,545  
  
  
 
3,779  
  
  
 
48  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Other long-term obligations(3)
  
 
92,626  
  
  
 
71  
  
  
 
1,168  
  
  
 
1,028  
  
  
 
90,359  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total (4)
  
  $
8,146,679  
  
  
  $
1,019,586  
  
  
  $
1,538,690  
  
  
  $
1,261,974  
  
  
  $
4,326,429  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
(1)
Interest payments on long-term debt consist primarily of interest on the 9.25% CCWH Senior Notes. 


 
(2)
The non-current portion of the unrecognized tax benefits is included in the “Thereafter” column as we cannot reasonably estimate the timing or amounts of
additional cash payments, if any, at this time. For additional information, see Note 9 included in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 


 
(3)
Other long-term obligations consist of $47.5 million related to asset retirement obligations recorded pursuant to ASC 410-20, which assumes the underlying assets will
be removed at some period over the next 50 years. Also included in the table is $40.1 million related to retirement plans and $4.9 million related to other long-term obligations with a specific maturity. 


 
(4)
Excluded from the table is $147.1 million related to various obligations with no specific contractual commitment or maturity. 
SEASONALITY  Typically,
both our Americas and International segments experience their lowest financial performance in the first quarter of the calendar year, with International historically experiencing a loss from operations in that period. Our International segment
typically experiences its strongest performance in the second and fourth quarters of the calendar year. We expect this trend to continue in the future.  MARKET RISK  We are exposed to market risk arising from changes in market
rates and prices, including movements in equity security prices and foreign currency exchange rates. 
  51 


Table of Contents
Equity Price Risk  The carrying value of our available-for-sale equity securities is affected by changes in their quoted market prices. It is estimated that a 20% change in the market prices of these securities would change
their carrying value and our comprehensive income at December 31, 2011 by $0.7 million.  Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk
 We have operations in countries throughout the world. Foreign operations are measured in their local currencies. As a
result, our financial results could be affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in the foreign markets in which we have operations. We believe we mitigate a small portion of our exposure to
foreign currency fluctuations with a natural hedge through borrowings in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Our foreign operations reported a net income of $60.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. We estimate a 10% increase
in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies would have increased our net income for the year ended December 31, 2011 by approximately $6.0 million and that a 10% decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to
foreign currencies would have decreased our net income by a corresponding amount.  Our earnings are also affected by
fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies as a result of our equity method investments in various countries. It is estimated that the result of a 10% fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to these
foreign currencies at December 31, 2011 would change our equity in earnings of nonconsolidated affiliates by $0.6 million and would change our net income by approximately $0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. 
This analysis does not consider the implications that such currency fluctuations could have on the overall economic activity that could
exist in such an environment in the United States or the foreign countries or on the results of operations of these foreign entities. 
Inflation  Inflation is
a factor in the economies in which we do business and we continue to seek ways to mitigate its effect. Inflation has affected our performance in terms of higher costs for wages, salaries and equipment. Although the exact impact of inflation is
indeterminable, we believe we have offset these higher costs by increasing the effective advertising rates of most of our outdoor display faces.  NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS  In April 2011, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2011-04, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and
IFRSs. The amendments in this ASU change the wording used to describe many of the requirements in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value
measurements. For many of the requirements, the FASB does not intend for the amendments in this ASU to result in a change in the application of the requirements in Topic 820. Some of the amendments clarify the FASB’s intent about the
application of existing fair value measurement requirements. Other amendments change a particular principle or requirement for measuring fair value or for disclosing information about fair value measurements. The amendments in this ASU are to be
applied prospectively for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. We do not expect the provisions of ASU 2011-04 to have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. 
In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income. This
ASU improves the comparability, consistency, and transparency of financial reporting and increases the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income by eliminating the option to present components of other comprehensive income as part
of the statement of changes in stockholders’ equity. The amendments require that all nonowner changes in stockholders’ equity be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive
statements. The changes apply for interim and annual financial statements and should be applied retrospectively, effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption is permitted.
We currently comply with the provisions of this ASU by presenting the components of comprehensive income in a single continuous financial statement within our consolidated statement of operations for both interim and annual periods. 
  52 


Table of Contents
In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other
(Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment. Under the revised guidance, entities testing goodwill for impairment have the option of performing a qualitative assessment before calculating the fair value of the reporting unit (i.e., step 1 of
the goodwill impairment test). If entities determine, on the basis of qualitative factors, that the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying amount, the two-step impairment test would be required. The ASU does
not change how goodwill is calculated or assigned to reporting units, nor does it revise the requirement to test goodwill annually for impairment. The amendments are effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption is permitted. We early adopted the provisions of this ASU as of October 1, 2011 with no material impact to our financial position or results of operations. Please refer to Note 2
included in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further discussion of our impairment testing.  In
December 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-12, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting
Standards Update No. 2011-05. The ASU defers the requirement to present components of reclassifications of other comprehensive income on the face of the income statement in response to requests from some investors for greater clarity about
the impact of reclassification adjustments on net income. The guidance in ASU 2011-05 called for reclassification adjustments from other comprehensive income to be measured and presented by income statement line item in net income and also in other
comprehensive income. All other requirements in ASU 2011-05 are not affected by this Update. The amendments are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. We do not expect the
provisions of ASU 2011-12 to have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations.  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
 The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates, judgments
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing
basis, we evaluate our estimates that are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The result of these evaluations forms the basis for making judgments about the
carrying values of assets and liabilities and the reported amount of expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual results could differ from our
assumptions and estimates, and such difference could be material. Our significant accounting policies are discussed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Management believes that the following accounting estimates are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results, and they require management’s most difficult, subjective or complex judgments,
resulting from the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. The following narrative describes these critical accounting estimates, the judgments and assumptions and the effect if actual results differ from
these assumptions.  Allowance for Doubtful Accounts  We evaluate the collectability of our accounts receivable based on a combination of factors. In circumstances where we are aware of a specific customer’s inability to meet its financial obligations,
we record a specific reserve to reduce the amounts recorded to what we believe will be collected. For all other customers, we recognize reserves for bad debt based on historical experience of bad debts as a percent of revenue for each business unit,
adjusted for relative improvements or deteriorations in the agings and changes in current economic conditions.  If our agings
were to improve or deteriorate resulting in a 10% change in our allowance, we estimated that our bad debt expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 would have changed by approximately $4.1 million and our net income for the same period would
have changed by approximately $2.6 million. 
  53 


Table of Contents
Long-lived Assets  Long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment and definite-lived intangibles are reviewed for impairment when events and circumstances indicate that depreciable and amortizable long-lived
assets might be impaired and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than the carrying amounts of those assets. When specific assets are determined to be unrecoverable, the cost basis of the asset is reduced to
reflect the current fair market value.  We use various assumptions in determining the current fair market value of these
assets, including future expected cash flows, industry growth rates and discount rates, as well as future salvage values. Our impairment loss calculations require management to apply judgment in estimating future cash flows, including forecasting
useful lives of the assets and selecting the discount rate that reflects the risk inherent in future cash flows.  If actual
results are not consistent with our assumptions and judgments used in estimating future cash flows and asset fair values, we may be exposed to future impairment losses that could be material to our results of operations. 
Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets  Indefinite-lived intangible assets, such as our billboard permits, are reviewed annually for possible impairment using the direct valuation method as prescribed in ASC 805-20-S99. Under the direct
valuation method, the estimated fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets was calculated at the market level as prescribed by ASC 350-30-35. Under the direct valuation method, it is assumed that rather than acquiring
indefinite-lived intangible assets as a part of a going concern business, the buyer hypothetically obtains indefinite-lived intangible assets and builds a new operation with similar attributes from scratch. Thus, the buyer incurs start-up costs
during the build-up phase which are normally associated with going concern value. Initial capital costs are deducted from the discounted cash flows model which results in value that is directly attributable to the indefinite-lived intangible assets.
 Our key assumptions using the direct valuation method are market revenue growth rates, market share, profit margin, duration
and profile of the build-up period, estimated start-up capital costs and losses incurred during the build-up period, the risk-adjusted discount rate and terminal values. This data is populated using industry normalized information representing an
average asset within a market.  On October 1, 2011, we performed our annual impairment test in accordance with ASC
350-30-35 and recognized aggregate impairment charges of $6.5 million related to permits in one of our markets.  In
determining the fair value of our billboard permits, the following key assumptions were used:   


 
¡
 
 Industry revenue growth forecast at 7.8% was used for the initial four-year period; 


 
¡
 
 3% revenue growth was assumed beyond the initial four-year period; 


 
¡
 
 Revenue was grown over a build-up period, reaching maturity by year 2; 


 
¡
 
 Operating margins gradually climb to the industry average margin of up to 52%, depending on market size, by year 3; and 


 
¡
 
 Assumed discount rate of 10%.  While we believe we have made reasonable estimates and utilized appropriate assumptions to calculate the fair value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets, it is possible a material change could occur.
If future results are not consistent with our assumptions and estimates, we may be exposed to impairment charges in the future. The following table shows the decline in the fair value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets that would result from
a 100 basis point decline in our discrete and terminal period revenue growth rate and profit margin assumptions and a 100 basis point increase in our discount rate assumption: 
 
















(In thousands)
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

  Description
  
Revenue growth rate
 
  
Profit margin
 
  
Discount rates
 

   Billboard permits
  
        $
(596,200)  
  
  
$
(129,200) 
  
  
  $
(603,700)
  

  54 


Table of Contents
The estimated fair value of our billboard permits at October 1, 2011 was $2.1 billion
while the carrying value was $1.1 billion.  Goodwill  Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired in business combinations. We test goodwill at interim dates if events or changes in
circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. The fair value of our reporting units is used to apply value to the net assets of each reporting unit. To the extent that the carrying amount of net assets would exceed the fair value, an
impairment charge may be required to be recorded.  The discounted cash flow approach we use for valuing goodwill as part of
the two-step impairment testing approach involves estimating future cash flows expected to be generated from the related assets, discounted to their present value using a risk-adjusted discount rate. Terminal values are also estimated and discounted
to their present value.  On October 1, 2011, we performed our annual impairment test in accordance with ASC 350-20-35. We
utilized the option assess qualitative factors to determine whether it was more likely than not the that the fair value of our reporting units was less than their carrying amounts, including goodwill. As part of our qualitative assessment, we
considered the following factors:   


 
¡
 
 macroeconomic characteristics of the environment in which the reporting unit operates; 


 
¡
 
 any significant changes in the business’ products, operating model or laws or regulations; 


 
¡
 
 any significant changes in the business’ cost structure and/or margin trends; 


 
¡
 
 comparisons of current and prior year operating performance and forecast trends for future operating performance; 


 
¡
 
 changes in management, business strategy or customer base during the current year; 


 
¡
 
 sustained decreases in share price relative to our peers; and 


 
¡
 
 the excess of fair value over carrying value and the significance of recorded goodwill as of October 1, 2010. 
Generally, the qualitative factors for our reporting units indicated stable or continuing margins despite economic conditions, new
contracts, no adverse business or management changes, favorable or stable forecasted economic conditions and the existence of excess fair value over carrying value for the majority of our reporting units. Based on our annual assessment using the
qualitative factors described above, we determined that it was not more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting units in our Americas segment was less than their carrying amounts, with the exception of one specific reporting unit. As a
result, further testing of goodwill for impairment was required for one reporting unit in the Americas. Our assessment for the reporting units within our International outdoor segment required further testing for three countries. Further testing
indicated that goodwill was impaired by $1.1 million in one country within our International segment in 2011.  We believe we
have made reasonable estimates and utilized appropriate assumptions to evaluate whether it was more likely than not that the fair value of our reporting units was less than their carrying values. If future results are not consistent with our
assumptions and estimates, we may be exposed to impairment charges in the future.  Tax Accruals 
Our estimates of income taxes and the significant items giving rise to the deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown in the notes to
our consolidated financial statements and reflect our assessment of actual future taxes to be paid on items reflected in the financial statements, giving consideration to both timing and probability of these estimates. Actual income taxes could vary
from these estimates due to future changes in income tax law or results from the final review of our tax returns by Federal, state or foreign tax authorities.  We use our judgment to determine whether it is more likely than not that we will sustain positions that we have taken on tax returns and, if so, the amount of benefit to initially recognize within our
financial statements. We regularly review our uncertain tax positions and adjust our unrecognized tax benefits (UTBs) in light of changes in facts and circumstances, such as changes in tax law, interactions with taxing authorities and developments
in case law. These adjustments to our UTBs may affect our income tax expense. Settlement of uncertain tax positions may require use of our cash. 
  55 


Table of Contents
Litigation Accruals  We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings. Based on current assumptions, we have accrued an estimate of the probable costs for the resolution of those claims for which the occurrence of loss
is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Future results of operations could be materially affected by changes in these assumptions or the effectiveness of our strategies related to these proceedings. 
Management’s estimates used have been developed in consultation with counsel and are based upon an analysis of potential results,
assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies.  Asset Retirement Obligations 
ASC 410-20 requires us to estimate our obligation upon the termination or nonrenewal of a lease, to dismantle and remove our billboard
structures from the leased land and to reclaim the site to its original condition.  Due to the high rate of lease renewals
over a long period of time, our calculation assumes all related assets will be removed at some period over the next 50 years. An estimate of third-party cost information is used with respect to the dismantling of the structures and the
reclamation of the site. The interest rate used to calculate the present value of such costs over the retirement period is based on an estimated risk-adjusted credit rate for the same period. If our assumption of the risk-adjusted credit rate used
to discount current year additions to the asset retirement obligation decreased approximately 1%, our liability as of December 31, 2011 would not be materially impacted. Similarly, if our assumption of the risk-adjusted credit rate increased
approximately 1%, our liability would not be materially impacted.  Share-Based Compensation 
Under the fair value recognition provisions of ASC 718-10, share-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair
value of the award. Determining the fair value of share-based awards at the grant date requires assumptions and judgments about expected volatility and forfeiture rates, among other factors. If actual results differ significantly from these
estimates, our results of operations could be materially impacted.  ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE
DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  Required information is located within Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form
10-K. 
  56 


Table of Contents
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  The consolidated financial statements and notes related thereto were prepared by and are the responsibility of management. The financial statements and related notes were prepared in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles and include amounts based upon management’s best estimates and judgments.  It is
management’s objective to ensure the integrity and objectivity of its financial data through systems of internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that all transactions are properly recorded in our books and records, that assets
are safeguarded from unauthorized use and that financial records are reliable to serve as a basis for preparation of financial statements. 
The financial statements have been audited by our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, to the extent required by
auditing standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) and, accordingly, they have expressed their professional opinion on the financial statements in their report included herein. 
The Board of Directors meets with the independent registered public accounting firm and management periodically to satisfy itself that they are properly
discharging their responsibilities. The independent registered public accounting firm has unrestricted access to the Board, without management present, to discuss the results of their audit and the quality of financial reporting and internal
accounting controls.    /s/ C. William
Eccleshare      Chief Executive Officer 
  /s/Thomas W. Casey        
 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
/s/Scott D. Hamilton          Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer 
  57 


Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders  Clear
Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc.  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. (the
Company) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the related consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss), changes in shareholders’ equity, and cash flows of the Company for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. Our
audits also include the financial statement schedule listed in the index as Item 15(a)2. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and schedule based on our audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to
above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company at December 31, 2011 and 2010, the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 21, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP  San Antonio, Texas  February 21, 2012 
  58 


Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
 





000000000



000000000


(In thousands)
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 CURRENT ASSETS
  



  




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
 $
542,655 
  
  
 $
624,018 
  

 Accounts receivable, net of allowance of $41,350 in 2011 and $49,032 in 2010
  
 
707,630 
  
  
 
735,115 
  

 Prepaid expenses
  
 
132,510 
  
  
 
100,391 
  

 Other current assets
  
 
70,933 
  
  
 
90,969 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Current Assets
  
 
1,453,728 
  
  
 
1,550,493 
  





 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
  



  




 Structures, net
  
 
1,950,437 
  
  
 
2,007,399 
  

 Other property, plant and equipment, net
  
 
296,273 
  
  
 
290,325 
  





 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
  



  




 Definite-lived intangibles, net
  
 
618,526 
  
  
 
705,218 
  

 Indefinite-lived intangibles – permits
  
 
1,105,704 
  
  
 
1,114,413 
  

 Goodwill
  
 
857,193 
  
  
 
862,242 
  





 OTHER ASSETS
  



  




 Due from Clear Channel Communications
  
 
656,040 
  
  
 
383,778 
  

 Other assets
  
 
150,284 
  
  
 
162,697 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Assets
  
 $
7,088,185 
  
  
 $
7,076,565 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 





 CURRENT LIABILITIES
  



  




 Accounts payable
  
 $
108,231 
  
  
 $
100,540 
  

 Accrued expenses
  
 
498,966 
  
  
 
523,045 
  

 Deferred income
  
 
89,980 
  
  
 
100,675 
  

 Current portion of long-term debt
  
 
23,806 
  
  
 
41,676 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Current Liabilities
  
 
720,983 
  
  
 
765,936 
  





 Long-term debt
  
 
2,522,103 
  
  
 
2,522,133 
  

 Other long-term liabilities
  
 
281,940 
  
  
 
251,873 
  

 Deferred tax liability
  
 
822,932 
  
  
 
828,568 
  

 Commitments and contingent liabilities (Note 7)
  



  








 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  



  




 Noncontrolling interest
  
 
231,530 
  
  
 
209,794 
  

 Preferred stock, $.01 par value, 150,000,000 shares authorized, no shares issued and outstanding
  
 
— 
  
  
 
— 
  

 Class A common stock, $.01 par value, 750,000,000 shares authorized, 41,138,735 and 40,886,923 shares issued in 2011 and
2010, respectively
  
 
411 
  
  
 
408 
  

 Class B common stock, $.01 par value, 600,000,000 shares authorized, 315,000,000 shares issued and outstanding
  
 
3,150 
  
  
 
3,150 
  

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
6,684,497 
  
  
 
6,677,146 
  

 Retained deficit
  
 
(3,931,403)
  
  
 
(3,974,349)
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
  
 
(246,988)
  
  
 
(207,439)
  

 Cost of shares (109,755 in 2011 and 84,896 in 2010) held in treasury
  
 
(970)
  
  
 
(655)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Shareholders’ Equity
  
 
2,740,227 
  
  
 
2,708,055 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 





 Total Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity
  
 $
7,088,185 
  
  
 $
7,076,565 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  59 


Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) 
 





000000000



000000000



000000000


(In thousands, except per share data)
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Revenue
  
    $
  3,003,874  
  
 
    $
  2,797,994  
  
 
    $
  2,698,024  
  

 Operating expenses:
  



 



 




 Direct operating expenses (excludes depreciation and amortization)
  
 
1,638,801  
  
 
 
1,559,972  
  
 
 
1,625,083  
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses (excludes depreciation and amortization)
  
 
540,872  
  
 
 
494,656  
  
 
 
484,404  
  

 Corporate expenses (excludes depreciation and amortization)
  
 
90,205  
  
 
 
107,596  
  
 
 
65,247  
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
432,035  
  
 
 
413,588  
  
 
 
439,647  
  

 Impairment charges
  
 
7,614  
  
 
 
11,493  
  
 
 
890,737  
  

 Other operating income (expense) — net
  
 
8,591  
  
 
 
(23,753) 
  
 
 
(8,231) 
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
302,938  
  
 
 
186,936  
  
 
 
(815,325) 
  

 Interest expense
  
 
242,435  
  
 
 
239,453  
  
 
 
154,919  
  

 Interest income on Due from Clear Channel Communications
  
 
45,459  
  
 
 
19,460  
  
 
 
724  
  

 Loss on marketable securities
  
 
(4,827) 
  
 
 
(6,490) 
  
 
 
(11,315) 
  

 Equity in earnings (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliates
  
 
6,029  
  
 
 
(9,936) 
  
 
 
(31,442) 
  

 Other expense — net
  
 
(649) 
  
 
 
(5,335) 
  
 
 
(9,368) 
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income taxes
  
 
106,515  
  
 
 
(54,818) 
  
 
 
(1,021,645) 
  

 Income tax benefit (expense)
  
 
(43,296) 
  
 
 
(21,599) 
  
 
 
149,110  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Consolidated net income (loss)
  
 
63,219  
  
 
 
(76,417) 
  
 
 
(872,535) 
  

 Less amount attributable to noncontrolling interest
  
 
20,273  
  
 
 
11,106  
  
 
 
(4,346) 
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to the Company
  
 
42,946  
  
 
 
(87,523) 
  
 
 
(868,189) 
  

 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:
  



 



 




 Foreign currency translation adjustments
  
 
(29,801) 
  
 
 
16,237  
  
 
 
118,632  
  

 Foreign currency reclassification adjustment
  
 
—  
  
 
 
3,437  
  
 
 
(523) 
  

 Unrealized loss on marketable securities
  
 
(4,834) 
  
 
 
(7,809) 
  
 
 
(9,971) 
  

 Reclassification adjustment for realized loss on marketable securities included in net income (loss)
  
 
3,787  
  
 
 
6,490  
  
 
 
11,315  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Other comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
(30,848) 
  
 
 
18,355  
  
 
 
119,453  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income (loss)
  
    $
12,098  
  
 
    $
(69,168) 
  
 
$
(748,736) 
  

 Less amount attributable to noncontrolling interest
  
 
8,918  
  
 
 
7,617  
  
 
 
8,050  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to the Company
  
    $
3,180  
  
 
    $
(76,785) 
  
 
$
(756,786) 
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) per common share:
  



 



 




 Basic
  
    $
0.11  
  
 
    $
(0.26) 
  
 
$
(2.46) 
  

 Weighted average common shares outstanding
  
 
355,907  
  
 
 
355,568  
  
 
 
355,377  
  

 Diluted
  
    $
0.11  
  
 
    $
(0.26) 
  
 
$
(2.46) 
  

 Weighted average common shares outstanding
  
 
356,528  
  
 
 
355,568  
  
 
 
355,377  
  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  60 


Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN 
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
 










































 (In thousands, except share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
Controlling Interest
 
 
 
 

 
 
Class ACommonSharesIssued
 
 
Class BCommonSharesIssued
 
 
 
    
Non-controllingInterest
 
 
CommonStock
 
 
AdditionalPaid-inCapital
 
 
RetainedDeficit
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)
 
 
TreasuryStock
 
 
Total
 

 Balances at December 31, 2008
 
 
40,705,638
  
 
 
315,000,000
  
 
 
    
$
211,813
  
 
$
3,557
  
 
$
6,676,714
  
 
$
(3,018,637
) 
 
$
(329,580
) 
 
$
(44
) 
 
$
3,543,823
  

 Net loss
 



 



 
 
    
 
(4,346
) 
 



 



 
 
(868,189
) 
 



 



 
 
(872,535
) 

 Exercise of stock options and other
 
 
135,913
  
 



 
 
    



 



 



 



 



 
 
(110
) 
 
 
(110
) 

 Acquisitions
 



 



 
 
    
 
(3,380
) 
 



 
 
(9,720
) 
 



 



 



 
 
(13,100
) 

 Share-based payments
 



 



 
 
    



 



 
 
12,104
  
 



 



 



 
 
12,104
  

 Other
 



 



 
 
    
 
(18,407
) 
 



 
 
(9,851
) 
 



 



 



 
 
(28,258
) 

 Other comprehensive income
 



 



 
 
    
 
8,050
  
 



 



 



 
 
111,403
  
 



 
 
119,453
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balances at December 31, 2009
 
 
40,841,551
  
 
 
315,000,000
  
 
 
    
 
193,730
  
 
 
3,557
  
 
 
6,669,247
  
 
 
(3,886,826
) 
 
 
(218,177
) 
 
 
(154
) 
 
 
2,761,377
  

 Net income (loss)
 



 



 
 
    
 
11,106
  
 



 



 
 
(87,523
) 
 



 



 
 
(76,417
) 

 Exercise of stock options and other
 
 
45,372
  
 



 
 
    



 
 
1
  
 



 



 



 
 
(501
) 
 
 
(500
) 

 Share-based payments
 



 



 
 
    



 



 
 
12,337
  
 



 



 



 
 
12,337
  

 Other
 



 



 
 
    
 
(2,659
) 
 



 
 
(4,438
) 
 



 



 



 
 
(7,097
) 

 Other comprehensive income
 



 



 
 
    
 
7,617
  
 



 



 



 
 
10,738
  
 



 
 
18,355
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balances at December 31, 2010
 
 
40,886,923
  
 
 
315,000,000
  
 
 
    
$
209,794
  
 
$
3,558
  
 
$
6,677,146
  
 
$
(3,974,349
) 
 
$
(207,439
) 
 
$
(655
) 
 
$
2,708,055
  

 Net income
 



 



 
 
    
 
20,273
  
 



 



 
 
42,946
  
 



 



 
 
63,219
  

 Exercise of stock options and other
 
 
251,812
  
 



 
 
    



 
 
3
  
 



 



 



 
 
(315
) 
 
 
(312
) 

 Share-based payments
 



 



 
 
    



 



 
 
10,913
  
 



 



 



 
 
10,913
  

 Other
 



 



 
 
    
 
(7,455
) 
 



 
 
(3,562
) 
 



 
 
217
  
 



 
 
(10,800
) 

 Other comprehensive income (loss)
 



 



 
 
    
 
8,918
  
 



 



 



 
 
(39,766
) 
 



 
 
(30,848
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balances at December 31, 2011
 
 
41,138,735
  
 
 
315,000,000
  
 
 
    
$
231,530
  
 
$
3,561
  
 
$
6,684,497
  
 
$
(3,931,403
) 
 
$
(246,988
) 
 
$
(970
) 
 
$
2,740,227
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  61 


Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
 





0000000000



0000000000



0000000000


(In thousands)
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
  



  



  




 Consolidated net income (loss)
  
    $
63,219  
  
  
    $
(76,417) 
  
  
    $
(872,535) 
  






 Reconciling Items:
  



  



  




 Impairment charges
  
 
7,614  
  
  
 
11,493  
  
  
 
890,737  
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
432,035  
  
  
 
413,588  
  
  
 
439,647  
  

 Deferred taxes
  
 
(1,393) 
  
  
 
(14,362) 
  
  
 
(132,341) 
  

 Provision for doubtful accounts
  
 
5,977  
  
  
 
8,868  
  
  
 
17,580  
  

 Share-based compensation
  
 
10,913  
  
  
 
12,337  
  
  
 
12,104  
  

 (Gain) loss on sale of operating and fixed assets
  
 
(8,591) 
  
  
 
23,753  
  
  
 
8,231  
  

 Loss on marketable securities
  
 
4,827  
  
  
 
6,490  
  
  
 
11,315  
  

 Other reconciling items – net
  
 
2,324  
  
  
 
25,508  
  
  
 
37,099  
  

 Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and dispositions:
  



  



  




 Decrease (increase) in accounts receivable
  
 
15,829  
  
  
 
(47,113) 
  
  
 
68,002  
  

 Decrease in Federal income taxes receivable
  
 
—  
  
  
 
50,958  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses
  
 
(35,302) 
  
  
 
45,603  
  
  
 
8,664  
  

 Increase in accounts payable and other liabilities
  
 
48,911  
  
  
 
5,120  
  
  
 
3,093  
  

 Decrease in deferred income
  
 
(10,212) 
  
  
 
(7,045) 
  
  
 
(1,987) 
  

 Changes in other operating assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and dispositions
  
 
(18,933) 
  
  
 
66,436  
  
  
 
(48,345) 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
 
517,218  
  
  
 
525,217  
  
  
 
441,264  
  






 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
  



  



  




 Purchases of property, plant and equipment
  
 
(291,050) 
  
  
 
(195,273) 
  
  
 
(175,953) 
  

 Proceeds from disposal of assets
  
 
12,883  
  
  
 
7,753  
  
  
 
18,144  
  

 Purchases of other operating assets
  
 
(14,794) 
  
  
 
(1,841) 
  
  
 
(4,933) 
  

 Purchases of businesses
  
 
(13,179) 
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Change in other – net
  
 
7,206  
  
  
 
(9,344) 
  
  
 
(122) 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash used for investing activities
  
 
(298,934) 
  
  
 
(198,705) 
  
  
 
(162,864) 
  






 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
  



  



  




 Draws on credit facilities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
4,670  
  
  
 
7,125  
  

 Payments on credit facilities
  
 
(4,151) 
  
  
 
(47,095) 
  
  
 
(3,364) 
  

 Proceeds from long-term debt
  
 
5,012  
  
  
 
6,844  
  
  
 
2,500,000  
  

 Payments on long-term debt
  
 
(20,099) 
  
  
 
(13,212) 
  
  
 
(2,505,913) 
  

 Net transfers (to) from Clear Channel Communications
  
 
(272,262) 
  
  
 
(260,470) 
  
  
 
319,401  
  

 Deferred financing charges
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(60,330) 
  

 Purchases of noncontrolling interests
  
 
(4,682) 
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(25,153) 
  

 Change in other, net
  
 
(2,562) 
  
  
 
(5,200) 
  
  
 
(110) 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities
  
 
(298,744) 
  
  
 
(314,463) 
  
  
 
231,656  
  






 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash
  
 
(903) 
  
  
 
2,533  
  
  
 
4,568  
  






 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(81,363) 
  
  
 
14,582  
  
  
 
514,624  
  






 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
  
 
624,018  
  
  
 
609,436  
  
  
 
94,812  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
  
    $
    542,655  
  
  
    $
    624,018  
  
  
    $
609,436  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES:
  



  



  




 Cash paid during the year for interest
  
    $
233,979  
  
  
    $
235,101  
  
  
    $
154,027  
  

 Cash paid during the year for income taxes
  
    $
37,777  
  
  
    $
—  
  
  
    $
26,543  
  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  62 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTE 1 — SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
Nature of Business 
Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. (the “Company”) is an outdoor advertising company which owns or operates advertising display faces
domestically and internationally. On November 11, 2005, the Company became a publicly traded company through an initial public offering (“IPO”), in which 10%, or 35.0 million shares, of the Company’s Class A common
stock was sold. Prior to the IPO, the Company was an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Clear Channel Communications, Inc. (“Clear Channel Communications”), a diversified media and entertainment company. As of December 31, 2011,
Clear Channel Communications indirectly holds all of the 315.0 million shares of Class B common stock outstanding and 1,553,971 shares of Class A common stock, collectively representing approximately 89% of the shares outstanding and
approximately 99% of the voting power. The holders of Class A common stock and Class B common stock have identical rights, except holders of Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share while holders of Class B common stock are
entitled to 20 votes per share. The Class B shares of common stock are convertible, at the option of the holder at any time or upon any transfer, into shares of Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to certain limited exceptions.
 The Company operates in the outdoor advertising industry by selling advertising on billboards, street furniture displays, transit displays
and other advertising displays. The Company has two reportable business segments: Americas and International. The Americas segment primarily includes operations in the United States, Canada and Latin America; the International segment primarily
includes operations in Europe, Asia and Australia.  Clear Channel Communications’ Merger 
On July 30, 2008, Clear Channel Communications completed its merger with a subsidiary of CC Media Holdings, Inc. (“CC Media Holdings”), a
company formed by a group of private equity funds sponsored by Bain Capital Partners, LLC and Thomas H. Lee Partners, L.P. (together, the “Sponsors”). Clear Channel Communications is now owned indirectly by CC Media Holdings. The purchase
price was approximately $23.0 billion, including $94.0 million in capitalized transaction costs. The merger was accounted for as a purchase business combination in conformity with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, Business
Combinations, and Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 88-16, Basis in Leveraged Buyout Transactions. ASC 805-50-S99-1 requires the application of push down accounting in situations where the ownership of an entity has changed. As a result,
the post-merger financial statements of the Company reflect the new basis of accounting.  Agreements with Clear Channel Communications
 There are several agreements which govern the Company’s relationship with Clear Channel Communications including the Master
Agreement, Corporate Services Agreement, Employee Matters Agreement and Tax Matters Agreement. Clear Channel Communications has the right to terminate these agreements in various circumstances. As of the date of the filing of this report, no notice
of termination of any of these agreements has been received from Clear Channel Communications.  Clear Channel Communications’
Revolving Credit Facility  Clear Channel Communications’ $1.9 billion revolving credit facility has a maturity in July 2014 and
includes a $145.0 million sub-limit that certain of the Company’s International subsidiaries may borrow against to the extent Clear Channel Communications has not already borrowed against this capacity and is in compliance with its covenants
under the credit facility. The obligations of these International subsidiaries that at any time are borrowers under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed by certain of the Company’s material wholly-owned subsidiaries, and secured by
substantially all assets of such borrowers and guarantors, subject to permitted liens and other exceptions. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the $145.0 million sub-limit facility. Clear Channel
Communications had borrowed the entire sub-limit capacity as of December 31, 2011. 
  63 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
Use of Estimates  The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) requires management to make estimates, judgments, and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes including, but not limited to, legal, tax and insurance accruals. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various
other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from those estimates.  Principles
of Consolidation  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries. Also included in the
consolidated financial statements are entities for which the Company has a controlling financial interest or is the primary beneficiary. Investments in companies in which the Company owns 20 percent to 50 percent of the voting common stock or
otherwise exercises significant influence over operating and financial policies of the Company are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. All significant intercompany accounts have been eliminated in consolidation. 
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2011 presentation.  Cash and Cash Equivalents  Cash and cash equivalents include all highly liquid investments
with an original maturity of three months or less.  Allowance for Doubtful Accounts 
The Company evaluates the collectability of its accounts receivable based on a combination of factors. In circumstances where it is aware of a specific
customer’s inability to meet its financial obligations, it records a specific reserve to reduce the amounts recorded to what it believes will be collected. For all other customers, it recognizes reserves for bad debt based on historical
experience of bad debts as a percent of revenue for each business unit, adjusted for relative improvements or deteriorations in the agings and changes in current economic conditions. The Company believes its concentration of credit risk is limited
due to the large number and the geographic diversification of its customers.  Purchase Accounting 
The Company accounts for its business combinations under the acquisition method of accounting. The total cost of an acquisition is allocated to the
underlying identifiable net assets, based on their respective estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Determining the fair value of assets acquired
and liabilities assumed requires management’s judgment and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash inflows and outflows, discount rates, asset lives and market
multiples, among other items. Various acquisition agreements may include contingent purchase consideration based on performance requirements of the investee. The Company accounts for these payments in conformity with the provisions of ASC 805-20-30,
which establish the requirements related to recognition of certain assets and liabilities arising from contingencies.  Property, Plant and
Equipment  Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method at rates that, in the
opinion of management, are adequate to allocate the cost of such assets over their estimated useful lives, which are as follows:  Buildings and improvements — 10 to 39 years  Structures — 5 to 40 years
 Furniture and other equipment — 3 to 20 years  Leasehold improvements — shorter of economic life or lease term assuming renewal periods, if appropriate 
  64 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
For assets associated with a lease or contract, the assets are depreciated at the shorter of the
economic life or the lease or contract term, assuming renewal periods, if appropriate. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred, whereas expenditures for renewal and betterments are capitalized. 
The Company tests for possible impairment of property, plant, and equipment whenever events and circumstances indicate that depreciable assets might be
impaired and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than the carrying amounts of those assets. When specific assets are determined to be unrecoverable, the cost basis of the asset is reduced to reflect the
current fair market value.  No impairments of property, plant and equipment were recognized during 2011. The Company impaired outdoor
advertising structures in its Americas segment by $4.0 million during 2010. During 2009, the Company recorded a $21.0 million impairment to street furniture tangible assets in its International segment. 
Land Leases and Other Structure Licenses 
Most of the Company’s advertising structures are located on leased land. Americas land leases are typically paid in advance for periods ranging from
one to 12 months. International land leases are paid both in advance and in arrears, for periods ranging from one to 12 months. Most International street furniture display faces are operated through contracts with municipalities for up to 20 years.
The leased land and street furniture contracts often include a percent of revenue to be paid along with a base rent payment. Prepaid land leases are recorded as an asset and expensed ratably over the related rental term and license and rent payments
in arrears are recorded as an accrued liability.  Intangible Assets and Goodwill 
Definite-lived intangible assets include primarily transit and street furniture contracts, site leases and other contractual rights, all of which are
amortized over the shorter of either the respective lives of the agreements or over the period of time the assets are expected to contribute directly or indirectly to the Company’s future cash flows. The Company periodically reviews the
appropriateness of the amortization periods related to its definite-lived intangible assets. These assets are recorded at cost.  The Company
tests for possible impairment of definite-lived intangible assets whenever events and circumstances indicate that amortizable long-lived assets might be impaired and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than
the carrying amounts of those assets. When specific assets are determined to be unrecoverable, the cost basis of the asset is reduced to reflect the current fair market value.  No impairments of definite-lived intangible assets were recognized during 2011. The Company impaired certain definite-lived intangible assets related to one airport contract in its Americas segment by
$0.5 million during 2010. During 2009, the Company impaired definite-lived intangible assets related to certain street furniture and billboard contract intangible assets in its Americas and International segments by $55.3 million. 
The Company’s indefinite-lived intangible assets include billboard permits in its Americas segment. The Company’s indefinite-lived intangible
assets are not subject to amortization, but are tested for impairment at least annually. The Company tests for possible impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as a significant reduction in
operating cash flow or a dramatic change in the manner for which the asset is intended to be used indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable.  The Company performs its annual impairment test for its permits using a direct valuation technique as prescribed in ASC 805-20-S99. The Company engages Mesirow Financial Consulting, LLC (“Mesirow
Financial”), a third party valuation firm, to assist the Company in the development of these assumptions and the Company’s determination of the fair value of its permits.  The Company performed its annual impairment test on its indefinite-lived intangible assets as of October 1, 2011, which resulted in a non-cash impairment charge of $6.5 million related to permits in
one specific market. 
  65 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
The Company performed impairment tests during 2010 and 2009, which resulted in non-cash impairment
charges of $4.8 million and $345.4 million, respectively, related to its indefinite-lived permits. See Note 2 for further discussion.  At
least annually, the Company performs its impairment test for each reporting unit’s goodwill. Beginning with its annual impairment testing in the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company utilized the option to assess qualitative factors under ASC
350-20-35 to determine whether it was more likely than not that the fair value of its reporting units was less than their carrying amounts, including goodwill. The Company has identified its reporting units in accordance with ASC 350-20-55. The
Company’s U.S. outdoor advertising markets are aggregated into a single reporting unit for purposes of the goodwill impairment test. The Company also determined that within its Americas segment, Canada, Mexico, Peru, and Brazil constitute
separate reporting units and each country in its International segment constitutes a separate reporting unit.  If, after the qualitative
approach, further testing is required, the Company uses a discounted cash flow model to determine if the carrying value of the reporting unit, including goodwill, is less than the fair value of the reporting unit. The Company recognized a non-cash
impairment charge of $1.1 million to reduce goodwill in one country within its International segments for 2011, which is further discussed in Note 2.  The Company performed its annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1, 2010, and recognized a non-cash impairment charge of $2.1 million related to a specific reporting unit in its International
segment. See Note 2 for further discussion.  The Company performed impairment tests during 2009 and recognized non-cash impairment charges of
$419.5 million. See Note 2 for further discussion.  Nonconsolidated Affiliates  In general, investments in which the Company owns 20 percent to 50 percent of the common stock or otherwise exercises significant influence over the investee are accounted for under the equity method. The
Company does not recognize gains or losses upon the issuance of securities by any of its equity method investees. The Company reviews the value of equity method investments and records impairment charges in the statement of operations as a component
of “Equity in earnings (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliates” for any decline in value that is determined to be other-than-temporary. 
No non-cash impairment charges of nonconsolidated affiliates were recognized during 2011. For 2010 and 2009, the Company recorded non-cash impairment
charges of $8.3 million and $22.9 million, respectively, related to certain equity investments in its International segment.  Other
Investments  Other investments are composed primarily of equity securities. These securities are classified as available-for-sale or
trading and are carried at fair value based on quoted market prices. Securities are carried at historical value when quoted market prices are unavailable. The net unrealized gains or losses on the available-for-sale securities, net of tax, are
reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a component of shareholders’ equity. In addition, the Company holds investments that do not have quoted market prices. The Company periodically assesses the value of available-for-sale and
non-marketable securities and records impairment charges in the statement of operations for any decline in value that is determined to be other-than-temporary. The average cost method is used to compute the realized gains and losses on sales of
equity securities.  The Company periodically assesses the value of its available-for-sale securities. Based on these assessments, the Company
concluded that other-than-temporary impairments existed at December 31, 2011 and 2010 and recorded non-cash impairment charges of $4.8 million and $6.5 million, respectively, during each of these years. Such charges are recorded on the
statement of operations in “Loss on marketable securities”. 
  66 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
Financial Instruments  Due to their short maturity, the carrying amounts of accounts and notes receivable, accounts payable, accrued liabilities and short-term borrowings approximated their fair values at December 31, 2011
and 2010.  Asset Retirement Obligation  ASC 410-20 requires the Company to estimate its obligation upon the termination or non-renewal of a lease to dismantle and remove its advertising structures from the leased land and to reclaim the site to
its original condition. The Company’s asset retirement obligation is reported in “Other long-term liabilities.” The Company records the present value of obligations associated with the retirement of its advertising structures in the
period in which the obligation is incurred. When the liability is recorded, the cost is capitalized as part of the related advertising structures carrying amount. Over time, accretion of the liability is recognized as an operating expense and the
capitalized cost is depreciated over the expected useful life of the related asset.  Income Taxes 
The Company accounts for income taxes using the liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on
differences between financial reporting bases and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the periods in which the deferred tax asset or liability is expected to be
realized or settled. Deferred tax assets are reduced by valuation allowances if the Company believes it is more likely than not that some portion or the entire asset will not be realized. As all earnings from the Company’s foreign operations
are permanently reinvested and not distributed, the Company’s income tax provision does not include additional U.S. taxes on foreign operations. It is not practical to determine the amount of Federal income taxes, if any, that might become due
in the event that the earnings were distributed.  The operations of the Company are included in a consolidated U.S. Federal income tax return
filed by CC Media Holdings. However, for financial reporting purposes, the Company’s provision for income taxes has been computed on the basis that the Company files separate consolidated U.S. Federal income tax returns with its subsidiaries.
 Revenue Recognition  The
Company’s advertising contracts cover periods of a few weeks up to one year, and are generally billed monthly. Revenue for advertising space rental is recognized ratably over the term of the contract. Advertising revenue is reported net of
agency commissions. Agency commissions are calculated based on a stated percentage applied to gross billing revenue for the Company’s operations. Payments received in advance of being earned are recorded as deferred income. 
Advertising Expense  The Company records
advertising expense as it is incurred. Advertising expenses were $14.7 million, $12.0 million and $11.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Share-Based Compensation  Under the fair value recognition provisions of ASC 718-10,
share-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award. For awards that vest based on service conditions, this cost is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. For awards that
will vest based on market or performance conditions, this cost will be recognized when it becomes probable that the performance conditions will be satisfied. Determining the fair value of share-based awards at the grant date requires assumptions and
judgments about expected volatility and forfeiture rates, among other factors. If actual results differ significantly from these estimates, the Company’s results of operations could be materially impacted. 
Foreign Currency  Results of operations
for foreign subsidiaries and foreign equity investees are translated into U.S. dollars using the average exchange rates during the year. The assets and liabilities of those subsidiaries and investees are translated into U.S. dollars using the
exchange rates at the balance sheet date. The related translation adjustments are recorded in a separate component of shareholders’ equity, “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)”. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses
are included in operations. 
  67 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
New Accounting Pronouncements  In April 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2011-04, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments to
Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs. The amendments in this ASU change the wording used to describe many of the requirements in U.S. GAAP for measuring fair value and for disclosing
information about fair value measurements. For many of the requirements, the FASB does not intend for the amendments in this ASU to result in a change in the application of the requirements in Topic 820. Some of the amendments clarify the
FASB’s intent about the application of existing fair value measurement requirements. Other amendments change a particular principle or requirement for measuring fair value or for disclosing information about fair value measurements. The
amendments in this ASU are to be applied prospectively for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company does not expect the provisions of ASU 2011-04 to have a material effect on its financial position or results of
operations.  In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income.
This ASU improves the comparability, consistency, and transparency of financial reporting and increases the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income by eliminating the option to present components of other comprehensive income
as part of the statement of changes in stockholders’ equity. The amendments require that all nonowner changes in stockholders’ equity be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but
consecutive statements. The changes apply for interim and annual financial statements and should be applied retrospectively, effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption
is permitted. The Company currently complies with the provisions of this ASU by presenting the components of comprehensive income in a single continuous financial statement within its consolidated statement of operations for both interim and annual
periods.  In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for
Impairment. Under the revised guidance, entities testing goodwill for impairment have the option of performing a qualitative assessment before calculating the fair value of the reporting unit (i.e., step 1 of the goodwill impairment test). If
entities determine, on the basis of qualitative factors, that the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying amount, the two-step impairment test would be required. The ASU does not change how goodwill is
calculated or assigned to reporting units, nor does it revise the requirement to test goodwill annually for impairment. The amendments are effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2011. Early adoption is permitted. The Company early adopted the provisions of this ASU as of October 1, 2011 with no material impact to its financial position or results of operations. Please refer to Note 2 for additional
discussion.  In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-12, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Deferral of the Effective Date for
Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05. The ASU defers the requirement to present components of reclassifications of other
comprehensive income on the face of the income statement in response to requests from some investors for greater clarity about the impact of reclassification adjustments on net income. The guidance in ASU 2011-05 called for reclassification
adjustments from other comprehensive income to be measured and presented by income statement line item in net income and also in other comprehensive income. All other requirements in ASU 2011-05 are not affected by this Update. The amendments are
effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company does not expect the provisions of ASU 2011-12 to have a material effect on its financial position or results of operations.

  68 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
NOTE 2 — PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL 
Property, Plant and Equipment  The Company’s property, plant and equipment consisted of the following classes of assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively: 
 





00000000000



00000000000


(In thousands)
  
December 31,2011
 
  
December 31,2010
 

 Land, buildings and improvements
  
  $
204,543  
  
  
  $
206,355  
  

 Structures
  
 
2,783,434  
  
  
 
2,623,561  
  

 Furniture and other equipment
  
 
111,481  
  
  
 
86,417  
  

 Construction in progress
  
 
57,504  
  
  
 
53,550  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
3,156,962  
  
  
 
2,969,883  
  

 Less accumulated depreciation
  
 
910,252  
  
  
 
672,159  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Property, plant and equipment, net
  
  $
2,246,710  
  
  
  $
2,297,724  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Definite-lived Intangible Assets  The following table presents the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization for each major class of definite-lived intangible assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively: 
 





Gross Carrying 



Gross Carrying 



Gross Carrying 



Gross Carrying 


(In thousands)
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Gross CarryingAmount
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
  
Gross CarryingAmount
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 

 Transit, street furniture, andother contractual rights
  
 $
773,238 
  
  
 $
329,563 
  
  
 $
789,867 
  
  
 $
256,685 
  

 Other
  
 
176,779 
  
  
 
1,928 
  
  
 
173,549 
  
  
 
1,513 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 $
950,017 
  
  
 $
331,491 
  
  
 $
963,416 
  
  
 $
258,198 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Total amortization expense related to definite-lived intangible assets was $101.7 million, $104.8 million and $101.2
million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  As acquisitions and dispositions occur in the future,
amortization expense may vary. The following table presents the Company’s estimate of amortization expense for each of the five succeeding fiscal years for definite-lived intangible assets: 
 








(In thousands)
  
 
 

 2012
  
$
      79,958
  

 2013
  
 
73,413
  

 2014
  
 
65,410
  

 2015
  
 
46,799
  

 2016
  
 
38,916
  

  69 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets and Goodwill 
The Company’s indefinite-lived intangible assets consist primarily of billboard permits in its Americas segment. The Company’s billboard permits
are granted for the right to operate an advertising structure at the specified location as long as the structure is in compliance with the laws and regulations of each jurisdiction. The Company’s permits are located on owned land, leased land
or land for which we have acquired permanent easements. In cases where the Company’s permits are located on leased land, the leases typically have initial terms of between 10 and 20 years and renew indefinitely, with rental payments generally
escalating at an inflation-based index. If the Company loses its lease, the Company will typically obtain permission to relocate the permit or bank it with the municipality for future use. Due to significant differences in both business practices
and regulations, billboards in the International segment are subject to long-term, finite contracts unlike the Company’s permits in the United States and Canada. Accordingly, there are no indefinite-lived intangible assets in the International
segment.  The impairment tests for indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of a comparison between the fair value of the indefinite-lived
intangible asset at the market level with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of the indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized equal to that excess. After an impairment loss is recognized, the
adjusted carrying amount of the indefinite-lived asset is its new accounting basis. The fair value of the indefinite-lived asset is determined using the direct valuation method as prescribed in ASC 805-20-S99. Under the direct valuation method, the
fair value of the indefinite-lived assets is calculated at the market level as prescribed by ASC 350-30-35. The Company engaged Mesirow Financial, a third-party valuation firm, to assist it in the development of the assumptions and the
Company’s determination of the fair value of its indefinite-lived intangible assets.  The application of the direct valuation method
attempts to isolate the income that is properly attributable to the indefinite-lived intangible asset alone (that is, apart from tangible and identified intangible assets and goodwill). It is based upon modeling a hypothetical “greenfield”
build-up to a “normalized” enterprise that, by design, lacks inherent goodwill and whose only other assets have essentially been paid for (or added) as part of the build-up process. The Company forecasts revenue, expenses, and cash flows
over a ten-year period for each of its markets in its application of the direct valuation method. The Company also calculates a “normalized” residual year which represents the perpetual cash flows of each market. The residual year cash
flow was capitalized to arrive at the terminal value of the permits in each market.  Under the direct valuation method, it is assumed that
rather than acquiring indefinite-lived intangible assets as part of a going concern business, the buyer hypothetically develops indefinite-lived intangible assets and builds a new operation with similar attributes from scratch. Thus, the buyer
incurs start-up costs during the build-up phase which are normally associated with going concern value. Initial capital costs are deducted from the discounted cash flow model which results in value that is directly attributable to the
indefinite-lived intangible assets.  The key assumptions using the direct valuation method are market revenue growth rates, market share,
profit margin, duration and profile of the build-up period, estimated start-up capital costs and losses incurred during the build-up period, the risk-adjusted discount rate and terminal values. This data is populated using industry normalized
information representing an average billboard permit within a market.  Annual Impairment Test to Billboard Permits 
The Company performs its annual impairment test on October 1 of each year.  The aggregate fair value of the Company’s permits on October 1, 2011 and 2010 increased approximately 12% and 58% from the fair value at October 1, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase
in fair value resulted primarily from improvements to general market conditions leading to increased advertising spending and higher revenues for the industry.  During 2011, the Company recognized a $6.5 million impairment charge related to billboard permits in one market due to significant declines in permit value resulting from flat revenues, a slight decline
in margin and increased capital expenditures within the market. During 2010, although the aggregate fair value of billboard permits increased, certain markets experienced continuing declines. As a result, impairment charges were recorded in 2010 for
billboard permits of $4.8 million. 
  70 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
Interim Impairments to Billboard Permits 
The Company performed an interim impairment tests on its billboard permits as of June 30, 2009 as a result of the poor economic environment during
the period. In determining the fair value of the Company’s billboard permits, the following key assumptions were used:   


 
¡
 
 Industry revenue growth of negative 16% during the one year build-up period; 


 
¡
 
 Cost structure reached a normalized level over a three year period and the operating margins gradually grew over that period to the industry average
margins of 45%. The margin in year three was the lower of the industry average margin or the actual margin for the market; 


 
¡
 
 Industry average revenue growth of 3% beyond the discrete build-up projection; and 


 
¡
 
 A discount rate of 10%. 
The discount rate used in the June 30, 2009 impairment model increased approximately 50 basis points over the discount rate used to value the
permits at December 31, 2008. Industry revenue forecasts declined 8% through 2013 compared to the forecasts used in the 2008 impairment test. These market driven changes were primarily responsible for the decline in fair value of the billboard
permits below their carrying value. As a result, the Company recognized a non-cash impairment charge at June 30, 2009 in all but five of its markets in the United States and Canada, which totaled $345.4 million. 
Annual Impairment Test to Goodwill 
The Company performs its annual impairment test on October 1 of each year. Each of the Company’s advertising markets are components. The U.S.
advertising markets are aggregated into a single reporting unit for purposes of the goodwill impairment test using the guidance in ASC 350-20-55. The Company also determined that within its Americas segment, Canada, Mexico, Peru, and Brazil
constitute separate reporting units and each country in its International segment constitutes a separate reporting unit.  Beginning with its
annual impairment testing in the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company utilized the option to assess qualitative factors under ASC 350-20-35 to determine whether it was more likely than not that the fair value of its reporting units was less than
their carrying amounts, including goodwill. Based on a qualitative assessment, the Company concluded that no further testing of goodwill for impairment was required for all of the reporting units within its Americas segment, with the exception of
one country, for which further testing was required. Further testing was also required for three of the countries within its International segment.  If further testing of goodwill for impairment is required after assessing qualitative factors, the Company follows the two-step impairment testing approach in accordance with ASC 350-20-35. The first
step, used to screen for potential impairment, compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If applicable, the second step, used to measure the amount of the impairment loss, compares the implied fair
value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill.  Each of the Company’s reporting units is valued using a
discounted cash flow model which requires estimating future cash flows expected to be generated from the reporting unit, discounted to their present value using a risk-adjusted discount rate. Terminal values were also estimated and discounted to
their present value. Assessing the recoverability of goodwill requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates based on its budgets, business plans, economic projections,
anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management’s judgment in applying these factors.  For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recognized a non-cash impairment charge to goodwill of $1.1 million due to a decline in the fair value of one country within the Company’s
International segment.  The fair value of the Company’s reporting units on October 1, 2010 increased from the fair value at
October 1, 2009. The increase in the fair value of the Company’s Americas reporting unit was primarily the result of a $638.6 million increase related to forecast revenues and operating margins. As a result of increase in fair value across
the Company’s Americas reporting unit, no goodwill impairment was recognized in this segment. Within the Company’s International segment, one country experienced a decline in fair value which resulted in a $2.1 million non-cash impairment
to goodwill recorded for the year ended December 31, 2010. 
  71 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
The following table presents the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill in each of the
Company’s reportable segments. The provisions of ASC 350-20-50-1 require the disclosure of cumulative impairment. As a result of the merger, a new basis in goodwill was recorded in accordance with ASC 805-10. All impairments shown in the table
below have been recorded subsequent to the merger and, therefore, do not include any pre-merger impairment.   





International 



International 



International 


(In thousands)
  
    Americas    
 
  
  International  
 
  
Total
 

 Balance as of December 31, 2009
  
 $
585,249 
  
  
 $
276,343 
  
  
 $
861,592  
  

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
285 
  
  
 
3,299 
  
  
 
3,584  
  

 Impairment
  
 
— 
  
  
 
(2,142)
  
  
 
(2,142) 
  

 Adjustments
  
 
— 
  
  
 
(792)
  
  
 
(792) 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance as of December 31, 2010
  
 $
585,534 
  
  
 $
276,708 
  
  
 $
862,242  
  

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
(670)
  
  
 
(6,228)
  
  
 
(6,898) 
  

 Impairment
  
 
— 
  
  
 
(1,146)
  
  
 
(1,146) 
  

 Acquisitions
  
 
— 
  
  
 
2,995 
  
  
 
2,995  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance as of December 31, 2011
  
 $
584,864 
  
  
 $
272,329 
  
  
 $
857,193  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The balance at December 31, 2009 is net of cumulative impairments of $2.7 billion and $247.2 million in the
Company’s Americas and International segments, respectively.  Interim Impairment Test to Goodwill 
The discounted cash flow model indicated that the Company failed the first step of the impairment test for certain of its reporting units as of
June 30, 2009, which required it to compare the implied fair value of each reporting unit’s goodwill with its carrying value.  As of
June 30, 2009, the Company calculated the weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”) of 12.5% and 13.5% for each of the reporting units in the Americas and International segments, respectively. The Company also utilized the market
approach to provide a test of reasonableness to the results of the discounted cash flow model. The market approach can be estimated through the quoted market price method, the market comparable method, and the market transaction method. The three
variations of the market approach indicated that the fair value determined by the Company’s discounted cash flow model was within a reasonable range of outcomes.  The Company forecasted revenue, expenses, and cash flows over a ten-year period for each of its reporting units. The revenue forecasts for 2009 declined 7% and 9% for Americas and International,
respectively, compared to the forecasts used in the 2008 impairment test primarily as a result of the revenues realized during the first six months of 2009. These market driven changes were primarily responsible for the decline in fair value of the
reporting units below their carrying value. As a result, the Company recognized a non-cash impairment charge to reduce its goodwill of $419.5 million at June 30, 2009. 
NOTE 3 — BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS 
On October 14, 2011, the Company’s International segment acquired Brouwer & Partners, a street furniture business
in Holland, for $12.5 million.  During 2009, the Company’s Americas segment purchased the remaining 15% interest in its consolidated
subsidiary, Paneles Napsa S.A., for $13.0 million and the Company’s International segment acquired an additional 5% interest in its consolidated subsidiary, Clear Channel Jolly Pubblicita SPA, for $12.1 million. 
  72 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
NOTE 4 — INVESTMENTS 
The Company’s most significant investments in nonconsolidated affiliates are listed below: 
Alessi  The Company owns a 36.75%
interest in Alessi, an Italian outdoor advertising company.  Buspak  The Company owns a 50% interest in Buspak, an outdoor advertising company in Hong Kong. 
Summarized Financial Information  The
following table summarizes the Company’s investments in nonconsolidated affiliates:   




















(In thousands)
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
    Alessi    
 
 
    Buspak    
 
 
All Others
 
 
    Total    
 

 Balance as of December 31, 2009
  
$
9,041
  
 
$
9,532
  
 
$
4,781
  
 
$
    23,354
  

 Equity in net earnings (loss)
  
 
(8,453
) 
 
 
439
  
 
 
(1,922
) 
 
 
(9,936
) 

 Other, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
(2,231
) 
 
 
3,042
  
 
 
811
  

 Foreign currency translation adjustments
  
 
(588
) 
 
 
(21
) 
 
 
175
  
 
 
(434
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance as of December 31, 2010
  
$
—
  
 
$
7,719
  
 
$
6,076
  
 
$
13,795
  

 Equity in net earnings (loss)
  
 
—
  
 
 
1,884
  
 
 
4,145
  
 
 
6,029
  

 Dispositions of investments, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(6,316
) 
 
 
(6,316
) 

 Other, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
(1,701
) 
 
 
(929
) 
 
 
(2,630
) 

 Foreign currency translation adjustments
  
 
—
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
281
  
 
 
290
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance as of December 31, 2011
  
$
—
  
 
$
7,911
  
 
$
3,257
  
 
$
11,168
  
 The investments in the table above are not consolidated, but are accounted for under the equity method of accounting,
whereby the Company records its investments in these entities in the balance sheet as “Other assets.” The Company’s interests in their operations are recorded in the statement of operations as “Equity in earnings (loss) of
nonconsolidated affiliates.”  Other Investments  Other investments of $3.3 million and $8.2 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, primarily represent marketable equity securities. 
 




































(In thousands)
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

Investments
  
Cost
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
  
FairValue
 
  
Cost
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
  
FairValue
 

 Available-for sale
  
$
      3,188
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
74
  
  
$
      3,262
  
  
$
      8,016
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
82
  
  
$
      8,098
  

 Other cost investments
  
$
70
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
$
70
  
  
$
77
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
$
77
  
 The Company’s available-for-sale security, Independent News & Media PLC (“INM”), was in an
unrealized loss position for extended periods of time throughout 2009 through 2011. As a result, the Company considered the guidance in ASC 320-10-S99 and reviewed the length of the time and the extent to which the market value was less than cost
and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer. After this assessment, the Company concluded that the impairment was other than temporary and recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $4.8 million, $6.5 million and $11.3 million in
“Loss on marketable securities” for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Other cost investments
include various investments in companies for which there is no readily determinable market value. 
  73 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
NOTE 5 — ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATION 
The Company’s asset retirement obligation is reported in “Other long-term liabilities” with the current portion recorded
in “Accrued liabilities” and relates to its obligation to dismantle and remove its advertising displays from leased land and to reclaim the site to its original condition upon the termination or non-renewal of a lease. When the liability
is recorded, the cost is capitalized as part of the related long-lived assets’ carrying value. Due to the high rate of lease renewals over a long period of time, the calculation assumes that all related assets will be removed at some period
over the next 50 years. An estimate of third-party cost information is used with respect to the dismantling of the structures and the reclamation of the site. The interest rate used to calculate the present value of such costs over the retirement
period is based on an estimated risk adjusted credit rate for the same period.  The following table presents the activity related to the
Company’s asset retirement obligation:   












(In thousands)
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Beginning balance
  
$
            48,263
  
 
$
            51,301
  

 Adjustment due to change in estimate of related costs
  
 
(2,851
) 
 
 
(5,295
) 

 Accretion of liability
  
 
4,536
  
 
 
4,822
  

 Liabilities settled
  
 
(2,414
) 
 
 
(2,565
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance
  
$
47,534
  
 
$
48,263
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

NOTE 6 — LONG-TERM DEBT 
Long-term debt at December 31, 2011 and 2010 consisted of the following: 
 












(In thousands)
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Clear Channel Worldwide Holdings Senior Notes:
  



  




 9.25% Series A Senior Notes Due 2017
  
$
500,000
  
  
$
500,000
  

 9.25% Series B Senior Notes Due 2017
  
 
2,000,000
  
  
 
2,000,000
  

 Other debt
  
 
45,909
  
  
 
63,809
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
2,545,909
  
  
 
2,563,809
  

 Less: current portion
  
 
23,806
  
  
 
41,676
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total long-term debt
  
$
  2,522,103
  
  
$
2,522,133
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The aggregate market value of the Company’s debt based on quoted market prices for which quotes were available was
approximately $2.7 billion and $2.8 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Bank Credit Facility 
In connection with the merger, Clear Channel Communications entered into a multi-currency revolving credit facility with a maturity in July 2014. Certain
of the Company’s International subsidiaries may borrow under a $145.0 million sub-limit within this $1.9 billion credit facility, to the extent Clear Channel Communications has not already borrowed against this capacity and is in compliance
with its covenants under the credit facility. This sub-limit allows for borrowings in various foreign currencies, which are used to hedge net assets in those currencies and provide funds to the Company’s International operations for certain
working capital needs. The obligations of these International subsidiaries that are borrowers under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed by certain of the Company’s material wholly-owned subsidiaries, and secured by substantially all
assets of such borrowers and guarantors, subject to permitted liens and other exceptions. The interest rate is based upon LIBOR or, for Euro denominated borrowings, EURIBOR, plus, in each case, a margin. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had
no outstanding borrowings under the $145.0 million sub-limit facility. Clear Channel Communications had borrowed the entire sub-limit capacity as of December 31, 2011. 
  74 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
Clear Channel Worldwide Holdings Senior Notes 
As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s subsidiary, Clear Channel Worldwide Holdings, Inc. (“CCWH”), had outstanding $500.0 million
aggregate principal amount of Series A Senior Notes due 2017 (the “Series A Notes”) and $2.0 billion aggregate principal amount of Series B Senior Notes due 2017 (the “Series B Notes” and together with the Series A Notes, the
“CCWH Notes”). The CCWH Notes are guaranteed by the Company, Clear Channel Outdoor, Inc. (“CCOI”), the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, and certain of the Company’s other direct and indirect subsidiaries. 
The CCWH Notes bear interest on a daily basis and contain customary provisions, including covenants requiring CCWH to maintain certain levels of credit
availability and limitations on incurring additional debt.  The CCWH Notes are senior obligations that rank pari passu in right of payment to
all unsubordinated indebtedness of CCWH and the guarantees of the CCWH Notes rank pari passu in right of payment to all unsubordinated indebtedness of the guarantors.  The indentures governing the CCWH Notes require CCWH to maintain at least $100 million in cash or other liquid assets or have cash available to be borrowed under committed credit facilities consisting of
(i) $50.0 million at the issuer and guarantor entities (principally the Americas segment) and (ii) $50.0 million at the non-guarantor subsidiaries (principally the International segment) (together the “Liquidity Amount”), in each
case under the sole control of the relevant entity. In the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, or similar proceeding of Clear Channel Communications, for the period thereafter that is the shorter of such proceeding and
60 days, the Liquidity Amount shall be reduced to $50.0 million, with a $25.0 million requirement at the issuer and guarantor entities and a $25.0 million requirement at the non-guarantor subsidiaries. 
In addition, interest on the CCWH Notes accrues daily and is payable into an account established by the trustee for the benefit of the bondholders (the
“Trustee Account”). Failure to make daily payment on any day does not constitute an event of default so long as (a) no payment or other transfer by the Company or any of its subsidiaries shall have been made on such day under the cash
management sweep with Clear Channel Communications, and (b) on each semiannual interest payment date the aggregate amount of funds in the Trustee Account is equal to at least the aggregate amount of accrued and unpaid interest on the CCWH
Notes.  The indenture governing the Series A Notes contains covenants that limit the Company and its restricted subsidiaries ability to, among
other things:   


 
•
 
 incur or guarantee additional debt to persons other than Clear Channel Communications and its subsidiaries or issue certain preferred stock;



 
•
 
 create liens on its restricted subsidiaries’ assets to secure such debt; 


 
•
 
 create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to the Company from its restricted subsidiaries that are not guarantors of the notes;



 
•
 
 enter into certain transactions with affiliates; 


 
•
 
 merge or consolidate with another person, or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets; 


 
•
 
 sell certain assets, including capital stock of its subsidiaries, to persons other than Clear Channel Communications and its subsidiaries; and



 
•
 
 purchase or otherwise effectively cancel or retire any of the Series A Notes if after doing so the ratio of (a) the outstanding aggregate
principal amount of the Series A Notes to (b) the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the Series B Notes shall be greater than 0.250.  In addition, the indenture governing the Series A Notes provides that if CCWH (i) makes an optional redemption of the Series B Notes or purchases or makes an offer to purchase the Series B Notes at
or above 100% of the principal amount thereof, then CCWH shall apply a pro rata amount to make an optional redemption or purchase a pro rata amount of the Series A Notes or (ii) makes an asset sale offer under the indenture governing the Series
B Notes, then CCWH shall apply a pro rata amount to make an offer to purchase a pro rata amount of Series A Notes.  The indenture governing
the Series A Notes does not include limitations on dividends, distributions, investments or asset sales. 
  75 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
The indenture governing the Series B Notes contains covenants that limit the Company and its restricted
subsidiaries ability to, among other things:   


 
•
 
 incur or guarantee additional debt or issue certain preferred stock; 


 
•
 
 redeem, repurchase or retire the Company’s subordinated debt; 


 
•
 
 make certain investments; 


 
•
 
 create liens on its or its restricted subsidiaries’ assets to secure debt; 


 
•
 
 create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to it from its restricted subsidiaries that are not guarantors of the CCWH Notes;



 
•
 
 enter into certain transactions with affiliates; 


 
•
 
 merge or consolidate with another person, or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets; 


 
•
 
 sell certain assets, including capital stock of its subsidiaries; 


 
•
 
 designate its subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; 


 
•
 
 pay dividends, redeem or repurchase capital stock or make other restricted payments; and 


 
•
 
 purchase or otherwise effectively cancel or retire any of the Series B Notes if after doing so the ratio of (a) the outstanding aggregate
principal amount of the Series A Notes to (b) the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the Series B Notes shall be greater than 0.250. This stipulation ensures, among other things, that as long as the Series A Notes are outstanding, the
Series B Notes are outstanding.  The Series A Notes indenture and the Series B Notes indenture restrict the Company’s
ability to incur additional indebtedness but permit the Company to incur additional indebtedness based on an incurrence test. In order to incur additional indebtedness under this test, the Company’s debt to adjusted EBITDA ratios (as defined by
the indentures) must be lower than 6.5:1 and 3.25:1 for total debt and senior debt, respectively. The indentures contain certain other exceptions that allow the Company to incur additional indebtedness. The Series B Notes indenture also permits the
Company to pay dividends from the proceeds of indebtedness or the proceeds from asset sales if the Company’s debt to adjusted EBITDA ratios (as defined by the indentures) are lower than 6.0:1 and 3.0:1 for total debt and senior debt,
respectively. The Series A Notes indenture does not limit the Company’s ability to pay dividends. The Series B Notes indenture contains certain exceptions that allow the Company to incur additional indebtedness and pay dividends, including a
$500 million exception for the payment of dividends. The Company was in compliance with these covenants as of December 31, 2011.  Prior
to the date of the closing of the CCWH Notes offering, the Company made a demand for and received repayment of $500.0 million on the “Due from Clear Channel Communications” account.  Following such repayment, the Company contributed $500.0 million to the capital of CCOI, which used the proceeds received by it to prepay $500.0 million of the “Debt with Clear Channel
Communications” account. Subsequent to this repayment, the outstanding balance of the “Debt with Clear Channel Communications” account was $2.0 billion.  A portion of the proceeds of the CCWH Notes offering were used to (i) pay the fees and expenses of the offering, (ii) fund $50.0 million of the Liquidity Amount (the $50.0 million Liquidity
Amount of the non-guarantor subsidiaries was satisfied) and (iii) make a voluntary prepayment of the remaining $2.0 billion outstanding balance (which is equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Series B Notes) under the note to Clear
Channel Communications and subsequently retire the “Debt with Clear Channel Communications”, with the balance of the proceeds available for general corporate purposes.  In connection with the offering, Clear Channel Communications and the Company modified the terms of the revolving promissory notes (recorded as Due from/to Clear Channel Communications account) to extend
the maturity of each revolving promissory note to coincide with the maturity date of the CCWH Notes. In addition, the terms were modified to change the interest rate on each revolving promissory note to a fixed per annum rate equal to 9.25%.

  76 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
Clear Channel Communications’ Refinancing Transactions 
During the first six months of 2011 Clear Channel Communications amended its senior secured credit facilities and its receivables based credit facility
(the “Amendments”) and issued $1.75 billion aggregate principal amount of 9.0% Priority Guarantee Notes due 2021 (the “9.0% Priority Guarantee Notes”). In February 2011, Clear Channel Communications issued $1.0 billion aggregate
principal amount of the 9.0% Priority Guarantee Notes (the “February 2011 Offering”), and in June 2011, Clear Channel Communications issued $750.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 9.0% Priority Guarantee Notes (the “June 2011
Offering”). Clear Channel Communications used a portion of the proceeds from the February 2011 Offering to prepay $500.0 million of the indebtedness outstanding under its senior secured credit facilities. As a result of the prepayment, the
revolving credit commitments under Clear Channel Communications’ revolving credit facility were permanently reduced from $2.0 billion to $1.9 billion and the sub-limit under which certain of the Company’s international subsidiaries may
borrow (to the extent that Clear Channel Communications has not already borrowed against this capacity) was reduced from $150.0 million to $145.0 million. The Amendments, among other things, provide greater flexibility for the Company and its
subsidiaries to incur new debt, provided that the net proceeds distributed to Clear Channel Communications from the issuance of such new debt are used to pay down senior secured credit facility indebtedness. 
Other Debt  Other debt includes
various borrowings and capital leases utilized for general operating purposes. Included in the $45.9 million balance at December 31, 2011 is $23.8 million that matures in less than one year. 
Debt Covenants  The Clear Channel
Communications’ $1.9 billion revolving credit facility contains a significant financial covenant which requires Clear Channel Communications to comply on a quarterly basis with a maximum consolidated senior secured net debt to adjusted EBITDA
ratio (maximum of 9.5:1). The financial covenant becomes more restrictive over time beginning in the second quarter of 2013. In its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 21, 2012, Clear Channel Communications stated that it was
in compliance with this covenant as of December 31, 2011.  In addition, the Company was in compliance with the covenants contained in the
Series A Notes indenture and the Series B Notes indenture as of December 31, 2011.  There are no significant covenants or events of
default contained in the revolving promissory note issued by Clear Channel Communications to the Company or the revolving promissory note issued by the Company to Clear Channel Communications. 
Future maturities of long-term debt as of December 31, 2011 are as follows: 
 








(In thousands)
  
 
 

 2012
  
$
 23,806
  

 2013
  
 
3,746
  

 2014
  
 
17,183
  

 2015
  
 
56
  

 2016
  
 
64
  

 Thereafter
  
 
2,501,054
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
        2,545,909
  


  
  
  
 

NOTE 7 — COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENCIES AND GUARANTEES 
Commitments and Contingencies  The Company accounts for its rentals that include renewal options, annual rent escalation clauses, minimum franchise payments and maintenance related to displays under the guidance in ASC 840. 
The Company considers its non-cancelable contracts that enable it to display advertising on buses, bus shelters, trains, etc. to be leases in accordance
with the guidance in ASC 840-10. These contracts may contain minimum annual franchise payments which generally escalate each year. The Company accounts for these minimum franchise payments on a straight-line basis. If the rental increases are not
scheduled in the lease, such as an increase based on subsequent changes in the index or rate, those rents are considered contingent rentals and are recorded as expense when accruable. Other contracts may contain a variable rent component based on
revenue. The Company accounts for these variable components as contingent rentals and records these payments as expense when accruable. 
  77 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
The Company accounts for annual rent escalation clauses included in the lease term on a straight-line
basis under the guidance in ASC 840-20-25. The Company considers renewal periods in determining its lease terms if at inception of the lease there is reasonable assurance the lease will be renewed. Expenditures for maintenance are charged to
operations as incurred, whereas expenditures for renewal and betterments are capitalized.  The Company leases office space, equipment and the
majority of the land occupied by its advertising structures under long-term operating leases. The Company accounts for these leases in accordance with the policies described above.  The Company’s contracts with municipal bodies or private companies relating to street furniture, billboards, transit and malls generally require the Company to build bus stops, kiosks and other
public amenities or advertising structures during the term of the contract. The Company owns these structures and is generally allowed to advertise on them for the remaining term of the contract. Once the Company has built the structure, the cost is
capitalized and expensed over the shorter of the economic life of the asset or the remaining life of the contract.  In addition, the Company
has commitments relating to required purchases of property, plant, and equipment under certain street furniture contracts. Certain of the Company’s contracts contain penalties for not fulfilling its commitments related to its obligations to
build bus stops, kiosks and other public amenities or advertising structures. Historically, any such penalties have not materially impacted the Company’s financial position or results of operations. 
Certain acquisition agreements include deferred consideration payments based on performance requirements by the seller, typically involving the
completion of a development or obtaining appropriate permits that enable the Company to construct additional advertising displays. At December 31, 2011, the Company believes its maximum aggregate contingency, which is subject to performance
requirements by the seller, is approximately $32.5 million. As the contingencies have not been met or resolved as of December 31, 2011, these amounts are not recorded.  As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s future minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating lease agreements with terms in excess of one year, minimum payments under non-cancelable
contracts in excess of one year, and capital expenditure commitments consist of the following:   





September 30, 2010



September 30, 2010



September 30, 2010


(In thousands)
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
Capital
 

 
  
Non-CancelableOperating Leases
 
  
Non-CancelableContracts
 
  
ExpenditureCommitments
 

 2012
  
$
283,104
  
  
$
402,974
  
  
$
67,879
  

 2013
  
 
242,845
  
  
 
293,690
  
  
 
26,472
  

 2014
  
 
213,066
  
  
 
259,627
  
  
 
12,748
  

 2015
  
 
209,728
  
  
 
228,996
  
  
 
16,402
  

 2016
  
 
152,783
  
  
 
171,751
  
  
 
18,456
  

 Thereafter
  
 
935,606
  
  
 
518,769
  
  
 
6,921
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
2,037,132
  
  
$
1,875,807
  
  
$
148,878
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Rent expense charged to operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $1,029.3 million, $967.5
million and $999.1 million, respectively.  In various areas in which the Company operates, outdoor advertising is the object of restrictive
and, in some cases, prohibitive zoning and other regulatory provisions, either enacted or proposed. The impact to the Company of loss of displays due to governmental action has been somewhat mitigated by Federal and state laws mandating compensation
for such loss and constitutional restraints. 
  78 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
The Company and its subsidiaries are currently involved in certain legal proceedings arising in the
ordinary course of business and, as required, the Company has accrued its estimate of the probable costs for resolution of those claims for which the occurrence of loss is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. These estimates have
been developed in consultation with counsel and are based upon an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. It is possible, however, that future results of operations for any particular period
could be materially affected by changes in the Company’s assumptions or the effectiveness of its strategies related to these proceedings. 
On or about July 12, 2006 and April 12, 2007, two of the Company’s operating businesses (L&C Outdoor Ltda. (“L&C”) and
Publicidad Klimes São Paulo Ltda. (“Klimes”), respectively) in the São Paulo, Brazil market received notices of infraction from the state taxing authority, seeking to impose a value added tax (“VAT”) on such
businesses, retroactively for the period from December 31, 2001 through January 31, 2006. The taxing authority contends that the Company’s businesses fall within the definition of “communication services” and as such are
subject to the VAT.  L&C and Klimes have filed separate petitions to challenge the imposition of this tax. L&C’s challenge in the
administrative courts was unsuccessful at the first level, but successful at the second administrative level. The state taxing authority filed an appeal to the third and final administrative level, which required consideration by a full panel of 16
administrative law judges. On September 27, 2010, L&C received an unfavorable ruling at this final administrative level, which concluded that the VAT applied. On December 15, 2011, a Special Chamber of the administrative court
considered the reasonableness of the amount of the penalty assessed against L&C and significantly reduced the penalty. With the reduction, the amounts allegedly owed by L&C are approximately $8.6 million in taxes, approximately $4.3 million
in penalties and approximately $18.4 million in interest (as of December 31, 2011 at an exchange rate of 0.534). On January 27, 2012, L&C filed a writ of mandamus in the 8th lower public treasury court in São Paulo, State of
São Paulo, appealing the administrative court’s decision that the VAT applies. On that same day, L&C filed a motion for an injunction barring the taxing authority from collecting the tax, penalty and interest while the appeal is
pending. The court denied the motion on January 30, 2012. L&C filed a motion for reconsideration, and in early February 2012, the court granted that motion and issued an injunction.  Klimes’ challenge was unsuccessful at the first level of the administrative courts, and denied at the second administrative level on or about September 24, 2009. On January 5, 2011, the
administrative law judges at the third administrative level published a ruling that the VAT applies but significantly reduced the penalty assessed by the taxing authority. With the penalty reduction, the amounts allegedly owed by Klimes are
approximately $9.7 million in taxes, approximately $4.8 million in penalties and approximately $20.1 million in interest (as of December 31, 2011 at an exchange rate of 0.534). In late February 2011, Klimes filed a writ of mandamus in the
13th lower public treasury court in São Paulo, State of São Paulo, appealing the administrative court’s decision that the VAT applies. On that same day, Klimes filed a motion for an injunction barring the taxing authority from
collecting the tax, penalty and interest while the appeal is pending. The court denied the motion in early April 2011. Klimes filed a motion for reconsideration with the court and also appealed that ruling to the São Paulo State Higher Court,
which affirmed in late April 2011. On June 20, 2011, the 13th lower public treasury court in São Paulo reconsidered its prior ruling and granted Klimes an injunction suspending any collection effort by the taxing authority until a
decision on the merits is obtained at the first judicial level.  On August 8, 2011, Brazil’s National Council of Fiscal Policy
(CONFAZ) published a rule authorizing a general amnesty to sixteen states, including the State of São Paulo, to reduce the principal amount of VAT allegedly owed for communications services and reduce or waive related interest and
penalties. The State of São Paulo ratified the amnesty in late August 2011. However, in late 2011, the State of São Paulo decided not to pursue the general amnesty, but it has indicated that it would be willing to consider a
special amnesty for the out-of-home industry. Klimes and L&C are actively exploring this opportunity but do not know whether the State ultimately will offer a special amnesty or what the terms of any special amnesty might
be. Accordingly, the businesses continue to vigorously pursue their appeals in the lower public treasury court. At December 31,
2011, the range of reasonably possible loss is from zero to approximately $31.2 million in the L&C matter and is from zero to approximately $34.6 million in the Klimes matter. The maximum loss that could ultimately be paid depends on the timing
of the final resolution at the judicial level and applicable future interest rates. Based on the Company’s review of the law, the outcome of similar cases at the judicial level and the advice of counsel, the Company has not accrued any costs
related to these claims and believes the occurrence of loss is not probable. 
  79 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
Guarantees  As of December 31, 2011, the Company had $70.0 million in letters of credit outstanding, of which $67.5 million of letters of credit were cash secured. Additionally, as of December 31, 2011,
Clear Channel Communications had outstanding commercial standby letters of credit and surety bonds of $15.3 million and $42.9 million, respectively, held on behalf of the Company. These letters of credit and surety bonds relate to various
operational matters, including insurance, bid and performance bonds, as well as other items. Letters of credit in the amount of $5.0 million are collateral in support of surety bonds and these amounts would only be drawn under the letter of credit
in the event the associated surety bonds were funded and the Company did not honor its reimbursement obligation to the issuers.  In addition,
as of December 31, 2011, the Company had outstanding bank guarantees of $56.2 million. Bank guarantees in the amount of $4.3 million are backed by cash collateral. 
NOTE 8 — RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
The Company records net amounts due to or from Clear Channel Communications as “Due from/to Clear Channel Communications” on
the consolidated balance sheets. The accounts represent the revolving promissory note issued by the Company to Clear Channel Communications and the revolving promissory note issued by Clear Channel Communications to the Company in the face amount of
$1.0 billion, or if more or less than such amount, the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all advances. The accounts accrue interest pursuant to the terms of the promissory notes and are generally payable on demand. Included in the accounts are
the net activities resulting from day-to-day cash management services provided by Clear Channel Communications. As a part of these services, the Company maintains collection bank accounts swept daily into accounts of Clear Channel Communications
(after satisfying the funding requirements of the Trustee Account). In return, Clear Channel Communications funds the Company’s controlled disbursement accounts as checks or electronic payments are presented for payment. The Company’s
claim in relation to cash transferred from its concentration account is on an unsecured basis and is limited to the balance of the “Due from Clear Channel Communications” account.  At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the asset recorded in “Due from Clear Channel Communications” on the consolidated balance sheet was $656.0 million and $383.8 million, respectively. At
December 31, 2011, the fixed interest rate on the “Due from Clear Channel Communications” account was 9.25%. The net interest income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $45.5 million, $19.5 million and $0.7
million, respectively. At December 31, 2011, the Company had no borrowings under the revolving promissory note to Clear Channel Communications. For so long as Clear Channel Communications maintains significant control over the Company, a
deterioration in the financial condition of Clear Channel Communications could have the effect of increasing the Company’s borrowing costs or impairing the Company’s access to capital markets. As of December 31, 2011, Clear Channel
Communications had $1.2 billion recorded as “Cash and cash equivalents” on its consolidated balance sheets.  Clear Channel
Communications has a $1.9 billion multi-currency revolving credit facility with a maturity in July 2014 which includes a $145.0 million sub-limit that certain of the Company’s International subsidiaries may borrow against to the extent Clear
Channel Communications has not already borrowed against this capacity and is compliance with its covenants under the credit facility. The obligations of these International subsidiaries that are borrowers under the revolving credit facility will be
guaranteed by certain of the Company’s material wholly-owned subsidiaries, and secured by substantially all assets of such borrowers and guarantors, subject to permitted liens and other exceptions. The interest rate on outstanding balances
under the new credit facility is equal to an applicable margin plus, at Clear Channel Communications’ option, either (i) a base rate determined by reference to the higher of (A) the prime lending rate publicly announced by the
administrative agent and (B) the Federal funds effective rate 
  80 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
from time to time plus 0.50%, or (ii) a Eurocurrency rate determined by reference to the costs of
funds for deposits for the interest period relevant to such borrowing adjusted for certain additional costs. The applicable margin percentage is 2.40% in the case of base rate loans, and 3.40% in the case of Eurocurrency rate loans, subject to
adjustment based upon Clear Channel Communications’ leverage ratio. This facility is further disclosed in Note 6. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the $145.0 million sub-limit facility. Clear Channel
Communications had borrowed the entire sub-limit capacity as of December 31, 2011.  The Company provides advertising space on its
billboards for radio stations owned by Clear Channel Communications. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company recorded $4.1 million, $4.2 million and $2.8 million in revenue for these advertisements, respectively.
 Under the Corporate Services Agreement between Clear Channel Communications and the Company, Clear Channel Communications provides management
services to the Company, which include, among other things: (i) treasury, payroll and other financial related services; (ii) certain executive officer services; (iii) human resources and employee benefits services; (iv) legal and
related services; (v) information systems, network and related services; (vi) investment services; (vii) procurement and sourcing support services; and (viii) other general corporate services. These services are charged to the
Company based on actual direct costs incurred or allocated by Clear Channel Communications based on headcount, revenue or other factors on a pro rata basis. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company recorded $26.4
million, $38.1 million and $28.5 million as a component of corporate expense for these services, respectively.  Pursuant to the Tax Matters
Agreement between Clear Channel Communications and the Company, the operations of the Company are included in a consolidated U.S. Federal income tax return filed by Clear Channel Communications. The Company’s provision for income taxes has been
computed on the basis that the Company files separate consolidated U.S. Federal income tax returns with its subsidiaries. Tax payments are made to Clear Channel Communications on the basis of the Company’s separate taxable income. Tax benefits
recognized on the Company’s employee stock option exercises are retained by the Company.  The Company computes its deferred income tax
provision using the liability method in accordance with Statement of ASC 740-10, as if the Company was a separate taxpayer. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting bases and tax bases of
assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the periods in which the deferred tax asset or liability is expected to be realized or settled. Deferred tax assets are reduced by valuation
allowances if the Company believes it is more likely than not some portion or all of the asset will not be realized. The Company’s provision for income taxes is further disclosed in Note 9. 
Pursuant to the Employee Matters Agreement, the Company’s employees participate in Clear Channel Communications’ employee benefit plans,
including employee medical insurance and a 401(k) retirement benefit plan. These costs are recorded as a component of selling, general and administrative expenses and were approximately $12.1 million, $10.3 million and $9.4 million for the years
ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Stock Purchases  On August 9, 2010, Clear Channel Communications announced that its board of directors approved a stock purchase program under which Clear Channel Communications or its subsidiaries may purchase up to
an aggregate of $100 million of the Company’s Class A common stock. The stock purchase program does not have a fixed expiration date and may be modified, suspended or terminated at any time at Clear Channel Communications’ discretion.
During 2011, CC Finco, a subsidiary of Clear Channel Communications, purchased 1,553,971 shares of the Company’s Class A common stock through open market purchases for approximately $16.4 million. 
  81 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
NOTE 9 — INCOME TAXES 
The operations of the Company are included in a consolidated U.S. Federal income tax return filed by Clear Channel Communications for
pre-merger periods and CC Media Holdings for the post-merger periods. However, for financial reporting purposes, the Company’s provision for income taxes has been computed on the basis that the Company files separate consolidated U.S. Federal
income tax returns with its subsidiaries.  Significant components of the provision for income tax benefit (expense) are as follows:
  





September 30



September 30



September 30


(In thousands)
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Current — Federal
  
$
(340
) 
  
$
6,600
  
  
$
38,067
  

 Current — foreign
  
 
(50,285
) 
  
 
(40,720
) 
  
 
(14,907
) 

 Current — state
  
 
5,936
  
  
 
(1,841
) 
  
 
(6,391
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total current
  
 
(44,689
) 
  
 
(35,961
) 
  
 
16,769
  

 Deferred — Federal
  
 
(8,986
) 
  
 
21,134
  
  
 
88,972
  

 Deferred — foreign
  
 
13,708
  
  
 
(3,859
) 
  
 
30,398
  

 Deferred — state
  
 
(3,329
) 
  
 
(2,913
) 
  
 
12,971
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total deferred
  
 
1,393
  
  
 
14,362
  
  
 
132,341
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income tax benefit (expense)
  
$
(43,296
) 
  
$
(21,599
) 
  
$
149,110
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 For the year ended December 31, 2011 the Company recorded current tax expense of $44.7 million as compared to $36.0
million for the 2010 year. The change in current tax was due primarily to an increase in income before income taxes for the Company. This was partially offset by the effects of the settlement of U.S. Federal and state tax examinations that resulted
in a net reduction of current tax expense during the year.  Deferred tax benefits decreased $13.0 million for the year ended December 31,
2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to a decrease in Federal tax losses in 2011. In addition, in 2010 a valuation allowance of $13.6 million was recorded against deferred tax assets related to capital allowances in foreign jurisdictions due to the
uncertainty of the ability to realize those assets in future periods. 
  82 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
Significant components of the Company’s deferred tax liabilities and assets as of December 31,
2011 and 2010 are as follows:   





000000000



000000000


(In thousands)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



 




 Intangibles and fixed assets
  
$
904,870
  
 
$
839,409
  

 Foreign
  
 
40,404
  
 
 
52,202
  

 Investments in nonconsolidated affiliates
  
 
—
  
 
 
222
  

 Equity in Earnings
  
 
131
  
 
 
—
  

 Other investments
  
 
4,740
  
 
 
13,305
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax liabilities
  
 
950,145
  
 
 
905,138
  





 Deferred tax assets:
  



 




 Accrued expenses
  
 
3,641
  
 
 
9,224
  

 Equity in earnings
  
 
—
  
 
 
66
  

 Investments in nonconsolidated affiliates
  
 
143
  
 
 
—
  

 Deferred income
  
 
14
  
 
 
47
  

 Net operating loss carryforwards
  
 
113,300
  
 
 
66,270
  

 Bad debt reserves
  
 
1,883
  
 
 
1,913
  

 Other
  
 
16,166
  
 
 
13,480
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax assets
  
 
135,147
  
 
 
91,000
  

 Less: Valuation Allowance
  
 
10,323
  
 
 
13,580
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax assets
  
 
124,824
  
 
 
77,420
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 Net deferred tax liabilities
  
 
825,321
  
 
 
827,718
  

 Less: current portion
  
 
(2,389
) 
 
 
850
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Long-term net deferred tax liabilities
  
 
822,932
  
 
$
828,568
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 At December 31, 2011, the Company had recorded net operating loss carryforwards (tax effected) for federal and state
income tax purposes of $113.3 million, expiring in various amounts through 2031. The Company expects to realize the benefits of the majority of net operating losses based on its expectations as to future taxable income from deferred tax liabilities
that reverse in the relevant carryforward period and therefore the Company has not recorded a valuation allowance against those losses.  At
December 31, 2011 and 2010, net deferred tax assets include a deferred tax asset of $15.9 million and $13.5 million, respectively, relating to stock-based compensation expense under ASC 718-10, Compensation—Stock Compensation. Full
realization of this deferred tax asset requires stock options to be exercised at a price equaling or exceeding the sum of the grant price plus the fair value of the option at the grant date and restricted stock to vest at a price equaling or
exceeding the fair market value at the grant date. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the stock price of the Company’s Common Stock will rise to levels sufficient to realize the entire deferred tax benefit currently reflected in our
balance sheet. See Note 10 for additional discussion of ASC 718-10.  The deferred tax liabilities associated with intangibles and fixed assets
primarily relates to the difference in book and tax basis of acquired permits and tax deductible goodwill created from the Company’s various stock acquisitions. In accordance with ASC 350-10, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other, the
Company does not amortize its book basis in permits. As a result, this deferred tax liability will not reverse over time unless the Company recognizes future impairment charges related to its permits and tax deductible goodwill or sells its permits.
As the Company continues to amortize its tax basis in its permits and tax deductible goodwill, the deferred tax liability will increase over time. 
  83 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
The reconciliation of income tax computed at the U.S. Federal statutory tax rates to income tax benefit
(expense) is:   





000000000



000000000



000000000


(In thousands)
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Income tax benefit (expense) at statutory rates
  
$
(37,280
) 
 
$
19,187
  
 
$
357,576
  

 State income taxes, net of Federal tax benefit
  
 
2,607
  
 
 
(4,754
) 
 
 
6,580
  

 Foreign taxes
  
 
(3,617
) 
 
 
(31,098
) 
 
 
(92,929
) 

 Nondeductible items
  
 
(550
) 
 
 
(500
) 
 
 
(405
) 

 Tax contingencies
  
 
(2,360
) 
 
 
1,142
  
 
 
2,901
  

 Impairment charge
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(113,712
) 

 Other, net
  
 
(2,096
) 
 
 
(5,576
) 
 
 
(10,901
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income tax benefit (expense)
  
$
(43,296
) 
 
$
(21,599
) 
 
$
149,110
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 During 2011, the Company recorded tax expense of approximately $43.3 million. The 2011 income tax expense and 40.6%
effective tax rate were impacted primarily by the Company’s inability to benefit losses in certain foreign jurisdictions as well as additional tax expense recorded for interest on uncertain tax positions. The effects of the items mentioned
above were partially offset by a reduction in tax expense recorded during 2011 related to the settlement of U.S. Federal and state tax examinations during the year. Foreign income before income taxes was approximately $94.2 million for 2011.
 All tax liabilities owed by the Company are paid by the Company or on behalf of the Company by Clear Channel Communications through an
operating account that represents net amounts due to or from Clear Channel Communications.  The Company continues to record interest and
penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in current income tax expense. The total amount of interest accrued at December 31, 2011 and 2010, was $8.8 million and $11.4 million, respectively. The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits
and accrued interest and penalties at December 31, 2011 and 2010, was $48.9 million and $54.2 million, respectively, of which $42.1 million and $46.6 million is included in “Other long-term liabilities” and $1.6 million and $2.9
million is included in “Accrued Expenses” on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet. In addition, $5.2 million and $4.7 million of unrecognized tax benefits are recorded net with the Company’s deferred tax assets for its net
operating losses as opposed to being recorded in “Other long-term liabilities” at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2011 and 2010 that, if recognized, would
impact the effective income tax rate is $36.7 million and $41.4 million, respectively.  A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of
unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:   












(In thousands)
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Balance at beginning of period
  
$
42,807
  
 
$
47,568
  

 Increases due to tax positions taken in the current year
  
 
3,303
  
 
 
2,540
  

 Increases due to tax positions taken in previous years
  
 
3,415
  
 
 
6,265
  

 Decreases due to tax positions taken in previous years
  
 
(7,833
) 
 
 
(6,594
) 

 Decreases due to settlements with taxing authorities
  
 
(1,559
) 
 
 
(1,879
) 

 Decreases due to lapse of statute of limitations
  
 
(55
) 
 
 
(5,093
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at end of period
  
$
40,078
  
 
$
42,807
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement between Clear Channel Communications and the Company, the operations of the Company
are included in a consolidated U.S. Federal income tax return filed by Clear Channel Communications. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries file income tax returns in various state and foreign jurisdictions. During 2011, the Company
settled several state tax examinations. As a result of the settlements, the Company paid $1.6 million in additional tax and reversed the excess liabilities related to the settled tax years. 
  84 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
During 2010, the Company reached a settlement with the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”)
related to the tax years 2005 and 2006. As a result of the settlement the Company paid approximately $1.0 million, inclusive of interest, to the IRS and reversed the excess liabilities related to the effectively settled tax years. The IRS is
currently auditing Clear Channel Communications’ and the Company’s 2007 and pre-merger 2008 tax year and CC Media Holdings’ and the Company’s post-merger 2008 tax year. In addition, the Company effectively settled several state
and foreign tax examinations during 2010 that resulted in a reduction to our net tax liabilities to reflect the tax benefits of the settlements. Substantially all material state, local and foreign income tax matters have been concluded for the years
through 2003. 
NOTE 10 — SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
Stock Options 
The Company has granted options to purchase shares of its Class A common stock to employees and directors of the Company and its affiliates under its
equity incentive plan at no less than the fair value of the underlying stock on the date of grant. These options are granted for a term not exceeding ten years and are forfeited, except in certain circumstances, in the event the employee or director
terminates his or her employment or relationship with the Company or one of its affiliates. These options vest solely on continued service over a period of up to five years. The equity incentive plan contains anti-dilutive provisions that permit an
adjustment of the number of shares of the Company’s common stock represented by each option for any change in capitalization.  The
Company accounts for its share-based payments using the fair value recognition provisions of ASC 718-10. The fair value of the options is estimated using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model and amortized straight-line to expense over the vesting
period. ASC 718-10 requires the cash flows from the tax benefits resulting from tax deductions in excess of the compensation cost recognized for those options (excess tax benefits) to be classified as financing cash flows. The excess tax benefit
that is required to be classified as a financing cash inflow after application of ASC 718-10 is not material.  The fair value of each option
awarded is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Expected volatilities are based on historical volatility on the Company’s stock over the expected life of the options. The expected life of options granted
represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The Company uses historical data to estimate option exercise and employee terminations within the valuation model. The Company includes estimated forfeitures in its
compensation cost and updates the estimated forfeiture rate through the final vesting date of awards. The risk free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant for periods equal to the expected life of the
option. The following assumptions were used to calculate the fair value of the Company’s options on the date of grant:   










 
  
Years Ended December 31,

 
  
2011
  
2010
  
2009

 Expected volatility
  
57%
  
58%
  
58%

 Expected life in years
  
6.3
  
5.5 – 7.0
  
5.5 – 7.0

 Risk-free interest rate
  
1.26% – 2.75%
  
1.38% – 3.31%
  
2.31% – 3.25%

 Dividend yield
  
0%
  
0%
  
0%

  85 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
The following table presents a summary of the Company’s stock options outstanding at and stock
option activity during the year ended December 31, 2011 (“Price” reflects the weighted average exercise price per share):   


















(In thousands, except per share data)
  
Options
 
 
Price
 
  
WeightedAverageRemainingContractual Term
  
AggregateIntrinsicValue
 

 Outstanding, January 1, 2011
  
 
9,041
  
 
$
15.55
  
  

  




 Granted (a)
  
 
1,908
  
 
 
14.69
  
  

  




 Exercised (b)
  
 
(220
) 
 
 
6.39
  
  

  




 Forfeited
  
 
(834
) 
 
 
11.71
  
  

  




 Expired
  
 
(904
) 
 
 
24.08
  
  

  





  
  
  
 
 



  

  




 Outstanding, December 31, 2011
  
 
8,991
  
 
 
15.10
  
  
6.0 years
  
$
14,615
  


  
  
  
 
 



  

  




 Exercisable
  
 
4,998
  
 
 
17.64
  
  
4.3 years
  
$
5,725
  

 Expected to Vest
  
 
3,638
  
 
 
11.88
  
  
8.2 years
  
$
8,320
  
    


(a)
The weighted average grant date fair value of the Company’s options granted during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $8.30, $5.65 and $3.38
per share, respectively.   


(b)
Cash received from option exercises during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $1.4 million and $0.9 million, respectively. The total intrinsic value of
the options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $1.5 million and $1.1 million, respectively. No options were exercised during the year ended December 31, 2009. 
A summary of the Company’s unvested options at and changes during the year ended December 31, 2011 is presented below: 
 












(In thousands, except per share data)
  
Options
 
 
WeightedAverageGrant DateFair Value
 

 Unvested, January 1, 2011
  
 
4,389
  
 
$
5.31
  

 Granted
  
 
1,908
  
 
 
8.30
  

 Vested (a)
  
 
(1,470
) 
 
 
5.59
  

 Forfeited
  
 
(834
) 
 
 
6.15
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Unvested, December 31, 2011
  
 
3,993
  
 
 
6.41
  


  
  
  
 
 



    


(a)
The total fair value of the options vested during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $8.2 million, $15.9 million and $9.9 million, respectively.
 Restricted Stock Awards  The Company has also granted both restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards to its employees and affiliates under its equity incentive plan. The restricted stock awards represent shares of
Class A common stock that hold a legend which restricts their transferability for a term of up to five years. The restricted stock units represent the right to receive shares upon vesting, which is generally over a period of up to five years.
Both restricted stock awards and restricted stock units are forfeited, except in certain circumstances, in the event the employee terminates his or her employment or relationship with the Company prior to the lapse of the restriction. 
  86 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
The following table presents a summary of the Company’s restricted stock and restricted stock units
outstanding at and activity during the year ended December 31, 2011 (“Price” reflects the weighted average share price at the date of grant):   












 (In thousands, except per share data)
 
  
Awards
 
 
Price
 

   Outstanding, January 1, 2011
  
 
180
  
 
$
15.36
  

   Granted
  
 
—
  
 




   Vested (restriction lapsed)
  
 
(88
) 
 
 
19.44
  

   Forfeited
  
 
(9
) 
 
 
29.03
  


  
  
  
 
 




   Outstanding, December 31, 2011
  
 
83
  
 
 
8.69
  


  
  
  
 
 



 Share-Based Compensation Cost  The share based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. The following table
presents the amount of share based compensation recorded during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:   





00000000



00000000



00000000


(In thousands)
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Direct operating expenses
  
$
7,927
  
  
$
8,756
  
  
$
7,612
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
2,839
  
  
 
3,197
  
  
 
2,777
  

 Corporate expenses
  
 
147
  
  
 
384
  
  
 
1,715
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total share-based compensation expense
  
$
10,913
  
  
$
12,337
  
  
$
12,104
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The tax benefit related to the share-based compensation expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and
2009 was $4.3 million, $4.8 million, and $4.7 million, respectively.  As of December 31, 2011, there was $18.6 million of unrecognized
compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, related to unvested share-based compensation arrangements. The cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately three years. 
Reconciliation of Earnings (Loss) per Share   
















(In thousands, except per share data)
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 NUMERATOR:
  



  



 




 Net income (loss) attributable to the Company – common shares
  
$
42,946
  
  
$
(87,523
) 
 
$
(868,189
) 

 Less: Participating securities dividends
  
 
2,972
  
  
 
5,916
  
 
 
6,799
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to the Company per common share – basic and diluted
  
$
39,974
  
  
$
(93,439
) 
 
$
(874,988
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 DENOMINATOR:
  



  



 




 Weighted average common shares outstanding – basic
  
 
355,907
  
  
 
355,568
  
 
 
355,377
  

 Effect of dilutive securities:
  



  



 




 Stock options and restricted stock awards (1)
  
 
621
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average common shares outstanding – diluted
  
 
356,528
  
  
 
355,568
  
 
 
355,377
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Net income (loss) attributable to the Company per common share:
  



  



 




 Basic
  
$
0.11
  
  
$
(0.26
) 
 
$
(2.46
) 

 Diluted
  
$
0.11
  
  
$
(0.26
) 
 
$
(2.46
) 
  


(1)
6.0 million, 5.2 million, and 6.7 million stock options were outstanding at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, that were not included
in the computation of diluted earnings per share because to do so would have been anti-dilutive as the respective options’ strike price was greater than the current market price of the shares. 
  87 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
NOTE 11 — EMPLOYEE STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS 
The Company’s U.S. employees are eligible to participate in various 401(k) savings and other plans provided by Clear Channel
Communications for the purpose of providing retirement benefits for substantially all employees. Under these plans, a Company employee can make pre-tax contributions and the Company will match 50% of the employee’s first 5% of pay contributed
to the plan. Employees vest in these Company matching contributions based upon their years of service to the Company. Contributions to these plans of $2.3 million, $1.9 million and $0.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively, were recorded as a component of operating expenses. The Company suspended the matching contribution as of April 30, 2009 and reinstated the matching contribution effective April 1, 2010 retroactive to January 1,
2010.  In addition, employees in the Company’s International segment participate in retirement plans administered by the Company which
are not part of the 401(k) savings and other plans sponsored by Clear Channel Communications. Contributions to these plans of $12.1 million, $15.8 million and $17.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively,
were recorded as a component of operating expenses.  Certain highly compensated executives of the Company are eligible to participate in a
non-qualified deferred compensation plan sponsored by Clear Channel Communications, under which such executives are able to make an annual election to defer up to 50% of their annual salary and up to 80% of their bonus before taxes. Matching credits
on amounts deferred may be made in the sole discretion of Clear Channel Communications and Clear Channel Communications retains ownership of all assets until distributed. Participants in the plan have the opportunity to allocate their deferrals and
any matching credits among different investment options, the performance of which is used to determine the amounts paid to participants under the plan. There is no liability recorded by the Company under this deferred compensation plan as the
liability of this plan is that of Clear Channel Communications. 
NOTE 12 — OTHER INFORMATION 
The following table discloses the components of “Other income (expense)” for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively:   





0000000



0000000



0000000


(In thousands)
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Foreign exchange gain (loss)
  
$
796
  
 
$
(6,014
) 
 
$
(4,207
) 

 Other
  
 
(1,445
) 
 
 
679
  
 
 
(5,161
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other income (expense) — net
  
$
(649
) 
 
$
(5,335
) 
 
$
(9,368
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The following table discloses the components of “Other current assets” as of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively:   





0000000



0000000


(In thousands)
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Deferred loan costs
  
$
7,653
  
  
$
7,653
  

 Inventory
  
 
18,895
  
  
 
20,698
  

 Deferred tax asset
  
 
—
  
  
 
850
  

 Deposits
  
 
14,715
  
  
 
30,533
  

 Other receivables
  
 
10,682
  
  
 
14,899
  

 Other
  
 
18,988
  
  
 
16,336
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total other current assets
  
$
70,933
  
  
$
90,969
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  88 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
The following table discloses the components of “Other long-term liabilities” as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively:   





000000000



000000000


(In thousands)
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Unrecognized tax benefits
  
$
42,096
  
  
$
46,648
  

 Asset retirement obligation
  
 
47,534
  
  
 
48,263
  

 Employee related liabilities
  
 
40,145
  
  
 
34,551
  

 Deferred rent
  
 
68,048
  
  
 
45,021
  

 Redeemable noncontrolling interest
  
 
57,855
  
  
 
57,765
  

 Other
  
 
26,262
  
  
 
19,625
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total other long-term liabilities
  
$
281,940
  
  
$
251,873
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The following table discloses the components of “Accumulated other comprehensive loss,” net of tax, as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively:   





000000000



000000000


(In thousands)
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Cumulative currency translation adjustment
  
$
(247,025
) 
 
$
(207,481
) 

 Cumulative unrealized gain (loss) on investments
  
 
37
  
 
 
42
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total accumulated other comprehensive loss
  
$
(246,988
) 
 
$
(207,439
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

NOTE 13 — SEGMENT DATA 
The Company has two reportable segments, which it believes best reflect how the Company is currently managed – Americas and
International. The Americas segment primarily includes operations in the United States, Canada and Latin America, and the International segment primarily includes operations in Europe, Asia and Australia. The Americas and International display
inventory consists primarily of billboards, street furniture displays and transit displays. Corporate includes infrastructure and support including, information technology, human resources, legal, finance and administrative functions of each of the
Company’s operating segments, as well as overall executive, administrative and support functions. Share-based payments are recorded by each segment in direct operating and selling, general and administrative expenses. 
  89 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
The following table presents the Company’s operating segment results for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:   





000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000


(In thousands)
  
Americas
 
  
International
 
 
Corporate andother reconcilingitems
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Year Ended December 31, 2011
   
  



 



 




 Revenue
  
$
1,336,592
  
  
$
1,667,282
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
3,003,874
  

 Direct operating expenses
  
 
607,210
  
  
 
1,031,591
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,638,801
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
225,217
  
  
 
315,655
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
540,872
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
222,554
  
  
 
208,410
  
 
 
1,071
  
 
 
432,035
  

 Impairment charges
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
7,614
  
 
 
7,614
  

 Corporate expenses
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
90,205
  
 
 
90,205
  

 Other operating expense – net
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
8,591
  
 
 
8,591
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
$
281,611
  
  
$
111,626
  
 
$
(90,299
) 
 
$
302,938
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 







 Segment assets
  
$
4,036,584
  
  
$
2,015,687
  
 
$
1,035,914
  
 
$
7,088,185
  

 Capital expenditures
  
$
132,771
  
  
$
159,973
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
292,744
  

 Share-based compensation expense
  
$
7,601
  
  
$
3,165
  
 
$
147
  
 
$
10,913
  







 Year Ended December 31, 2010
  



  



 



 




 Revenue
  
$
1,290,014
  
  
$
1,507,980
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
2,797,994
  

 Direct operating expenses
  
 
588,592
  
  
 
971,380
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,559,972
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
218,776
  
  
 
275,880
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
494,656
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
209,127
  
  
 
204,461
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
413,588
  

 Impairment charges
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
11,493
  
 
 
11,493
  

 Corporate expenses
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
107,596
  
 
 
107,596
  

 Other operating expense – net
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
(23,753
) 
 
 
(23,753
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
$
273,519
  
  
$
56,259
  
 
$
(142,842
) 
 
$
186,936
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 







 Segment assets
  
$
4,578,130
  
  
$
2,059,892
  
 
$
438,543
  
 
$
7,076,565
  

 Capital expenditures
  
$
96,720
  
  
$
98,553
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
195,273
  

 Share-based compensation expense
  
$
9,207
  
  
$
2,746
  
 
$
384
  
 
$
12,337
  







 Year Ended December 31, 2009
  



  



 



 




 Revenue
  
$
1,238,171
  
  
$
1,459,853
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
2,698,024
  

 Direct operating expenses
  
 
608,078
  
  
 
1,017,005
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,625,083
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
202,196
  
  
 
282,208
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
484,404
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
210,280
  
  
 
229,367
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
439,647
  

 Impairment charges
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
890,737
  
 
 
890,737
  

 Corporate expenses
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
65,247
  
 
 
65,247
  

 Other operating expense – net
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
(8,231
) 
 
 
(8,231
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
$
217,617
  
  
$
(68,727
) 
 
$
(964,215
) 
 
$
(815,325
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 







 Segment assets
  
$
4,722,975
  
  
$
2,216,691
  
 
$
252,756
  
 
$
7,192,422
  

 Capital expenditures
  
$
84,440
  
  
$
91,513
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
175,953
  

 Share-based compensation expense
  
$
7,977
  
  
$
2,412
  
 
$
1,715
  
 
$
12,104
  

  90 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
Revenue of $1.8 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.6 billion derived from the Company’s foreign
operations are included in the data above for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Revenue of $1.2 billion, $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion derived from the Company’s U.S. operations are included in the data above
for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Identifiable long-lived assets of $796.3 million, $801.1 million and
$862.1 million derived from the Company’s foreign operations are included in the data above for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Identifiable long-lived assets of $1.5 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.6 billion
derived from the Company’s U.S. operations are included in the data above for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
NOTE 14 — QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) 
(In thousands, except per share data) 




































 
  
Three Months EndedMarch 31,
 
 
Three Months EndedJune 30,
 
 
Three Months EndedSeptember 30,
 
 
Three Months EndedDecember 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Revenue
  
$
650,214
  
 
$
608,768
  
 
$
789,208
  
 
$
701,407
  
 
$
748,450
  
 
$
695,086
  
 
$
816,002
  
 
$
792,733
  

 Operating expenses:
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Direct operating expenses
  
 
391,380
  
 
 
378,886
  
 
 
415,472
  
 
 
385,884
  
 
 
408,132
  
 
 
380,619
  
 
 
423,817
  
 
 
414,583
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
123,180
  
 
 
111,357
  
 
 
142,937
  
 
 
130,692
  
 
 
131,915
  
 
 
115,224
  
 
 
142,840
  
 
 
137,383
  

 Corporate expenses
  
 
21,983
  
 
 
20,772
  
 
 
23,038
  
 
 
23,757
  
 
 
22,303
  
 
 
26,197
  
 
 
22,881
  
 
 
36,870
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
102,330
  
 
 
101,709
  
 
 
105,600
  
 
 
105,299
  
 
 
114,934
  
 
 
103,833
  
 
 
109,171
  
 
 
102,747
  

 Impairment charges
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
7,614
  
 
 
11,493
  

 Other operating income (expense) — net
  
 
4,802
  
 
 
1,018
  
 
 
4,300
  
 
 
1,720
  
 
 
37
  
 
 
(27,672
) 
 
 
(548
) 
 
 
1,181
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
16,143
  
 
 
(2,938
) 
 
 
106,461
  
 
 
57,495
  
 
 
71,203
  
 
 
41,541
  
 
 
109,131
  
 
 
90,838
  

 Interest expense
  
 
60,983
  
 
 
58,318
  
 
 
60,803
  
 
 
60,395
  
 
 
61,809
  
 
 
60,276
  
 
 
58,840
  
 
 
60,464
  

 Interest income on Due from Clear Channel Communications
  
 
9,053
  
 
 
3,413
  
 
 
10,518
  
 
 
3,806
  
 
 
12,215
  
 
 
4,800
  
 
 
13,673
  
 
 
7,441
  

 Loss on marketable securities
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(4,827
) 
 
 
(6,490
) 

 Equity in earnings (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliates
  
 
(71
) 
 
 
(803
) 
 
 
673
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
1,038
  
 
 
(663
) 
 
 
4,389
  
 
 
(8,474
) 

 Other income (expense) — net
  
 
3,111
  
 
 
(837
) 
 
 
(277
) 
 
 
(4,155
) 
 
 
(1,859
) 
 
 
1,545
  
 
 
(1,624
) 
 
 
(1,888
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income taxes
  
 
(32,747
) 
 
 
(59,483
) 
 
 
56,572
  
 
 
(3,245
) 
 
 
20,788
  
 
 
(13,053
) 
 
 
61,902
  
 
 
20,963
  

 Income tax benefit (expense)
  
 
22,355
  
 
 
10,704
  
 
 
(22,360
) 
 
 
741
  
 
 
(11,002
) 
 
 
(18,829
) 
 
 
(32,289
) 
 
 
(14,215
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Consolidated net income (loss)
  
 
(10,392
) 
 
 
(48,779
) 
 
 
34,212
  
 
 
(2,504
) 
 
 
9,786
  
 
 
(31,882
) 
 
 
29,613
  
 
 
6,748
  

 Less amount attributable to noncontrolling interest
  
 
(851
) 
 
 
(997
) 
 
 
7,517
  
 
 
6,623
  
 
 
6,573
  
 
 
3,012
  
 
 
7,034
  
 
 
2,468
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to the Company
  
$
(9,541
) 
 
$
(47,782
) 
 
$
26,695
  
 
$
(9,127
) 
 
$
3,213
  
 
$
(34,894
) 
 
$
22,579
  
 
$
4,280
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 











 Net income (loss) per common share:
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Basic
  
$
(0.03
) 
 
$
(0.14
) 
 
$
0.07
  
 
$
(0.03
) 
 
$
0.01
  
 
$
(0.10
) 
 
$
0.06
  
 
$
0.00
  

 Diluted
  
$
(0.03
) 
 
$
(0.14
) 
 
$
0.07
  
 
$
(0.03
) 
 
$
0.01
  
 
$
(0.10
) 
 
$
0.06
  
 
$
0.00
  

  91 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
NOTE 15 — GUARANTOR SUBSIDIARIES 
The Company and certain of the Company’s direct and indirect wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries (the “Guarantor
Subsidiaries”) fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis certain of the outstanding indebtedness of CCWH (the “Subsidiary Issuer”). The following consolidating schedules present financial information on a
combined basis in conformity with the SEC’s Regulation S-X Rule 3-10(d):   





000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000


(In thousands)
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
ParentCompany
 
  
SubsidiaryIssuer
 
  
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
Eliminations
 
  
Consolidated
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
  $
325,696  
  
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
249,448  
  
  
  $
(32,489)  
  
  
  $
542,655  
  

 Accounts receivable, net
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
232,834  
  
  
 
474,796  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
707,630  
  

 Intercompany receivables
  
 
—  
  
  
 
183,310  
  
  
 
1,435,881  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(1,619,191)  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Prepaid expenses
  
 
1,980  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
72,268  
  
  
 
58,262  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
132,510  
  

 Other current assets
  
 
32  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
7,358  
  
  
 
63,543  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
70,933  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Current Assets
  
 
327,708  
  
  
 
183,310  
  
  
 
1,748,341  
  
  
 
846,049  
  
  
 
(1,651,680)  
  
  
 
1,453,728  
  

 Property, plant and equipment, net
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,448,078  
  
  
 
798,632  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,246,710  
  

 Definite-lived intangibles, net
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
378,515  
  
  
 
240,011  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
618,526  
  

 Indefinite-lived intangibles
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,090,597  
  
  
 
15,107  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,105,704  
  

 Goodwill
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
571,932  
  
  
 
285,261  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
857,193  
  

 Due from Clear Channel Communications
  
 
656,040  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
656,040  
  

 Intercompany notes receivable
  
 
182,026  
  
  
 
2,774,175  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
17,832  
  
  
 
(2,974,033)  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Other assets
  
 
2,775,720  
  
  
 
786,783  
  
  
 
1,475,709  
  
  
 
61,309  
  
  
 
(4,949,237)  
  
  
 
150,284  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Assets
  
  $
3,941,494  
  
  
  $
3,744,268  
  
  
  $
6,713,172  
  
  
  $
2,264,201  
  
  
  $
(9,574,950)  
  
  
  $
7,088,185  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 









 Accounts payable
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
39,151  
  
  
  $
101,569  
  
  
  $
(32,489)  
  
  
  $
108,231  
  

 Accrued expenses
  
 
144  
  
  
 
1,134  
  
  
 
97,075  
  
  
 
400,613  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
498,966  
  

 Intercompany accounts payable
  
 
1,424,937  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
183,310  
  
  
 
10,944  
  
  
 
(1,619,191)  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Deferred income
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
34,217  
  
  
 
55,763  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
89,980  
  

 Current portion of long-term debt
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
31  
  
  
 
23,775  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
23,806  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Current Liabilities
  
 
1,425,081  
  
  
 
1,134  
  
  
 
353,784  
  
  
 
592,664  
  
  
 
(1,651,680)  
  
  
 
720,983  
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,500,000  
  
  
 
1,265  
  
  
 
20,838  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,522,103  
  

 Intercompany notes payable
  
 
7,491  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,692,644  
  
  
 
273,898  
  
  
 
(2,974,033)  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Other long-term liabilities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,204  
  
  
 
118,650  
  
  
 
162,086  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
281,940  
  

 Deferred tax liability
  
 
225  
  
  
 
(137)  
  
  
 
771,105  
  
  
 
51,739  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
822,932  
  

 Total shareholders’ equity
  
 
2,508,697  
  
  
 
1,242,067  
  
  
 
2,775,724  
  
  
 
1,162,976  
  
  
 
(4,949,237)  
  
  
 
2,740,227  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity
  
  $
3,941,494  
  
  
  $
3,744,268  
  
  
  $
6,713,172  
  
  
  $
2,264,201
  
  
  $
(9,574,950)  
  
  
  $
7,088,185  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  92 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   





000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000


(In thousands)
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
ParentCompany
 
  
SubsidiaryIssuer
 
  
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
Eliminations
 
  
Consolidated
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
  $
426,742  
  
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
203,789  
  
  
  $
(6,513)  
  
  
  $
624,018  
  

 Accounts receivable, net
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
250,552  
  
  
 
484,563  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
735,115  
  

 Intercompany receivables
  
 
—  
  
  
 
116,624  
  
  
 
1,261,437  
  
  
 
5,781  
  
  
 
(1,383,842)  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Prepaid expenses
  
 
1,537  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
43,116  
  
  
 
55,738  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
100,391  
  

 Other current assets
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
10,205  
  
  
 
80,764  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
90,969  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Current Assets
  
 
428,279  
  
  
 
116,624  
  
  
 
1,565,310  
  
  
 
830,635  
  
  
 
(1,390,355)  
  
  
 
1,550,493  
  

 Property, plant and equipment, net
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,493,640  
  
  
 
804,084  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,297,724  
  

 Definite-lived intangibles, net
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
400,012  
  
  
 
305,206  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
705,218  
  

 Indefinite-lived intangibles
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,098,958  
  
  
 
15,455  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,114,413  
  

 Goodwill
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
571,932  
  
  
 
290,310  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
862,242  
  

 Due from Clear Channel Communications
  
 
383,778  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
383,778  
  

 Intercompany notes receivable
  
 
182,026  
  
  
 
2,590,955  
  
  
 
9,243  
  
  
 
17,832  
  
  
 
(2,800,056)  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Other assets
  
 
2,773,305  
  
  
 
1,034,182  
  
  
 
1,492,337  
  
  
 
62,319  
  
  
 
(5,199,446)  
  
  
 
162,697  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Assets
  
  $
3,767,388  
  
  
  $
3,741,761  
  
  
  $
6,631,432  
  
  
  $
2,325,841  
  
  
  $
(9,389,857)  
  
  
  $
7,076,565  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 









 Accounts payable
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
12,688  
  
  
  $
94,365  
  
  
  $
(6,513)  
  
  
  $
100,540  
  

 Accrued expenses
  
 
(26)  
  
  
 
165  
  
  
 
116,085  
  
  
 
406,821  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
523,045  
  

 Intercompany accounts payable
  
 
1,261,437  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
122,405  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(1,383,842)  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Deferred income
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
38,264  
  
  
 
62,411  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
100,675  
  

 Current portion of long-term debt
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
41,676  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
41,676  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Current Liabilities
  
 
1,261,411  
  
  
 
165  
  
  
 
289,442  
  
  
 
605,273  
  
  
 
(1,390,355)  
  
  
 
765,936  
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,500,000  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
22,133  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,522,133  
  

 Intercompany notes payable
  
 
7,491  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,701,610  
  
  
 
90,955  
  
  
 
(2,800,056)  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Other long-term liabilities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,108  
  
  
 
105,482  
  
  
 
145,283  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
251,873  
  

 Deferred tax liability
  
 
225  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
761,593  
  
  
 
66,750  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
828,568  
  

 Total shareholders’ equity
  
 
2,498,261  
  
  
 
1,240,488  
  
  
 
2,773,305  
  
  
 
1,395,447  
  
  
 
(5,199,446)  
  
  
 
2,708,055  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity
  
  $
3,767,388  
  
  
  $
3,741,761  
  
  
  $
6,631,432  
  
  
  $
2,325,841  
  
  
  $
(9,389,857)  
  
  
  $
7,076,565  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  93 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   





000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000


(In thousands)
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
  
ParentCompany
 
  
SubsidiaryIssuer
 
  
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
Eliminations
 
  
Consolidated
 

 Revenue
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
1,161,584  
  
  
  $
1,842,290  
  
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
3,003,874  
  

 Operating expenses:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Direct operating expenses
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
509,036  
  
  
 
1,129,765  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,638,801  
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
186,563  
  
  
 
354,309  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
540,872  
  

 Corporate expenses
  
 
11,913  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
47,379  
  
  
 
30,913  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
90,205  
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
207,416  
  
  
 
224,619  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
432,035  
  

 Impairment charge
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
6,468  
  
  
 
1,146  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
7,614  
  

 Other operating income (expense) – net
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
9,326  
  
  
 
(735)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
8,591  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
(11,913)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
214,048  
  
  
 
100,803  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
302,938  
  

 Interest expense
  
 
35  
  
  
 
231,251  
  
  
 
6,688  
  
  
 
4,461  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
242,435  
  

 Interest income on Due from Clear Channel Communications
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
45,459  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
45,459  
  

 Intercompany interest income
  
 
14,008  
  
  
 
231,606  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
981  
  
  
 
(246,595)  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Intercompany interest expense
  
 
492  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
245,537  
  
  
 
566  
  
  
 
(246,595)  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Loss on marketable securities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(4,827)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(4,827)  
  

 Equity in earnings (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliates
  
 
41,964  
  
  
 
33,104  
  
  
 
39,556  
  
  
 
5,704  
  
  
 
(114,299)  
  
  
 
6,029  
  

 Other income (expense) – net
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(374)  
  
  
 
257  
  
  
 
(532)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(649)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income taxes
  
 
43,532  
  
  
 
33,085  
  
  
 
47,095  
  
  
 
97,102  
  
  
 
(114,299)  
  
  
 
106,515  
  

 Income tax benefit (expense)
  
 
(586)  
  
  
 
(1,004)  
  
  
 
(5,131)  
  
  
 
(36,575)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(43,296)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Consolidated net income (loss)
  
 
42,946  
  
  
 
32,081  
  
  
 
41,964  
  
  
 
60,527  
  
  
 
(114,299)  
  
  
 
63,219  
  

 Less amount attributable to noncontrolling interest
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
20,273  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
20,273  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to the Company
  
  $
42,946  
  
  
  $
32,081  
  
  
  $
41,964  
  
  
  $
40,254  
  
  
  $
(114,299)  
  
  
  $
42,946  
  

 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Foreign currency translation adjustments
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,048  
  
  
 
(30,849)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(29,801)  
  

 Foreign currency reclassification adjustment
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Unrealized loss on marketable securities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(4,834)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(4,834)  
  

 Reclassification adjustment for realized loss on marketable securities included in net income (loss)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
3,787  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
3,787  
  

 Equity in subsidiary comprehensive income
  
 
(39,766)  
  
  
 
(26,382)  
  
  
 
(39,766)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
105,914  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
3,180  
  
  
 
5,699  
  
  
 
2,199  
  
  
 
9,405  
  
  
 
(8,385)  
  
  
 
12,098  
  

 Less amount attributable to noncontrolling interest
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(1)  
  
  
 
1  
  
  
 
8,918  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
8,918  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to the Company
  
  $
3,180  
  
  
  $
5,700  
  
  
  $
2,198  
  
  
  $
487  
  
  
  $
(8,385)  
  
  
  $
3,180  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  94 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   





000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000


(In thousands)
  
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Parent
 
  
Subsidiary
 
  
Guarantor
 
  
Non-Guarantor
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
Company
 
  
Issuer
 
  
Subsidiaries
 
  
Subsidiaries
 
  
Eliminations
 
  
Consolidated
 

 Revenue
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
1,125,243  
  
  
  $
1,672,751  
  
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
2,797,994  
  

 Operating expenses:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Direct operating expenses
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
498,452  
  
  
 
1,061,520  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,559,972  
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
184,674  
  
  
 
309,982  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
494,656  
  

 Corporate expenses
  
 
13,407  
  
  
 
451  
  
  
 
66,390  
  
  
 
27,348  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
107,596  
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
193,973  
  
  
 
219,615  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
413,588  
  

 Impairment charge
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
9,351  
  
  
 
2,142  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
11,493  
  

 Other operating income (expense) – net
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(13,244)  
  
  
 
(10,509)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(23,753)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
(13,407)  
  
  
 
(451)  
  
  
 
159,159  
  
  
 
41,635  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
186,936  
  

 Interest expense
  
 
447  
  
  
 
230,687  
  
  
 
4,312  
  
  
 
4,007  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
239,453  
  

 Interest income on Due from Clear Channel Communications
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
19,460  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
19,460  
  

 Intercompany interest income
  
 
14,062  
  
  
 
231,680  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
987  
  
  
 
(246,729)  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Intercompany interest expense
  
 
484  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
244,422  
  
  
 
1,823  
  
  
 
(246,729)  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Loss on marketable securities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(6,490)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(6,490)  
  

 Equity in earnings (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliates
  
 
(87,351)  
  
  
 
(26,733)  
  
  
 
(26,899)  
  
  
 
(9,753)  
  
  
 
140,800  
  
  
 
(9,936)  
  

 Other income (expense) – net
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(16,266)  
  
  
 
10,931  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(5,335)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income taxes
  
 
(87,627)  
  
  
 
(26,191)  
  
  
 
(113,280)  
  
  
 
31,480  
  
  
 
140,800  
  
  
 
(54,818)  
  

 Income tax benefit (expense)
  
 
104  
  
  
 
515  
  
  
 
25,929  
  
  
 
(48,147)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(21,599)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Consolidated net income (loss)
  
 
(87,523)  
  
  
 
(25,676)  
  
  
 
(87,351)  
  
  
 
(16,667)  
  
  
 
140,800  
  
  
 
(76,417)  
  

 Less amount attributable to noncontrolling interest
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
11,106  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
11,106  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to the Company
  
  $
(87,523)  
  
  
  $
(25,676)  
  
  
  $
(87,351)  
  
  
  $
(27,773)  
  
  
  $
140,800  
  
  
  $
(87,523)  
  

 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Foreign currency translation adjustments
  
 
—  
  
  
 
3,720  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
12,517  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
16,237  
  

 Foreign currency reclassification adjustment
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
3,437  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
3,437  
  

 Unrealized loss on marketable securities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(7,809)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(7,809)  
  

 Reclassification adjustment for realized loss on marketable securities included in net income (loss)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
6,490  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
6,490  
  

 Equity in subsidiary comprehensive income
  
 
10,738  
  
  
 
(318)  
  
  
 
10,738  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(21,158)  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
(76,785)  
  
  
 
(22,274)  
  
  
 
(76,613)  
  
  
 
(13,138)  
  
  
 
119,642  
  
  
 
(69,168)  
  

 Less amount attributable to noncontrolling interest
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
7,617  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
7,617  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to the Company
  
  $
(76,785)  
  
  
  $
(22,274)  
  
  
  $
(76,613)  
  
  
  $
(20,755)  
  
  
  $
119,642  
  
  
  $
(76,785)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  95 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   





000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000


(In thousands)
  
Year Ended December 31, 2009
 

 
  
Parent
 
  
Subsidiary
 
  
Guarantor
 
  
Non-Guarantor
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
Company
 
  
Issuer
 
  
Subsidiaries
 
  
Subsidiaries
 
  
Eliminations
 
  
Consolidated
 

 Revenue
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
1,102,716  
  
  
  $
1,595,308  
  
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
2,698,024  
  

 Operating expenses:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Direct operating expenses
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
534,423  
  
  
 
1,090,660  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,625,083  
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
172,818  
  
  
 
311,586  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
484,404  
  

 Corporate expenses
  
 
13,859  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
36,403  
  
  
 
14,985  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
65,247  
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
195,439  
  
  
 
244,208  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
439,647  
  

 Impairment charge
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
696,500  
  
  
 
194,237  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
890,737  
  

 Other operating income (expense) – net
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(11,807)  
  
  
 
3,576  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(8,231)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
(13,859)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(544,674)  
  
  
 
(256,792)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(815,325)  
  

 Interest expense
  
 
410  
  
  
 
5,702  
  
  
 
143,570  
  
  
 
5,237  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
154,919  
  

 Interest income on Due from Clear Channel Communications
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
724  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
724  
  

 Intercompany interest income
  
 
10,729  
  
  
 
7,198  
  
  
 
1,086  
  
  
 
1,225  
  
  
 
(20,238)  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Intercompany interest expense
  
 
860  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
16,751  
  
  
 
2,627  
  
  
 
(20,238)  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Loss on marketable securities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(11,315)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(11,315)  
  

 Equity in earnings (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliates
  
 
(864,323)  
  
  
 
(233,027)  
  
  
 
(287,430)  
  
  
 
(30,928)  
  
  
 
1,384,266  
  
  
 
(31,442)  
  

 Other income (expense) – net
  
 
(1,683)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(2,806)  
  
  
 
(4,879)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(9,368)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income taxes
  
 
(870,406)  
  
  
 
(231,531)  
  
  
 
(993,421)  
  
  
 
(310,553)  
  
  
 
1,384,266  
  
  
 
(1,021,645)  
  

 Income tax benefit (expense)
  
 
2,217  
  
  
 
(2,742)  
  
  
 
129,481  
  
  
 
20,154  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
149,110  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Consolidated net income (loss)
  
 
(868,189)  
  
  
 
(234,273)  
  
  
 
(863,940)  
  
  
 
(290,399)  
  
  
 
1,384,266  
  
  
 
(872,535)  
  

 Less amount attributable to noncontrolling interest
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(4,346)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(4,346)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to the Company
  
  $
(868,189)  
  
  
  $
(234,273)  
  
  
  $
(863,940)  
  
  
  $
(286,053)  
  
  
  $
1,384,266  
  
  
  $
(868,189)  
  

 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Foreign currency translation adjustments
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(286)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
118,918  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
118,632  
  

 Foreign currency reclassification adjustment
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(523)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(523)  
  

 Unrealized loss on marketable securities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(9,971)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(9,971)  
  

 Reclassification adjustment for realized loss on marketable securities included in net income (loss)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
11,315  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
11,315  
  

 Equity in subsidiary comprehensive income
  
 
111,403  
  
  
 
79,329  
  
  
 
111,403  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(302,135)  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
(756,786)  
  
  
 
(155,230)  
  
  
 
(752,537)  
  
  
 
(166,314)  
  
  
 
1,082,131  
  
  
 
(748,736)  
  

 Less amount attributable to noncontrolling interest
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
8,050  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
8,050  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to the Company
  
  $
(756,786)  
  
  
  $
(155,230)  
  
  
  $
(752,537)  
  
  
  $
(174,364)  
  
  
  $
1,082,131  
  
  
  $
(756,786)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  96 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   
 





000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000


(In thousands)
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Parent
 
  
Subsidiary
 
  
Guarantor
 
  
Non-Guarantor
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
Company
 
  
Issuer
 
  
Subsidiaries
 
  
Subsidiaries
 
  
Eliminations
 
  
Consolidated
 

 Cash flows from operating activities:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Consolidated net income (loss)
  
  $
42,946  
  
  
  $
32,081  
  
  
  $
41,964  
  
  
  $
60,527  
  
  
  $
(114,299)  
  
  
  $
63,219  
  









 Reconciling items:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Impairment charges
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
6,468  
  
  
 
1,146  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
7,614  
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
207,416  
  
  
 
224,619  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
432,035  
  

 Deferred taxes
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(137)  
  
  
 
12,409  
  
  
 
(13,665)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(1,393)  
  

 Provision for doubtful accounts
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,351  
  
  
 
4,626  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
5,977  
  

 Share-based compensation
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
7,748  
  
  
 
3,165  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
10,913  
  

 (Gain) loss on sale of operating assets
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(9,326)  
  
  
 
735  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(8,591)  
  

 Loss on marketable securities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
4,827  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
4,827  
  

 Other reconciling items – net
  
 
(41,964)  
  
  
 
(32,730)  
  
  
 
(32,051)  
  
  
 
(5,230)  
  
  
 
114,299  
  
  
 
2,324  
  

 Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Decrease (increase) in accounts receivable
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
16,301  
  
  
 
(472)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
15,829  
  

 Decrease (increase) in Federal income taxes receivable
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses
  
 
—  
  
  
 
96  
  
  
 
(56,716)  
  
  
 
21,318  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(35,302)  
  

 Increase (decrease) in accounts payable and other liabilities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
74,887  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(25,976)  
  
  
 
48,911  
  

 Decrease in deferred income
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(3,564)  
  
  
 
(6,648)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(10,212)  
  

 Changes in other operating assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and dispositions
  
 
(661)  
  
  
 
969  
  
  
 
(23,750)  
  
  
 
4,509  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(18,933)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities
  
 
321  
  
  
 
279  
  
  
 
243,137  
  
  
 
299,457  
  
  
 
(25,976)  
  
  
 
517,218  
  

 Cash flows from investing activities:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Purchases of property, plant and equipment
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(121,305)  
  
  
 
(169,745)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(291,050)  
  

 Proceeds from disposal of assets
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
8,746  
  
  
 
4,137  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
12,883  
  

 Purchases of other operating assets
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(14,203)  
  
  
 
(591)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(14,794)  
  

 Purchases of businesses
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(13,179)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(13,179)  
  

 Equity contributions to subsidiaries
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(199)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
199  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Decrease (increase) in intercompany notes receivable – net
  
 
—  
  
  
 
66,780  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(66,780)  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Dividends from subsidiaries
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
704  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(704)  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Change in other – net
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(289)  
  
  
 
7,495  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
7,206  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
66,780  
  
  
 
(126,546)  
  
  
 
(171,883)  
  
  
 
(67,285)  
  
  
 
(298,934)  
  

 Cash flows from financing activities:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Draws on credit facilities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Payments on credit facilities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(397)  
  
  
 
(3,754)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(4,151)  
  

 Proceeds from long-term debt
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
5,012  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
5,012  
  

 Payments on long-term debt
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(20,099)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(20,099)  
  

 Net transfers to Clear Channel Communications
  
 
(272,262)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(272,262)  
  

 Intercompany funding
  
 
169,805  
  
  
 
(67,059)  
  
  
 
(116,390)  
  
  
 
13,644  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Increase (decrease) in intercompany notes payable – net
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
277  
  
  
 
(67,057)  
  
  
 
66,780  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Deferred finance charges
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Dividends declared and paid
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(704)  
  
  
 
704  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Equity contributions from parent
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
199  
  
  
 
(199)  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Purchases of noncontrolling interests
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(4,682)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(4,682)  
  

 Change in other – net
  
 
1,090  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(81)  
  
  
 
(3,571)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(2,562)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities
  
 
(101,367)  
  
  
 
(67,059)  
  
  
 
(116,591)  
  
  
 
(81,012)  
  
  
 
67,285  
  
  
 
(298,744)  
  

 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(903)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(903)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 









 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(101,046)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
45,659  
  
  
 
(25,976)  
  
  
 
(81,363)  
  









 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period
  
 
426,742  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
203,789  
  
  
 
(6,513)  
  
  
 
624,018  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period
  
  $
325,696  
  
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
249,448  
  
  
  $
(32,489)  
  
  
  $
542,655  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  97 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   





000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000


(In thousands)
  
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Parent
 
  
Subsidiary
 
  
Guarantor
 
  
Non-Guarantor
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
Company
 
  
Issuer
 
  
Subsidiaries
 
  
Subsidiaries
 
  
Eliminations
 
  
Consolidated
 

 Cash flows from operating activities:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Consolidated net income (loss)
  
  $
(87,523)  
  
  
  $
(25,676)  
  
  
  $
(87,351)  
  
  
  $
(16,667)  
  
  
  $
140,800  
  
  
  $
(76,417)  
  









 Reconciling items:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Impairment charges
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
9,351  
  
  
 
2,142  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
11,493  
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
193,973  
  
  
 
219,615  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
413,588  
  

 Deferred taxes
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(15,158)  
  
  
 
796  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(14,362)  
  

 Provision for doubtful accounts
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,284  
  
  
 
6,584  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
8,868  
  

 Share-based compensation
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
9,591  
  
  
 
2,746  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
12,337  
  

 Loss on sale of operating assets
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
13,244  
  
  
 
10,509  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
23,753  
  

 Loss on marketable securities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
6,490  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
6,490  
  

 Other reconciling items – net
  
 
87,351  
  
  
 
30,453  
  
  
 
30,522  
  
  
 
17,982  
  
  
 
(140,800)  
  
  
 
25,508  
  

 Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Increase in accounts receivable
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(23,460)  
  
  
 
(23,653)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(47,113)  
  

 Decrease (increase) in Federal income taxes receivable
  
 
774  
  
  
 
(1,502)  
  
  
 
50,136  
  
  
 
1,550  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
50,958  
  

 Increase in accrued expenses
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
34,146  
  
  
 
11,457  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
45,603  
  

 Increase (decrease) in accounts payable and other liabilities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(117)  
  
  
 
12,370  
  
  
 
(15,633)  
  
  
 
8,500  
  
  
 
5,120  
  

 Increase (decrease) in deferred income
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
232  
  
  
 
(7,277)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(7,045)  
  

 Changes in other operating assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and dispositions
  
 
815  
  
  
 
(267)  
  
  
 
10,652  
  
  
 
55,236  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
66,436  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
 
1,417  
  
  
 
2,891  
  
  
 
240,532  
  
  
 
271,877  
  
  
 
8,500  
  
  
 
525,217  
  

 Cash flows from investing activities:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Purchases of property, plant and equipment
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(90,702)  
  
  
 
(104,571)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(195,273)  
  

 Proceeds from disposal of assets
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
6,501  
  
  
 
1,252  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
7,753  
  

 Purchases of other operating assets
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(1,765)  
  
  
 
(76)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(1,841)  
  

 Purchases of businesses
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Equity contributions to subsidiaries
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(331)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
331  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Decrease (increase) in intercompany notes receivable – net
  
 
—  
  
  
 
109,045  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
404  
  
  
 
(109,449)  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Dividends from subsidiaries
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
107  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(107)  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Change in other – net
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(1,797)  
  
  
 
(7,547)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(9,344)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
109,045  
  
  
 
(87,987)  
  
  
 
(110,538)  
  
  
 
(109,225)  
  
  
 
(198,705)  
  

 Cash flows from financing activities:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Draws on credit facilities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
4,670  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
4,670  
  

 Payments on credit facilities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(78)  
  
  
 
(47,017)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(47,095)  
  

 Proceeds from long-term debt
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
6,844  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
6,844  
  

 Payments on long-term debt
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(13,212)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(13,212)  
  

 Net transfers to Clear Channel Communications
  
 
(260,470)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(260,470)  
  

 Intercompany funding
  
 
238,892  
  
  
 
(111,936)  
  
  
 
(152,193)  
  
  
 
25,237  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Increase (decrease) in intercompany notes payable –net
  
 
(130)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(274)  
  
  
 
(109,045)  
  
  
 
109,449  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Deferred finance charges
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Dividends declared and paid
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(107)  
  
  
 
107  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Equity contributions from parent
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
331  
  
  
 
(331)  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Purchases of noncontrolling interests
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Change in other – net
  
 
915  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(6,115)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(5,200)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities
  
 
(20,793)  
  
  
 
(111,936)  
  
  
 
(152,545)  
  
  
 
(138,414)  
  
  
 
109,225  
  
  
 
(314,463)  
  









 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,533  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,533  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 









 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(19,376)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
25,458  
  
  
 
8,500  
  
  
 
14,582  
  









 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period
  
 
446,118  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
178,331  
  
  
 
(15,013)  
  
  
 
609,436  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 









 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period
  
  $
426,742  
  
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
203,789  
  
  
  $
(6,513)  
  
  
  $
624,018  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  98 


Table of Contents
CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)   





000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000



000000000


(In thousands)
  
Year Ended December 31, 2009
 

 
  
Parent
 
  
Subsidiary
 
  
Guarantor
 
  
Non-Guarantor
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
Company
 
  
Issuer
 
  
Subsidiaries
 
  
Subsidiaries
 
  
Eliminations
 
  
Consolidated
 

 Cash flows from operating activities:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Consolidated net income (loss)
  
  $
(868,189)  
  
  
  $
(234,273)  
  
  
  $
(863,940)  
  
  
  $
(290,399)  
  
  
  $
1,384,266  
  
  
  $
(872,535)  
  









 Reconciling items:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Impairment charges
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
696,500  
  
  
 
194,237  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
890,737  
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
195,439  
  
  
 
244,208  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
439,647  
  

 Deferred taxes
  
 
224  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(99,644)  
  
  
 
(32,921)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(132,341)  
  

 Provision for doubtful accounts
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,605  
  
  
 
14,975  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
17,580  
  

 Share-based compensation
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
9,692  
  
  
 
2,412  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
12,104  
  

 (Gain) loss on sale of operating assets
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
11,807  
  
  
 
(3,576)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
8,231  
  

 Loss on marketable securities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
11,315  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
11,315  
  

 Other reconciling items – net
  
 
863,766  
  
  
 
232,741  
  
  
 
289,432  
  
  
 
35,426  
  
  
 
(1,384,266)  
  
  
 
37,099  
  

 Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Decrease (increase) in accounts receivable
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(87)  
  
  
 
68,089  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
68,002  
  

 Decrease (increase) in Federal income taxes receivable
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(6,761)  
  
  
 
15,425  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
8,664  
  

 Increase (decrease) in accounts payable and other liabilities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
225  
  
  
 
40,161  
  
  
 
(22,280)  
  
  
 
(15,013)  
  
  
 
3,093  
  

 Decrease in deferred income
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(1,641)  
  
  
 
(346)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(1,987)  
  

 Changes in other operating assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and dispositions
  
 
(1,977)  
  
  
 
992  
  
  
 
(30,405)  
  
  
 
(16,955)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(48,345)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities
  
 
(6,176)  
  
  
 
(315)  
  
  
 
243,158  
  
  
 
219,610  
  
  
 
(15,013)  
  
  
 
441,264  
  

 Cash flows from investing activities:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Purchases of property, plant and equipment
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(79,523)  
  
  
 
(96,430)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(175,953)  
  

 Proceeds from disposal of assets
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
6,682  
  
  
 
11,462  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
18,144  
  

 Purchases of other operating assets
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(5,032)  
  
  
 
99  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(4,933)  
  

 Purchases of businesses
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Equity contributions to subsidiaries
  
 
(500,000)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(58)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
500,058  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Decrease (increase) in intercompany notes receivable – net
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(2,500,000)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
4,663  
  
  
 
2,495,337  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Dividends from subsidiaries
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
17,028  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(17,028)  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Change in other – net
  
 
2,132  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(3,282)  
  
  
 
1,028  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(122)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities
  
 
(497,868)  
  
  
 
(2,500,000)  
  
  
 
(64,185)  
  
  
 
(79,178)  
  
  
 
2,978,367  
  
  
 
(162,864)  
  

 Cash flows from financing activities:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Draws on credit facilities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
7,125  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
7,125  
  

 Payments on credit facilities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(1,052)  
  
  
 
(2,312)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(3,364)  
  

 Proceeds from long-term debt
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,500,000  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,500,000  
  

 Payments on long-term debt
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(2,500,000)  
  
  
 
(5,913)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(2,505,913)  
  

 Net transfers to Clear Channel Communications
  
 
319,401  
  
  
 
—  
  
  



  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
319,401  
  

 Intercompany funding
  
 
638,011  
  
  
 
315  
  
  
 
(605,268)  
  
  
 
(33,058)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Increase (decrease) in intercompany notes payable – net
  
 
(7,140)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,502,477  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(2,495,337)  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Deferred finance charges
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(60,330)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(60,330)  
  

 Dividends declared and paid
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(17,028)  
  
  
 
17,028  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Equity contributions from parent
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
500,000  
  
  
 
58  
  
  
 
(500,058)  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Purchases of noncontrolling interests
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(25,153)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(25,153)  
  

 Change in other – net
  
 
(110)  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(110)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities
  
 
950,162  
  
  
 
2,500,315  
  
  
 
(164,173)  
  
  
 
(76,281)  
  
  
 
(2,978,367)  
  
  
 
231,656  
  









 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
4,568  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
4,568  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 









 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
446,118  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
14,800  
  
  
 
68,719  
  
  
 
(15,013)  
  
  
 
514,624  
  









 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(14,800)  
  
  
 
109,612  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
94,812  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 









 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period
  
  $
446,118  
  
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
—  
  
  
  $
178,331  
  
  
  $
(15,013)  
  
  
  $
609,436  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  99 


Table of Contents
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  Not applicable  ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  Evaluation of
Disclosure Controls and Procedures  Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer
and our Chief Financial Officer, we have carried out an evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act). Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer
concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2011 to ensure that information we are required to disclose in reports that are filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized
and reported within the time periods specified by the SEC and is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure.  Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
The management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. The Company’s
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
preparation of the Company’s financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  As
of December 31, 2011, management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting established in Internal Control –
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on the assessment, management determined that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011, based on those criteria.  Ernst & Young LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited
the consolidated financial statements of the Company included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. The
report, which expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, is included in this Item under the heading “Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm.”  Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected,
or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
  100



Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders  Clear
Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc.  We have audited Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc.’s (the Company) internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). The Company’s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.  A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations
of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2011, based on the COSO criteria.  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the related consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss), changes in shareholders’ equity, and cash flows of the Company
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 and our report dated February 21, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.  /s/ Ernst & Young LLP  San Antonio, Texas 
February 21, 2012 
  101



Table of Contents
ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 
Not applicable 
  102



Table of Contents
PART III 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
The information required by this item with respect to our executive officers is set forth at the end of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the “Code”) applicable to our directors and employees, including our
principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and controller. The Code is publicly available on our internet website at www.clearchanneloutdoor.com. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements of
Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding any amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of the Code that applies to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller and relates to any element of the
definition of code of ethics set forth in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K by posting such information on our website, www.clearchanneloutdoor.com.  All other information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth in our Definitive Proxy Statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the “Definitive
Proxy Statement”), which we expect to file with the SEC within 120 days after our fiscal year end. 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to our Definitive Proxy Statement, which we expect to file with the SEC within 120 days after our fiscal year end. 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to our Definitive Proxy Statement, which we expect
to file with the SEC within 120 days after our fiscal year end.  ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE  The information required by this item is incorporated by
reference to our Definitive Proxy Statement, which we expect to file with the SEC within 120 days after our fiscal year end.  
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to our
Definitive Proxy Statement, which we expect to file with the SEC within 120 days after our fiscal year end. 
  103



Table of Contents
PART IV 
ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  (a)1. Financial Statements.  The following consolidated financial statements are included in
Item 8:  Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010.  Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.  Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
(a)2. Financial Statement Schedule.  The
following financial statement schedule for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and related report of independent auditors is filed as part of this report and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements.
 Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts  All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the related instructions or are inapplicable, and
therefore have been omitted. 
  104



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE II  VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS  Allowance for Doubtful Accounts 
(In thousands)   
























 Description
  
Balance atBeginningof Period
 
  
Charges toCosts,Expensesand Other
 
  
Write-offofAccountsReceivable
 
  
Other (1)
 
 
Balance atEnd ofPeriod
 








 Year ended December 31, 2009
  
$
48,600
  
  
$
17,580
  
  
$
14,760
  
  
$
(350
) 
 
$
51,070
  








 Year ended December 31, 2010
  
$
51,070
  
  
$
8,773
  
  
$
11,373
  
  
$
562
  
 
$
49,032
  








 Year ended December 31, 2011
  
$
49,032
  
  
$
5,977
  
  
$
13,530
  
  
$
(129
) 
 
$
41,350
  
    
(1) Primarily foreign currency adjustments. 
Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowance  (In
thousands)   
















 Description
  
Balance at beginningof period
 
  
Charges to costs,expenses and other (1)
 
 
Balance at end ofperiod
 






 Year ended December 31, 2010
  
$
—  
  
  
$
13,580
  
 
$
13,580
  

 Year ended December 31, 2011
  
$
13,580
  
  
$
(3,257
) 
 
$
10,323
  
  


 
(1)
During 2010, the Company recorded a valuation allowance on certain capital allowance deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty of the ability to utilize those assets
in future periods. During 2011, the Company adjusted certain valuation allowances as a result of changes in tax rates in certain jurisdictions and changes to the net deferred tax liabilities. 
  105



Table of Contents
(a)3. Exhibits   






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description

3.1
  
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc.
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005).




3.2
  
Amended and Restated Bylaws of Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. as amended (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007).




4.1
  
Form of Specimen Class A Common Stock certificate of Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Amendment No. 4 to the Clear Channel Outdoor
Holdings, Inc. Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-127375) filed October 25, 2005).




4.2
  
Indenture with respect to 9.25% Series A Senior Notes due 2017, dated as of December 23, 2009, by and among Clear Channel Worldwide Holdings, Inc., Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings,
Inc., Clear Channel Outdoor, Inc., U.S. Bank National Association and the guarantors party thereto (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2009).




4.3
  
Indenture with respect to 9.25% Series B Senior Notes due 2017, dated as of December 23, 2009, by and among Clear Channel Worldwide Holdings, Inc., Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings,
Inc., Clear Channel Outdoor, Inc., U.S. Bank National Association and the guarantors party thereto (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2009).




10.1
  
Series A Senior Notes Proceeds Loan Agreement, dated as of December 23, 2009, by and between Clear Channel Worldwide Holdings, Inc. and Clear Channel Outdoor, Inc. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.43 to the CC Media Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009).




10.2
  
Series B Senior Notes Proceeds Loan Agreement, dated as of December 23, 2009, by and between Clear Channel Worldwide Holdings, Inc. and Clear Channel Outdoor, Inc. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.44 to the CC Media Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009).




10.3+
  
Credit Agreement, dated as of May 13, 2008, by and among Clear Channel Communications, Inc. (as the successor-in-interest to BT Triple Crown Merger Co., Inc. following the
effectiveness of the Merger), the subsidiary co-borrowers and foreign subsidiary revolving borrowers party thereto, Clear Channel Capital I, LLC, the lenders party thereto, Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and the other agents party thereto
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to the CC Media Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009).




10.4
  
Amendment No. 1, dated as of July 9, 2008, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of May 13, 2008, by and among Clear Channel Communications, Inc., the subsidiary co-borrowers and
foreign subsidiary revolving borrowers party thereto, Clear Channel Capital I, LLC, the lenders party thereto, Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and the other agents party thereto (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the CC Media
Holdings, Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K filed July 30, 2008).

  106



Table of Contents
 






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description

10.5
  
Amendment No. 2, dated as of July 28, 2008, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of May 13, 2008, by and among Clear Channel Communications, Inc., the subsidiary co-borrowers
and foreign subsidiary revolving borrowers party thereto, Clear Channel Capital I, LLC, the lenders party thereto, Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and the other agents party thereto (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the CC
Media Holdings, Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K filed July 30, 2008).




10.6
  
Amendment and Restatement Agreement, dated as of February 15, 2011, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of May 13, 2008, among Clear Channel Communications, Inc., Clear
Channel Capital I, LLC, the subsidiary co-borrowers and foreign subsidiary borrowers named therein, Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, the lenders from time to time party thereto and the other agents party thereto (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Clear Channel Communications, Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 18, 2011).




10.7
  
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of February 23, 2011, by and among Clear Channel Communications, Inc., the subsidiary co-borrowers and foreign subsidiary
revolving borrowers party thereto, Clear Channel Capital I, LLC, Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, the lenders from time to time party thereto and the other agents party thereto (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Clear Channel
Communications, Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 24, 2011).




10.8
  
Revolving Promissory Note dated November 10, 2005 payable by Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. to Clear Channel Communications, Inc. in the original principal amount of
$1,000,000,000 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005).




10.9
  
First Amendment, dated as of December 23, 2009, to the Revolving Promissory Note, dated as of November 10, 2005, by Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc., as Maker, to Clear Channel
Communications, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.25 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009).




10.10
  
Revolving Promissory Note dated November 10, 2005 payable by Clear Channel Communications, Inc. to Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. in the original principal amount of
$1,000,000,000 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005).




10.11
  
First Amendment, dated as of December 23, 2009, to the Revolving Promissory Note, dated as of November 10, 2005, by Clear Channel Communications, Inc., as Maker, to Clear Channel
Outdoor Holdings, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009).




10.12
  
Senior Unsecured Term Promissory Note dated August 2, 2005 in the original principal amount of $2.5 billion (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Amendment No. 2 to the
Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-127375) filed September 26, 2005).




10.13
  
First Amendment to Senior Unsecured Term Promissory Note dated October 7, 2005 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to Amendment No. 3 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings,
Inc. Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-127375) filed October 14, 2005).

  107



Table of Contents
 






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description

10.14
  
Master Agreement dated November 16, 2005 between Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. and Clear Channel Communications, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005).




10.15
  
Registration Rights Agreement dated November 16, 2005 between Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. and Clear Channel Communications, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2
to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005).




10.16
  
Corporate Services Agreement dated November 16, 2005 between Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. and Clear Channel Management Services, L.P. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.3 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005).




10.17
  
Tax Matters Agreement dated November 10, 2005 between Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. and Clear Channel Communications, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the
Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005).




10.18
  
Employee Matters Agreement dated November 10, 2005 between Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. and Clear Channel Communications, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to
the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005).




10.19
  
Amended and Restated License Agreement dated November 10, 2005 between Clear Channel Identity, L.P. and Outdoor Management Services, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6
to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005).




10.20§
  
Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the “CCOH Stock Incentive Plan”) (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 30, 2007).




10.21§
  
First Form of Option Agreement under the CCOH Stock Incentive Plan (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Registration Statement on
Form S-8 (File No. 333-130229) filed December 9, 2005).




10.22§
  
Form of Option Agreement under the CCOH Stock Incentive Plan (approved February 21, 2011) (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to the CC Media Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011).




10.23§
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the CCOH Stock Incentive Plan (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Registration
Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 333-130229) filed December 9, 2005).




10.24§
  
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the CCOH Stock Incentive Plan (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010).




10.25§
  
2006 Annual Incentive Plan of Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K
filed April 30, 2007).
  
  108



Table of Contents






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description




10.26§
  
Relocation Policy - Chief Executive Officer and Direct Reports (Guaranteed Purchase Offer) (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc.
Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 21, 2010).




10.27§
  
Relocation Policy - Chief Executive Officer and Direct Reports (Buyer Value Option) (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Current
Report on Form 8-K filed October 21, 2010).




10.28§
  
Relocation Policy - Function Head Direct Reports (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 21,
2010).




10.29§
  
Form of Independent Director Indemnification Agreement (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K filed June
3, 2009).




10.30§
  
Form of Affiliate Director Indemnification Agreement (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 3,
2009).




10.31§
  
Contract of Employment between C. William Eccleshare and Clear Channel Outdoor Ltd dated August 31, 2009 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the Clear Channel Outdoor
Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009).




10.32§
  
Contract of Employment between Jonathan Bevan and Clear Channel Outdoor Ltd dated October 30, 2009 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings,
Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 11, 2009).




10.33§
  
Employment Agreement, dated as of December 10, 2009, between Ronald Cooper and Clear Channel Outdoor, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.25 to the Clear Channel Outdoor
Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010).




10.34§
  
Severance Agreement and General Release, dated January 20, 2012, between Ronald Cooper and Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.54 to the CC
Media Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011).




10.35§
  
Employment Agreement, dated as of July 19, 2010, by and among Joseph Bagan and Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Clear Channel
Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010).




10.36§
  
Employment Agreement, dated as of October 2, 2011, between Robert Pittman and CC Media Holdings, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the CC Media Holdings, Inc.
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011).




10.37§
  
Employment Agreement, dated as of December 15, 2009, between Tom Casey and Clear Channel Communications, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Clear Channel Outdoor
Holdings, Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 5, 2010).




10.38§
  
Employment Agreement, dated as of January 1, 2010, between Robert H. Walls, Jr., and Clear Channel Management Services, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Clear
Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 5, 2010).

  109



Table of Contents
 






 ExhibitNumber
 
 Description

10.39§
 
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of December 22, 2009, by and among Randall T. Mays, Clear Channel Communications, Inc. and CC Media Holdings, Inc.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.39 to the CC Media Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009).




10.40§
 
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated June 23, 2010, by and among Mark P. Mays, CC Media Holdings, Inc., and Clear Channel Communications, Inc., as successor to BT Triple
Crown Merger Co., Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 24, 2010).




10.41§
 
Form of Stock Option Agreement under the CCOH Stock Incentive Plan, dated September 17, 2009, between C. William Eccleshare and Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.34 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010).




10.42§
 
Form of Amended and Restated Stock Option Agreement under the CCOH Stock Incentive Plan, dated as of August 11, 2011, between C. William Eccleshare and Clear Channel Outdoor
Holdings, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 12, 2011).




10.43§
 
Form of Stock Option Agreement under the CCOH Stock Incentive Plan, dated December 13, 2010, between C. William Eccleshare and Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.35 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010).




10.44§
 
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under the CCOH Stock Incentive Plan, dated December 20, 2010, between C. William Eccleshare and Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.36 to the Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010).




11*
 
Statement re: Computation of Per Share Earnings (Loss).




21*
 
Subsidiaries.




23*
 
Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.




24*
 
Power of Attorney (included on signature page).




31.1*
 
Certification Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.




31.2*
 
Certification Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.




32.1**
 
Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




32.2**
 
Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




101***
 
Interactive Data Files.

  110



Table of Contents
   


*
Filed herewith. 


**
This exhibit is furnished herewith and shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise
subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 


***
In accordance with Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, these interactive data files are deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of
Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, are deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise are not subject to liability under those sections.



§
A management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 601 of Regulation S-K. 


+
This Exhibit was filed separately with the Commission pursuant to an application for confidential treatment. The confidential portions of the Exhibit have been omitted
and have been marked by the following symbol: [**]. 
  111



Table of Contents
SIGNATURES  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1034, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized, on February 21, 2012.  CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS, INC. 
By: /s/ C. William Eccleshare 
       C. William Eccleshare 
       Chief Executive Officer 
Power of Attorney  Each person whose signature appears below authorizes C. William Eccleshare, Thomas W. Casey and Scott D. Hamilton, or any one of them, each of whom may act without joinder of the others, to execute in the
name of each such person who is then an officer or director of the Registrant and to file any amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K necessary or advisable to enable the Registrant to comply with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and any rules, regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof, which amendments may make such changes in such report as such attorney-in-fact may deem appropriate. 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of
the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.   








 Name
  
 Title
 
 Date





 /s/ C. William Eccleshare
  

 


 C. William Eccleshare
  
Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)
 
February 21, 2012





 /s/ Thomas W. Casey
  
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 


 Thomas W. Casey
  
(Principal Financial Officer)
 
February 21, 2012





 /s/ Scott D. Hamilton
  
Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and
 
February 21, 2012

 Scott D. Hamilton
  
Assistant Secretary (Principal Accounting Officer)
 






 /s/ Robert W. Pittman
  

 


 Robert W. Pittman
  
Executive Chairman and Director
 
February 21, 2012





 /s/ James C. Carlisle
  

 


 James C. Carlisle
  
Director
 
February 21, 2012





 /s/ Blair E. Hendrix
  

 


 Blair E. Hendrix
  
Director
 
February 21, 2012





 /s/ Douglas L. Jacobs
  

 


 Douglas L. Jacobs
  
Director
 
February 21, 2012

  112



Table of Contents
 








 Name
  
 Title
 
 Date





 /s/ Daniel G. Jones
  

 


 Daniel G. Jones
  
Director
 
February 21, 2012





 /s/ Mark P. Mays
  

 


 Mark P. Mays
  
Director
 
February 21, 2012





 /s/ Thomas R. Shepherd
  

 


 Thomas R. Shepherd
  
Director
 
February 21, 2012





 /s/ Christopher M. Temple
  

 


 Christopher M. Temple
  
Director
 
February 21, 2012





 /s/ Dale W. Tremblay
  

 


 Dale W. Tremblay
  
Director
 
February 21, 2012





 /s/ Scott R. Wells
  

 


 Scott R. Wells
  
Director
 
February 21, 2012

  113




