
10-K
1
v322431_10k.htm
FORM 10-K






 

 
 
UNITED
STATES
SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
Washington, DC 20549
 
FORM 10-K


(Mark One)

xANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended June 30,
2012 
OR 

¨TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the transition period from            
to              
Commission file number: 0-51800 
 
UNITED COMMUNITY BANCORP
(Exact name of registrant as specified
in its charter) 
 


United States
36-4587081


(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
 

(I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.)
 

 
 

 
 

92 Walnut Street, Lawrenceburg, Indiana
47025

(Address of principal executive offices)
(Zip Code)

 
Registrant’s telephone number,
including area code: (812) 537-4822 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b)
of the Act: 
 


Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share
NASDAQ Global Market

Title of Class
Name of each exchange on which registered

 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g)
of the Act: 
None 
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned
issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.     YES  ¨     NO  x
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to
file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.     YES   ¨    NO  x
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (l) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.    YES  x    NO  ¨
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant
to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that
the registrant was required to submit and post such files.     YES  x
NO  ¨
 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant
to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge,
in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  ¨
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated,
an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of, “large accelerated
filer,” “accelerated filer,” and “smaller reporting company,” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
(Check one):
 


 
 
 
 

Large Accelerated Filer
¨
Accelerated Filer
¨

 
 
 
 

Non-accelerated Filer
¨
Smaller Reporting Company
x

 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
(as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    YES  ¨    NO  x
 
The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common
equity held by non-affiliates as of December 31, 2011 was $14.9 million. The number of shares outstanding of the registrant’s
common stock as of August 31, 2012 was 7,834,782 of which 4,655,200 shares were held by United Community MHC.
 


 
 

 
INDEX
 


PART I
Page
 

Business
2
 

Risk Factors
18
 

Unresolved Staff Comments
25
 

Properties
26
 

Legal Proceedings
26
 

Mine Safety Disclosures
26
 

PART II 
 
 

 
 
 

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
27
 

Selected Financial Data
28
 

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation
30
 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
63
 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
64
 

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
105
 

Controls and Procedures
105
 

Other Information
 
 

PART III 
 
 

 
 
 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
105
 

Executive Compensation
109
 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
113
 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
115
 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services
118
 

PART IV 
 
 

 
 
 

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
118
 

 
 
 
 
 

 


 
 

 
Note on Forward-Looking Statements 
 
This report, like many written and
oral communications presented by United Community Bancorp and our authorized officers, may contain certain forward-looking statements
regarding our prospective performance and strategies within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,
and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We intend such forward-looking statements to be covered
by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995,
and are including this statement for purposes of said safe harbor provisions. 
 
Forward-looking statements, which
are based on certain assumptions and describe future plans, strategies, and expectations of the Company, are generally identified
by use of the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,”
“plan,” “project,” “seek,” “strive,” “try,” or future or conditional
verbs such as “will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” “may,” or similar
expressions. Our ability to predict results or the actual effects of our plans or strategies is inherently uncertain. Accordingly,
actual results may differ materially from anticipated results.
 
There are a number of factors, many
of which are beyond our control, that could cause actual conditions, events, or results to differ significantly from those described
in our forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to: 
 


•general economic conditions, either nationally or in some or all of the areas in which we and our customers conduct our
respective businesses; 

 


•conditions in the securities markets and real estate
markets or the banking industry;

 

•changes in interest rates, which may affect our net income, prepayment penalty income, and other future cash flows, or
the market value of our assets, including our investment securities; 
 

•changes in deposit flows and wholesale borrowing
facilities;

 

•changes in the demand for deposit, loan, and investment
products and other financial services in the markets we serve;

 

•changes in our credit ratings or in our ability
to access the capital markets;

 

•changes in our customer base or in the financial
or operating performance of our customers’ businesses;

 

•changes in real estate values, which could impact
the quality of the assets securing the loans in our portfolio;

 

•changes in the quality or composition of our loan
or securities portfolios;

 

•changes in competitive pressures among financial
institutions or from non-financial institutions;

 

•the ability to successfully integrate any assets, liabilities, customers, systems, and management personnel of any banks
we may acquire, into our operations, and our ability to realize related revenue synergies and cost savings within expected time
frames; 
 

•our ability to retain key members of management;

 

•our timely development of new lines of business and competitive products or services in a changing environment, and the
acceptance of such products or services by our customers; 
 

•any interruption or breach of security resulting in failures or disruptions in customer account management, general ledger,
deposit, loan, or other systems; 
 

•any interruption in customer service due to circumstances
beyond our control;


 


1
 

 

•potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities
of companies we have acquired or target for acquisition;

 

•the outcome of pending or threatened litigation, or of other matters before regulatory agencies, whether currently existing
or commencing in the future; 
 

•environmental conditions that exist or may exist
on properties owned by, leased by, or mortgaged to the Company;

 

•operational issues stemming from, and/or capital spending necessitated by, the potential need to adapt to industry changes
in information technology systems, on which we are highly dependent; 
 

•changes in our estimates of future reserves based upon the periodic review thereof under relevant regulatory and accounting
requirements; 
 

•changes in our capital management policies, including those regarding business combinations, dividends, and share repurchases,
among others;
 

•changes in legislation, regulation, policies, or administrative practices, whether by judicial, governmental, or legislative
action, including, but not limited to, the impact of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and other changes
pertaining to banking, securities, taxation, rent regulation and housing, environmental protection, and insurance; and the ability
to comply with such changes in a timely manner; 
 

•additional FDIC special assessments or required
assessment prepayments;

 

•changes in accounting principles, policies, practices
or guidelines;

 

•the ability to keep pace with, and implement on
a timely basis, technological changes;

 

•changes in the monetary and fiscal policies of the U.S. Government, including policies of the U.S. Department of the
Treasury and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; 
 

•the ability of the Bank to complete its second-step
conversion to a fully public stock company;

 

•war or terrorist activities; and

 

•other economic, competitive, governmental, regulatory, and geopolitical factors affecting our operations, pricing, and
services. 







 
Additional factors that may affect
our results are discussed in this annual report on Form 10-K under “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” The Company wishes to
caution readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. The
Company wishes to advise readers that the factors listed above could affect the Company’s financial performance and could
cause the Company’s actual results for future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements expressed with
respect to future periods in any current statements. 
 
The Company does not undertake the
responsibility, and specifically disclaims any obligation, to publicly release the result of any revisions, which may be made
to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence
of anticipated or unanticipated events.
 
PART I
 
Item 1. Business
 
United Community Bancorp. United
Community Bancorp was organized as a federal corporation upon completion of United Community Bank’s reorganization into the
mutual holding company form of organization (the “Reorganization”) on March 30, 2006. As a result of the Reorganization,
United Community Bank became a wholly-owned subsidiary of United Community Bancorp and United Community Bancorp became a majority-owned
subsidiary of United Community MHC, a federally chartered mutual holding company. United Community Bancorp’s business activities
consist of the ownership of the outstanding capital stock of United Community Bank and management of the investment of offering
proceeds retained from the Reorganization. United Community Bancorp neither owns nor leases any property, but instead, uses the
premises, equipment and other property of United Community Bank with the payment of appropriate rental fees, as required by applicable
law and regulations. As a registered savings and loan holding company, United Community Bancorp is subject to the regulation of
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, referred to as the Federal Reserve Board.
 
United Community MHC. United
Community MHC is our federally chartered mutual holding company parent. As a mutual holding company, United Community MHC is a
non-stock company that has as its members depositors of United Community Bank. United Community MHC does not engage in any business
activity other than owning a majority of the common stock of United Community Bancorp. So long as we remain in the mutual holding
company form of organization, United Community MHC will own a majority of the outstanding shares of United Community Bancorp. United
Community MHC is also a registered savings and loan holding company subject to the regulation of the Federal Reserve Board.
 

United Community Bank. United
Community Bank is a federally chartered savings bank and was created on April 12, 1999 through the merger of Perpetual Federal
Savings and Loan Association and Progressive Federal Savings Bank, both located in Lawrenceburg, Indiana. On June 4, 2010,
United Community Bank acquired three branches from Integra Bank National Association all of which are located in Ripley County,
Indiana. In connection with the acquisition, the Bank acquired $45.9 million in loans and assumed $53.0 million in deposits. At
June 30, 2012, we had approximately $495.9 million in assets and $427.0 million in deposits. We operate as a community-oriented
financial institution offering a wide menu of banking services and products to consumers and businesses in our market areas. Recent
years have seen the expansion of services we offer from a traditional savings and loan product mix to those of a full-service financial
institution servicing the needs of consumer and commercial customers. United Community Bank attracts deposits from the general
public and local municipalities and uses those funds to originate one- to four-family real estate, multi-family real estate and
nonresidential real estate, construction, commercial and consumer loans. Generally, fixed-rate one- to four-family residential
conforming loans with terms of more than ten years that we originate are sold in the secondary market with the servicing retained.
Such sales generate mortgage banking income. The remainder of our loan portfolio is originated for investment. United Community
Bank also maintains an investment portfolio. United Community Bank is regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency,
referred to as the OCC, and its deposits are insured up to applicable legal limits by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation,
referred to as the FDIC. United Community Bank is also a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis.
 


2
 

 
We attract deposits from the general public
and local municipalities and use those funds to originate one- to four-family real estate, multi-family and nonresidential real
estate and land, construction, commercial and consumer loans, which, with the exception of long-term fixed-rate one- to four-family
real estate loans, we primarily hold for investment. We also maintain an investment portfolio. We offer non-deposit investment
products through a third-party network arrangement with a registered broker-dealer.
 
UCB Real Estate Management Holdings,
LLC. UCB Real Estate Management Holdings, LLC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of United Community Bank. The entity was formed
for the purpose of holding real estate assets that are acquired by the Bank through, or in lieu of, foreclosure. Real estate assets
held totaled $197,000 as of June 30, 2012.
 
UCB Financial Services, Inc. UCB
Financial Services, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank, was formed for the purpose of collecting commissions on investments
referred to Lincoln Financial Group.
 
Market Areas
 
We are headquartered in Lawrenceburg, Indiana, which is in the eastern part of Dearborn County, Indiana,
along the Ohio River. We currently have five branches located in Dearborn County and three branches located in adjacent Ripley
County. Dearborn and Ripley Counties represent our primary deposit markets. The primary sources of loan originations are existing
customers, walk-in traffic, advertising and referrals from customers. We advertise on television and radio and in newspapers that
are widely circulated in Dearborn, Ripley, Franklin, Ohio and Switzerland Counties, Indiana. Accordingly, when our loan rates are
competitive, we attract loans from throughout these counties. The economy of the region in which our current offices are located
has historically been a mixture of light industrial enterprises and services. Since the mid-1990s, the economy in Lawrenceburg
has been strengthened by the riverboat casino in Lawrenceburg whose presence has supported the development of retail centers and
job growth as well as an increase in housing development. Located 20 miles from Cincinnati, Ohio, Dearborn and Ripley Counties
have also benefited from the growth in and around Cincinnati and northern Kentucky, as many residents commute to these areas for
employment.
 
Dearborn and Ripley Counties’ road
system includes eight state highways and three U.S. highways. The counties have two rail lines and port facilities due to the proximity
of the Ohio River.
 
Competition 
 

We face significant competition for the
attraction of deposits and origination of loans. Our most direct competition for deposits has historically come from the several
financial institutions operating in our market areas and, to a lesser extent, from other financial service companies such as brokerage
firms, credit unions and insurance companies. We also face competition for investors’ funds from money market funds, mutual
funds and other corporate and government securities. At June 30, 2011, which is the most recent date for which data is available
from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), we held approximately 39.1% of the deposits held by FDIC-insured
institutions in Dearborn County, which was the largest market share out of the nine financial institutions with offices in Dearborn
County, and 8.4% of the deposits in Ripley County, which was the sixth largest market share out of the nine financial institutions
with offices in Ripley County. In addition, banks owned by large out-of-state bank holding companies such as Fifth Third Bancorp
and U.S. Bancorp also operate in our market areas. These institutions are significantly larger than us and, therefore, have significantly
greater resources.
 
Our competition for loans comes primarily
from financial institutions in our market areas, and, to a lesser extent, from other financial service providers such as mortgage
companies and mortgage brokers. Competition for loans also comes from non-depository financial service companies which have entered
the mortgage market such as insurance companies, securities companies and specialty finance companies.
 
We expect competition to increase in the
future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial
services industry. Technological advances, for example, have lowered the barriers to market entry, allowed banks and other lenders
to expand their geographic reach by providing services over the Internet and made it possible for non-depository institutions
to offer products and services that traditionally have been provided by banks. Competition for deposits and the origination of
loans could limit our future growth. Nevertheless, while in recent years we have steadily decreased our reliance on municipal
deposits, which decreased $8.1 million from June 30, 2011 to June 30, 2012, we continue to replace municipal deposits with core
retail deposits, which increased $22.0 million during the same period. 


3
 

 
Lending Activities 
 
General. We originate loans primarily for investment
purposes. Historically, our primary lending activity has been the origination of one- to four-family mortgage loans secured by
homes in our local market area, particularly in Dearborn, Ripley, Franklin, Ohio and Switzerland Counties, Indiana. A significant
portion of this historical lending activity has been the origination for retention in our portfolio of adjustable-rate mortgage
(“ARM”) loans collateralized by one- to four-family residential real estate located within our primary market area.
The low interest rate environment that has persisted over the last few years has required that we augment adjustable rate originations
with 10-year fixed rate loan originations. In order to further complement our traditional emphasis of one- to four-family residential
real estate lending, significant segments of our loan portfolio consist of nonresidential real estate and land loans, multi-family
real estate loans and consumer loans. Between 2006 and 2010, we increased and diversified our lending efforts in the metropolitan
Cincinnati market area and, to a lesser extent, in northern Kentucky and the Indiana counties outside of our local market area,
particularly with respect to nonresidential and multi-family real estate lending. In June, 2010, we implemented a strategy to
control the growth of our nonresidential real estate and multi-family real estate loan portfolios, particularly outside of Dearborn,
Ripley, Franklin, Ohio and Switzerland Counties, Indiana. The strategy was implemented to address the fact that multi-family and
nonresidential real estate loans, particularly those originated outside of the Bank’s traditional southeastern Indiana market
area, experienced the most financial difficulty during the recent economic downturn, in turn causing the Bank to incur losses
and devote an inordinate amount of management oversight to these relationships. Consistent with the strategy to deemphasize the
origination of multi-family and nonresidential real estate loans, since June 2010 our multifamily and non-residential real estate
lending origination activity outside, and to a lesser extent inside, of Dearborn, Ripley, Franklin, Ohio and Switzerland Counties
in Indiana has been limited to the renewal, refinancing and restructuring of these types of loans. While in the future we may
consider increasing our multi-family and nonresidential real estate lending origination activity in general, including in the
Cincinnati or northern Kentucky markets, we intend to continue our strategy to deemphasize the origination of multi-family and
nonresidential real estate loans for the foreseeable future until the local economy materially improves and the level of our nonperforming
assets in these segments of our loan portfolio materially declines. For additional information regarding our strategy to deemphasize
the origination of multi-family and nonresidential real estate loans, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Our Operating Strategy – Improving our asset quality,” “
– Deemphasizing the origination of multi-family and nonresidential real estate loans until economic conditions improve”
and “ – Risk Management – Analysis of Nonperforming and Classified Assets.”
 
One- to Four-Family Residential Real
Estate Loans. We offer mortgage loans to enable borrowers to purchase or refinance existing homes, most of which serve
as the primary residence of the owner. We offer fixed-rate and adjustable-rate loans with terms up to 30 years. Borrower demand
for adjustable-rate loans versus fixed-rate loans is a function of the level of interest rates, the expectations of changes in
the level of interest rates, and the difference between the interest rates and loan fees offered for fixed-rate mortgage loans
and the initial period interest rates and loan fees for adjustable-rate loans. The relative amount of fixed-rate mortgage loans
and adjustable-rate mortgage loans that can be originated at any time is largely determined by the demand for each in a competitive
environment. The loan fees, interest rates and other provisions of mortgage loans are determined by us on the basis of our own
pricing criteria and competitive market conditions. Most of our loan originations result from relationships with existing or past
customers, members of our local community and referrals from realtors, attorneys and builders.
 
While one- to four-family residential real
estate loans are normally originated with up to 30-year terms, such loans typically remain outstanding for substantially shorter
periods because borrowers often prepay their loans in full upon sale of the property pledged as security or upon refinancing the
original loan. Therefore, average loan maturity is a function of, among other factors, the level of purchase and sale activity
in the real estate market, prevailing interest rates and the interest rates payable on outstanding loans. As a result of the continued
low interest rate environment during the past several years, a greater percentage of our one- to four-family loan originations
consisted of fixed-rate one- to four-family mortgage loans. Our practice in recent years has generally been to (i) sell in
the secondary market newly originated conforming fixed-rate 15-, 20- and 30-year one- to four-family residential real estate loans
on a servicing retained basis, without recourse to United Community Bank, and (ii) to hold in our portfolio fixed-rate loans
with 10-year terms or less and adjustable-rate loans. Currently, we have no intention of changing our practice of selling our
fixed-rate loan originations, although we may determine to change this practice in the future. Historically in higher interest
rate environments consumer preference for adjustable rate mortgages has enabled us to originate such loans for our portfolio.
Therefore, in a rising interest rate environment, we expect that a greater percentage of our loan originations will consist of
adjustable-rate loans, which we generally retain in our portfolio. In the past, we have occasionally purchased loans and purchased
participation interests in loans originated by other institutions to supplement our origination efforts. At June 30, 2012,
loans serviced by United Community Bank for others totaled $59.6 million, resulting in $150,000 in servicing fee income during
the year ended June 30, 2012. At June 30, 2011, loans serviced by United Community Bank for others totaled $60.8 million,
resulting in $115,000 in servicing fee income during the year ended June 30, 2011. During the years ended June 30, 2012
and 2011, we sold $15.4 million and $21.1 million, respectively, of fixed-rate one- to four-family loans. As of June 30,
2012 and 2011, we had $393,000 and $196,000, respectively, of mortgage loans held for sale recorded at the lower of cost or fair
value.
 
Interest rates and payments on our adjustable-rate
mortgage loans generally adjust annually after an initial fixed period that ranges from one to seven years. Interest rates and
payments on these adjustable-rate loans generally are based on the one-year constant maturity U.S. Treasury index (three-year constant
maturity U.S. Treasury index in the case of three-year adjustable-rate loans) as published by the Federal Reserve Board in Statistical
Release H.15. The maximum amount by which the interest rate may be increased is generally two percentage points per adjustment
period and the lifetime interest rate cap ranges from five to six percentage points over the initial interest rate of the loan.
Our adjustable-rate one- to four-family mortgage loans generally do not provide for a decrease in the rate paid below the initial
contract rate. The inability of our residential real estate loans to adjust downward below the initial contract rate can contribute
to increased income in periods of declining interest rates, and also assists us in our efforts to limit the risks to earnings and
equity value resulting from changes in interest rates, subject to the risk that borrowers may refinance these loans during periods
of declining interest rates.
 


4
 

 
ARM loans decrease the risk associated with
changes in market interest rates by periodically repricing, but involve other risks. As interest rates increase, the required periodic
payments by the borrower increase, thus increasing the potential for default by the borrower. At the same time, the marketability
of the underlying collateral may be adversely affected by higher interest rates. Upward adjustment of the contractual interest
rate is also limited by the maximum periodic and lifetime interest rate adjustment permitted by the terms of the ARM loans, and
therefore, is potentially limited in effectiveness during periods of rapidly rising interest rates. Decreasing interest rates could
result in a downward adjustment of the contractual interest rates, subject to interest rate floor, resulting in lower interest
income. At June 30, 2012, 33.2% of our loan portfolio consisted of one- to four-family residential loans with adjustable interest
rates.
 
We generally do not make conventional loans
with loan-to-value ratios exceeding 95% at the time the loan is originated. Private mortgage insurance is generally required for
all fixed-rate loans with loan-to-value ratios in excess of 80%, and all adjustable-rate loans with loan-to-value ratios exceeding
85%. We require all properties securing mortgage loans to be appraised by a board-approved independent appraiser. We generally
require title insurance on all first mortgage loans. Borrowers must obtain hazard insurance, and flood insurance for loans on properties
located in a flood zone, before closing the loan.
 
We do not offer, and have not previously
offered, subprime, Alt-A, low-doc, no-doc loans or loans with negative amortization and generally do not offer interest-only loans.
 
Multi-Family Real Estate Loans.
We offer adjustable-rate mortgage loans secured by multi-family real estate. Our multi-family real estate loans are generally
secured by apartment buildings within and outside our primary market area. At June 30, 2012, approximately 76.7% of our multi-family
real estate loans were secured by properties located outside of Dearborn, Ripley, Franklin, Ohio and Switzerland Counties, Indiana,
70.9% of which were in the Cincinnati and northern Kentucky markets. In June, 2010, we implemented a strategy to control the growth
of our nonresidential real estate and multi-family real estate loan portfolios, particularly outside of Dearborn, Ripley, Franklin,
Ohio and Switzerland Counties, Indiana. The strategy was implemented to address the fact that multi-family and nonresidential
real estate loans, particularly those originated outside of the Bank’s traditional southeastern Indiana market area, experienced
significant financial difficulties during the recent economic downturn, which resulted in the Bank incurring losses and being
required to devote a significant amount of management’s time and energy to overseeing these relationships. Consistent with
the controlled growth strategy, since June 2010 our multi-family and nonresidential real estate lending origination activity outside
of, and to a lesser extent within, Dearborn, Ripley, Franklin, Ohio and Switzerland Counties in Indiana has been limited to the
renewal, refinancing and restructuring of these types of loans. As part of the strategy, we amended our loan policy to reduce
our concentration limits for multi-family real estate loans to 100% of the sum of core capital plus our allowance for loan losses.
While in the future we may consider increasing our multi-family and nonresidential real estate lending origination activity in
general, including in the Cincinnati or Northern Kentucky markets, we intend to continue our controlled growth strategy for the
foreseeable future until the local economy materially improves and the level of our nonperforming assets in these segments of
our loan portfolio materially declines. At June 30, 2012, $6.3 million, or 38.5%, of nonperforming assets were multi-family
residential real estate loans. For additional information regarding our troubled debt restructurings, controlled growth strategy
and our multi-family residential lending, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations – Our Operating Strategy – Improving our asset quality,” “--Deemphasizing the origination
of multi-family and nonresidential real estate loans until economic conditions improve” and “-- Risk Management –
Analysis of Nonperforming Assets.”
 
These loans are typically repaid or
the term is extended before maturity, in which case a new rate is negotiated to meet market conditions and an extension of
the loan is executed for a new term with a new amortization schedule. We originate adjustable-rate multi-family real estate
loans with terms up to 30 years. Interest rates and payments on most of these loans typically adjust annually after an
initial fixed term of one to seven years, with the adjustable-rate generally being based on the prime interest rate as
published in The Wall Street Journal, plus a spread. The maximum amount by which the interest rate may be
increased is generally two percentage points per adjustment period and the lifetime interest rate cap is six percentage
points over the initial interest rate of the loan. Our adjustable-rate multi-family loans generally do not provide for a
decrease in the rate paid below the initial contract rate. Loans are secured by first mortgages that generally do not exceed
80% of the lesser of the property’s appraised value or the purchase price, the maximum amount of which is limited by
our in-house loans to one borrower limit which currently is $3.8 million. When the borrower is a corporation, partnership or
other entity, we generally require that significant equity holders serve as co-borrowers on the loan, or, to a lesser extent,
serve as a personal guarantor of the loan. Environmental walkover and/or inspections are generally required for loans over
$500,000.
 


5
 

 
Loans
secured by multi-family real estate generally have larger balances and involve a greater degree of risk than one- to four-family
residential mortgage loans. A primary concern in multi-family real estate lending is the borrower’s creditworthiness and
the feasibility and cash flow potential of the project. Payments on loans secured by income properties often depend on successful
operation and management of the properties. As a result, repayment of such loans may be subject to a greater extent than one- to
four-family residential real estate loans to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy. To monitor cash flows
on income properties, we may require borrowers and co-borrowers of loan relationships totaling $1.0 million or more, in the aggregate,
to provide annual financial statements and/or tax returns. In reaching a decision on whether to make a multi-family real estate
loan, we consider the net operating income of the property, the borrower’s character and expertise, credit history and profitability
and the value of the underlying property. In addition, with respect to rental properties, we will also consider the term of the
lease and the credit quality of the tenants. We have generally required that the properties securing these real estate loans have
debt service coverage ratios (the ratio of earnings before debt service to debt service) of at least 1.20x.
 
At June 30, 2012, we had $42.3
million in multi-family real estate loans outstanding, or 14.7% of total loans. The largest outstanding multi-family real
estate loan at such date had an outstanding balance of $5.6 million and is secured by apartment buildings in Cincinnati,
Ohio. This loan was performing in accordance with its original contractual terms at June 30, 2012.
 
Nonresidential Real Estate and Land
Loans. We offer adjustable-rate mortgage loans secured by nonresidential real estate. Our nonresidential real estate loans
are generally secured by commercial buildings. These loans are typically repaid or the term is extended before maturity, in which
case a new rate is negotiated to meet market conditions and an extension of the loan is executed for a new term with a new amortization
schedule. We originate adjustable-rate nonresidential real estate loans with terms up to 30 years. Interest rates and payments
on most of these loans typically adjust annually after an initial fixed term of one to seven years, with the adjustable-rate generally
being based on the prime interest rate as published in The Wall Street Journal, plus a spread. The maximum amount
by which the interest rate may be increased is generally two percentage points per adjustment period and the lifetime interest
rate cap is six percentage points over the initial interest rate of the loan. Loans are secured by first mortgages that generally
do not exceed 80% of the property’s appraised value or the purchase price (75% for improved land only loans and 65% for
unimproved land only loans), the maximum amount of which is limited by our in-house loans to one borrower limit which currently
is $3.8 million. When the borrower is a corporation, partnership or other entity, we may require that significant equity holders
serve as co-borrowers or as personal guarantors of the loan. As of June 30, 2012, approximately $4.1 million, or 24.9%, of
our nonperforming assets were nonresidential real estate loans, comprised entirely of five nonresidential real estate loans which
were classified as troubled debt restructurings. In June, 2010, we implemented a strategy to control the growth of our nonresidential
real estate and multi-family real estate loan portfolios, particularly outside of Dearborn, Ripley, Franklin, Ohio and Switzerland
Counties, Indiana. The strategy was implemented to address the fact that multi-family and nonresidential real estate loans, particularly
those originated outside of the Bank’s traditional southeastern Indiana market area, experienced the most financial difficulty
during the recent economic downturn, in turn causing the Bank to incur losses and devote an inordinate amount of management oversight
to these relationships. Consistent with the controlled growth strategy, since June 2010 our multi-family and nonresidential real
estate lending origination activity outside, and to a lesser extent inside, of Dearborn, Ripley, Franklin, Ohio and Switzerland
Counties in Indiana has been limited to the renewal, refinancing and restructuring of these types of loans. As part of the strategy
we amended our loan policy to reduce our concentration limits for nonresidential real estate and land loans to 150% of the sum
or core capital plus our allowance for loan losses. While in the future we may consider increasing our multi-family and nonresidential
real estate lending origination activity in general, including in the Cincinnati or northern Kentucky markets, we intend to continue
our controlled growth strategy for the foreseeable future until the local economy materially improves and the level of our nonperforming
assets in these segments of our loan portfolio materially declines. For additional information regarding our troubled debt restructurings,
controlled growth strategy and our nonresidential real estate and land loans, see “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Our Operating Strategy – Improving our asset quality,”
“ – Deemphasizing the origination of multi-family and nonresidential real estate loans until economic conditions improve”
and “ – Risk Management – Analysis of Nonperforming and Classified Assets.” 
 
Loans secured by nonresidential real estate
generally have larger balances and involve a greater degree of risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Our primary
concern in nonresidential real estate lending is the borrower’s creditworthiness and the feasibility and cash flow potential
of the project. Payments on loans secured by income properties often depend on successful operation and management of the properties.
As a result, repayment of such loans may be subject to a greater extent than one- to four-family residential real estate loans
to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy. To monitor cash flows on income properties, we require borrowers
and loan guarantors of loan relationships totaling $1.0 million or more, in the aggregate, to provide annual financial statements
and/or tax returns. In reaching a decision on whether to make a nonresidential real estate loan, we consider the net operating
income of the property, the borrower’s expertise and character, credit history and profitability and the value of the underlying
property. In addition, with respect to rental properties, we will also consider the term of the leases and the credit quality
of the tenants. We may require that the properties securing these real estate loans have debt service coverage ratios (the ratio
of earnings before debt service to debt service) of at least 1.20x. Environmental surveys and/or inspections are generally required
for loans over $500,000.
 


6
 

 
We also originate loans secured by unimproved
property, including lots for single-family homes and for mobile homes, raw land, commercial property and agricultural property.
The terms and rates of our land loans are longer and higher than our nonresidential and multi-family real estate loans. Loans secured
by undeveloped land or improved lots generally involve greater risks than one- to four-family residential mortgage lending because
land loans are more difficult to evaluate. If the estimate of value proves to be inaccurate, in the event of default and foreclosure,
we may be confronted with a property the value of which is insufficient to assure full repayment. Loan amounts generally do not
exceed 75% and 65% of the lesser of the appraised value or the purchase price for improved and unimproved land loans, respectively.
 
At June 30, 2012, we had $59.1 million
in nonresidential real estate loans outstanding, or 20.5% of total loans, and $3.4 million in land loans outstanding, or 1.2% of
total loans. At June 30, 2012, the largest outstanding nonresidential real estate loan had an outstanding balance of $2.9
million and was performing in accordance with its original contractual terms at that date. At June 30, 2012, our largest land
loan, which was performing in accordance with its original terms at that date, had an outstanding balance of $890,000 and was secured
by land held for nonresidential real estate development.
 
Construction Loans. We originate
fixed-rate and adjustable-rate loans to individuals and, to a lesser extent, builders to finance the construction of residential
dwellings. We also make construction loans for commercial development projects, including apartment buildings, restaurants, shopping
centers and owner-occupied properties used for businesses. Our construction loans generally provide for the payment of interest
only during the construction phase, which is usually nine months for residential properties and 12 months for commercial properties.
At the end of the construction phase, the loan generally converts to a permanent mortgage loan. Loans generally can be made with
a maximum loan to value ratio of 95% on residential construction and 80% on commercial construction at the time the loan is originated.
Before making a commitment to fund a construction loan, we require an appraisal of the property by an independent licensed appraiser.
We also will require an inspection of the property before disbursement of funds during the term of the construction loan.
 
At June 30, 2012, our largest outstanding
residential construction loan was for $264,000, of which $107,000 was outstanding. At June 30, 2012, our largest outstanding
commercial construction loan was for $500,000, of which $480,000 was outstanding, and is secured by a commercial office building.
These loans were performing in accordance with their original contractual terms at June 30, 2012.
 
At June 30, 2012, we had $1.2 million
of construction loans, or 0.4% of total loans.
 
Commercial Loans. We occasionally
make commercial business loans to professionals, sole proprietorships and small businesses in our market area. We extend commercial
business loans on an unsecured basis and secured basis, the maximum amount of which is limited by our in-house loans to one borrower
limit.
 
We originate secured and unsecured commercial
lines of credit to finance the working capital needs of businesses to be repaid by seasonal cash flows. Commercial lines of credit
secured by nonresidential real estate are adjustable-rate loans whose rates are based on the prime interest rate as published in
The Wall Street Journal, plus a spread, and adjust monthly. Commercial lines of credit secured by nonresidential real estate
have a maximum term of five years and a maximum loan-to-value ratio of 80% of the pledged collateral. We also originate commercial
lines of credit secured by marketable securities and unsecured lines of credit. These lines of credit, as well as certain commercial
lines of credit secured by nonresidential real estate, require that only interest be paid on a monthly or quarterly basis and have
a maximum term of five years.
 
We also originate secured and unsecured
commercial loans. Secured commercial loans are generally collateralized by nonresidential real estate, marketable securities, accounts
receivable, inventory, industrial/commercial machinery and equipment and furniture and fixtures. We originate both fixed-rate and
adjustable-rate commercial loans with terms up to 20 years for secured loans and up to five years for unsecured loans. Adjustable-rate
loans are based on the prime interest rate as published in The Wall Street Journal, plus a spread, and adjust either monthly
or annually. Where the borrower is a corporation, partnership or other entity, we generally require significant equity holders
to be co-borrowers, and in cases where they are not co-borrowers, we generally require personal guarantees from significant equity
holders.
 
When making commercial business loans, we
consider the financial statements and/or tax returns of the borrower, the borrower’s payment history of both corporate and
personal debt, the debt service capabilities of the borrower, the projected cash flows of the business, the viability of the industry
in which the customer operates and the value of the collateral.
 
At June 30, 2012, our largest commercial
loan was a $570,000 loan secured by the assets of a private utility company. This loan was performing in accordance with its original
contractual terms at June 30, 2012.
 
At June 30, 2012, we had $3.9 million
of commercial loans outstanding, or 1.3% of total loans.
 


7
 

 
Consumer Loans. We offer a
variety of consumer loans, primarily home equity loans and lines of credit, and, to a much lesser extent, loans secured by savings
accounts or certificates of deposit (share loans), new farm and garden equipment, new and used automobiles, recreational vehicle
loans and secured and unsecured personal loans.
 
The procedures for underwriting consumer
loans include an assessment of the applicant’s payment history on other debts and ability to meet existing obligations and
payments on the proposed loan. Although the applicant’s creditworthiness is a primary consideration, the underwriting process
also includes a comparison of the value of the collateral, if any, to the proposed loan amount.
 
We generally offer home equity loans and
lines of credit with a maximum combined loan to value ratio of 90%. Our lowest interest rates are generally offered to customers
with a maximum combined loan to value ratio of 80% or less. Home equity lines of credit have adjustable-rates of interest that
are based on the prime interest rate as published in The Wall Street Journal, plus a spread. Home equity lines of credit
generally require that only interest be paid on a monthly basis and have terms of up to 20 years. Interest rates on these loans
typically adjust monthly. We offer fixed-rate and adjustable-rate home equity loans. Home equity loans with fixed-rates have terms
that range from one to 15 years. Home equity loans with adjustable-rates have terms that range from one to 30 years. Interest rates
on these loans are based on the prime interest rate as published in The Wall Street Journal, plus a spread. We hold a first
mortgage position on most of the homes that secure our home equity loans and home equity lines of credit.
 
We offer loans secured by new and used vehicles.
These loans have fixed interest rates and generally have terms up to five years.
 
We offer loans secured by new and used boats, motor homes, campers and motorcycles. We offer fixed and
adjustable-rate loans for new motor homes and boats with terms up to 10 years for adjustable-rate loans and up to 10 years for
fixed-rate loans. We offer fixed-rate loans for all other new and used recreational vehicles with terms up to 10 years for campers
and five years for motorcycles.
 
We offer secured consumer loans with fixed
interest rates and terms up to 10 years and secured lines of credit with adjustable-rates based on the prime interest rate as published
in The Wall Street Journal with terms up to five years. We also offer fixed-rate unsecured consumer loans and lines of credit
with terms up to five years. For more information on our loan commitments, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Risk Management–Liquidity Management.” At June 30,
2012, we had $35.6 million of consumer loans outstanding, or 12.4% of total loans.
 

Agricultural Loans. Our agricultural
loans were acquired in connection with our acquisition of the Ripley County branch offices in 2010. Our agricultural loans generally
consist of short and medium-term loans and lines of credit that are primarily used for crops, livestock, equipment and general
operations. Agricultural loans are ordinarily secured by assets such as livestock, crops or equipment and are repaid from the operations
of the farm. Agricultural loans generally have maturities of five years or less, with operating lines for one production season.
We have a loan officer who specializes in agricultural lending. At June 30, 2012, we had $3.2 million of agricultural
loans outstanding, or 1.1% of total loans. At June 30, 2012, our largest outstanding agricultural loan balance was $349,000,
and is secured by farm equipment and crops. This loan was performing in accordance with its original contractual terms at June 30,
2012.
 
Loan Underwriting Risks
 
Adjustable-Rate Loans. While
we anticipate that adjustable-rate loans will better offset the adverse effects of an increase in interest rates as compared to
fixed-rate mortgages, the increased mortgage payments required of adjustable-rate loan borrowers in a rising interest rate environment
could cause an increase in delinquencies and defaults. The marketability of the underlying property also may be adversely affected
in a high interest rate environment. In addition, although adjustable-rate mortgage loans help make our loan portfolio more responsive
to changes in interest rates, the extent of this interest sensitivity is limited by the annual and lifetime interest rate adjustment
limits.
 
Multi-Family and Nonresidential Real
Estate and Land Loans. Loans secured by multi-family and nonresidential real estate generally have larger balances and
involve a greater degree of risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Of primary concern in multi-family and nonresidential
real estate lending is the borrower’s creditworthiness and the feasibility and cash flow potential of the project. Payments
on loans secured by income properties often depend on successful operation and management of the properties. As a result, repayment
of such loans may be subject to a greater extent than residential real estate loans to adverse conditions in the real estate market
or the economy. To monitor cash flows on income properties, we require borrowers, co-borrowers and loan guarantors of loan relationships
totaling $1.0 million or more, in the aggregate, to provide annual financial statements and/or tax returns. In reaching a decision
on whether to make a multi-family and nonresidential real estate loan, we consider the net operating income of the property, the
borrower’s expertise, credit history and profitability and the value of the underlying property. We have generally required
that the properties securing these real estate loans have debt service coverage ratios (the ratio of earnings before debt service
to debt service) of at least 1.20x. Environmental surveys and inspections are generally required for loans over $500,000.
 


8
 

 
We underwrite all loan participations to
our own underwriting standards and will not participate in a loan unless each participant has at least a 10% interest in the loan.
In addition, we also consider the financial strength and reputation of the lead lender. To monitor cash flows on loan participations,
we require the lead lender to provide us with annual financial statements from the borrower. Generally, we also conduct an annual
internal loan review for loan participations.
 
Construction Loans. Construction
financing is generally considered to involve a higher degree of risk of loss than long-term financing on improved, occupied real
estate. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon the accuracy of the initial estimate of the property’s value
at completion of construction and the estimated cost (including interest) of construction. During the construction phase, a number
of factors could result in delays and cost overruns. If the estimate of construction costs proves to be inaccurate, we may be required
to advance funds beyond the amount originally committed to permit completion of the building. If the estimate of value proves to
be inaccurate, we may be confronted, at or before the maturity of the loan, with a building having a value which is insufficient
to assure full repayment. If we are forced to foreclose on a building before or at completion due to a default, there can be no
assurance that we will be able to recover all of the unpaid balance of, and accrued interest on, the loan as well as related foreclosure
and holding costs.
 
Commercial Loans. Unlike one-
to four-family mortgage loans, which generally are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from his
or her employment or other income, and which are secured by real property the value of which tends to be more easily ascertainable,
commercial loans are of higher risk and typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from
the cash flow of the borrower’s business. As a result, the availability of funds for the repayment of commercial loans may
depend substantially on the success of the business itself. Further, any collateral securing such loans may depreciate over time,
may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value.
 
Consumer Loans. Consumer loans
may entail greater risk than do one- to four-family mortgage loans, particularly in the case of consumer loans that are unsecured
or secured by assets that depreciate rapidly. In such cases, repossessed collateral for a defaulted consumer loan may not provide
an adequate source of repayment for the outstanding loan and the remaining deficiency often does not warrant further substantial
collection efforts against the borrower. In addition, consumer loan collections depend on the borrower’s continuing financial
stability, and therefore are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy. Furthermore,
the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered
on such loans.
 
Agricultural Loans. Payments
on agricultural loans are typically dependent on the profitable operation or management of the related farm property. The success
of the farm may be affected by many factors outside the control of the borrower, including adverse weather conditions that prevent
the planting of a crop or limit crop yields, declines in market prices for agricultural products and the impact of government
regulations. In addition, many farms are dependent on a limited number of key individuals whose injury or death may significantly
affect the successful operation of the farm. If the cash flow from a farming operation is diminished, the borrower’s ability
to repay the loan may be impaired. For loan relationships greater than $250,000, crop insurance is required at a minimum of 70%
of the loan amount when the crops are the Bank’s primary collateral.
 
Loan Originations, Purchases and Sales.
Loan originations come from a number of sources. The primary sources of loan originations are existing customers, walk-in traffic,
advertising and referrals from customers. We advertise on television and on radio and in newspapers that are widely circulated
in Dearborn, Ripley, Franklin, Ohio and Switzerland Counties, Indiana. Accordingly, when our rates are competitive, we attract
loans from throughout Dearborn, Ripley, Franklin, Ohio and Switzerland Counties, Indiana. We occasionally purchase loans and participation
interests in loans to supplement our origination efforts.
 
We generally originate loans for our portfolio,
but our current practice is to sell to the secondary market almost all newly originated conforming fixed-rate, 15-, 20-, 25- and 30-year
one- to four-family mortgage loans and to hold in our portfolio fixed-rate loans with 10-year terms or less and adjustable-rate
loans. Our decision to sell loans is based on prevailing market interest rate conditions and interest rate risk management considerations.
Loans are sold to Freddie Mac with servicing retained.
 
Loan Approval Procedures and Authority.
Our lending activities follow written, non-discriminatory underwriting standards and loan origination procedures established
by our Board of Directors and management. The Board has granted the Management Mortgage Loan Committee (comprised of the President,
Executive Vice President and the Senior Vice President, Lending) with loan approval authority for mortgage loans up to $200,000
and to the Board Loan Committee, consisting of the President, the Executive Vice President and three to four other members of the
Board, up to $1.0 million.
 


9
 

 
The Board has granted authority
to approve consumer loans to certain employees up to prescribed limits, depending on the officer’s experience and
tenure. The Board also granted loan approval authority to the Management Consumer Loan Committee, consisting of the President
and the Executive Vice President, the Senior Vice President, Lending and two other experienced lenders. Any two members of
the Loan Committee may approve consumer loans secured by real estate up to $250,000, and consumer loans secured by assets
other than real estate up to $100,000 and unsecured loans up to $15,000. The Board of Directors has also granted loan
approval authority to the Management Commercial Loan Committee, consisting of the President, the Executive Vice President,
and the Senior Vice President, Lending. Any two members of the Loan Committee may approve commercial loans secured by real
estate up to $250,000, commercial loans secured by assets other than real estate up to $50,000 and unsecured commercial loans
up to $25,000. The Management Commercial Loan Committee may approve commercial loans secured by real estate up to $500,000,
commercial loans secured by assets other than real estate up to $100,000 and unsecured commercial loans up to $50,000 with
unanimous approval by the Committee.
 
The Board Loan Committee may approve consumer
and commercial loans secured by real estate up to $1,000,000, consumer and commercial loans secured by assets other than real estate
up to $300,000 and unsecured commercial loans up to $100,000.
 
All loans in excess of these limits must
be approved by the full Board of Directors.
 
Loans to One Borrower. The
maximum amount that we may lend to one borrower and the borrower’s related entities generally is limited, by regulation,
to 15% of our unimpaired capital and surplus. At June 30, 2012, our general regulatory limit on loans to one borrower was
$7.5 million. On June 30, 2012, our largest lending relationship was a $7.2 million multi-family real estate loan relationship.
The loans that comprise this relationship were performing according to their restructured terms at June 30, 2012. In 2007,
to reduce the risk of loss to any one borrower, the Board established a loans to one borrower limit of 7.5% of unimpaired capital
and surplus. At June 30, 2012, this limit was $3.8 million. Any relationship in excess of 7.5% at the time of implementation
of our in-house limit was grandfathered.
 
Loan Commitments. We issue
commitments for fixed- and adjustable-rate mortgage loans conditioned upon the occurrence of certain events. Commitments to originate
mortgage loans are legally binding agreements to lend to our customers. Generally, our mortgage loan commitments expire after 30
days.
 
Investment Activities
 
We have legal authority to invest in various
types of liquid assets, including U.S. Treasury obligations, securities of various federal agencies, state and municipal governments,
deposits at the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis and certificates of deposit of federally insured institutions. We also
are required to maintain an investment in Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis stock. While we have the authority under applicable
law to invest in derivative securities, our investment policy does not permit such investments. We had no investments in derivative
securities at June 30, 2012.
 
At June 30, 2012, our investment portfolio
totaled $146.4 million and consisted primarily of municipal bonds and mortgage-backed securities issued primarily by Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac.
 
At June 30, 2012, $13.4 million of
our investment portfolio consisted of callable securities. These securities were included in municipal bonds. These securities
contain either a one-time call option or may be called any time after the first call date. We face reinvestment risk with callable
securities, particularly during periods of falling market interest rates when issuers of callable securities tend to call or redeem
their securities. Reinvestment risk is the risk that we may have to reinvest the proceeds from called securities at lower rates
of return than the rates paid on the called securities.
 
Our investment objectives are to provide
and maintain liquidity, to establish an acceptable level of interest rate and credit risk, to provide an alternate source of income
when demand for loans is weak and to generate a favorable return. The Investment Committee is responsible for the implementation
of the investment policy. The Management Investment Committee, consisting of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer,
and the Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for monitoring our investment performance. Portfolio composition and performance
are reviewed by our board of directors quarterly.
 
Deposit Activities and Other Sources of Funds 
 
General. Deposits, borrowings
and loan repayments are the major sources of our funds for lending and other investment purposes. Loan repayments are a relatively
stable source of funds, while deposit inflows and outflows and loan prepayments are significantly influenced by general interest
rates and market conditions.
 


10
 

 
Deposit Accounts. Substantially
all of our depositors are residents of the State of Indiana. We attract deposits in our market area through advertising and through
our website. We offer a broad selection of deposit instruments, including noninterest-bearing demand accounts (such as checking
accounts), interest-bearing accounts (such as interest-bearing checking and money market accounts), regular savings accounts and
certificates of deposit. Municipal deposits comprise a substantial portion of our total deposits. At June 30, 2012, $103.1
million, or 24.1% of our total deposits, were municipal deposits compared to 47.9% of total deposits at June 30, 2006. While we
expect municipal deposits to continue to remain an important source of funding, we expect to continue to improve our funding mix
by marketing lower cost core retail deposits, with the goal to reduce the portion of our deposit portfolio comprised of municipal
deposits. Municipal deposits decreased $8.1 million from June 30, 2011 until June 30, 2012. During that same period core deposits
increased $22.0 million. At June 30, 2012, we did not utilize brokered deposits. Deposit account terms vary according to
the minimum balance required, the time periods the funds must remain on deposit and the interest rate, among other factors. In
determining the terms of our deposit accounts, we consider the rates offered by our competition, our liquidity needs, profitability
to us, matching deposit and loan products and customer preferences and concerns. We generally review our deposit mix and pricing
bi-weekly. Our current strategy is to offer competitive rates and to be in the middle of our market for rates on all types of
deposit products.
 
Borrowings. We may utilize
advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis to supplement our supply of investable funds. The Federal Home Loan Bank
functions as a central reserve bank providing credit for its member financial institutions. As a member, we are required to own
capital stock in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis and are authorized to apply for advances on the security of such stock
and certain of our whole first mortgage loans and other assets (principally securities which are obligations of, or guaranteed
by, the United States), provided certain standards related to creditworthiness have been met. Advances are made under several different
programs, each having its own interest rate and range of maturities. Depending on the program, limitations on the amount of advances
are based either on a fixed percentage of an institution’s net worth or on the Federal Home Loan Bank’s assessment
of the institution’s creditworthiness. At June 30, 2012, $10.8 million was advanced from the Federal Home Loan Bank
at an average interest rate of 1.81%, and we had the ability to draw up to an additional $92.1 million from the Federal Home Loan
Bank.
 
Personnel
 
As of June 30, 2012, we had 97 full-time
employees and 17 part-time employees, none of which are represented by a collective bargaining unit. We believe our relationship
with our employees is good.
 
Subsidiaries
 
United Community Bank has two subsidiaries:
United Community Bank Financial Services, Inc. and UCB Real Estate Management Holdings, LLC. United Community Bank Financial Services,
Inc. receives commissions from the sale of non-deposit investment and insurance products. UCB Real Estate Management Holdings,
LLC owns and operates real estate that has been acquired through, or in lieu of, foreclosure.
 
Regulation and Supervision 
 
General
 
As a federal mutual holding company, United
Community MHC is required by federal law to report to, and otherwise comply with the rules and regulations of, the Federal Reserve
Board. United Community Bancorp, as a federally chartered corporation, is also subject to reporting to and regulation by the Federal
Reserve Board. United Community Bank is subject to extensive regulation, examination and supervision by the OCC, as its primary
federal regulator, and the FDIC, as the deposit insurer. United Community Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System
and, with respect to deposit insurance, of the Deposit Insurance Fund managed by the FDIC. United Community Bank must file reports
with the OCC and the FDIC concerning its activities and financial condition in addition to obtaining regulatory approvals prior
to entering into certain transactions such as mergers with, or acquisitions of, other savings institutions. The OCC and/or the
FDIC conduct periodic examinations to test United Community Bank’s safety and soundness and compliance with various regulatory
requirements.
 
This regulation and supervision establishes
a comprehensive framework of activities in which an institution can engage and is intended primarily for the protection of the
insurance fund and depositors. The regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection
with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to the classification
of assets and the establishment of adequate allowance for loan losses for regulatory purposes. Any change in such regulatory requirements
and policies, whether by the Federal Reserve Board, the OCC, the FDIC or Congress, could have a material adverse impact on United
Community MHC, United Community Bancorp, United Community Bank and their operations.
 


11
 

 
The Dodd-Frank Act made extensive changes
in the regulation of federal savings banks such as United Community Bank. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision
was eliminated and responsibility for the supervision and regulation of federal savings banks was transferred on July 21, 2011
to the OCC, the agency that is also primarily responsible for the regulation and supervision of national banks. On this date,
the OCC assumed responsibility for implementing and enforcing many of the laws and regulations applicable to federal savings banks.
On the same date, responsibility for the regulation and supervision of savings and loan holding companies was transferred to the
Federal Reserve Board, which also supervises bank holding companies. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau as an independent bureau of the Federal Reserve Board. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau assumed responsibility
for the implementation of the federal financial consumer protection and fair lending laws and regulations, a function prior to
enactment assigned to prudential regulators, and will have authority to impose new requirements. However, institutions of less
than $10 billion in assets, such as United Community Bank, will continue to be examined for compliance with consumer protection
and fair lending laws and regulations by, and be subject to the enforcement authority of, their primary regulators.
 
As part of the Dodd-Frank Act regulatory
restructuring, the Office of Thrift Supervision’s authority over savings and loan holding companies, such as United Community
MHC and United Community Bancorp, was transferred to the Federal Reserve Board, which is the agency that regulates and supervises
bank holding companies.
 
Certain regulatory requirements currently
applicable to United Community Bank and to United Community MHC are referred to below or elsewhere herein. The description of statutory
provisions and regulations applicable to savings institutions and their holding companies set forth below and elsewhere in this
document does not purport to be a complete description of such statutes and regulations and their effects on United Community Bank
and United Community MHC and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual statutes and regulations.
 
Holding Company Regulation
 
General. United Community
MHC is a savings and loan holding company within the meaning of federal law. As such, United Community MHC is registered with the
Federal Reserve Board and is subject to Federal Reserve Board regulations, examinations, supervision and reporting requirements.
In addition, the Federal Reserve Board has enforcement authority over United Community MHC and its non-savings institution subsidiaries.
Among other things, this authority permits the Federal Reserve Board to restrict or prohibit activities that are determined to
be a serious risk to United Community Bank.
 
Activities Restrictions Applicable
to Mutual Holding Companies. Pursuant to federal law and Federal Reserve Board regulations, a mutual holding company, such
as United Community MHC, may engage in the following activities: (i) investing in the stock of a savings association; (ii) acquiring
a mutual association through the merger of such association into a savings association subsidiary of such holding company or an
interim savings association subsidiary of such holding company; (iii) merging with or acquiring another holding company, one
of whose subsidiaries is a savings association; (iv) investing in a corporation, the capital stock of which is available for
purchase by a savings association under federal law or under the law of any state where the subsidiary savings association or associations
share their home offices; (v) furnishing or performing management services for a savings association subsidiary of such company;
(vi) holding, managing or liquidating assets owned or acquired from a savings subsidiary of such company; (vii) holding
or managing properties used or occupied by a savings association subsidiary of such company; (viii) acting as trustee under
deeds of trust; (ix) any other activity (A) that the Federal Reserve Board, by regulation, has determined to be permissible
for bank holding companies under Section 4(c) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, unless the Federal Reserve
Board, by regulation, prohibits or limits any such activity for savings and loan holding companies; or (B) in which multiple
savings and loan holding companies were authorized (by regulation) to directly engage on March 5, 1987; and (x) purchasing,
holding, or disposing of stock acquired in connection with a qualified stock issuance if the purchase of such stock by such savings
and loan holding company is approved by the Federal Reserve Board.
 
The Gramm-Leach Bliley Act of 1999 was designed
to modernize the regulation of the financial services industry by expanding the ability of bank holding companies to affiliate
with other types of financial services companies such as insurance companies and investment banking companies. The legislation
also expanded the activities permitted for mutual savings and loan holding companies to also include any activity permitted a “financial
holding company” under the legislation, including a broad array of insurance and securities activities.
 
Federal law prohibits a savings and loan
holding company, including a federal mutual holding company, from, directly or indirectly or through one or more subsidiaries,
acquiring more than 5% of the voting stock of another savings institution, or holding company thereof, without prior written approval
of the Federal Reserve Board or from acquiring or retaining, with certain exceptions, more than 5% of a non-subsidiary holding
company or savings association. A savings and loan holding company is also prohibited from acquiring more than 5% of a company
engaged in activities other than those authorized by federal law; or acquiring or retaining control of a depository institution
that is not insured by the FDIC. In evaluating applications by holding companies to acquire savings institutions, the Federal Reserve
Board must consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of United Community MHC and the institution involved,
the effect of the acquisition on the risk to the insurance funds, the convenience and needs of the community and competitive factors.
 


12
 

 
The Federal Reserve Board is prohibited
from approving any acquisition that would result in a multiple savings and loan holding company controlling savings institutions
in more than one state, except: (i) the approval of interstate supervisory acquisitions by savings and loan holding companies;
and (ii) the acquisition of a savings institution in another state if the laws of the state of the target savings institution
specifically permit such acquisitions. The states vary in the extent to which they permit interstate savings and loan holding company
acquisitions.
 
Although savings and loan holding companies
are not currently subject to regulatory capital requirements or specific restrictions on the payment of dividends or other capital
distributions, federal regulations do prescribe such restrictions on subsidiary savings institutions as described below. United
Community Bank must notify the Federal Reserve Board 30 days before declaring any dividend. In addition, the financial impact of
a holding company on its subsidiary institution is a matter that is evaluated by the Federal Reserve Board and the agency has authority
to order cessation of activities or divestiture of subsidiaries deemed to pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the institution.
 
Capital Requirements. Savings
and loan holding companies are not currently subject to specific regulatory capital requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act, however,
requires the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate consolidated capital requirements for depository institution holding companies
that are no less stringent, both quantitatively and in terms of components of capital, than those applicable to institutions themselves.
There is a five-year transition period from the July 21, 2010 date of enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act before the capital requirements
will apply to savings and loan holding companies. However, under the most recent Notice of Proposed Rulemaking issued by the Federal
Reserve Board, savings and loan holding companies may be subject to regulatory capital requirements prior to the end of the five-year
period. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate regulations implementing the “source of
strength” policy that holding companies act as a source of strength to their subsidiary depository institutions by providing
capital liquidity and other support in times of financial stress.
 
Stock Holding Company Subsidiary Regulation.
The Federal Reserve Board has adopted regulations governing the two-tier mutual holding company form of organization and mid-tier
stock holding companies that are controlled by mutual holding companies. Under these rules, the stock holding company subsidiary
holds all the shares of the mutual holding company’s savings institution subsidiary and issues the majority of its own shares
to the mutual holding company parent. In addition, the stock holding company subsidiary is permitted to engage in activities that
are permitted for its mutual holding company parent subject to the same terms and conditions. Finally, Federal Reserve Board regulations
maintain that the stock holding company subsidiary must be federally chartered for supervisory reasons.
 
Acquisition of Control. Under
the Home Owners Loan Act, a notice must be submitted to the Federal Reserve Board if any person (including a company), or group
acting in concert, seeks to acquire “control” of a savings and loan holding company or savings institution. Under certain
circumstances, a change of control may occur, and prior notice is required, upon the acquisition of 10% or more of the outstanding
voting stock of United Community MHC or the institution, unless the Federal Reserve Board has found that the acquisition will not
result in a change of control of United Community MHC. Under the Change in Bank Control Act, the Federal Reserve Board generally
has 60 days from the filing of a complete notice to act, taking into consideration certain factors, including the financial and
managerial resources of the acquirer and the anti-trust effects of the acquisition.
 
Under the Home Owners Loan Act, no company
may acquire “control” of a savings association with the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board. Any company that
so acquires control would then be subject to regulation as a savings and loan holding company. Under federal regulations, an entity
is deemed to acquire control of a savings association if it acquires 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities or the
ability to control the election of the majority of the board of directors. Moreover, control is presumed to have been acquired,
subject to rebuttal, upon the acquisition of control of 10 percent or more of any class of voting securities, or of 25 percent
or more of any class of non-voting securities, of a savings institution if certain enumerated “indicia of control”
exist. The Federal Reserve Board may prohibit an acquisition if (a) it would result in a monopoly or substantially lessen competition,
(b) the financial condition of the acquiring person might jeopardize the financial stability of the institution, or (c) the competence,
experience or integrity of the acquiring person indicates that it would not be in the interest of the depositors or of the public
to permit the acquisition of control by such person. The foregoing restrictions do not apply to the acquisition of a savings institution’s
capital stock by one or more tax-qualified employee stock benefit plans, provided that the plan or plans do not have beneficial
ownership in the aggregate of more than 25% of any class of equity security of the savings institution.
 
Waivers of Dividends. Federal
Reserve Board regulations require United Community MHC to notify the Federal Reserve Board if it proposes to waive receipt of dividends
from United Community Bancorp. The Federal Reserve Board reviews dividend waiver notices on a case-by-case basis, and, the Federal
Reserve Board may not object to such a waiver (i) if the mutual holding company involved has, prior to December 1, 2009,
reorganized into a mutual holding company structure, engaged in a minority stock offering and waived dividends; (ii) the board
of directors of the mutual holding company expressly determines that a waiver of the dividend is consistent with its fiduciary
duties to members; and (iii) the waiver would not be detrimental to the safe and sound operation of the savings association
subsidiaries of the holding company.
 
While United Community MHC is grandfathered
for purposes of the Federal Reserve Board dividend waiver regulations, we cannot assure that the Federal Reserve Board will grant
a dividend waiver request and, if granted, there can be no assurance as to the conditions, if any, the Federal Reserve Board will
place on future dividend waiver requests by grandfathered mutual holding companies such as United Community MHC.
 
United Community MHC has not determined
whether it will seek, and if sought, is unable to predict whether it will be able to obtain, the member vote required for the dividend
waiver from the Federal Reserve Board. Although United Community MHC did not waive dividends for the quarter ended June 30, 2012,
the inability to waive dividends to United Community MHC may result in a reduction or suspension of dividends paid to United Community
Bancorp stockholders.
 


13
 

 
The Federal Reserve Board’s interim
final rule regarding dividend waiver requests is subject to comment and there can be no assurances as to the form of the final
dividend waiver regulations or their effect on United Community MHC’s ability to waive dividends. See Item 1A. “Risk
Factors” “Our ability to pay dividends is subject to the waiver of dividends by United Community MHC.”
 
Conversion of United Community MHC
to Stock Form. Federal Reserve Board regulations permit United Community MHC to convert from the mutual form of
organization to the capital stock form of organization. The Board of Directors of United Community MHC, United Community Bancorp
and United Community Bank have adopted a plan of conversion and reorganization, whereby a new holding company would be formed as
the successor to United Community Bancorp, United Community MHC’s corporate existence would end and certain depositors of
United Community Bank would receive the right to subscribe for additional shares of the new holding company in connection with
the conversion of United Community MHC to the fully public form of organization. In a conversion transaction, each share of
common stock held by stockholders other than United Community MHC would be automatically converted into a number of shares of common
stock of the new holding company based on an exchange ratio determined at the time of conversion that ensures that stockholders
other than United Community MHC own the same percentage of common stock in the new holding company as they owned in United Community
Bancorp immediately before conversion. The total number of shares held by stockholders other than United Community MHC after
a conversion transaction would be increased by any purchases by such stockholders in the stock offering conducted as part of the
conversion transaction. There can be no assurance when, if ever, the conversion will be completed.
 
The Dodd-Frank Act provides that the Federal
Reserve Board will not consider the amount of dividends waived by the mutual holding company in determining an appropriate exchange
ratio in the event of a full conversion to stock form because United Community MHC was formed, engaged in a minority stock offering
and waived dividends prior to December 1, 2009.
 
 
Federal Savings Institution Regulation
 
Business Activities. The activities
of federal savings banks, such as United Community Bank, are governed by federal law and regulations. These laws and regulations
delineate the nature and extent of the business activities in which federal savings banks may engage. In particular, certain lending
authority for federal savings institutions, e.g., commercial, non-residential real property loans and consumer loans, is
limited to a specified percentage of the institution’s capital or assets.
 
Capital Requirements. The
OCC capital regulations require savings institutions to meet three minimum capital standards: a 1.5% tangible capital to total
assets ratio; a 4% Tier 1 capital to total assets leverage ratio (3% for institutions receiving the highest rating on the CAMELS
examination rating system); and an 8% risk-based capital ratio. In addition, the prompt corrective action standards discussed below
also establish, in effect, a minimum 2% tangible capital standard, a 4% leverage ratio (3% for institutions receiving the highest
rating on the CAMELS system) and, together with the risk-based capital standard itself, a 4% Tier 1 risk-based capital standard.
The OCC regulations also require that, in meeting the tangible, leverage and risk-based capital standards, institutions must generally
deduct investments in and loans to subsidiaries engaged in activities as principal that are not permissible for a national bank.
 
The risk-based capital standard for savings
institutions requires the maintenance of Tier 1 (core) and total capital (which is defined as core capital and supplementary capital
less certain specified deductions from total capital such as reciprocal holdings of depository institution capital instruments
and equity investments) to risk-weighted assets of at least 4% and 8%, respectively. In determining the amount of risk-weighted
assets, all assets, including certain off-balance sheet activities, recourse obligations, residual interests and direct credit
substitutes, are multiplied by a risk-weight factor of 0% to 100%, assigned by the OCC capital regulation based on the risks believed
inherent in the type of asset. Core (Tier 1) capital is generally defined as common stockholders’ equity (including retained
earnings), certain noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus, and minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated
subsidiaries less intangibles other than certain mortgage servicing rights and credit card relationships. The components of supplementary
capital (Tier 2 capital) currently include cumulative preferred stock, long-term perpetual preferred stock, mandatory convertible
securities, subordinated debt and intermediate preferred stock, the allowance for loan and lease losses, limited to a maximum of
1.25% of risk-weighted assets, and up to 45% of unrealized gains on available-for-sale equity securities with readily determinable
fair market values. Overall, the amount of supplementary capital included as part of total capital cannot exceed 100% of core capital.
 
The OCC also has authority to establish
individual minimum capital requirements in appropriate cases upon a determination that an institution’s capital level is
or may become inadequate in light of the particular circumstances. At June 30, 2012, United Community Bank met each of its
capital requirements. The federal bank regulators have issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that would implement the Basel III
Capital Accord. However, the proposal is not in effect and the terms of a final rule, if adopted, are not known.
 


14
 

 
Prompt Corrective Regulatory Action.
The OCC is required to take certain supervisory actions against undercapitalized institutions, the severity of which depends upon
the institution’s degree of undercapitalization. Generally, a savings institution that has a ratio of total capital to risk
weighted assets of less than 8%, a ratio of Tier 1 (core) capital to risk-weighted assets of less than 4% or a ratio of core capital
to total assets of less than 4% (3% or less for institutions with the highest examination rating) is considered to be “undercapitalized.”
A savings institution that has a total risk-based capital ratio less than 6%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of less than 3% or a leverage
ratio that is less than 3% is considered to be “significantly undercapitalized” and a savings institution that has
a tangible capital to assets ratio equal to or less than 2% is deemed to be “critically undercapitalized.” Subject
to a narrow exception, the OCC is required to appoint a receiver or conservator within specified time frames for an institution
that is “critically undercapitalized.” The regulation also provides that a capital restoration plan must be filed with
the OCC within 45 days of the date a savings institution is deemed to have received notice that it is “undercapitalized,”
“significantly undercapitalized” or “critically undercapitalized.” Compliance with the plan must be guaranteed
by any parent holding company in an amount of up to the lesser of 5% of the savings association’s total assets when it was
deemed to be undercapitalized or the amount necessary to achieve compliance with applicable capital regulations. In addition, numerous
mandatory supervisory actions become immediately applicable to an undercapitalized institution, including, but not limited to,
increased monitoring by regulators and restrictions on growth, capital distributions and expansion. The OCC could also take any
one of a number of discretionary supervisory actions, including the issuance of a capital directive and the replacement of senior
executive officers and directors. Significantly and undercapitalized institutions are subject to additional mandatory and discretionary
measures.
 
Insurance of Deposit Accounts.
The Bank’s deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC. Under the FDIC’s
risk-based assessment system, insured institutions are assigned to one of four risk categories based on supervisory evaluations,
regulatory capital levels and certain other factors, with less risky institutions paying lower assessments. An institution’s
assessment rate depends upon the category to which it is assigned. Effective April 1, 2009, assessment rates ranged from 7
to 77.5 basis points. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC issued final rules, effective April 1, 2011, implementing changes to the assessment
rules resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act. Initially, the base assessment rates will range from 2.5 to 45 basis points. The rate
schedules will automatically adjust in the future when the Deposit Insurance Fund reaches certain milestones. No institution may
pay a dividend if in default of the federal deposit insurance assessment.
 
As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC
amended its procedures to base assessments on total assets less tangible equity rather than deposits.
 
The FDIC imposed on all insured institutions
a special emergency assessment of five basis points of total assets minus Tier 1 capital, as of June 30, 2009 (capped at
ten basis points of an institution’s deposit assessment base), in order to cover losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund. That
special assessment was collected on September 30, 2009. The FDIC also provided for similar assessments during the final two
quarters of 2009, if they were deemed necessary. In lieu of further special assessments, however, the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation required insured institutions to prepay estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009
through the fourth quarter of 2012. This pre-payment was due on December 30, 2009. The assessment rate for the fourth
quarter of 2009 and for 2010 was based on each institution’s total base assessment rate for the third quarter of 2009, modified
to assume that the assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009 had been in effect for the entire third quarter, and the
assessment rate for 2011 and 2012 will be equal to the modified third quarter assessment rate plus an additional 3 basis points. In
addition, each institution’s base assessment rate for each period was calculated using its third quarter assessment base,
adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. Our prepayment
amount was approximately $1.9 million. The prepayment was recorded as a prepaid expense asset as of December 30, 2009. As
of December 31, 2009 and each quarter thereafter, a change to earnings will be recorded for each regular assessment with
an offsetting credit to the prepaid asset.
 
The Dodd-Frank Act increased the minimum
target Deposit Insurance Fund ratio from 1.15% of estimated insured deposits to 1.35% of estimated insured deposits. The FDIC must
seek to achieve the 1.35% ratio by September 30, 2020. Insured institutions with assets of $10 billion or more are supposed to
fund the increase. The Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the 1.5% maximum fund ratio, instead leaving it to the discretion of the FDIC.
 
Due to the difficult economic conditions,
deposit insurance per account owner was raised to $250,000 for all types of accounts. That level of coverage was made permanent
by the Dodd-Frank Act.
 
In addition, the FDIC adopted an optional
Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program by which, for a fee, noninterest bearing transaction accounts would receive unlimited insurance
coverage until June 30, 2010, subsequently extended to December 31, 2010, and certain senior unsecured debt issued by
institutions and their holding companies between October 13, 2008 and December 31, 2009 would be guaranteed by the FDIC
through June 30, 2012, or in some cases, December 31, 2012. United Community Bank and its parent companies made the business
decision to participate in both programs. The Dodd-Frank Act adopted unlimited coverage for certain non-interest bearing transaction
accounts for January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2012, with no apparent opt out option.
 


15
 

 
In addition to the assessment for deposit
insurance, institutions are required to make payments on bonds issued in the late 1980s by the Financing Corporation to recapitalize
a predecessor deposit insurance fund. That payment is established quarterly.
 
The FDIC has authority to increase insurance
assessments. A significant increase in insurance premiums would likely have an adverse effect on the operating expenses and
results of operations of United Community Bank. Management cannot predict what insurance assessment rates will be in the future.
 
Insurance of deposits may be terminated
by the FDIC upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition
to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC or the OCC. The
management of United Community Bank does not know of any practice, condition or violation that might lead to termination of deposit
insurance.
 
Loans to One Borrower. Federal
law provides that savings institutions are generally subject to the limits on loans to one borrower applicable to national banks.
Generally, subject to certain exceptions, a savings institution may not make a loan or extend credit to a single or related group
of borrowers in excess of 15% of its unimpaired capital and surplus. An additional amount may be lent, equal to 10% of unimpaired
capital and surplus, if secured by specified readily-marketable collateral.
 
QTL Test. Federal law requires
savings institutions to meet a qualified thrift lender test. Under the test, a savings association is required to either qualify
as a “domestic building and loan association” under the Internal Revenue Code or maintain at least 65% of its “portfolio
assets” (total assets less: (i) specified liquid assets up to 20% of total assets; (ii) intangibles, including
goodwill; and (iii) the value of property used to conduct business) in certain “qualified thrift investments”
(primarily residential mortgages and related investments, including certain mortgage-backed securities but also including education
loans, credit card loans and small business loans) in at least 9 months out of each 12-month period.
 
A savings institution that fails the qualified
thrift lender test is subject to certain operating restrictions. The Dodd-Frank Act also specifies that failing the qualified thrift
lender test is a violation of law that could result in possible enforcement action for violation of law and imposes dividend limitations.
 
As of June 30, 2012, United Community
Bank met the qualified thrift lender test.
 
Limitation on Capital Distributions.
Federal Reserve Board and OCC regulations impose limitations upon all capital distributions by a savings institution, including
cash dividends, payments to repurchase its shares and payments to shareholders of another institution in a cash-out merger. Under
the regulations, a notice must be filed with the Federal Reserve Board 30 days prior to declaring a dividend, with a notice to
the OCC. The Federal Reserve Board may disapprove a dividend notice if the proposed dividend raises safety and soundness concerns,
the institution would be undercapitalized following the distribution or the distribution would otherwise be contrary to a statute,
regulation or agreement with the OCC. In the event United Community Bank’s capital fell below its regulatory requirements
or the OCC notified it that it was in need of increased supervision, United Community Bank’s ability to make capital distributions
could be restricted. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board could prohibit a proposed capital distribution by any institution,
which would otherwise be permitted by the regulation, if the Federal Reserve Board determines that such distribution would constitute
an unsafe or unsound practice. Federal law further provides that no insured depository institution may pay a dividend that causes
it to fall below any applicable regulatory capital requirement or if it is in default of its FDIC deposit insurance assessment.
 
Standards for Safety and Soundness.
The federal banking agencies have adopted Interagency Guidelines prescribing Standards for Safety and Soundness. The guidelines
set forth the safety and soundness standards that the federal banking agencies use to identify and address problems at insured
depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. If the OCC determines that a savings institution fails to meet any standard
prescribed by the guidelines, the OCC may require the institution to submit an acceptable plan to achieve compliance with the standard.
 
Transactions with Related Parties.
United Community Bank’s authority to engage in transactions with “affiliates” (e.g., any entity that controls
or is under common control with an institution, including United Community MHC, United Community Bancorp and any non-savings institution
subsidiaries) is limited by federal law. The aggregate amount of covered transactions with any individual affiliate is limited
to 10% of the capital and surplus of the savings institution. The aggregate amount of covered transactions with all affiliates
is limited to 20% of the savings institution’s capital and surplus. Certain transactions with affiliates are required to
be secured by collateral in an amount and of a type specified by federal law. The purchase of low quality assets from affiliates
is generally prohibited. The transactions with affiliates must be on terms and under circumstances that are at least as favorable
to the institution as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with non-affiliated companies. In addition, savings
institutions are prohibited from lending to any affiliate that is engaged in activities that are not permissible for bank holding
companies and no savings institution may purchase the securities of any affiliate other than a subsidiary.
 


16
 

 
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 generally
prohibits loans by a company to its executive officers and directors. However, the law contains a specific exception for loans
by United Community Bank to its executive officers and directors in compliance with federal banking laws. Under such laws, United
Community Bank’s authority to extend credit to executive officers, directors and 10% shareholders (“insiders”),
as well as entities such persons control, is limited. The law limits both the individual and aggregate amount of loans United Community
Bank may make to insiders based, in part, on United Community Bank’s capital position and requires certain board approval
procedures to be followed. Such loans are required to be made on terms substantially the same as those offered to unaffiliated
individuals and not involve more than the normal risk of repayment. There is an exception for loans made pursuant to a benefit
or compensation program that is widely available to all employees of the institution and does not give preference to insiders over
other employees. Additional restrictions apply to loans by United Community Bank to its executive officers.
 
Enforcement. The OCC has primary
enforcement responsibility over savings institutions and has the authority to bring actions against the institution and all institution-affiliated
parties, including stockholders, and any attorneys, appraisers and accountants who knowingly or recklessly participate in wrongful
actions likely to have an adverse effect on an insured institution. Formal enforcement action may range from the issuance of a
capital directive or cease and desist order to removal of officers and/or directors to institution of receivership, conservatorship
or termination of deposit insurance. Civil penalties cover a wide range of violations and can amount to $25,000 per day, or even
$1 million per day in especially egregious cases. The FDIC has the authority to recommend to the Director of the OCC that enforcement
action be taken with respect to a particular savings institution. If action is not taken by the Director, the FDIC has authority
to take such action under certain circumstances. Federal law also establishes criminal penalties for certain violations.
 
Assessments. Savings institutions
were previously required to pay assessments to the OCC to fund the agency’s operations. The general assessments, paid on
a semi-annual basis, are computed based upon the savings institution’s (including consolidated subsidiaries) total assets,
condition and complexity of portfolio. The OCC assessments paid by United Community Bancorp and United Community Bank for the fiscal
year ended June 30, 2012 totaled $133,000.
 
Federal Home Loan Bank System
 
United Community Bank is a member of the
Federal Home Loan Bank System, which consists of 12 regional Federal Home Loan Banks. The Federal Home Loan Bank provides a central
credit facility primarily for member institutions. United Community Bank, as a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank, is required
to acquire and hold shares of capital stock in that Federal Home Loan Bank. United Community Bank was in compliance with this requirement
with an investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock at June 30, 2012 of $6.6 million.
 
The Federal Home Loan Banks are required
to provide funds for the resolution of insolvent thrifts and to contribute funds for affordable housing programs. These requirements,
and general adverse operating results, could reduce the amount of dividends that the Federal Home Loan Banks pay to their members
also result in the Federal Home Loan Banks imposing a higher rate of interest on advances to their members. If dividends were reduced,
or interest on future Federal Home Loan Bank advances increased, United Community Bank’s net interest income would likely
also be reduced.
 
Federal Reserve System
 
The Federal Reserve Board regulations require
savings institutions to maintain non-interest earning reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily Negotiable Order of
Withdrawal (NOW) and regular checking accounts). The regulations generally provide that reserves be maintained against aggregate
transaction accounts as follows: a 3% reserve ratio is assessed on net transaction accounts up to and including $71.0 million;
a 10% reserve ratio is applied above $71.0 million. The first $11.5 million of otherwise reservable balances (subject to adjustment
by the Federal Reserve Board) are exempted from the reserve requirements. The amounts are adjusted annually. United Community Bank
complies with the foregoing requirements.
 
Federal and State Taxation 
 
Federal Income Taxation
 
General. United Community
Bank reports its income on a fiscal year basis using the accrual method of accounting. The federal income tax laws apply to United
Community Bank in the same manner as to other corporations with some exceptions, including the reserve for bad debts discussed
below. The following discussion of tax matters is intended only as a summary and does not purport to be a comprehensive description
of the tax rules applicable to United Community Bank. United Community Bank’s federal income tax returns have been either
audited or closed under the statute of limitations through June 30, 2008. For its tax year ending June 30, 2012, United Community
Bank’s maximum federal income tax rate was 34%.
 


17
 

 
Bad Debt Reserves. For fiscal
years beginning before June 30, 1996, thrift institutions that qualified under certain definitional tests and other conditions
of the Internal Revenue Code were permitted to use certain favorable provisions to calculate their deductions from taxable income
for annual additions to their bad debt reserve. A reserve could be established for bad debts on qualifying real property loans,
generally secured by interests in real property improved or to be improved, under the percentage of taxable income method or the
experience method. The reserve for nonqualifying loans was computed using the experience method. Federal legislation enacted in
1996 repealed the reserve method of accounting for bad debts and the percentage of taxable income method for tax years beginning
after 1995 and require savings institutions to recapture or take into income certain portions of their accumulated bad debt reserves.
Approximately $748,000 of United Community Bank’s accumulated bad debt reserves would not be recaptured into taxable income
unless United Community Bank makes a “non-dividend distribution” to United Community Bancorp as described below.
 
Distributions. If United Community
Bank makes “non-dividend distributions” to United Community Bancorp, the distributions will be considered to have been
made from United Community Bank’s unrecaptured tax bad debt reserves, including the balance of its reserves as of December 31,
1987, to the extent of the “non-dividend distributions,” and then from United Community Bank’s supplemental reserve
for losses on loans, to the extent of those reserves, and an amount based on the amount distributed, but not more than the amount
of those reserves, will be included in United Community Bank’s taxable income. Non-dividend distributions include distributions
in excess of United Community Bank’s current and accumulated earnings and profits, as calculated for federal income tax purposes,
distributions in redemption of stock and distributions in partial or complete liquidation. Dividends paid out of United Community
Bank’s current or accumulated earnings and profits will not be so included in United Community Bank’s taxable income.
 
The amount of additional taxable income
triggered by a non-dividend is an amount that, when reduced by the tax attributable to the income, is equal to the amount of the
distribution. Therefore, if United Community Bank makes a non-dividend distribution to United Community Bancorp, approximately
one and one-half times the amount of the distribution not in excess of the amount of the reserves would be includable in income
for federal income tax purposes, assuming a 34.0% federal corporate income tax rate. United Community Bank does not intend to pay
dividends that would result in a recapture of any portion of its bad debt reserves.
 
State Taxation
 
Indiana Taxation. Indiana
imposes an 8.5% franchise tax based on a financial institution’s adjusted gross income as defined by statute. Starting in
2012, this tax rate will drop by 0.5% per year until reaching 6.5% in 2015. In computing adjusted gross income, deductions
for municipal interest, U.S. Government interest, the bad debt deduction computed using the reserve method and pre-1990 net operating
losses are disallowed. United Community Bank’s state franchise tax returns have not been audited for the past five tax years.
 
Item 1A. Risk Factors 
 
An investment in shares of our common
stock involves various risks. Before deciding to invest in our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described
below in conjunction with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the items included as exhibits.
Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or by other risks that
have not been identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. The value or market price of our common stock could
decline due to any of these risks. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may
differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. 
 
Our nonperforming assets expose us to increased risk of loss.

 
Our nonperforming assets have increased
from historical levels primarily as a result of the recent economic recession. At June 30, 2012, we had total nonperforming
loans of $16.1 million, or 3.26% of total assets, a $4.5 million decrease from $20.6 million total at June 30, 2011. The decrease
in nonperforming loans in fiscal 2012 was primarily the result of a $7.5 million reduction due to troubled debt restructurings
which were placed on accrual (performing) status after performing in accordance with their restructured terms for at least six
consecutive months, partially offset by the addition of $3.0 million in new nonperforming loans in the current year. Troubled debt
restructurings are considered to be impaired loans. The elevated level of troubled debt restructurings at June 30, 2011 and
June 30, 2012 is related to continued weakness in the local economy.
 

18
 

 
Our nonperforming assets adversely affect
our net income in various ways. We do not accrue interest income on non-accrual loans and no interest income is recognized until
the loan is performing and the value of the underlying collateral supports recording interest income on a cash basis. We must
reserve for probable losses, which are established through a current period charge to income in the provision for loan losses,
and from time to time, write down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market
values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as
taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned. Further, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires
the active involvement of management, which can distract us from the overall supervision of operations and other income-producing
activities of United Community Bancorp. Finally, if our estimate of the allowance for loan losses is inaccurate, we will have
to increase the allowance accordingly. At June 30, 2012, our allowance for loan losses amounted to $5.6 million, or 1.95%
of total loans and 34.8% of nonperforming loans, compared to $5.3 million, or 1.83% of total loans and 25.9% of nonperforming
loans at June 30, 2011.
 
A significant amount of our troubled debt restructurings
are subject to interest rate increases or balloon payments over the next fiscal year. 
 
Over the two fiscal years ending June 30,
2011, we restructured approximately $13.0 million in nonresidential and multi-family loans under terms which required these lending
relationships to be classified as troubled debt restructurings. Two of the loan relationships, totaling $6.1 million at June 30,
2012, were granted interest rate concessions of 300-400 basis points. The loans comprising one of these loan relationships, having
an aggregate carrying value of $2.0 million at June 30, 2012, are subject to balloon payments during the quarter ending December
31, 2012. The interest rate concessions on the loans comprising the second loan relationship, having an aggregate carrying value
of $4.1 million at June 30, 2012, also expire during the quarter ending December 31, 2012. As of June 30, 2012, all of the loans
in these loan relationships were performing in accordance with their restructured terms. Additionally, seven loan relationships
were restructured using the “Note A/B” split note strategy. These loans, totaling $6.9 million at June 30, 2012, were
generally given interest rate reductions of between 200 and 400 basis points and were structured with two year balloon payments.
As of June 30, 2012, all of these loans were performing in accordance with their restructured terms; however, approximately $2.2
million of these loans were placed on nonaccrual status due to the loss of a major tenant. Approximately $6.0 million of these
loans at June 30, 2012 are subject to a balloon payment due during the quarter ended March 31, 2013, while $900,000 is subject
to a balloon payment due during the quarter ending June 30, 2013. If the financial position of the borrowers is not sufficient
to enable the borrowers to service the loans upon their reversion to the higher interest rate or to satisfy the balloon payments,
we may have to further restructure the loan or foreclose on the loan and liquidate the collateral, which could result in an increase
in nonaccrual loans and/or additional provisions for loan losses.
 
Our multi-family and nonresidential real estate loans expose
us to increased credit risks. 
 
At June 30, 2012, our nonresidential real
estate and multi-family real estate loans totaled $59.1 million and $42.3 million, respectively, or 20.5% and 14.7%, respectively,
of our total loans outstanding. Nonresidential and multi-family real estate loans represented 24.9% and 38.5%, respectively, of
our total nonperforming assets of $16.3 million at June 30, 2012. We have grown our loan portfolio in recent years, particularly
with respect to multi-family residential and nonresidential real estate loans, but our current strategy is to control the growth
of these loans, particularly those involving properties outside of our local market area until the local economy materially improves
and the level of our nonperforming assets in these loan portfolios materially declines. These types of loans generally expose a
lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends
on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances
to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family mortgage loans. Also, some of our multi-family
and nonresidential real estate and land borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development
with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse
development with respect to a one- to four-family mortgage loan. During the two years ended June 30, 2012, we have experienced
aggregate net charge-offs of $3.0 million of multi-family real estate loans and $4.9 million of nonresidential real estate loans.
 
The continued economic recession could further increase our
level of nonperforming loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which would lead to lower revenue, higher loan
losses and lower earnings. 
 
Our business activities and earnings are
affected by general business conditions in the United States and in our local market area. These conditions include short-term
and long-term interest rates, inflation, unemployment levels, monetary supply, consumer confidence and spending, fluctuations
in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the economy in the United States generally and in our market area
in particular. The national economy continues to recover from a severe recession, with rising unemployment levels, declines in
real estate values and an erosion in consumer confidence. There have been dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market over the
past few years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, and unemployment levels remain high. According to the U.S.
Department of Labor, at June 30, 2012, the unemployment rate for Dearborn County and Ripley County was 7.7% and 8.6%, respectively,
compared to the national unemployment rate of 8.2%. Further declines in the values of real estate, or other events that affect
household and/or corporate incomes, could impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans in accordance with their terms.
Most of our nonresidential and commercial loans are secured by real estate or made to businesses in Dearborn and Ripley Counties,
Indiana. As a result of this concentration, a prolonged or more severe decline in the local economy could result in significant
increases in nonperforming loans, which would negatively impact our interest income and result in higher provisions for loan losses,
which would hurt our earnings. The economic decline could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services,
which would negatively impact our revenues.
 

19
 

 
Higher loan losses could require us to increase our allowance
for loan losses through a charge to earnings. 
 
When we loan money we incur the risk that
our borrowers will not repay their loans. We reserve for loan losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings.
The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The process for determining
the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires subjective and complex judgments about
the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their
loans. We might underestimate the loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have loan losses in excess of the amount reserved.
We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers
with adjustable-rate loans could see their payments increase. There may be a significant increase in the number of borrowers who
are unable or unwilling to repay their loans, resulting in our charging off more loans and increasing our allowance. In addition,
when real estate values decline, the potential severity of loss on a real estate-secured loan can increase significantly, especially
in the case of loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios. The decline in the national economy and the local economies of the
areas in which our loans are concentrated could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures or repossessions, resulting
in increased charge-off amounts and the need for additional loan loss provisions in future periods. In addition, our determination
as to the amount of our allowance for loan losses is subject to review by our primary regulator, the Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency referred to as the OCC, as part of its examination process, which may result in the establishment of an additional
allowance based upon the judgment of the OCC after a review of the information available at the time of its examination. Our allowance
for loan losses amounted to 1.95% of total loans and 34.8% of nonperforming loans at June 30, 2012. Our allowance for loan
losses at June 30, 2012 may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. A large loss could deplete the allowance and require
an increased provision to replenish the allowance, which would negatively affect earnings.
 
As a result of our deemphasis on originating multi-family
and nonresidential loans, we expect our weighted average yield on interest-earning assets will decrease in future periods. 
 
Since June 2010, we have deemphasized the
origination of nonresidential and multi-family real estate loans as a strategic focus, particularly outside of Dearborn and Ripley
Counties in Indiana. From June 30, 2006 through June 30, 2010, we experienced asset growth in excess of 38% in large part due to
a determination to increase the size of our nonresidential and multi-family real estate portfolios and expand our lending efforts
to southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky. While these lending areas are geographically proximate to the southeastern Indiana
marketplace, the southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky real estate markets were more negatively impacted by the economic downturn.
As a result, our loan relationships in these markets exhibited disproportionate loan losses and required an extraordinary investment
of managerial time to monitor and mitigate the losses on these credits. In response, management has elected to deemphasize multi-family
and nonresidential lending in those markets until the local economy materially improves and the level of our nonperforming assets
in these segments of our loan portfolio materially declines. As a result, our one- to four-family residential mortgage loan portfolio
and our investment securities portfolio will likely comprise a greater percentage of our interest-earning assets. At June 30,
2012, our nonresidential real estate and multi-family real estate loan portfolios totaled $101.4 million, or 20.5% of total assets,
compared to $124.3 million, or 25.3% of total assets at June 30, 2010.
 
We would expect that our weighted average
yield on interest-earning assets will decrease in future periods because one- to four-family mortgage loans and investment securities
generally yield less than nonresidential and multi-family real estate loans. We expect this strategy will make us more reliant
on our non-interest income in order to generate net income. While we have identified various strategies that we are pursuing to
improve earnings, including growing and diversifying our sources of non-interest income, these strategies may not succeed in generating
and increasing income. If we are unable to generate or increase income, our stock price may be adversely affected. For more detail
on our strategy to deemphasize the origination of multi-family and nonresidential real estate loans and our strategic initiatives
to improve earnings, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Operating
Strategy.”
 
Our emphasis on one- to four-family mortgage loans exposes
us to credit risks. 
 
At June 30, 2012, $139.5 million,
or 48.4%, of our loan portfolio consisted of one- to four-family mortgage loans, and $31.2 million, or 10.9%, of our loan
portfolio consisted of home equity loans and second mortgage loans. Recent economic conditions have resulted in declines in real
estate values in our market areas. These declines in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage and home equity loans
to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss if we seek to recover on defaulted loans by
selling the real estate collateral.
 
Our primary market area depends substantially on the gaming
industry and a decline in that industry could hurt our business and our prospects. 
 
Our business is concentrated in the Lawrenceburg,
Indiana area. Since the mid-1990s, the economy in Lawrenceburg has been strengthened by the riverboat casinos in Lawrenceburg
and nearby Rising Sun whose presence has supported the development of retail centers and job growth as well as an increase in
housing development. Any event that negatively and materially impacts the gaming and tourism industry will adversely impact the
Lawrenceburg economy.
 


20
 

 
Gaming revenue is vulnerable to fluctuations
in the national economy. There has been a prolonged decline in the national economy; however, its impact on Lawrenceburg and its
gaming industry has not been as significant as in other parts of the country. Tax revenue from the gaming industry has decreased
in recent years, but not to the extent that it has affected civil services or other areas.
 
A continued deterioration in economic conditions
generally, and a slowdown in gaming and tourism activities in particular, could result in the following consequences, any of which
could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and expose us to a greater risk of
loss:
 

•Loan delinquencies may increase;
 

•Problem assets and foreclosures may increase;
 

•Demand for our products and services may decline; and
 

•Collateral for loans made by us may decline in value, reducing the amount of money that our customers may borrow against the
collateral, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans.
 
The expansion of permissible gaming activities in other states,
particularly in Ohio and/or Kentucky, may lead to a decline in gaming revenue in Lawrenceburg, Indiana, which could hurt our business
and our prospects. 
 

Lawrenceburg, Indiana competes with other
areas of the country for gaming revenue, and it is possible that the expansion of gaming operations in other states, as a result
of changes in laws or otherwise, could significantly reduce gaming revenue in the Lawrenceburg area. In 2009, a vote in the State
of Ohio approved casino gaming in several cities in the state, including one in downtown Cincinnati, Ohio which is scheduled to
open in March 2013. The establishment of casino gaming in Ohio could have a substantial adverse effect on gaming revenue in Lawrenceburg
which would adversely affect the Lawrenceburg economy and our business.

 
Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results
of operations and financial condition. 
 
Our primary source of income is net interest
income, which is the difference between the interest income generated by our interest-earning assets (consisting primarily of loans
and, to a lesser extent, securities) and the interest expense generated by our interest-bearing liabilities (consisting primarily
of deposits and, to a lesser extent, wholesale borrowings).
 
The level of net interest income is a
function of the average balance of our interest-earning assets, the average balance of our interest-bearing liabilities, and the
spread between the yield on such assets and the cost of such liabilities. These factors are influenced by both the pricing and
mix of our interest-earning assets and our interest-bearing liabilities which, in turn, are affected by such external factors
as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal
Reserve Board referred to as the FOMC and market interest rates.
 
The cost of our deposits and short-term
wholesale borrowings is largely based on short-term interest rates, the level of which is driven by the FOMC. However, the yields
on our loans and securities are typically based on intermediate-term or long-term interest rates, which are set by the market and
generally vary daily. The level of net interest income is therefore influenced by movements in such interest rates and the pace
at which such movements occur. If the interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities increase at a faster pace than the interest
rates on our interest-earning assets, the result could be a reduction in net interest income and with it, a reduction in our earnings.
Our net interest income and earnings would be similarly impacted were the interest rates on its interest-earning assets to decline
more quickly than the interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities.
 
In addition, such changes in interest rates
could affect our ability to originate loans and attract and retain deposits, the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities,
and the average life of our loan and securities portfolios.
 
Changes in interest rates could also have
an effect on the slope of the yield curve. A flat to inverted yield curve could cause our net interest income and net interest
margin to contract, which could have a material adverse effect on our net income and cash flows and the value of our assets.
 
Changes in interest rates particularly
affect the value of our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in
interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net
of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse
effect on stockholders’ equity. In addition, we invest in callable securities that expose us to reinvestment risk, particularly
during periods of falling market interest rates when issuers of callable securities tend to call or redeem their securities. Reinvestment
risk is the risk that we may have to reinvest the proceeds from called securities at lower rates of return than the rates earned
on the called securities.
 


21
 

 
A majority of our real estate loans held
for investment are adjustable-rate loans. Any rise in market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who
have adjustable-rate mortgage loans, increasing the possibility of default. In addition, although adjustable-rate mortgage loans
help make our loan portfolio more responsive to changes in interest rates, the extent of this interest sensitivity is limited by
the annual and lifetime interest rate adjustment limits. At June 30, 2012, approximately 75.6% of our loan portfolio had adjustable
rates of interest.
 
Municipal deposits are an important source of funds for us
and a reduced level of those deposits may hurt our profits. Securities we pledge as collateral for our municipal deposits may be
subject to risk of loss. 
 
Historically, municipal deposits, consisting
primarily of tax revenues from the local river boat casino operations, have been a significant source of funds for our lending
and investment activities. At June 30, 2012, $103.1 million, or 24.1% of our total deposits, consisted of municipal deposits.
If our municipal deposits decrease to a level where we would need to resort to other sources of funds to support our lending and
investment activities, such as borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis, the interest expense associated with
these other funding sources may be higher than the rates we pay on the municipal deposits, which would adversely affect our income.
Since October, 2011, we are required to pledge collateral to the Indiana Board of Depositories equal to 50% of the municipal deposits
maintained at United Community Bank. The percentage that we are required to pledge as collateral will periodically vary based
on a number of financial factors. This collateral is used to insure the municipal deposits of all institutions who receive deposits
from Indiana municipalities, and, therefore, is subject to risk of loss if other such institutions fail and there are insufficient
Federal Deposit Insurance funds available to cover the liabilities of such institutions.
 
We are dependent upon the services of key executives. 
 
We rely heavily on our President and Chief
Executive Officer, William F. Ritzmann, and on our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Elmer G. McLaughlin. The
loss of Mr. Ritzmann or Mr. McLaughlin could have a material adverse impact on our operations because, as a small company,
we have fewer management-level personnel that have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. Changes in
key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition, and results of operations. We have employment agreements with Messrs. Ritzmann and McLaughlin.
 
Strong competition within our market areas could hurt our
profits and slow growth. 
 
We face intense competition both in making
loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us
to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying
more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits.
As of June 30, 2011, the most recent date for which information is available, we held 39.1% of the deposits in Dearborn County
and 8.4% of the deposits in Ripley County. Competition also makes it more difficult to hire and retain experienced employees. Some
of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services
that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological
changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued
ability to compete successfully in our market areas.
 
Our asset valuations may include methodologies, estimations
and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to asset valuations that may materially
adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. 
 
We must use estimates, assumptions, and
judgments when financial assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value. Assets and liabilities carried at fair
value inherently result in a higher degree of financial statement volatility. Fair values and the information used to record valuation
adjustments for certain assets and liabilities are based on quoted market prices and/or other observable inputs provided by independent
third-party sources, when available. When such third-party information is not available, we estimate fair value primarily by using
cash flows and other financial modeling techniques utilizing assumptions such as credit quality, liquidity, interest rates and
other relevant inputs. Changes in underlying factors, assumptions, or estimates in any of these areas could materially impact our
future financial condition and results of operations.
 
During periods of market disruption, including
periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to
value certain of our assets if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset
classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the then current financial environment.
In such cases, certain asset valuations may require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include
inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit
and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of assets as reported within our consolidated financial statements,
and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations or financial condition.
 

22
 


 
Financial regulatory reform may have a material impact on
our operations. 
 
On July 21, 2010, the President signed
into law the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act restructured the regulation of depository institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act,
the Office of Thrift Supervision, which formerly regulated United Community Bank, was merged into the OCC. Mutual holding companies
and savings and loan holding companies, including United Community MHC and United Community Bancorp, are now regulated by the Federal
Reserve Board. Also included was the creation of a new federal agency to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws,
a function that was formerly performed by the depository institution regulators. The federal preemption of state laws that was
formerly accorded federally chartered depository institutions has been reduced as well and State Attorneys Generals now have greater
authority to bring a suit against a federally chartered institution, such as United Community Bank, for violations of certain state
and federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes consolidated capital requirements on savings and loan holding
companies which are to be effective no more than five years from the date of enactment, and which may limit our ability to borrow
at the holding company and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in United Community Bank that could be leveraged
to support additional growth. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository
institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008-2009. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank
Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted.
The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance
costs.
 
In addition to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank
Act, the federal regulatory agencies recently have begun to take stronger supervisory actions against financial institutions that
have experienced increased loan losses and other weaknesses as a result of the continued economic crisis. The actions include
the entering into of written agreements and cease and desist orders that place certain limitations on their operations. Federal
bank regulators recently have also been using with more frequency their ability to impose individual minimal capital requirements
on banks, which requirements may be higher than those imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act or which would otherwise qualify the bank
as being “well capitalized” under the OCC’s prompt corrective action regulations. If we were to become subject
to a consent agreement or higher individual minimum capital requirements, such action may have a negative impact on our ability
to execute our business plans, as well as our ability to grow, pay dividends or engage in mergers and acquisitions and may result
in restrictions in our operations.
 
We rely on other companies to provide key components of our
business infrastructure. 
 
Third party vendors provide key components
of United Community Bancorp’s business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and fund distribution.
While United Community Bancorp has selected these third party vendors carefully, it does not control their actions. Any problems
caused by these third parties, including those which result from their failure to provide services for any reason or their poor
performance of services, could adversely affect United Community Bancorp’s ability to deliver products and services to its
customers and otherwise to conduct its business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense.
 
United Community MHC’s majority control of United Community
Bancorp’s common stock enables it to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders, including preventing
sale or merger transactions or a second-step conversion transaction you may find advantageous. 
 
United Community MHC owns a majority of
United Community Bancorp’s common stock and, through its board of directors, exercises voting control over most matters put
to a vote of stockholders. The same directors and officers who manage United Community Bancorp and United Community Bank also manage
United Community MHC. As a federally chartered mutual holding company, the board of directors of United Community MHC must ensure
that the interests of depositors of United Community Bank are represented and considered in matters put to a vote of stockholders
of United Community Bancorp. Therefore, the votes cast by United Community MHC may not be in your personal best interests as a
stockholder. For example, United Community MHC may exercise its voting control to defeat a stockholder nominee for election to
the board of directors of United Community Bancorp. In addition, stockholders are not able to force a merger or second-step conversion
transaction without the consent of United Community MHC. Some stockholders may desire a sale or merger transaction, since stockholders
typically receive a premium for their shares, or a second-step conversion transaction, since fully converted institutions tend
to trade at higher multiples than mutual holding companies.
 


23
 

 
Federal Reserve Board policy on remutualization transactions
could prohibit acquisition of United Community Bancorp, which may adversely affect our stock price. 
 
Current Federal Reserve Board regulations
permit a mutual holding company to be acquired by a mutual institution in a remutualization transaction. The possibility of a remutualization
transaction has resulted in a degree of takeover speculation for mutual holding companies that is reflected in the per share price
of mutual holding companies’ common stock. However, United Community Bancorp’s former regulator, the Office of Thrift
Supervision, had adopted a policy statement indicating that it viewed remutualization transactions as raising significant issues
concerning disparate treatment of minority stockholders and mutual members of the target entity and raising issues concerning the
effect on the mutual members of the acquiring entity. The Federal Reserve Board has not adopted a similar policy statement or issued
any regulations on the matter and future Federal Reserve Board regulations may negatively affect United Community Bancorp. Under
certain circumstances, the Federal Reserve Board may give these issues special scrutiny and reject applications providing for the
remutualization of a mutual holding company unless the applicant can clearly demonstrate that the Federal Reserve Board’s
concerns are not warranted in the particular case. Should the Federal Reserve Board prohibit or otherwise restrict these transactions
in the future, our per share stock price may be adversely affected.
 
Federal Reserve Board regulations could limit our ability
to pay dividends to our shareholders. 
 
United Community Bank, our wholly-owned
subsidiary, is the primary source of cash with which we pay the cash dividend on our common stock. Federal Reserve Board regulations
impose limitations upon all capital distributions by a savings institution, including cash dividends. Under the regulations, a
notice must be filed with the Federal Reserve Board 30 days prior to declaring a dividend, with a notice to the OCC. The Federal
Reserve Board may disapprove a dividend notice if the proposed dividend raises safety and soundness concerns, the institution
would be undercapitalized following the distribution or the distribution would otherwise be contrary to a statute, regulation
or agreement with the OCC. In the event United Community Bank’s capital falls below its regulatory requirements or the OCC
notifies it that it is in need of increased supervision, United Community Bank’s ability to make capital distributions,
including cash dividends, could be restricted, thereby eliminating the primary source of cash with which we pay our dividend to
our stockholders. Additionally, if United Community Bank’s asset quality deteriorates, the Federal Reserve Board may impose
limitations on United Community Bancorp’s ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.
 
The amount of dividends United Community Bancorp pays on
its common stock, if any, may be limited by the ability of United Community MHC to waive receipt of dividends. 
 
United Community MHC owns a majority of
United Community Bancorp’s outstanding stock. Prior to the quarter ended June 30, 2012, United Community MHC waived its right
to receive dividends on the shares of United Community Bancorp that it owns, which means the amount of dividends paid to public
stockholders was likely significantly higher than it would have been if United Community MHC had accepted dividends during the
periods prior to June 30, 2012.
 
The Federal Reserve Board has adopted an
interim final rule which requires United Community MHC to notify the Federal Reserve Board if it proposes to waive receipt of dividends
from United Community Bancorp. In addition, the interim final rule also requires that United Community MHC obtain the approval
of a majority of the eligible votes of members before it can waive dividends. The Federal Reserve Board reviews dividend waiver
notices on a case-by-case basis, and, the Federal Reserve Board may not object to such a waiver (i) if the mutual holding
company involved has, prior to December 1, 2009, reorganized into a mutual holding company structure, engaged in a minority
stock offering and waived dividends; (ii) the board of directors of the mutual holding company expressly determines that a
waiver of the dividend is consistent with its fiduciary duties to members, and (iii) the waiver would not be detrimental to
the safe and sound operation of the savings association subsidiaries of the holding company.
  
While United Community MHC is grandfathered
for purposes of the Federal Reserve Board dividend waiver regulations, we cannot assume that the Federal Reserve Board will grant
a dividend waiver request and, if granted, there can be no assurance as to the conditions, if any, the Federal Reserve Board will
place on future dividend waiver requests by grandfathered mutual holding companies such as United Community MHC.
 
As of the filing of this Form 10-K, the
Federal Reserve Board has not granted United Community MHC a waiver for dividends paid by United Community Bancorp for any quarter
ending after March 31, 2012. United Community MHC has not determined whether it will seek, and if sought, cannot predict if
it will be able to obtain, the member vote required for the dividend waiver from the Federal Reserve Board, and did not waive dividends
for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. The inability to waive dividends to United Community MHC in future quarters may result in
a reduction or suspension of dividends paid to United Community Bancorp stockholders.
 
Our mutual holding company structure limits our ability to
raise additional equity capital. 
 
Even though we are already well capitalized,
our mutual holding company structure limits our ability to raise additional equity capital without undertaking a second-step conversion
transaction because we cannot issue stock in an amount that would cause United Community MHC to own less than a majority of our
outstanding shares. Currently, United Community MHC owns approximately 59% of our outstanding shares. In addition, any
stock issuance by us must be approved by the Federal Reserve Board and must be structured in a manner similar to a mutual to stock
conversion, including the stock purchase priorities accorded to members of the mutual holding company, unless otherwise approved
by the Federal Reserve Board. These requirements limit our ability to control the timing and structure of a stock offering.
 


24
 

 
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 
 
Not applicable.
 


25
 

 
Item 2. Properties
 
The following table sets forth the location
of the Company’s office facilities at June 30, 2012, and certain other information relating to these properties at that
date.
 


Location 
Year Opened 
Owned/ Leased 
Date of Lease Expiration  
Net Book Value as of June 30, 2012 

  
  
  
    
   

Full-Service Branch and Main Office: 92 Walnut Street Lawrenceburg, Indiana 47025 
2004 
Owned 
 —  
$1,275,000 

  
  
  
    
   

Full-Service Branches: 215 W. Eads Parkway Lawrenceburg, Indiana
    47025 
1914 
Owned 
 —  
 424,000 

  
  
  
    
   

19710 Stateline Road Lawrenceburg, Indiana 47025 
2000 
Owned 
 —  
 754,000 

  
  
  
    
   

500 Green Blvd Aurora, Indiana 47001 
2006 
Owned 
 —  
 1,257,000 

  
  
  
    
   

7600 Frey Road St. Leon, Indiana 47012 
2007 
Owned 
 —  
 1,192,000 

  
  
  
    
   

106 Mill Street Milan, Indiana 47031 
1990(1) 
Owned 
 —  
 387,000 

  
  
  
    
   

420 South Buckeye Osgood, Indiana 47037  
1977(1) 
Owned 
 —  
 379,000 

  
  
  
    
   

111 East U.S. 50 Versailles, Indiana 47042 
1983(1) 
Owned 
 —  
 371,000 

  
  
  
    
   

Other Properties:  Corner of State Route 350 & State Route 101    Milan, Indiana 47031   
Lot 
Owned(2) 
 —  
 135,000 

Corner of 4th and Main Street Lawrenceburg, Indiana 47025 
Lot 
Owned(2) 
 —  
 77,000 



 
 


(1)Acquired from Integra Bank National Association on June 4, 2010. “Year Opened” for these branches reflects
the date the branch was originally opened (prior to being acquired by United Community Bank).
 

(2)Land only.
 
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
 
Periodically, there have been various claims
and lawsuits against us, such as claims to enforce liens and contracts, condemnation proceedings on properties in which we hold
security interests, claims involving the making and servicing of real property loans and other issues incident to our business.
We are not party to any pending legal proceedings that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.
 
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
 
Not applicable.
 


26
 

 
PART II
 
Item 5.	Market
for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchasers of Equity Securities 
 
The Company’s common stock, par value
$0.01 per share, is traded on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol “UCBA.” On June 30, 2012, there were 664
holders of record of the Company’s common stock. The Company began paying quarterly dividends during the fourth quarter of
fiscal year 2006. The Company’s ability to pay dividends is dependent on dividends received from the Bank. See “Business—Regulation
and Supervision—Limitation on Capital Distributions” for a discussion of the restrictions on the payment of cash
dividends by the Company.
 
The following table sets forth the high
and low sales prices for the common stock as reported on the Nasdaq Global Market and the cash dividends declared on the common
stock.
 


Fiscal Year 2012: 
High  
Low  
Dividends Declared 

Fourth Quarter 
$6.10  
$5.44  
$0.11 

Third Quarter 
 6.89  
 5.50  
 0.11 

Second Quarter 
 6.45  
 5.30  
 0.11 

First Quarter 
 6.73  
 5.29  
 0.11 

 


Fiscal Year 2011: 
High  
Low  
Dividends Declared 

Fourth Quarter 
$7.49  
$6.20  
$0.11 

Third Quarter 
 8.13  
 7.04  
 0.11 

Second Quarter 
 7.75  
 6.04  
 0.11 

First Quarter 
 8.00  
 6.88  
 0.11 

 
Purchases of Equity Securities 
 
The Company did not repurchase stock during
the three months ended June 30, 2012.
 


27
 

 
Item 6. Selected Financial Data 
 


 
 
At June 30,
 

 
 
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010 
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 

 
 
(In thousands)
 

Financial Condition Data:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Total assets
 
$
495,903
 
 
$
472,531
 
 
$
490,678
 
 
$
401,579
 
 
$
382,726
 

Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
29,079
 
 
 
31,159
 
 
 
32,023
 
 
 
27,004
 
 
 
35,710
 

Securities held-to-maturity
 
 
493
 
 
 
564
 
 
 
631
 
 
 
175
 
 
 
200
 

Securities available-for-sale
 
 
21,275
 
 
 
49,230
 
 
 
62,089
 
 
 
46,769
 
 
 
13,816
 

Mortgage-backed securities available-for-sale
 
 
124,621
 
 
 
74,119
 
 
 
57,238
 
 
 
29,713
 
 
 
24,211
 

Loans receivable, net
 
 
283,154
 
 
 
285,877
 
 
 
307,237
 
 
 
272,270
 
 
 
284,352
 

Deposits
 
 
426,967
 
 
 
413,091
 
 
 
430,180
 
 
 
339,616
 
 
 
320,774
 

Advances from Federal Home Loan Bank
 
 
10,833
 
 
 
1,833
 
 
 
2,833
 
 
 
3,833
 
 
 
4,833
 

Stockholders’ equity
 
 
54,988
 
 
 
54,146
 
 
 
54,054
 
 
 
55,079
 
 
 
54,489
 

 
 


  
For the Years Ended June 30, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010  
2009  
2008 

  
(Dollars in thousands) 

Operating Data: 
    
    
    
    
   

Interest income 
$18,186  
$19,846  
$18,936  
$19,912  
$21,615 

Interest expense 
 4,288  
 5,587  
 6,429  
 7,906  
 11,353 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Net interest income 
 13,898  
 14,259  
 12,507  
 12,006  
 10,262 

Provision for loan losses 
 3,662  
 4,140  
 4,847  
 2,447  
 4,718 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Net interest income after provision for loan losses 
 10,236  
 10,119  
 7,660  
 9,559  
 5,544 

Other income 
 4,977  
 4,038  
 3,557  
 2,787  
 2,197 

Other expense 
 12,436  
 12,486  
 12,198  
 11,450  
 9,850 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Income (loss) before income taxes (benefits) 
 2,777  
 1,671  
 (981) 
 896  
 (2,109)

Provision (benefit) for income taxes 
 788  
 501  
 (569) 
 177  
 (653)

  
    
    
    
    
   

Net income (loss) 
$1,989  
$1,170  
$(412) 
$719  
$(1,456)

  
    
    
    
    
   

Per Share Data: 
    
    
    
    
   

Earnings (loss) per share, basic and diluted 
$0.26  
$0.15  
$(0.05) 
$0.09  
$(0.19)

 


28
 

 


  
At or for the Years Ended June 30, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010  
2009  
2008 

Performance Ratios: 
    
    
    
    
   

Return on average assets 
 0.41% 
 0.24% 
 (0.10)% 
 0.18% 
 (0.38)%

Return on average equity 
 3.62  
 2.17  
 (0.74) 
 1.31  
 (2.48)

Interest rate spread (1) 
 3.05  
 3.04  
 2.97  
 3.04  
 2.43 

Net interest margin (2) 
 3.10  
 3.11  
 3.12  
 3.25  
 2.85 

Noninterest expense to average assets 
 2.57  
 2.56  
 2.87  
 2.92  
 2.58 

Efficiency ratio (3) 
 65.89  
 68.24  
 75.93  
 77.40  
 79.06 

Average interest-earning assets to average interest-bearing liabilities 
 105.27  
 106.31  
 109.47  
 110.34  
 112.97 

Average equity to average assets 
 11.35  
 11.04  
 13.03  
 14.02  
 15.41 

Dividend payout ratio (4) 
 68.58  
 115.98  
         NM  
 152.43  
         NM 

  
    
    
    
    
   

United Community Bank Capital Ratios: 
    
    
    
    
   

Tangible capital 
 9.24% 
 9.80  
 9.12  
 12.08  
 13.00 

Core capital 
 9.24% 
 9.80  
 9.12  
 12.08  
 13.00 

Total risk-based capital 
 19.05% 
 17.47  
 14.30  
 18.40  
 20.51 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Asset Quality Ratios: 
    
    
    
    
   

Nonperforming loans as a percent of total loans 
 5.60  
 7.08  
 5.47  
 2.15  
 2.57 

Nonperforming loans as a percent of total assets 
 3.26  
 4.36  
 3.52  
 1.49  
 1.95 

Nonperforming assets as a percent of total assets 
 3.30  
 4.39  
 3.58  
 1.97  
 2.70 

Allowance for loan losses as a percent of total loans 
 1.95  
 1.83  
 2.54  
 1.52  
 1.59 

Allowance for loan losses as a percent of nonperforming loans 
 34.79  
 25.90  
 46.47  
 70.51  
 61.98 

Net charge-offs to average outstanding loans during the period 
 1.19  
 2.30  
 0.38  
 1.00  
 1.06 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Other Data: 
    
    
    
    
   

Number of: 
    
    
    
    
   

Real estate loans outstanding 
 1,806  
 1,787  
 1,685  
 1,463  
 1,396 

Deposit accounts 
 33,248  
 32,544  
 27,595  
 24,572  
 22,175 

Full-service Offices 
 8  
 9  
 9  
 6  
 6 

 

NMNot meaningful.
 

(1)Represents the difference between the weighted average yield on average interest-earning assets and the weighted average
                                                             cost of  average interest-bearing liabilities.
 

(2)Represents net interest income as a percent of average interest-earning assets.
 

(3)Represents other expense divided by the sum of net interest income and other income.
 

(4)Represents dividends declared (excluding waived dividends) divided by net income. A summary of the dividends declared and waived
(and thus not paid) dividends is set forth below:
 


  
For the Year Ended June 30, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010  
2009  
2008 

  
(In thousands) 

Dividends: 
    
    
    
    
   

Paid to minority stockholders 
$1,364  
$1,357  
$1,170  
$1,096  
$1,059 

Waived by United Community MHC 
 2,048  
 1,955  
 1,909  
 1,722  
 1,536 

Total dividend 
$3,412  
$3,312  
$3,079  
$2,818  
$2,595 

 


29
 

 
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
 
Overview 
 
Income. Our
primary source of pre-tax income is net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income, which
is the income that we earn on our loans and securities, and interest expense, which is the interest that we pay on our deposits
and Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis (“FHLB”) borrowings. Other significant sources of pre-tax income are service
charges on deposit accounts and other loan fees. We also recognize income or losses from the sale of loans and investments in
years that we have such sales.
 
Allowance for Loan Losses.
The allowance for loan losses is a valuation allowance for probable credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio. The allowance
is established through the provision for loan losses, which is charged to income. Management estimates the allowance balance required
using past loan loss experience, the nature and value of the portfolio, information about specific borrower situations, and estimated
collateral values, economic conditions, and other factors.
 
Expenses. The noninterest
expenses we incur in operating our business consist of salaries and employee benefits expenses, occupancy and equipment expenses,
advertising and public relations expenses, regulatory fees and deposit insurance premiums and various other miscellaneous expenses.
 
Salaries and employee benefits consist
primarily of salaries and wages paid to our employees, payroll taxes and expenses for health insurance and other employee benefits,
and stock-based compensation.
 
Occupancy and equipment expenses, which
are the fixed and variable costs of buildings and equipment, consist primarily of depreciation charges, furniture and equipment
expenses, maintenance, real estate taxes, insurance and costs of utilities. Depreciation of premises and equipment is computed
using the straight-line method based on the useful lives of the related assets, which range from three to 40 years.
 
Advertising and public relations expenses
include expenses for print, radio and television advertisements, promotions, third-party marketing services and premium items.
 
Regulatory fees and deposit insurance premiums
are primarily payments we make to the FDIC for insurance of our deposit accounts.
 
Other expenses include expenses for supplies,
telephone and postage, data processing, expenses related to other real estate owned by the Bank, director and committee fees, professional
fees, insurance and surety bond premiums and other fees and expenses.
 
Critical Accounting Policies 
 
We consider accounting policies involving significant judgments and assumptions by management that have,
or could have, a material impact on the carrying value of certain assets or on income to be critical accounting policies. We consider
the following to be our critical accounting policies: allowance for loan losses, deferred income taxes and fair value measurements.
 
Allowance for Loan Losses.
The allowance for loan losses is the amount estimated by management as necessary to cover probable credit losses in the loan portfolio
at the statement of financial condition date. The allowance is established through the provision for loan losses, which is charged
to income. Determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses necessarily involves a high degree of judgment. Among the material
estimates required to establish the allowance are: loss exposure at default; the amount and timing of future cash flows on affected
loans; and the value of collateral. Inherent loss factors based upon environmental and other economic factors are then applied
to the remaining loan portfolio. All of these estimates are susceptible to significant change. Management reviews the level of
the allowance at least quarterly and establishes the provision for loan losses based upon an evaluation of the portfolio, past
loss experience, current economic conditions and other factors related to the collectibility of the loan portfolio. Although we
believe that we use the best information available to establish the allowance for loan losses, future adjustments to the allowance
may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used in making the evaluation. In addition, the
OCC, as an integral part of its examination process, periodically reviews our allowance for loan losses. Such agency may require
us to recognize adjustments to the allowance based on its judgments about information available to it at the time of its examination.
A large loss could deplete the allowance and require increased provisions to replenish the allowance, which would negatively affect
earnings. For additional discussion, see notes 1 and 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 


30
 

 
Deferred Income Taxes. We
use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes as prescribed in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”)
740-10-50. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable
to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases.
If current available information raises doubt as to the realization of the deferred tax assets, a valuation allowance is established.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which
those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. We exercise significant judgment in evaluating the amount
and timing of recognition of the resulting tax liabilities and assets. These judgments require us to make projections of future
taxable income. The judgments and estimates we make in determining our deferred tax assets, which are inherently subjective, are
reviewed on a continual basis as regulatory and business factors change. Any reduction in estimated future taxable income may
require us to record a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. A valuation allowance would result in additional income
tax expense in the period, which would negatively affect earnings. United Community Bancorp referred to as the Company, accounts
for income taxes under the provisions of ASC 275-10-50-8 to account for uncertainty in income taxes. The Company had no unrecognized
tax benefits as of June 30, 2012 and 2011. The Company recognized no interest and penalties on the underpayment of income
taxes during fiscal years June 30, 2012 and 2011, and had no accrued interest and penalties on the balance sheet as of June 30,
2012 and 2011. The Company has no tax positions for which it is reasonably possible that the total amounts of unrecognized tax
benefits will significantly increase with the next fiscal year. The Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and local
income tax examinations by tax authorities for tax years ending on or before June 30, 2008.
 
Fair Value Measurements.
ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, requires disclosure of the fair value of financial instruments, both assets
and liabilities, whether or not recognized in the consolidated balance sheet for which it is practicable to estimate the value.
For financial instruments where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are estimated using present value or other
valuation methods.
 
The following methods and assumptions are
used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments:
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents. The
carrying values presented in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position approximate fair value.
 
Investments and Mortgage-Backed Securities.
For investment securities (debt instruments) and mortgage-backed securities, fair values are based on quoted market prices,
where available. If a quoted market price is not available, fair value is estimated using quoted market prices of comparable instruments.
 
Loans receivable. The fair
value of the loan portfolio is estimated by evaluating homogeneous categories of loans with similar financial characteristics.
Loans are segregated by types, such as residential mortgage, nonresidential real estate, and consumer. Each loan category is further
segmented into fixed and adjustable-rate interest, terms, and by performing and non-performing categories. The fair value of performing
loans, except residential mortgage loans, is calculated by discounting contractual cash flows using estimated market discount rates
which reflect the credit and interest rate risk inherent in the loan. For performing residential mortgage loans, fair value is
estimated by discounting contractual cash flows adjusted for prepayment estimates using discount rates based on secondary market
sources. The fair value for significant non-performing loans is based on recent internal or external appraisals. Assumptions regarding
credit risk, cash flow, and discount rates are judgmentally determined by using available market information.
 
Federal Home Loan Bank Stock.
The Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank system
and is required to maintain an investment based upon a pre-determined formula. The carrying values presented in the consolidated
statements of financial condition approximate fair value.
 
Deposits. The fair values
of passbook accounts, interest bearing checking accounts, and money market savings and demand deposits approximate their carrying
values. The fair values of fixed maturity certificates of deposit are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation that applies
interest rates currently offered for deposits of similar maturities.
 
Advances from Federal Home Loan Bank.
The fair value is calculated using rates available to the Company on advances with similar terms and remaining maturities.
 
Off-Balance Sheet Items. Carrying
value is a reasonable estimate of fair value. These instruments are generally variable rate or short-term in nature, with minimal
fees charged.
 
Operating Strategy 
 
Our mission is to operate a profitable,
independent community-oriented financial institution serving retail customers and small businesses in our market areas. We are
focused on prudently increasing profitability and enhancing stockholder value. The following are key elements of our current business
strategy:
 


31
 

 
Improving our asset quality
 
We recognize that high asset quality is
a key to long-term financial success. We have sought to grow and diversify our loan portfolio, while maintaining a high level of
asset quality and moderate credit risk, using underwriting standards that we believe are prudent. We also believe that we have
implemented diligent monitoring and collection efforts. Historically we have not had significant losses in our lending operations.
Beginning in the year ended June 30, 2008, we began to experience the adverse effects of the national recession and declining real
estate values, negatively impacting both the ability of some of our borrowers to repay their loans and the value of the collateral
securing those loans. The impact was particularly pronounced in our multi-family and nonresidential real estate loan portfolios,
as multi-family and commercial properties suffered increases in vacancies and slowdowns in revenues, resulting in reduced cash
flows as well as decreases in the market values of the underlying properties. Our nonperforming assets increased from $3.3 million,
or 0.9% of total assets at June 30, 2007 to a recent high of $20.7 million, or 4.4% of total assets at June 30, 2011,
of which $16.8 million were multi-family or nonresidential real estate loans.
 
Our initial approach to resolving nonperforming
loans focused on foreclosure and liquidations. This manner of troubled asset resolution proved lengthy and costly as a result of
legal and other operating costs, as well as the depressed values of the collateral securing the loan. As a result, beginning in
the latter part of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, we placed more attention and resources on loan workouts and implemented
a troubled debt restructuring initiative that provided for either restructuring the loan to the existing borrower in recognition
of the lower available cash flows from the collateral properties or identification of stronger borrowers to purchase the property
and refinance the loan. Under either resolution alternative, we believe we have provided the necessary valuation allowances or
charge-offs to reduce the loans’ carrying amounts to fair value at the time of restructuring.
 
During the quarter ended March 31,
2011, management undertook a “split note” strategy for certain loans, restructuring them into a Note A/B format. While
no amount of the original indebtedness of the borrower is forgiven through this process, the full amount of Note B is charged-off
at the time of issuance. Note A is treated as any other troubled debt restructuring, and generally may return to accrual status
after performing in accordance with the restructured terms for at least six consecutive months. The intended benefit of this strategy
is that the restructuring and subsequent charge-off reduces the carrying value of the loan to an “as is” fair value,
which enables the Company to liquidate delinquent loan balances without recording significant additional losses if the restructured
loans experience further delinquency. Management believes that the loans that needed to be restructured in this manner represented
a distinct identifiable pool of loans.
 
As a result of these efforts, total non-performing
loans have declined from $20.6 million at June 30, 2011 to $16.1 million at June 30, 2012, reflecting a decrease in troubled debt
restructurings on non-accrual status from $16.2 million at June 30, 2011 to $9.8 million at June 30, 2012. The decrease in nonperforming
restructured loans was the result of certain restructured loans being returned to performing status after performing in accordance
with their restructured terms for more than six continuous months. Total accruing restructured loans increased from $8.8 million
at June 30, 2011 to $13.2 million at June 30, 2012. At June 30, 2012, nonresidential and multi-family loans 60-89 days delinquent
totaled $306,000.
 
We have also implemented more stringent
underwriting standards for our lending programs. We have enhanced our document requirements and document review process. Residential
real estate mortgage applicants are required to have a higher credit score than previously required. We have reduced the maximum
loan-to-value ratio for real estate secured consumer loans from 100% to 90%. Commercial and nonresidential real estate loan customers
are required to provide us with rent rolls and financial statements for evaluation on a more frequent basis, and members of our
loan department are in more frequent contact with these customers. In addition, we have hired a credit analyst to perform an annual
review of all commercial loans having an outstanding balance of at least $1.0 million and every such loan is also reviewed annually
by an independent third party loan reviewer. As discussed below, we have implemented a strategy to control the growth of our nonresidential
real estate and multi-family real estate loan portfolios. For additional information on this strategy, see “—Deemphasizing
the origination of multi-family and nonresidential real estate loans until economic conditions improve.”
 
Improving our funding mix by attracting lower
cost core retail deposits 
 
Core deposits include all deposit account
types except certificates of deposit and municipal deposits. Core deposits are our least costly source of funds, which improves
our interest rate spread, and represent our best opportunity to develop customer relationships that enable us to cross sell our
full complement of products and services. Core deposits also contribute noninterest income from account-related fees and services
and are generally less sensitive to withdrawal when interest rates fluctuate. At June 30, 2012, core deposits represented
36.7% of our total deposits compared to 32.9% at June 30, 2011 and 31.8% at June 30, 2010. Municipal deposits represent tax
and other revenues from the local gaming industry. We have steadily reduced our reliance on municipal deposits as a percentage
of total deposits. At June 30, 2012, municipal deposits represented 24.1% of total deposits, compared to 47.9% of total deposits
at June 30, 2006. While municipal deposits decreased $8.1 million from June 30, 2011 to June 30, 2012, we continue to replace
municipal deposits with core retail deposits, which increased $22.0 million during the same period. While we expect municipal deposits
to continue to remain an important source of funding, we expect to continue our efforts to improve our funding mix by marketing
lower cost core retail deposits.
 
We aggressively market core deposits through
concentrated advertising and public relations. In recent years, we have significantly expanded and improved the products and services
we offer our retail and business deposit customers who maintain core deposit accounts and have improved our infrastructure for
critical electronic banking services, including online banking, bill pay, eStatements, merchant capture, and business online cash
management tools that include ACH origination, direct deposit, payroll, federal tax payment, wire transfer capabilities. The deposit
infrastructure we have established can accommodate significant increases in retail and business deposit accounts without additional
capital expenditure.
  


32
 

 
Deemphasizing the origination of multi-family
and nonresidential real estate loans until economic conditions improve
 
Our primary lending activity is the origination
of one- to four-family mortgage loans secured by homes in our local market area of Dearborn, Ripley, Franklin, Ohio and Switzerland
Counties, Indiana. Between 2006 and 2010, we expanded and diversified our lending activities by originating multi-family and nonresidential
real estate loans secured by properties in the metropolitan Cincinnati market area and, to a lesser extent, in northern Kentucky
and the Indiana counties outside of our local market area. From June 30, 2006 until June 30, 2010, our multi-family real
estate loans grew from $20.3 million, or 8.2% of the total loan portfolio, to $46.8 million, or 14.8% of our total loans outstanding.
During the same period, our nonresidential real estate loans grew from $65.6 million, or 26.5% of total loans outstanding, to $77.6
million, or 24.6% of total loans outstanding. In the Cincinnati and northern Kentucky markets, our multi-family loans grew from
$15.5 million to $32.8 million and our nonresidential real estate loans increased from $21.7 million to $35.8 million.
 
As a result of the credit quality issues
arising in our multi-family and nonresidential real estate loan portfolios as discussed under “Improving Our Asset Quality”
above, in June 2010, we implemented a strategy to control the growth of our nonresidential real estate and multi-family real estate
loan portfolios, particularly outside of five-county local market area. As part of this strategy, beginning in June 2010, we restricted
the origination of new multi-family and nonresidential real estate loans to our local market area, and limited our multi-family
and nonresidential real estate lending origination activity outside of our local market area to the renewal, refinancing and restructuring
of existing loans. We also amended our loan policy to reduce our concentration limits for nonresidential real estate, multi-family
real estate, construction and land loans, which limits were further reduced in August, 2011. At June 30, 2012, we met each of these
concentration limits.
 
Since we implemented our strategy to deemphasize
the origination of multi-family and nonresidential real estate loans, our multi-family and nonresidential loan portfolios have
declined. While we may generally consider increasing our multi-family and nonresidential real estate lending origination activity
in general, including in the Cincinnati or northern Kentucky markets, we intend to continue our strategy to deemphasize the origination
of multi-family and nonresidential real estate loans until the local economy materially improves and the level of our nonperforming
assets consisting of these types of loans materially declines. We believe our existing infrastructure will enable us to replace
existing loans as they are repaid and prudently grow our loan portfolio in accordance with this strategy and as economic conditions
permit.
 

33
 

 
Continuing to increase noninterest income

 
Our earnings rely heavily on the spread
between the interest earned on loans and securities and interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. Because of our strategy
to control the growth of our nonresidential real estate and multi-family real estate loan portfolios, we expect that our weighted
average yield on interest-earning assets will decrease in future periods because one- to four-family mortgage loans and investment
securities generally yield less than nonresidential and multi-family real estate loans. In order to decrease our reliance on interest
rate spread income, we have pursued initiatives to increase noninterest income. Our primary recurring source of non-interest income
has been service charges on deposit products and other services. We have also implemented, and realize fee income from, an overdraft
protection program and from customer use of debit cards. We also have a significant secondary mortgage operation, including loan
servicing, and we continue to invest in personnel and systems in order to increase our ability to sell one- to four-family mortgages
in the secondary market to increase fee income and reduce interest rate risk through the sale of conforming fixed-rate one- to
four-family residential mortgage loans. To date, all loans have been sold without recourse but with servicing retained. The volume
of loans sold totaled $15.4 million and $21.1 million for the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. For the years
ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, we recognized gains of $505,000 and $519,000, respectively, on the sale of loans. We intend
to continue to originate loans for sale in the secondary market to grow our servicing portfolio and generate additional noninterest
income. We have also enhanced our ability to increase our income from the sale of non-deposit investment and insurance products
in selected branch offices through Lincoln Financial Advisors, a third party registered broker-dealer, by adding two investment
advisors in 2010 to serve our branch offices. We continue to review programs to further enhance our service fee structure within
the new regulatory environment.
 
Expanding our geographic footprint
 
We consider our primary deposit and lending market area to be Dearborn, Ripley, Franklin, Ohio and Switzerland
Counties, Indiana. Since 2005, we have grown our community banking franchise organically through the addition of de novo branches
in St. Leon and Aurora, Indiana, and through the strategic acquisition of three branch offices in Ripley County, Indiana. As a
result, we have increased our branch network from four to eight offices. We plan to continue to seek opportunities to grow our
business through a combination of de novo branching and complementary acquisitions in our existing market and contiguous
markets. We will consider acquisition opportunities that expand our geographic reach in banking, insurance or other complementary
financial service businesses, although we do not currently have any agreements or understandings regarding any specific acquisition.

 


34
 

 
Continuing our community-oriented focus 
 
As a community-oriented financial institution,
we emphasize providing exceptional customer service as a means to attract and retain customers. We deliver personalized service
and respond with flexibility to customer needs. Our ability to succeed in our communities is enhanced by the stability of our
senior management, who have an average tenure with the Bank of over 33 years. We believe that our community orientation is attractive
to our customers and distinguishes us from the large banks that operate in our market area. At June 30, 2011, which is the most
recent date for which data is available from the FDIC, we held 39.1% of the total deposits held by FDIC-insured institutions in
Dearborn County, which was the largest market share out of the nine financial institutions with offices in Dearborn County, and
8.4% of the deposits in Ripley County, which was the sixth largest market share out of the nine financial institutions with offices
in Ripley County. 
 
Balance Sheet Analysis 
 
Total assets
were $495.9 million at June 30, 2012, compared to $472.5 million at June 30, 2011. Total liabilities were $440.9
million at June 30, 2012, compared to $418.4 million at June 30, 2011. Total stockholders’ equity was $55.0 million
at June 30, 2012, compared to $54.1 million at June 30, 2011. The increase in assets was primarily due to a $22.5
million increase in investment securities, reflecting purchases of mortgage-backed securities, partially offset by sales of other
available for sale investments. The asset growth of $23.4 million, or 5.0%, was principally funded by a $13.9 million growth in
deposits and a $9.0 million increase in FHLB advances. The increase in deposits was primarily the result of an increase in retail
customer deposits. The increase in FHLB advances was the result of a strategy to improve interest
rate risk by using longer term FHLB advances to fund recent loan production. At June 30, 2012, the Bank’s regulatory
capital exceeded the levels required to be categorized as “well capitalized” under applicable regulatory capital guidelines.
 

Loans. Our primary lending
activity is the origination of loans secured by real estate. We originate one- to four-family residential loans, multi-family and
nonresidential real estate loans and construction loans. To a lesser extent, we originate commercial and consumer loans. From time
to time, as part of our loss mitigation process, loans may be renegotiated in a troubled debt restructuring when we determine that
greater economic value will ultimately be recovered under the new terms than through foreclosure, liquidation, or bankruptcy. In
determining whether a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty, we may consider the borrower’s payment status and history,
the borrower’s ability to pay upon a rate reset on an adjustable-rate mortgage, size of the payment increase upon a rate
reset, period of time remaining prior to the rate reset, and other relevant factors. We do not offer, and have not previously offered,
subprime, Alt-A, low-doc, no-doc loans or loans with negative amortization and generally do not offer interest-only loans.
 
The largest segment of our loan portfolio
is one- to four-family residential loans. At June 30, 2012, these loans totaled $139.5 million, or 48.4% of total gross loans,
compared to $131.1 million, or 45.1% of total gross loans, at June 30, 2011. The growth in the one- to four-family residential
portfolio during the 2012 fiscal year reflects management’s strategic decision to deploy lendable funds into these lower
risk assets.
 
Multi-family and nonresidential real estate
loans totaled $101.4 million and represented 35.2% of total loans at June 30, 2012, compared to $111.5 million, or 38.3% of
total loans, at June 30, 2011. While repayments and charge-offs have recently reduced these portfolios, they remain a substantial
segment of our loan portfolio. However, as further discussed in “Operating Strategy – Deemphasizing the origination
of multi-family and nonresidential real estate loans until economic conditions improve,” we have restricted the origination
of new multi-family and non-residential real estate loans to our local market area, and limited our multifamily and non-residential
real estate lending origination activity outside of our local market area to the renewal, refinancing and restructuring of existing
loans. We intend to continue this strategy to deemphasize the origination of multi-family and nonresidential real estate loans
until the local economy materially improves and the level of our nonperforming assets in these segments of our loan portfolio materially
declines.
 
Construction loans totaled $1.2 million,
or 0.4% of total loans, at June 30, 2012, compared to $1.1 million, or 0.4% of total loans, at June 30, 2011.
 
Commercial business loans totaled $3.9
million, or 1.3% of total loans, at June 30, 2012, compared to $4.9 million, or 1.7% of total loans, at June 30, 2011.
 
Consumer loans totaled $35.6 million, or
12.4% of total loans, at June 30, 2012, compared to $36.6 million, or 12.6% of total loans, at June 30, 2011. The decrease
in the consumer loan portfolio for the year ended June 30, 2012 is attributable to more customers refinancing their homes
into lower fixed-rate mortgages and using some of these proceeds to pay off higher rate consumer loans.
 
Agricultural loans totaled $3.2 million,
or 1.1% of total loans, at June 30, 2012, compared to $1.7 million or 0.5% of total loans, at June 30, 2011.
 


35
 

 
The following table sets forth the composition
of our loan portfolio at the dates indicated.
 


  
At June 30, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010  
2009  
2008 

  
Amount  
Percent  
Amount  
Percent  
Amount  
Percent  
Amount  
Percent  
Amount  
Percent 

  
(Dollars in thousands) 

Residential real estate: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

One- to four-family 
$139,522  
 48.4% 
$131,153  
 45.1% 
$137,473  
 43.6% 
$124,391  
 44.9% 
$134,965  
 46.5%

Multi-family 
 42,325  
 14.7  
 46,296  
 15.9  
 46,777  
 14.8  
 47,060  
 17.0  
 43,671  
 15.1 

Construction 
 1,189  
 0.4  
 1,084  
 0.4  
 1,566  
 0.5  
 1,609  
 0.6  
 2,493  
 0.9 

Nonresidential real  estate 
 59,123  
 20.5  
 65,156  
 22.4  
 77,568  
 24.6  
 66,970  
 24.2  
 66,940  
 23.1 

Land 
 3,441  
 1.2  
 3,985  
 1.4  
 5,401  
 1.7  
 5,059  
 1.7  
 6,298  
 2.1 

Commercial business 
 3,854  
 1.3  
 4,860  
 1.7  
 5,513  
 1.8  
 4,439  
 1.6  
 6,062  
 2.1 

Agricultural 
 3,150  
 1.1  
 1,661  
 0.5  
 1,831  
 0.6  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 — 

Consumer: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Home equity 
 31,242  
 10.9  
 32,048  
 11.0  
 29,301  
 9.3  
 21,591  
 7.8  
 19,608  
 6.7 

Auto 
 1,820  
 0.6  
 2,275  
 0.8  
 1,617  
 0.5  
 1,761  
 0.6  
 1,960  
 0.7 

Share loans 
 1,200  
 0.4  
 1,354  
 0.5  
 1,369  
 0.4  
 1,272  
 0.5  
 1,382  
 0.5 

Other 
 1,333  
 0.5  
 962  
 0.3  
 6,838  
 2.2  
 3,150  
 1.1  
 6,547  
 2.3 

Total consumer loans 
 35,595  
 12.4  
 36,639  
 12.6  
 39,125  
 12.4  
 27,774  
 10.0  
 29,497  
 10.2 

Total loans 
$288,199  
 100.0% 
$290,834  
 100.0% 
$315,254  
 100.0% 
$277,302  
 100.0% 
$289,926  
 100.0%

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Less (plus): 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Deferred loan costs, net 
 (924) 
    
 (711) 
    
 (496) 
    
 (412) 
    
 (381) 
   

Undisbursed portion of loans in process 
 355  
    
 333  
    
 494  
    
 1,231  
    
 1,184  
   

Allowance for loan losses 
 5,614  
    
 5,335  
    
 8,019  
    
 4,213  
    
 4,619  
   

Loans, net 
$283,154  
    
$285,877  
    
$307,237  
    
$272,270  
    
$284,504  
   

 
Loan Maturity 
 
The following table sets forth certain
information at June 30, 2012 regarding the dollar amount of loan principal repayments becoming due during the periods indicated.
The table does not include any estimate of prepayments, which significantly shorten the average life of all loans and may cause
our actual repayment experience to differ from the contractual requirements shown below. Demand loans having no stated schedule
of repayments and no stated maturity are reported as due in one year or less.
 


 
 
Less Than One Year  
 
 
More Than One Year  to Five Years
     
 
 
More Than Five Years  
 
 
Total Loans  
 

 
 
(In thousands)
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

One- to four-family residential real estate
 
$
51,892
 
 
$
56,632
 
 
$
30,998
 
 
$
139,522
 

Multi-family real estate
 
 
19,120
 
 
 
22,086
 
 
 
1,119
 
 
 
42,325
 

Construction
 
 
914
 
 
 
20
 
 
 
255
 
 
 
1,189
 

Nonresidential real estate
 
 
35,397
 
 
 
20,489
 
 
 
3,237
 
 
 
59,123
 

Land
 
 
892
 
 
 
2,228
 
 
 
321
 
 
 
3,441
 

Commercial
 
 
1,612
 
 
 
1,967
 
 
 
275
 
 
 
3,854
 

Agricultural
 
 
943
 
 
 
2,077
 
 
 
130
 
 
 
3,150
 

Consumer
 
 
32,095
 
 
 
2,040
 
 
 
1,460
 
 
 
35,595
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Total
 
$
142,865
 
 
$
107,539
 
 
$
37,795
 
 
$
288,199
 

 


36
 

 
The following table sets forth the dollar
amount of all loans at June 30, 2012 due after June 30, 2013 that have either fixed interest rates or adjustable interest
rates. The amounts shown below exclude unearned interest on consumer loans and deferred loan fees.
 


  
Fixed Rates  
Floating or  Adjustable
    Rates  
Total 

  
(In thousands) 

  
   
   
  

One- to four-family residential real estate 
$41,229  
$46,401  
$87,630 

Multi-family real estate 
 4,536  
 18,669  
 23,205 

Construction 
 -  
 275  
 275 

Nonresidential real estate 
 4,811  
 18,915  
 23,726 

Land 
 1,273  
 1,276  
 2,549 

Commercial 
 1,103  
 1,139  
 2,242 

Agricultural 
 558  
 1,649  
 2,207 

Consumer 
 2,280  
 1,220  
 3,500 

Total 
$55,790  
$89,544  
$145,334 

 
Loans Originated 
 
The following table shows loan origination,
participation, purchase and sale activity during the periods indicated.
 


  
Year Ended June 30, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
(In thousands) 

Total loans at beginning of period 
$290,834  
$315,254 

Loans originated (1): 
    
   

One- to four-family residential real estate 
 51,501  
 34,975 

Multi-family residential real estate 
 3,236  
 12,456 

Construction 
 985  
 1,450 

Nonresidential real estate 
 3,585  
 12,910 

Land 
 243  
 557 

Commercial business 
 2,163  
 1,472 

Consumer 
 9,690  
 2,164 

Total loans originated 
 71,403  
 65,984 

Deduct: 
    
   

Loan principal repayments 
 58,678  
 70,918 

Loans disbursed for sale 
 15,360  
 19,486 

Net loan activity 
 (2,635) 
 (24,420)

Total loans at end of period 
$288,199  
$290,834 

(1) Includes loan renewals,
loan refinancings and restructured loans.
 
During the years ended June 30, 2012 and
June 30, 2011, consistent with the strategy to deemphasize the origination of multi-family and nonresidential real estate loans,
our multifamily and non-residential real estate lending origination activity outside, and to a lesser extent inside, of Dearborn,
Ripley, Franklin, Ohio and Switzerland Counties in Indiana has been limited to the renewal, refinancing and restructuring of these
types of loans.
 
Securities. Our securities
portfolio consists primarily of U.S. government agency mortgage-backed securities and municipal bonds. As of June 30, 2012,
our investment securities totaled $146.4 million, an increase of $22.5 million from $123.9 million at June 30, 2011. The increase
was primarily the result of redeploying funds not needed to fund loan production into investment securities.

 


37
 

 
The following table sets forth the amortized
cost and fair values of our securities portfolio at the dates indicated.
 


  
At June 30, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
Amortized Cost  
Fair Value  
Amortized Cost  
Fair Value 

  
(In thousands) 

Securities available-for-sale: 
    
    
    
   

U.S. government agency bonds 
$-  
$-  
$28,817  
$28,856 

Municipal bonds 
 20,548  
 21,148  
 19,744  
 20,244 

Other equity securities 
 210  
 127  
 210  
 130 

Mortgage-backed securities 
 124,354  
 124,621  
 73,827  
 74,119 

Total 
$145,112  
$145,896  
$122,598  
$123,349 

  
    
    
    
   

Securities held-to-maturity: 
    
    
    
   

Municipal bonds 
$493  
$493  
$564  
$564 

 

At June 30, 2012 and 2011, we had
no investments in a single company or entity (other than U.S. Government-sponsored agency securities) that had an aggregate book
value in excess of 10% of our stockholders’ equity.
 
 The following table sets forth the stated
maturities and weighted average yields of investment securities at June 30, 2012. Weighted average yields on tax-exempt securities
are not presented on a tax equivalent basis as the difference would be immaterial. Certain mortgage-backed securities have adjustable
interest rates and will reprice annually within the various maturity ranges. These repricing schedules are not reflected in the
table below. Our callable securities consist of U.S. government agency bonds and municipal bonds which contain either a one-time
call option or may be callable any time after the first call date.

 


  
One Year or Less  
More than One Year to Five Years  
More than Five Years to Ten Years  
More than Ten Years  
Total 

  
Carrying Value  
Weighted Average Yield  
Carrying Value  
Weighted Average Yield  
Carrying Value  
Weighted Average Yield  
Carrying Value  
Weighted Average Yield  
Carrying Value  
Weighted Average Yield 

  
(Dollars in thousands) 

Securities available-for-sale: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Municipal bonds 
$—  
    — %  
$421  
 3.07% 
$10,029  
 3.70% 
$10,698  
 4.13% 
$21,148  
 3.90%

Mortgage-backed securities 
 —  
 —  
 64,240  
 2.22  
 60,381  
 2.32  
 —  
 —  
 124,621  
 2.27 

Total 
$—  
    
$64,661  
    
$70,410  
    
$10,698  
    
$145,769  
 2.50 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Securities held-to-maturity: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Municipal bonds 
$18  
 4.34% 
$341  
 6.33% 
$134  
 6.24% 
$—  
    —  %  
$493  
 6.23%

  
Mortgage-backed securities represent a
participation interest in a pool of one- to four-family or multi-family real estate mortgages. The mortgage originators use intermediaries
(generally U.S. Government agencies and government-sponsored enterprises) to pool and repackage the participation interests in
the form of securities, with investors receiving the principal and interest payments on the mortgages. Such U.S. Government agencies
and government-sponsored enterprises guarantee the payment of principal and interest to investors.
 
Mortgage-backed securities are typically
issued with stated principal amounts, and the securities are backed by pools of mortgages that have loans with interest rates
that are within a range and have varying maturities. The underlying pools of mortgages, i.e., fixed-rate or adjustable-rate,
as well as prepayment risk, are passed on to the certificate holder. The life of a mortgage-backed pass-through security approximates
the life of the underlying mortgages.
 
Our mortgage-backed securities consist
of Ginnie Mae securities, Freddie Mac securities and Fannie Mae securities. Ginnie Mae is a government agency within the Department
of Housing and Urban Development which is intended to help finance government-assisted housing programs. Ginnie Mae securities
are backed by loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration, or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs. The timely
payment of principal and interest on Ginnie Mae securities is guaranteed by Ginnie Mae and backed by the full faith and credit
of the U.S. Government. Freddie Mac is a private corporation chartered by the U.S. Government. Freddie Mac issues participation
certificates backed principally by conventional mortgage loans. Freddie Mac guarantees the timely payment of interest and the
ultimate return of principal on participation certificates. Fannie Mae is a private corporation chartered by the U.S. Congress
with a mandate to establish a secondary market for mortgage loans. Fannie Mae guarantees the timely payment of principal and interest
on Fannie Mae securities. Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae securities are not backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government.
In September 2008, the Federal Housing Finance Agency was appointed as conservator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The U.S. Department
of the Treasury agreed to provide capital as needed to ensure that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac continue to provide liquidity to
the housing and mortgage markets. Neither United Community Bancorp or United Community Bank has  invested in subprime mortgage-backed
securities.
 


38
 

 
Mortgage-backed securities generally yield
less than the loans which underlie such securities because of their payment guarantees or credit enhancements which offer nominal
credit risk. In addition, mortgage-backed securities are more liquid than individual mortgage loans and may be used to collateralize
our borrowings or other obligations. Mortgage-backed securities generally increase the quality of our assets by virtue of the
insurance or guarantees that back them, are more liquid than individual mortgage loans and may be used to collateralize borrowings
or other obligations of ours. At June 30, 2012, approximately $8.3 million of our mortgage-backed and investment securities
were pledged to secure various obligations of United Community Bank.
 
The actual maturity of a mortgage-backed
security is typically less than its stated maturity due to prepayments of the underlying mortgages. Prepayments that are faster
than anticipated may shorten the life of the security and increase or decrease its yield to maturity if the security was purchased
at a discount or premium, respectively. The yield is based upon the interest income and the amortization of any premium or discount
related to the mortgage-backed security. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America,
premiums and discounts are amortized over the estimated lives of the loans, which decrease and increase interest income, respectively.
The prepayment assumptions used to determine the amortization period for premiums and discounts can significantly affect the yield
of the mortgage-backed security and these assumptions are reviewed periodically to reflect actual prepayments. Although prepayments
of underlying mortgages depend on many factors, including the type of mortgages, the coupon rate, the age of mortgages, the location
of the underlying real estate collateralizing the mortgages and general levels of market interest rates, the difference between
the interest rates on the underlying mortgages and the prevailing mortgage interest rates generally is the most significant determinant
of the rate of prepayments. During periods of falling mortgage interest rates, if the coupon rate of the underlying mortgages exceeds
the prevailing market interest rates offered for mortgage loans, refinancing generally increases and accelerates the prepayment
of the underlying mortgages and the related security. Under such circumstances, United Community Bank may be subject to reinvestment
risk because to the extent that the mortgage-backed securities amortize or prepay faster than anticipated, United Community Bank
may not be able to reinvest the proceeds of such repayments and prepayments at a comparable yield. During periods of rising interest
rates, prepayment rates of the underlying mortgages generally slow down when the coupon rate of such mortgages is less than the
prevailing market rate.

 
Management evaluates securities for other-than-temporary
impairment at least on a quarterly basis and more frequently when economic or market conditions warrant such an evaluation. The
evaluation is based upon factors such as the creditworthiness of the issuers/guarantors, the underlying collateral, if applicable,
and the continuing performance of the securities. Management also evaluates other facts and circumstances that may be indicative
of an other-than-temporary impairment condition. This includes, but is not limited to, an evaluation of the type of security, length
of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost and near-term prospects of the issuers.
 
Marketable equity securities are evaluated
for other-than-temporary impairments based on the severity and duration of the impairment and, if deemed to be other-than-temporary,
the declines in fair value are reflected in earnings as realized losses. For debt securities, other-than-temporary impairment is
required to be recognized (1) if we intend to sell the security; (2) if it is “more likely than not” that
we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis; or (3) the present value of expected
cash flows is not sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis.
 
Deposits. Our primary source
of funds is our deposit accounts, which are comprised of noninterest-bearing accounts, interest-bearing checking accounts, money
market accounts, passbook accounts and certificates of deposit. These deposits are provided primarily by individuals within our
market areas. During the year ended June 30, 2012, our deposits increased $13.9 million despite an $8.1 million decrease in municipal
deposits. The growth in deposits was solely attributable to an increase in retail customer deposits which increased $22.0 million
from June 30, 2011. During the year ended June 30, 2011, our deposits decreased $17.1 million. The decline in deposits was
primarily due to a $10.4 million decrease in municipal deposits and a $6.7 million decrease in other deposits resulting from the
decision to reduce reliance on municipal and other higher cost deposits.
 


39
 

 
The following table sets forth the balances
of our deposit products at the dates indicated.
 


  
At June 30, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
(In thousands) 

Noninterest-bearing checking accounts 
$57,660  
$30,826 

Interest-bearing checking accounts 
 61,723  
 81,402 

Passbook accounts 
 80,023  
 70,137 

Money market deposit accounts 
 36,212  
 34,386 

Certificates of deposit 
 191,349  
 196,340 

  
    
   

Total 
$426,967 (1) 
$413,091 (2)

  
    
   

 
 


(1)Includes $103.1 million in municipal deposits. $35.6 million in investments are pledged to secure the
municipal deposits at June 30, 2012.


(2)Includes $111.2 million in municipal deposits. $55.7 million in investments are pledged to secure the
municipal deposits at June 30, 2011.

 
The following table indicates the amount
of jumbo certificates of deposit by time remaining until maturity as of June 30, 2012. Jumbo certificates of deposit require
minimum deposits of $100,000. We did not have any brokered deposits as of June 30, 2012 and 2011.
 


  
  

Maturity Period 
Certificates of Deposit 

  
(In thousands) 

Three months or less 
$11,322 

Over three through six months 
 13,234 

Over six through twelve months 
 32,790 

Over twelve months 
 32,658 

  
   

Total 
$90,004 

 
The following table sets forth time deposits classified by rate at the dates indicated.
 


  
At June 30, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
(In thousands) 

0.00 - 1.00% 
$71,657  
$41,785 

1.01 - 2.00 
 68,507  
 87,581 

2.01 - 3.00 
 40,508  
 46,134 

3.01 - 4.00 
 8,211  
 14,083 

4.01 - 5.00 
 2,109  
 6,176 

5.01 - 6.00 
 357  
 581 

Total 
$191,349  
$196,340 

 


40
 

 
The following table sets forth the amount
and maturities of time deposits classified by rates at June 30, 2012.
 


 
 
 
Amount Due    
 
 
Total
       
 
 
Percent
    of Total Certificate of Deposit Accounts    
 

 
 
 
Less Than One Year    
 
 
More Than One Year 
    to Two Years    
 
 
More Than Two Years to
    Three Years    
 
 
More Than Three Years
    to Four Years    
 
 
More Than Four Years  
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 

 
 0.00 – 1.00%
 
 
$
58,066
 
 
$
13,561
 
 
$
30
 
 
$
—
 
 
$
—
 
 
$
71,657
 
 
 
37.4
%

 
 1.01 – 2.00
 
 
 
44,332
 
 
 
12,033
 
 
 
9,095
 
 
 
795
 
 
 
2,252
 
 
 
68,507
 
 
 
35.8


 
 2.01 – 3.00
 
 
 
11,151
 
 
 
10,718
 
 
 
9,102
 
 
 
2,416
 
 
 
7,121
 
 
 
40,508
 
 
 
21.2


 
 3.01 – 4.00
 
 
 
1,992
 
 
 
1,326
 
 
 
4,171
 
 
 
577
 
 
 
145
 
 
 
8,211
 
 
 
4.3


 
 4.01 – 5.00
 
 
 
1,747
 
 
 
313
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
36
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
2,109
 
 
 
1.1


 
 5.01 – 6.00
 
 
 
357
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
357
 
 
 
0.2


 
Total
 
 
$
117,645
 
 
$
37,951
 
 
$
22,398
 
 
$
3,824
 
 
$
9,531
 
 
$
191,349
 
 
 
100.0
%

 
The following table sets forth deposit
activity for the periods indicated.
  


  
Year Ended June 30, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
(In thousands) 

Beginning balance 
$413,091  
$430,180 

Increase (decrease) before interest credited 
 9,700  
 (22,605)

Interest credited 
 4,176  
 5,516 

Net increase (decrease) in deposits 
 13,876  
 (17,089)

Ending balance 
$426,967  
$413,091 

 

Borrowings. We utilize borrowings
from the FHLB to supplement our supply of funds for loans and investments. Borrowings increased from $1.8 million at June 30, 2011
to $10.8 million at June 30, 2012 due to new advances totaling $10.0 million, which were partially offset by repayments on our
FHLB advances. The increase in FHLB advances was primarily the result of a strategy to improve interest rate risk by using longer
term FHLB advances to fund recent loan production.

 


  
Year Ended June 30, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
(Dollars in thousands) 

Maximum amount of advances outstanding at any month end during the period: 
   
  

FHLB advances 
$11,250  
$2,833 

Average advances outstanding during the period: 
    
   

FHLB advances 
$5,949  
$2,333 

Weighted average interest rate during the period: 
    
   

FHLB advances 
 1.88% 
 3.20%

Balance outstanding at end of period: 
    
   

FHLB advances 
$10,833  
$1,833 

Weighted average interest rate at end of period: 
    
   

FHLB advances 
 1.74% 
 3.20%

 


41
 

 
Results of Operations for the Years Ended June 30, 2012
and 2011 
 
Overview. 
 


  
2012  
2011  
% Change 2012/2011 

Net income 
$1,989  
$1,170  
 70.0%

Return on average assets 
 0.41% 
 0.24% 
 70.8%

Return on average equity 
 3.62% 
 2.17% 
 66.8%

Average equity to average assets 
 11.35% 
 11.04% 
 2.8%

 
Net income for the year ended June 30,
2012 was $2.0 million, compared to net income of $1.2 million for the year ended June 30, 2011. The increase was primarily
the result of an increase in other income of $939,000 combined with a decrease in the provision for loan losses of $478,000, partially
offset by a decrease in net interest income of $361,000 and an increase in the provision for income taxes of $287,000.
 
Net Interest Income. 
 


Net interest income decreased $361,000,
or 2.5%, to $13.9 million for the year ended June 30, 2012 as compared to $14.3 million for the year ended June 30, 2011. A reduction
of $1.7 million in interest income was partially offset by a $1.3 million decrease in interest expense. The decrease in interest
income was primarily the result of a decline in the average rate earned on loans from 5.72% to 5.33%, combined with a $12.0 million
reduction in average outstanding loans. The decline in interest expense was primarily the result of a reduction in the average
interest rate paid on deposits from 1.29% to 1.00%. Declines in yields earned and rates paid are reflective of decreases in overall
market rates.
 


42
 

 
Average Balances and Yields. The
following table presents information regarding average balances of assets and liabilities, the total dollar amounts of interest
income and dividends from average interest-earning assets, the total dollar amounts of interest expense on average interest-bearing
liabilities, and the resulting annualized average yields and costs. The yields and costs for the periods indicated are derived
by dividing income or expense by the average balances of assets or liabilities, respectively, for the periods presented. For purposes
of this table, average balances have been calculated using month-end balances, and nonaccrual loans are included in average balances
only. Management does not believe that the use of month-end balances instead of daily average balances has caused any material
differences in the information presented. Loan fees are included in interest income on loans and are insignificant. Yields are
not presented on a tax-equivalent basis. Any adjustments necessary to present yields on a tax-equivalent basis are insignificant.
 


  
Year Ended June 30, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
(Dollars in thousands) 

  
Average Balance  
Interest and Dividends  
Yield/ Cost  
Average Balance  
Interest and Dividends  
Yield/ Cost 

Assets: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Interest-earning assets: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Loans 
$284,634  
$15,159  
 5.33% 
$296,640  
$16,958  
 5.72%

Investment securities 
 136,645  
 3,014  
 2.21  
 127,384  
 2,867  
 2.25 

Other interest-earning assets 
 26,612  
 13  
 0.05  
 33,812  
 21  
 0.06 

Total interest-earning assets 
 447,891  
 18,186  
 4.06  
 457,836  
 19,846  
 4.34 

Noninterest-earning assets 
 36,270  
    
    
 30,664  
    
   

Total assets 
$484,161  
    
    
$488,500  
    
   

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Liabilities and equity: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Interest-bearing liabilities: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

NOW and money market deposit accounts 
$150,228  
 596  
 0.40  
$153,636  
 820  
 0.53 

Passbook accounts 
 74,074  
 275  
 0.37  
 64,623  
 273  
 0.42 

Certificates of deposit 
 195,207  
 3,305  
 1.69  
 210,078  
 4,423  
 2.11 

Total interest-bearing deposits 
 419,509  
 4,176  
 1.00  
 428,337  
 5,516  
 1.29 

FHLB advances 
 5,949  
 112  
 1.88  
 2,333  
 71  
 3.04 

Total interest-bearing liabilities 
 425,458  
 4,288  
 1.01  
 430,670  
 5,587  
 1.30 

Noninterest-bearing liabilities 
 3,744  
    
    
 3,901  
    
   

Total liabilities 
 429,202  
    
    
 434,571  
    
   

Total stockholders’ equity 
$54,959  
    
    
$53,929  
    
   

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity 
$484,161  
    
    
$488,500  
    
   

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net interest income 
    
$13,898  
    
    
$14,259  
   

Interest rate spread 
    
    
 3.05% 
    
    
 3.04%

Net interest margin 
    
    
 3.10% 
    
    
 3.11%

Average interest-earning assets to average interest-bearing liabilities 
    
    
 105.27% 
    
    
 106.31%

 


43
 

 
Rate/Volume Analysis. The
following table sets forth the effects of changing rates and volumes on our net interest income. The rate column shows the effects
attributable to changes in rate (changes in rate multiplied by prior volume). The volume column shows the effects attributable
to changes in volume (changes in volume multiplied by prior rate). The net column represents the sum of the prior columns. For
purposes of this table, changes attributable to changes in both rate and volume that cannot be segregated have been allocated proportionally
based on the changes due to rate and the changes due to volume.
 


  
Year Ended June 30, 2012 Compared to 2011 

  
Increase (Decrease) Due to  
  

  
Volume  
Rate  
Net 

  
(In thousands) 

Interest and dividend income: 
    
    
   

Loans 
$(686) 
$(1,113) 
$(1,799)

Investment securities 
 203  
 (56) 
 147 

Other interest-earning assets 
 (5) 
 (3) 
 (8)

Total interest-earning assets 
 (488) 
 (1,172) 
 (1,660)

  
    
    
   

Interest expense: 
    
    
   

Deposits 
 (114) 
 (1,226) 
 (1,340)

FHLB advances 
 110  
 (69) 
 41 

Total interest-bearing liabilities 
 (4) 
 (1,295) 
 (1,299)

Net change in net interest income 
$(484) 
$123  
$(361)


 
Provision for Loan Losses. 
 
The provision for loan losses was $3.7
million for the year ended June 30, 2012, compared to $4.1 million for the prior year. The decrease in the provision was primarily
related to a decrease in charge-offs on nonperforming loans. One loan relationship (Loan Relationship B) that was restructured
in fiscal 2011 required an additional charge-off of $978,000 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. In the fiscal year ending June
30, 2012, the Company restructured seven additional loan relationships, two using the Note A/B format, with an aggregate principal
balance prior to the restructuring of $5.3 million and a restated net carrying value of approximately $4.2 million as a result
of charging off approximately $1.1 million in connection with the restructurings.
 
All of the troubled debt restructurings
in fiscal 2012 and 2011 represented loan relationships with long-time borrowers of the Company. In measuring impairment, management
considered the results of independent property appraisals, together with estimated selling expenses, and/or detailed cash flow
analyses. A detailed discussion of our most significant nonaccrual loans at June 30, 2012 and June 30, 2011 is set forth in the
section below entitled “—Analysis of Nonperforming and Classified Assets.”
 

44
 


 
Other Income. The following
table shows the components of other income for the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011.
 


 
 
2012  
 
 
2011  
 
 
% Change 2012/2011  
 

 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 

Service charges
 
$
2,423
 
 
$
2,392
 
 
 
1.3
%

Gain on sale of loans
 
 
505
 
 
 
519
 
 
 
(2.7
)

Gain on sale of investments
 
 
1,464
 
 
 
584
 
 
 
150.7
 

Loss on sale of other real estate owned
 
 
(9
)
 
 
(10
)
 
 
10.0
 

Income from bank-owned life insurance
 
 
321
 
 
 
274
 
 
 
17.2
 

Other
 
 
273
 
 
 
279
 
 
 
(2.2
)

Total
 
$
4,977
 
 
$
4,038
 
 
 
23.3
%

 
Other income increased $939,000, or 23.3%,
from $4.0 million in the prior year to $5.0 million in the current year. The increase was primarily due to an $880,000 increase
in gain on sale of investments. The increase in gain on sale of investments was the result of a higher level of sales of mortgage-backed
securities and other available for sale investment securities during the current year as compared to the prior year. Increases
in the level of prepayments of the loans underlying the mortgage-backed securities sold caused the yield on the mortgage-backed
securities to decrease as we had paid a premium for these investments at the time of purchase. In order to avoid future premium
risk, the securities were sold.
 
Other Expense. The following
table shows the components of other expense for the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011.
 


  
2012  
2011  
 % Change 2012/2011 

  
(Dollars in thousands) 

Compensation and employee benefits 
$6,826  
$6,610  
 3.3%

Premises and occupancy expense 
 1,317  
 1,325  
 (0.6)

Deposit insurance premium 
 281  
 775  
 (63.7)

Advertising expense 
 379  
 408  
 (7.1)

Data processing expense 
 1,356  
 1,161  
 16.8 

Provision for loss on sale of other real estate owned 
 47  
 -  
 100.0 

Acquisition related expenses 
 -  
 38  
 (100.0)

Intangible amortization 
 158  
 372  
 (57.5)

Professional fees 
 767  
 522  
 46.9 

Other operating expenses 
 1,305  
 1,275  
 2.4 

Total 
$12,436  
$12,486  
 (0.4)%

 


45
 

  
Other expense decreased slightly to $12.4
million in the current year from $12.5 million in the prior year. Increases of $216,000 in compensation and employee benefits expense,
$195,000 in data processing expense and $245,000 in professional fees were offset by decreases of $494,000 in deposit insurance
premiums and $214,000 in amortization of intangible assets. The increase in compensation and employee benefits expense was primarily
due to additional employees and normal annual salary increases. The increase in data processing expense was primarily due to an
increase in ATM and data center service charges resulting from an increase in transactions. The increase in professional fees was
primarily due to increased appraiser fees for nonperforming loans and increased audit fees associated with the restatement of the
Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2011 and of the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended December 31, 2011. The decrease
in deposit insurance premiums is a result of an $8.8 million decrease in average deposits combined with a decrease in the assessment
rate. The decrease in amortization of intangible assets is due to the use of the double declining balance method of amortization
which resulted in higher levels of amortization expense during the prior year.
 
Income Taxes. 
 
Income tax expense increased to $788,000
for the year ended June 30, 2012, compared to income tax expense of $501,000 for the year ended June 30, 2011. The $287,000
increase in expense was primarily due to an increase of $1.1 million in income before taxes. The effective tax rates for 2012 and
2011 were beneficially affected by tax exempt municipal bond income and income on bank-owned life insurance.
 
Risk Management 
 
Overview. Managing risk is
an essential part of successfully managing a financial institution. Our most prominent risk exposures are credit risk, interest
rate risk and market risk. Credit risk is the risk of not collecting the interest and/or the principal balance of a loan or investment
when it is due. Interest rate risk is the potential reduction of net interest income as a result of changes in interest rates.
Market risk arises from fluctuations in interest rates that may result in changes in the values of financial instruments, such
as available-for-sale securities, that are accounted for on a mark-to-market basis. Other risks that we face are operational risks,
liquidity risks and reputation risk. Operational risks include risks related to fraud, regulatory compliance, processing errors,
technology and disaster recovery. Liquidity risk is the possible inability to fund obligations to depositors, lenders or borrowers.
Reputation risk is the risk that negative publicity or press, whether true or not, could cause a decline in our customer base or
revenue.
 
Credit Risk Management.
Our strategy for credit risk management focuses on having well-defined credit policies and uniform underwriting criteria and providing
prompt attention to potential problem loans. We have also implemented a strategy to deemphasize the origination of multi-family
and nonresidential real estate loans, starting in June 2010, restricting the new origination of nonresidential and multi-family
residential loans to the southeastern Indiana Counties of Dearborn, Ripley, Franklin, Ohio and Switzerland. The intent of this
strategy is to control the growth of our nonresidential real estate and multi-family real estate loan portfolios, particularly
with respect to loans located outside of Dearborn, Ripley, Franklin, Ohio and Switzerland Counties, Indiana. This strategy also
emphasizes the origination of one- to four-family mortgage loans, which typically have lower default rates than other types of
loans and are secured by collateral that, until recently, had generally tended to appreciate in value. In August 2011, we amended
our loan policies to reduce our concentration limits for multi-family and nonresidential real estate loans to 100% and 150%, respectively,
and for construction and land loans to 10%, of the sum of core capital plus our allowance for loan losses. The limits were reduced
because United Community Bank identified multi-family and non-residential real estate loans, especially those located outside
our normal southeastern Indiana market area, as the loan types that had experienced the most financial difficulties, which resulted
in United Community Bank incurring losses and management being required to devote an extraordinary amount of time to overseeing
these relationships. As of June 30, 2012, these loans represented 87.3%, 122.0%, 2.5% and 7.1%, respectively, of the
sum of core capital plus our allowance for loan losses.
 
When a borrower fails to make a required
loan payment, we take a number of steps to attempt to have the borrower cure the delinquency and restore the loan to current status.
When the loan becomes 15 days past due, a late charge notice is generated and sent to the borrower and phone calls are made. Delinquent
or otherwise nonperforming mortgage loan and home equity loan customers are required to provide updated financial information and
the reasons for their inability to pay or comply with the contractual terms of their loans. If payment is not then received by
the 30th day of delinquency, a further notification is sent to the borrower. If no successful workout can be achieved, after a
loan becomes 90 days delinquent, we may commence foreclosure or other legal proceedings. If a foreclosure action is instituted
and the loan is not brought current, paid in full, or refinanced before the foreclosure sale, the real property securing the loan
generally is sold at foreclosure. We may consider loan workout arrangements with certain borrowers under certain circumstances
in the form of a troubled debt restructuring.
 
Management reports to the Board of Directors
monthly regarding the amount of loans delinquent more than 30 days and all foreclosed and repossessed property that we own.
 
Analysis of Nonperforming and Classified
Assets. We consider foreclosed real estate, repossessed assets, nonaccrual loans, and troubled debt restructurings that
are delinquent or have not been performing in accordance with their restructured terms for a reasonable amount of time to be nonperforming
assets. Loans are generally placed on nonaccrual status when the collection of principal or interest is in doubt, or at the latest
when a loan becomes 90 days delinquent. When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, the accrual of interest ceases and an allowance
for any uncollectible accrued interest is established and charged against operations. All commercial loans that are placed on nonaccrual
status are evaluated for impairment at the time the loans are placed on nonaccrual status. Payments received on a nonaccrual loan
are applied to the outstanding principal and interest on a cash basis only when United Community Bank has determined that all principal
and interest will be collected. If there is doubt about future collection, United Community Bank records the entire payment against
principal pursuant to the OCC regulations.
 


46
 

 
Real estate that we acquire as a result
of foreclosure or by deed-in-lieu of foreclosure is classified as a nonperforming asset until it is sold. When property is acquired,
it is initially recorded at the lower of its cost or market, less estimate selling expenses. Holding costs and declines in fair
value after acquisition of the property result in charges against income.
 

Prior to the recession, we had not incurred
significant losses in our lending operations. Beginning in the year ended June 30, 2008, we began to experience the adverse
effects of a significant national decline in real estate values. The consequences of this decline were generally evident in all
portfolio types, but were more pronounced in multi-family and nonresidential real estate loans, particularly in markets outside
of Dearborn and Ripley Counties. Our approach to resolving nonperforming loans focused on foreclosure and liquidations in the year
ended June 30, 2008 and the greater part of the year ended June 30, 2009. This manner of troubled asset resolution proved
lengthy and costly as a result of legal and other operating costs, as well as the depressed values of the collateral securing the
loan.
 
As a result, beginning in the latter part
of the year ended June 30, 2009, management initiated a restructuring process with respect to certain nonperforming loans
that provided for either restructuring the loan to the borrower in recognition of the lower available cash flows from the collateral
properties or identification of stronger borrowers to purchase the property and refinance the loan. In evaluating whether to restructure
a loan, we consider the borrower’s payment status and history, the borrower’s ability to pay upon a rate reset on
an adjustable-rate mortgage as supported by a current cash flow analysis, size of the payment increase upon a rate reset, period
of time remaining before the rate reset, and other relevant factors in determining whether a borrower is experiencing financial
difficulty. Through these troubled debt restructurings, management believes they have provided the necessary valuation allowances
or charge-offs to reflect the loans’ carrying amounts at fair value.
 
Loan workouts and modifications are handled
by the President and Chief Executive Officer, the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, and the Senior Vice President,
Lending, and are subject to approval by the Board of Directors. Management ascertains the value of the underlying collateral,
depending on whether the loan is “collateral dependent” or “cash-flow” dependent. If a loan is determined
to be “collateral dependent,” the value of the underlying collateral is determined through an independent appraisal.
If the loan is determined to be “cash-flow dependent,” the value of the underlying collateral is determined through
an in-house cash flow analysis of the property with the cash flows discounted at the loan’s original effective interest
rate. Once the value of collateral is established, management will either establish a specific allocation to reduce the loan’s
carrying value to its fair value measured using the present value of cash flows or a charge-off for collateral dependent loans
in an amount equal to the shortfall between the collateral value and the outstanding principal loan balance. Management will then
develop and pursue a workout plan. Once a workout plan is established and implemented, management will, at a minimum, monitor
the monthly performance of the loan until it is removed from nonaccrual status. On an annual basis, management will conduct property
inspections and review financial information of the borrowers and any guarantors. In situations where a collateral shortfall (i.e.
the value of the underlying collateral of the loan is less than the outstanding principal balance of the loan) is discovered,
typically through an updated independent appraisal or collateral inspection, management will seek to obtain additional collateral
and/or a personal guaranty at that time. If no additional collateral is available, management will work with the borrower on a
suitable workout arrangement that may include a troubled debt restructuring, or management may determine to foreclose on the property.
To determine the best outcome for United Community Bank, management reviews the financial condition of the borrower, the cash
flow of the property and the value of the loan’s collateral.
 
If United Community Bank obtains a guaranty,
the strength and value of the guaranty is measured by the Bank at the time the loan is closed and is re-evaluated at least annually.
The strength of each guaranty is determined by evaluating the guarantor’s net worth, liquid net worth, debt-to-income ratio
and credit score. In certain circumstances, the Bank may deem it appropriate not to enforce a guaranty, such as when we determine
enforcing a guaranty could be detrimental to the overall banking relationship. Since December, 2008, the Bank has successfully
collected $174,000 from five personal guarantors and, as of June 30, 2012, has forbearance agreements to collect an additional
$1.2 million. Of the forbearance agreements two, totaling $1.1 million, are in the form of liens on excess collateral on existing
loans. The remaining agreements are for smaller individual balances, and the Bank is receiving regular payments on these amounts.
The entire balance of each forbearance is considered impaired and payments are treated as recoveries when received. The Company
still uses guarantors and co-borrowers; however, there is no reliance on required cash infusions when guarantors and co-borrowers
are experiencing financial difficulties.
 

After the restructuring is completed, if
the borrower continues to experience payment difficulties, or if there is an additional decline in the collateral value identified
in the annual property inspection or updated appraisal, management may impair the loan further, restructure the loan again, or
foreclose on the collateral property. At this point, management considers all of the same factors it did when the initial restructuring
occurred, and attempts to resolve the situation so as to achieve the best outcome for the Bank.
 


47
 

 

Troubled debt restructurings are considered
to be impaired and are initially treated as nonperforming. Troubled debt restructurings that are originally restructured at a market
rate of interest and have a history of performance (generally a minimum of 12 consecutive months of performance under the restructured
terms) may be excluded from being reported as TDRs in periods subsequent to meeting this requirement. At June 30, 2012, 48 loans
were considered to be troubled debt restructurings (with an aggregate balance of $23.1 million) of which 34 loans (with an aggregate
balance of $9.8 million) were included in nonperforming assets. At June 30, 2011, 53 loans were considered to be troubled
debt restructurings (with an aggregate balance of $24.9 million) of which 24 loans (with an aggregate balance of $16.2 million)
were included in nonperforming assets.
 
The following table provides information
with respect to our nonperforming assets at the dates indicated.
 


 
 
At
    June 30,
 

 
 
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 

 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 

Nonaccrual loans:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

One- to four-family residential real estate
 
$
2,412
 
 
$
1,652
 
 
$
1,533
 
 
$
1,943
 
 
$
853
 

Multi-family real estate
 
 
2,034
 
 
 
1,742
 
 
 
4,506
 
 
 
1,065
 
 
 
3,072
 

Nonresidential real estate and land
 
 
1,106
 
 
 
566
 
 
 
1,455
 
 
 
386
 
 
 
2,885
 

Commercial
 
 
240
 
 
 
240
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 

Consumer
 
 
508
 
 
 
240
 
 
 
155
 
 
 
84
 
 
 
642
 

Total nonaccrual loans
 
 
6,300
 
 
 
4,440
 
 
 
7,649
 
 
 
3,478
 
 
 
7,452
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Nonaccrual restructured loans:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

One- to four-family residential real estate
 
 
2,601
 
 
 
1,653
 
 
 
903
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 

Multi-family real estate
 
 
4,251
 
 
 
10,358
 
 
 
3,739
 
 
 
1,427
 
 
 
—
 

Nonresidential real estate and land
 
 
2,987
 
 
 
4,146
 
 
 
4,966
 
 
 
1,069
 
 
 
—
 

Total nonaccrual restructured loans
 
 
9,839
 
 
 
16,157
 
 
 
9,608
 
 
 
2,496
 
 
 
—
 

Total nonperforming loans
 
 
16,139
 
 
 
20,597
 
 
$
17,257
 
 
$
5,974
 
 
$
7,452
 

Real estate owned
 
 
197
 
 
 
139
 
 
 
297
 
 
 
1,940
 
 
 
2,895
 

Total nonperforming assets
 
$
16,336
 
 
$
20,736
 
 
$
17,554
 
 
$
7,914
 
 
$
10,347
 

Accruing restructured loans
 
 
13,211
 
 
 
8,768
 
 
 
5,003
 
 
 
2,646
 
 
 
—
 

Accruing restructured loans and nonperforming assets
 
$
29,547
 
 
$
29,504
 
 
$
22,557
 
 
$
10,560
 
 
$
10,347
 

Total nonperforming loans to total loans
 
 
5.60
%
 
 
7.08
%
 
 
5.47
%
 
 
2.15
%
 
 
2.57
%

Total nonperforming loans to total assets
 
 
3.26
 
 
 
4.36
 
 
 
3.52
 
 
 
1.49
 
 
 
1.95
 

Total nonperforming assets to total assets
 
 
3.30
 
 
 
4.39
 
 
 
3.58
 
 
 
1.97
 
 
 
2.70
 

 

Interest income that would have been recorded
for the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 had nonaccruing loans been current according to their original terms was $377,000
and $274,000, respectively. Interest recognized on the cash basis with regard to nonaccrual restructured loans was $113,000 and
$158,000 for the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 
During the year ended June 30, 2012,
nonperforming loans decreased from $20.6 million to $16.1 million. The decrease in nonperforming loans in the current year was
primarily the result of troubled debt restructurings that were placed on accrual (performing) status after performing in accordance
with their restructured terms for at least six consecutive months, partially offset by additional nonperforming loans in the current
year.
 

A discussion of United Community Bank’s
largest loans that were reported as nonperforming at either June 30, 2012 or June 30, 2011 follows. The most significant nonaccrual
loan relationships, including the five largest nonaccrual loans at June 30, 2012 and the five largest charge-offs recognized
during the year ended June 30, 2012 were comprised of: loans A-1 and A-3 of Loan Relationship A, and the loans in Loan Relationships
B, G, H and I. Loan A-2 (within Loan Relationship A), and the loans in Loan Relationships C, E and F, which were reported as nonaccrual
loans at June 30, 2011, have been performing in accordance with their restructured terms and are reported as “accruing restructured
loans” at June 30, 2012. Management monitors the performance of all of these loans and reviews all options available to keep
the loans current, including further restructuring of the loans. If restructuring efforts ultimately are not successful, management
will initiate foreclosure proceedings.
 


48
 

 

•Loan Relationship A.
                                                                     Three loans, all included in one loan relationship, with
                                                                     a carrying value of $6.4 million prior to its restructuring
                                                                     in the third quarter of the year ended June 30, 2011.
                                                                     One loan (A-1) is secured by a first mortgage on an apartment
                                                                     complex near a college campus, another (A-2) is secured by
                                                                     a first mortgage on two mobile home parks, and the last (A-3)
                                                                     is secured by the first mortgage on another apartment complex.
                                                                     At June 30, 2012, Loan A-1 and Loan A-3 are included in the
                                                                     above table in “Nonaccrual restructured loans, Multi-family
                                                                     real estate.” Loan A-2 is included in “Accruing
                                                                     restructured loans.” All three loans are included in
                                                                     the above table in “Nonaccrual restructured loans,
                                                                     Multi-family real estate” at June 30, 2011. At June
                                                                     30, 2010, Loan A-1 was reported in “Nonaccrual multi-family
                                                                     real estate loans.” In the “Credit Risk Profile
                                                                     by Internally Assigned Grade” table on page 55, Loans
                                                                     A-1, A-2, and A-3 were classified as Multi-Family Residential
                                                                     Real Estate, Substandard, at June 30, 2012, and June 30,
                                                                     2011. The loans comprising Loan Relationship A were originally
                                                                     restructured in October and November, 2010. At the time of
                                                                     the first restructuring in 2010, Loan A-1, with a carrying
                                                                     value of $3.0 million, was 180 days delinquent, and Loans
                                                                     A-2 and A-3 were performing. Management performed a global
                                                                     analysis of the borrowers and restructured each of the three
                                                                     loans by reducing the original loan rates by 125 to 225 basis
                                                                     points to a rate that was 25 basis points below market rate.
                                                                     Foregone interest income amounted to $51,000 on the two performing
                                                                     loans that were restructured. The borrowers paid a loan modification
                                                                     fee of $3,000 for this restructuring. At June 30, 2010, after
                                                                     the effect of restating the June 30, 2010 financial statements,
                                                                     management established a specific allocation on these three
                                                                     loans through a charge-off to the general allowance for loan
                                                                     losses of $1.1 million. On each of the three loans, one of
                                                                     the borrowers is a corporate entity. Also, on the three loans,
                                                                     each of the principals of the corporate borrowers individually
                                                                     signed as co-borrowers. At the time of the restructuring,
                                                                     the Bank analyzed the personal net worth, liquid net worth,
                                                                     debt to income ratios and credit scores of the co-borrowers.
                                                                     While the co-borrowers were not expected to cover a total
                                                                     loss on the loans, management believed the co-borrowers would
                                                                     mitigate the amount of the potential future losses. In March
                                                                     2011, Loan A-3 was again restructured through a troubled
                                                                     debt restructuring as a result of the borrower experiencing
                                                                     cash flow problems during the quarter ended March 31,
                                                                     2011. The cash flow problems experienced were the combined
                                                                     effect of decreased rental income and the failure to pay
                                                                     real estate property taxes. However, due to certain financial
                                                                     difficulties experienced by the co-borrowers, including the
                                                                     cash flow problems of the subject properties and a decrease
                                                                     in other outside sources of income, the co-borrowers were
                                                                     unable to mitigate the losses on the loan. Based upon a cash
                                                                     flow analysis of the properties performed by management,
                                                                     $651,000 of the $6.4 million in loans was charged-off during
                                                                     the restructuring using the split note strategy. This split
                                                                     was done for one loan that had a balance of $1.6 million
                                                                     before the split. After the split, Note A had a balance
                                                                     of $994,000 and Note B had a balance of $651,000. Prior to
                                                                     the loan being restructured in March, 2011, the restructured
                                                                     loan carried a $650,000 specific reserve as restated on the
                                                                     Company’s Form 10-K, as amended, for the year ended
                                                                     June 30, 2011 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
                                                                     on March 28, 2012 that was included in Note B and charged-off.
                                                                     The split note loans have an interest rate that is 275 basis
                                                                     points below their original restructured rate for a period
                                                                     of two years, and 475 basis points below their original rates.
                                                                     At the end of the two year period, balloon payments are due,
                                                                     unless the borrower refinances into a market rate loan at
                                                                     that time. This relationship was performing in accordance
                                                                     with its restructured terms at June 30, 2012. The property
                                                                     securing Loan A-3 was sold on contract in April 2012 for
                                                                     $2.2 million. The buyer made a down payment of $50,000 and
                                                                     pays a monthly principal and interest payment, based on a
                                                                     5% interest rate and a 30 year term. This land contract has
                                                                     a balloon payment in April 2014. 
 
 

•Loan Relationship B. The  loans comprising Loan Relationship B were originally restructured in June, 2010, with an aggregate
carrying value of $4.1 million until their restructuring in the quarter ended March 31, 2011. These loans are secured by a
first mortgage on two separate retail strip shopping centers and a single purpose commercial use property. All three loans are
included in the above table as “Nonaccrual restructured loans, Nonresidential real estate” at June 30, 2011 and
June 30, 2010. In the “Credit Risk Profile by Internally Assigned Grade” table on page 55, these loans were classified
as “Nonresidential real estate, Substandard” at June 30, 2012 and June 30, 2011. At the time of the original
restructuring, the property value was based primarily on the collateral’s cash flow, including required personal cash infusions
from the co-borrowers. Management believed that the lower debt service would improve the borrowers’ cash flow, and in turn,
the performance of the loans. One of the borrowers is a corporate entity. The principals of the corporate borrower are also co-borrowers
on the note. At the time of the restructuring, the Bank analyzed the personal net worth, liquid net worth, debt to income ratios
and credit scores of the co-borrowers. While the co-borrowers were not expected to cover a total loss on the loans, management
believed the co-borrowers would mitigate the amount of potential future losses. The restructured loans were considered impaired
at June 30, 2010 with an allowance for loan loss of $600,000 to reflect the reduction in carrying value resulting from the exclusion
of the required personal cash infusions from the co-borrowers from the calculation of the carrying value. In March, 2011, the loans
comprising Loan Relationship B again were experiencing cash flow problems. The cash flow problems experienced were the combined
effect of the level of the required monthly loan payments, decreases in rental revenue from the properties, and failure to pay
real estate property taxes. Due to certain financial difficulties experienced by the co-borrowers, including the cash flow problems
of the subject properties and a decrease in other outside sources of income, the co-borrowers were unable to mitigate the losses
on the loan. Therefore, in March 2011, the two loans secured by the two separate retail strip shopping centers were combined and
refinanced into two loans, using the split note strategy. The first loan was for $2.4 million and was classified as substandard
and was a troubled debt restructuring because of a below market interest rate. The second loan was for $1.3 million and was charged-off.
In March 2011, the loan secured by the single purpose commercial use property was also refinanced into two loans, using the split
note strategy. The first loan was for $238,000 and was classified as substandard and was a troubled debt restructuring because
of a below market interest rate. The second loan was for $169,000 and was charged-off. The restructured loans have an interest
rate that is 275 basis points lower than the 2010 restructured rate for a period of two years, and 500 basis points below their
original rates. The loan secured by the two retail strip shopping centers was classified as substandard and the loan secured by
the single purpose commercial use property was classified as substandard, were both included in “Nonaccrual restructured
loans, Nonresidential real estate” as of June 30, 2012. At the end of the two year period, balloon payments are due, unless
the borrower refinances the loans into a market rate loan at that time. In May 2012, the loan secured by the two retail strip shopping
centers experienced the loss of a major tenant. As a result of the decrease in cash flow, the Bank had the two retail strip shopping
centers appraised in June 2012. The appraisal reflected that the value of the properties declined to $1.45 million from the previous
appraisal of $2.95 million in February 2011. Management has determined that this loan will ultimately be settled through the sale
of the property. A charge-off in the amount of $956,000 was established in the quarter ended June 30, 2012 based on the most recent
appraisal indicating a known loss, and an additional impairment of $189,000 was established based on the Bank’s experience
in settling foreclosed property. The carrying value of this loan is classified as substandard, and this loan is a troubled debt
restructuring. The Bank also appraised the single purpose commercial use property in June 2012. The value of this property declined
to $225,000 from $325,000 in February 2011 due to decreased cash flow from the current tenant. Management decided that this loan
would also be settled from the sale of the property. A charge-off in the amount of $22,000 was established based on the most recent
appraisal indicating a known loss, and an additional impairment of $29,000 was established based on the Bank’s experience
in settling foreclosed property. The carrying value of this loan is classified as substandard, and this loan is a troubled debt
restructuring. The loans were performing in accordance with their restructured terms at June 30, 2012.
 


49
 

 

•Loan Relationship C. The original two loans included in this relationship had an aggregate value of $2.1 million prior to being
restructured in the quarter ended March 31, 2011. One loan is secured by a first mortgage on a single-family home. One loan
is secured by a 24-unit apartment complex, six one- to four-family residential properties and ten residential building lots. In
March 2011, these two loans were restructured into two loans, using the split note strategy. The two loans using the split note
strategy had an aggregate carrying value of $1.5 million at June 30, 2012. The Note A loan is included in the above table in “Accruing
restructured loans” at June 30, 2012, and in “Nonaccrual restructured loans, Multi-family real estate” at June 30,
2011. The original two loans are included in the above table in “Nonaccrual restructured loans, Multi-family real estate”
at June 30, 2010. In the “Credit Risk Profile by Internally Assigned Grade” table on page 55, the Note A loan is classified
as “Multi-family real estate, Substandard” at June 30, 2012 and June 30, 2011, respectively. The loans comprising
Loan Relationship C were originally restructured in August 2009. At the time of the first restructuring, management established
a specific reserve through a charge-off to the general allowance for loan losses of $29,000. In August 2009, the loans were originally
restructured by reducing the interest rates on the loans by a range of 400 to 600 basis points to a rate that was 300 basis points
below market rate. These loans were performing at the initial time of the restructuring in August 2009, but the borrowers were
beginning to experience cash flow difficulties. Management believed that the lower debt service would improve the borrowers’
cash flow, and in turn, the performance of the loans. At the time the loans were initially restructured, independent appraisals
were performed on each piece of underlying collateral. These appraisals supported the aggregate $2.1 million carrying value of
the two loans. One of the borrowers is a corporate entity, with one principal who has personally signed on the loan. At the time
of the restructuring, we analyzed the personal net worth, liquid net worth, debt to income ratios and credit scores of the co-borrower
and determined that the co-borrower was not expected to cover a total loss, but would mitigate the amount of potential future losses.
Based on the restatement of the June 30, 2010 audited consolidated financial statements, these loans were considered impaired at
June 30, 2010, with an allowance for loan losses of $675,000 established to reflect the reduction in the carrying value resulting
from the exclusion of the required personal cash infusions from the calculation of the carrying value. During the quarter ended
March 2011, the borrower again began to experience cash flow difficulties and these loans were refinanced through a troubled debt
restructuring. The cash flow problems contributed to the combined effect of the failure to pay required monthly loan payments,
the failure to pay association dues, and the failure to pay real estate property taxes. Due to certain financial difficulties experienced
by the co-borrower, including the cash flow problems of the subject properties and a decrease in other outside sources of income,
the co-borrower was unable to mitigate the losses on the loan. As stated above, based upon a cash flow analysis of the properties
performed by management, the loans were restructured during the quarter ended March 31, 2011, utilizing the split note strategy.
After the restructuring, the previous aggregate balance of $2.1 million was split into two notes with Note A having a balance of
$1.5 million which was classified as substandard, and Note B having a balance of $626,000 which was charged-off. A restructuring
fee of $14,000 was charged and included in Note B at March 31, 2011. The restructured loans have an interest rate that is
275 basis points lower than the 2010 restructured rate for a period of two years, and 675 to 875 basis points below the original
rates. At the end of the two year period, balloon payments are due, unless the borrower refinances into a market rate loan at that
time. At June 30, 2012, the carrying value of Note A was $1.5 million. This relationship was performing in accordance with its
restructured terms at June 30, 2012, and no further impairments have been recorded since the most recent restructuring.
 


50
 

 

•Loan Relationship D. The loan comprising Loan Relationship D was originally restructured in December 2008. The loan
is secured by a first mortgage on a 62-unit apartment complex near a college campus. The loan was made in 2008 to a seasoned property
manager who made major improvements to the property. The property was purchased in December 2008 from a Bank borrower who was delinquent
at the time of acquisition. At the time the loan was acquired from the delinquent borrower in 2008, it was restructured with a
new borrower, in lieu of foreclosure, pursuant to which the Bank loaned the borrower funds to purchase and renovate the property.
At the time of the restructuring, management established a specific reserve through a charge-off to the general allowance for loan
losses of $113,000. We have no personal guarantee or co-borrower on this loan. The loan required interest only payments through
December 2011. In January, 2012, the interest rate on the loan was adjusted to the prime interest rate as published by The Wall
Street Journal, plus a spread. At the time of the acquisition, management believed that the new borrower would be able to renovate
the property with a view toward improving the property’s cash flow, and in turn, the performance of the loan. After the closing
of the loan, the borrower completed renovations to the property and the cash flow of the property has improved. At the time the
loan was made, an independent appraisal was performed on the collateral underlying the loan. This appraisal supported the $1.6
million carrying value of the loan. In November 2011, the borrower approached the Bank and expressed concern about being able to
pay the principal and interest payment that would go into effect in January 2012. The internal cash flow analysis completed by
the Bank indicated that the payment could be made based on the higher monthly occupancy rates after the renovations were completed.
An appraisal was ordered to provide the “as is” value of the property. The Bank obtained the appraisal in December
2011, and the appraised value of the property had decreased to $1.4 million. Therefore, this loan was restructured into two loans
using the split note strategy. Based on the cash flows supported by the property, the first loan was originated for $1.3 million
at a market interest rate. This loan was put on nonaccrual, classified as substandard, and reported as a troubled debt restructuring.
The second loan was originated for $393,000 and was charged-off in December 2011. At June 30, 2012, the carrying value of the first
loan was $1.3 million. This loan has performed in accordance with its restructured terms for six months. Therefore, as of June
30, 2012 this loan is included in “Accruing restructured loans” in the above table. In the “Credit Risk Profile
by Internally Assigned Grade” table on page 55, this loan was classified as “Multi-family residential real estate,
Substandard,” at June 30 2011, and the carrying value of Loan A was classified as “Multi-family residential real estate,
Substandard,” at June 30, 2012. At June 30, 2012, this loan was performing in accordance with its restructured terms.
 

•Loan Relationship E. Two loans (which consisted of one note prior to the use of the split note strategy) with an aggregate
carrying value of $538,000 at June 30, 2012, secured by nonresidential real estate. Note A is included in the above table
in “Accruing restructured loans” at June 30, 2012, and in “Nonaccrual restructured loans, Nonresidential real
estate” at June 30, 2011, June 30, 2010 and June 30, 2009. In the “Credit Risk Profile by Internally
Assigned Grade” table on page 55, these loans were classified in “Nonresidential real estate, Substandard” at
June 30, 2012 and June 30, 2011, respectively. The loan was structured in April, 2010, and a new appraisal was obtained.
At June 30, 2010, the charge-off to the general allowance for loan losses, based upon the appraisal, was $308,000. The restructured
loan had payments deferred for one year, while accruing interest at a market rate. This loan was scheduled to undergo an interest
rate and payment reset in February, 2011, pursuant to the terms of the note. We have no personal guarantee or co-borrower on this
loan. At the time of the loan adjustment period, it became apparent the borrower was going to struggle to make the required monthly
payments beginning in February, 2011. As a result, management completed a detailed analysis of this loan and determined to again
restructure the loan utilizing the split note strategy in March, 2011. The terms of Note A were calculated using current financial
information to determine the amount of the payment at which the borrower would have a debt service coverage ratio of approximately
1.5x, which is more stringent than our normal underwriting standards. A restructuring fee of $9,000 was charged and included in
Note B at March 31, 2011. After the restructuring in March, 2011, Note A was in the amount of $569,000 and Note B was in the
amount of $508,000, all of which was charged-off in the quarter ended March 31, 2011 inclusive of the previous specific reserve
of $308,000. At the end of the two year period, balloon payments are due, unless the borrower refinances into a market rate loan
at that time. At June 30, 2012, the carrying value of this loan was $538,000, and no further impairments have been recorded since
the most recent restructuring. This relationship was performing in accordance with its restructured terms at June 30, 2012.
 


51
 

 

•Loan Relationship F. This relationship consists of two loans (based on the split note strategy) with an aggregate carrying value
of $456,000 at June 30, 2012. These loans are secured by single-family and multi-family residential real estate. Note A is
included in the above table as “Accruing restructured loans, at June 30, 2012, and as “Nonaccrual restructured loans,
Multi-family real estate” at June 30, 2011. The two loans in this relationship were included in “Nonaccrual restructured
loans, Multi-family real estate at June 30, 2010. In the “Credit Risk Profile by Internally Assigned Grade” table on
page 55, these loans were classified as “Multi-family real estate, Substandard” at June 30, 2012 and June 30,
2011, respectively. The original loan was initially restructured using the split note strategy in June, 2010 based on an 80% loan-to-value
ratio derived from an April, 2010 appraisal. The loans were considered impaired at June 30, 2010 with an additional increase in
the allowance for loan losses of $117,000 to reflect the reduction in carrying value resulting from the exclusion of the required
personal cash infusions from the co-borrower from the calculation of the carrying value. At December 31, 2010, the loan was
160 days delinquent. The delinquency was a result of personal problems between the borrowers affecting their ability to manage
the multi-family residential real estate and the single-family real estate. The personal problems between the borrowers also resulted
in the borrowers’ inability to make the required personal cash infusions. In the latter part of 2010 and into early 2011,
one of the borrowers effectively took control of the multi-family residential real estate and the single-family real estate, and
brought the business current with respect to property taxes, refunds to former tenants, and made required monthly loan payments
in January and February, 2011. Other than the January and February 2011 loan payments, the borrowers were unable to bring the loan
current under their current cash flow. Based upon those developments, management completed a detailed analysis of the total lending
relationship with the borrowers. As a result of this analysis, these loans were again restructured, using the split note strategy
in March, 2011. The terms of Note A were calculated using current financial information to determine the amount of the payment
at which the borrowers would have a debt service coverage ratio of approximately 1.5x, which is more stringent than our current
underwriting standards. A restructuring fee of $7,000 was charged and included in Note B at March 31, 2011. The borrower is
a corporate entity, with two principals, who also individually signed the loan as co-borrowers. After the restructuring in March,
2011, Note A was for $475,000 and Note B in the amount of $405,000 was charged-off in the quarter ended March 31, 2011, including
$188,000 that was charged-off against the general allowance for loan losses. At the end of the two year period, a balloon payment
is due, unless the borrower refinances into a market rate loan at that time. The loan has performed in accordance with its restructured
terms, and no further impairments have been recorded since the most recent restructuring.
 

•Loan Relationship G. A loan which is secured by a 93-pad mobile home park, and an 87-pad mobile home park, is included in the
above table in “Nonaccrual Loans, Multi-family real estate” as of June 30, 2012 and June 30, 2011. In the “Credit
Risk Profile by Internally Assigned Grade” table on page 55, this is classified as Multi-family residential real estate,
Substandard, at June 30, 2012 and June 30, 2011. The borrowers are two limited liability corporations and the two co-borrowers
are the principals of the corporations. This loan is a participation loan with another financial institution. The Bank is the lead
lender and has a 79% interest in the loan. The borrowers approached the Bank in May, 2011 and stated they were having cash flow
problems even though the loan was current. The Bank received updated financial information following this conversation. The financial
information showed there were cash flow problems, but that the co-borrowers had been infusing their personal funds. Based on the
cash flow of the properties, the Bank established an impairment in the amount of $400,000, effective June 30, 2011, based on the
information available when the June 30, 2011, financial statements were issued. At June 30, 2011, the Bank’s portion of the
loan balance was $2.1 million, and the carrying value of the Bank’s portion of the loan was $1.7 million. At January 31,
2012, the loan was 39 days delinquent. The Bank was still not receiving current financial information; therefore, new appraisals
were ordered. The appraisals were received in March 2012, in the total amount of $2.8 million. The borrower was able to bring the
loan current by June 30, 2012. At June 30, 2012, UCB’s portion of the loan balance was $2.0 million, and the carrying value
of the Bank’s portion of the loan was $1.7 million. At June 30, 2012, the loan was performing in accordance with its restructured
terms.
 

•Loan Relationship H. This relationship consists of one loan which is secured by a first lien on an 18-unit apartment complex,
a single-family dwelling, and a 6.3 acre tract of land, and a second lien on a single-family owner occupied dwelling on 11.36 acres.
This loan is included in the above table, as “Nonaccrual loans, multi-family real estate” as of June 30, 2012, June
30 2011, and June 30 2010. In the “Credit Risk Profile by Internally Assigned Grade” table on page 55, this relationship
is classified as “Multi-family residential real estate, Substandard” at June 30, 2012, and June 30, 2011. The borrower
is a limited liability corporation and the two co-borrowers are principals of the limited liability corporation. As stated above
this loan was classified as substandard at June 30 2011. Also, as of June 30, 2011, the impairment amount was $490,000 and the
carrying value of the loan was $763,000. The interest rate was to reset to 5.75% on June 1, 2012. The borrower indicated the cash
flow of the property could not afford the increase in interest rate. Based on these facts, the Bank has decided to implement the
split note strategy. Appraisals were ordered in April 2012, received in June 2012, and indicated a collateral value of $978,000
on properties for which UCB has a first lien. The Bank recorded a charge-off as of June 30, 2012, of $481,000, to reflect the carrying
value of the loan at $744,000. No additional loss is expected to be incurred when the loan is restructured using the split note
strategy in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. This loan is performing in accordance with its restructured terms at June 30, 2012.
 


52
 

 

•Loan Relationship I. This relationship is comprised of one loan which is secured by an industrial/office nonresidential property
included in the above table, in “Nonaccrual loans nonresidential real estate” as of June 30, 2012. In the “Credit
Risk Profile by Internally Assigned Grade” table on page 55, this is classified as “Nonresidential real estate, Substandard”
at June 30, 2012, and June 30, 2011. The borrower is a limited liability corporation and the two co-borrowers are principals of
the limited liability corporation. The borrower approached United Community Bank in March 2012, indicating that a major tenant
was not going to renew its lease in November 2012. However, the tenant would remain in the property until its lease expired. United
Community Bank ordered an appraisal based on this information. The appraisal was received in March 2012 and reflected a value of
$900,000. At March 31, 2012, the carrying value of the loan was reduced by $177,000 to $819,000. After the 2011 tax returns were
received late in the second quarter of 2012, the Bank conducted further cash flow analyses and determined that the only way the
loan would be paid off would be to sell the property. United Community Bank recorded a charge-off of $146,000 based on the most
recent appraisal, and an impairment in the amount of $120,000 was established as an estimate to impair the loan further based on
United Community Bank’s experience in settling foreclosed properties. The carrying value of the loan was $717,000 at June
30, 2012. The borrower has continued to make the required monthly principal and interest payments through June 30, 2012. However,
due to the uncertainty of replacing the major tenant, United Community Bank has the loan on nonaccrual at June 30, 2012, and has
impaired the loan as discussed above.
 
The following table summarizes all Note
A / B format loans at June 30, 2012 and 2011:
 


At June 30, 2012
 
Loan
    Balances
 
 
Number of Loans
 

 
 
Note A
 
 
Note B
 
 
Total
 
 
Note A
 
 
Note B
 

 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 

Nonresidential real estate
 
$
3,859
 
 
$
2,382
 
 
$
6,241
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
4
 

Multi-family residential real estate
 
 
5,843
 
 
 
2,816
 
 
 
8,659
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
6
 

One- to four-family residential real estate
 
 
137
 
 
 
60
 
 
 
197
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
1
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Total (1)
 
$
9,839
 
 
$
5,258
 
 
$
15,097
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
11
 

 


At June 30, 2011 
Loan Balances  
Number of Loans 

  
Note A  
Note B  
Total  
Note A  
Note B 

  
(Dollars in thousands) 

Nonresidential real estate 
$4,006  
$2,382  
$6,388  
 4  
 4 

Multi-family residential real estate 
 3,457  
 2,008  
 5,465  
 4  
 4 

One- to four-family residential real estate 
 137  
 60  
 197  
 1  
 1 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Total (2) 
$7,600  
$4,450  
$12,050  
 9  
 9 

 
 

(1)Included in this total are an aggregate of $7.4 million
comprised of Note As and $4.1 million comprised of Note Bs that are included in the discussion of Loan Relationships A, B, C,
D, E and F.

 

(2)Included in this total are an aggregate of $6.3 million comprised of Note As and $3.7 million comprised of Note Bs that are
included in the discussion of Loan Relationships A, B, C, E and F.
 

There was one loan utilizing the Note A/B
strategy at June 30, 2010. Note A, totaling $631,000 and Note B, totaling $217,000 were included in “Nonaccrual restructured
loans, Multi-family residential real estate” at June 30, 2010. Also at June 30, 2010, a specific allowance (as
part of the allowance for loan losses) had been established for the $217,000 included in Note B as well as a $117,000 specific
allowance with respect to Note A. There were no loans utilizing the split note strategy prior to 2010. See the discussion of Loan
Relationship F above for additional information.
 

As evidenced by our loans receivable greater
than 30 days past due and accruing in the multi-family residential real estate and nonresidential real estate portfolios of $688,000
at June 30, 2012, management does not believe there are any other large concentrations of credit risk that are not performing under
the original terms or modified terms, as applicable.
 
The following table provides information
with respect to all of our loans that are classified as troubled debt restructurings. Troubled debt restructurings are considered
to be impaired, except for those that have established a sufficient performance history under the terms for the restructured loan.
For additional information regarding troubled debt restructurings on nonaccrual status, see the table of nonperforming assets above.
 


53
 

 


  
At June 30, 2012 

  
Loan Status  
   
   
  

  
Accrual  
Nonaccrual  
Total Unpaid Principal Balance  
Related Allowance  
Recorded Investment 

  
(Dollars in thousands) 

One- to four-family residential real estate 
$2,374  
$2,601  
$4,975  
$26  
$4,949 

Multi-family residential real estate 
 7,715  
 4,251  
 11,966  
 165  
 11,801 

Nonresidential real estate 
 3,122  
 2,987  
 6,109  
 465  
 5,644 

  
$13,211  
$9,839  
$23,050  
$656  
$22,394 

Number of loans 
 14  
 34  
    
    
   

 


  
At June 30, 2011 

  
Loan Status  
   
   
  

  
Accrual  
Nonaccrual  
Total Unpaid Principal Balance  
Related Allowance  
Recorded Investment 

  
(Dollars in thousands) 

One- to four-family residential real estate 
$4,128  
$1,653  
$5,781  
$—  
$5,781 

Multi-family residential real estate 
 2,041  
 10,358  
 12,399  
 1,173  
 11,226 

Nonresidential real estate 
 2,599  
 4,146  
 6,745  
 —  
 6,745 

Total 
$8,768  
$16,157  
$24,925  
$1,173  
$23,752 

Number of loans 
 28  
 24  
    
    
   

 


  
At June 30, 2010 

  
Loan Status  
   
   
  

  
Accrual  
Nonaccrual  
Total Unpaid Principal Balance  
Related Allowance  
Recorded Investment 

  
(Dollars in thousands) 

One- to four-family residential real estate 
$422  
$903  
$1,325  
$159  
$1,166 

Multi-family residential real estate 
 1,981  
 3,739  
 5,720  
 1,804  
 3,916 

Nonresidential real estate 
 2,600  
 4,966  
 7,566  
 1,276  
 6,290 

Total 
$5,003  
$9,608  
$14,611  
$3,239  
$11,372 

Number of loans 
 5  
 14  
    
    
   

 

Loans that were included in troubled debt
restructurings at June 30, 2012 and 2011 were generally given concessions of interest rate reductions of between 25 and 300
basis points, and/or structured as interest only payment loans for periods of one to three years. Many of these loans also have
balloon payments due at the end of their lowered rate period, requiring the borrower to refinance at market rates at that time.
At June 30, 2012, there were 39 loans that required payments of principal and interest, and 9 loans that required interest payments
only. At June 30, 2011, there were 43 loans that required payments of principal and interest, and nine loans that required
interest payments only. At June 30, 2010, there were nine loans that required principal and interest payments, eight loans
that required interest payments only, and two loans that did not require any payments until 2011. Although the economic trends
during the year ended June 30, 2012 have been generally stable in our primary market area, Dearborn and Ripley Counties in
Indiana, the overall increases in troubled debt restructurings from June 30, 2010 to June 30, 2012 are related to continued
weakness in the local economy resulting from the national economic downturn that started in 2008.
 
Federal regulations require us to review
and classify our assets on a regular basis. In addition, the OCC has the authority to identify problem assets and, if appropriate,
require them to be classified. There are three classifications for problem assets: substandard, doubtful and loss. “Substandard
assets” must have one or more defined weaknesses and are characterized by the distinct possibility that we will sustain some
loss if the deficiencies are not corrected. “Doubtful assets” have the weaknesses of substandard assets with the additional
characteristic that the weaknesses make collection or liquidation in full on the basis of currently existing facts, conditions
and values questionable, and there is a high possibility of loss. An asset classified “loss” is considered uncollectible
and of such little value that continuance as an asset of the institution is not warranted. The regulations also provide for a “special
mention” category, described as assets which do not currently expose us to a sufficient degree of risk to warrant classification
but do possess credit deficiencies or potential weaknesses deserving our close attention. When we classify an asset as special
mention, we account for those classifications when establishing a general allowance for loan losses. If we classify an asset as
substandard, doubtful or loss, we establish a specific allocation for the asset at that time.
 


54
 

 
The following table shows the aggregate
amounts of our classified assets at the dates indicated.
 


  
At June 30, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
(In thousands) 

Special mention assets 
$11,715  
$13,488 

Substandard assets 
 32,074  
 28,455 

Total classified assets 
$43,789  
$41,943 

 
 


At June 30, 2012: Credit Risk Profile by Internally Assigned Grade  

  
   
   
   
   
   
  

  
One- to Four-  Family Owner- Occupied Mortgage  
Consumer  
One- to Four- Family Non- Owner- Occupied Mortgage  
Multi- Family  
Non- Residential Real estate  
Construction  
Land  
Commercial and Agricultural  
Total 

  
(in thousands) 

Grade: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Pass 
$108,642  
$34,380  
$11,836  
$15,423  
$30,379  
$510  
$2,577  
$6,015  
$209,762 

Watch 
 6,503  
 683  
 4,059  
 10,223  
 11,250  
 479  
 836  
 615  
 34,648 

Special mention 
 268  
 24  
 827  
 347  
 10,249  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 11,715 

Substandard 
 6,288  
 508  
 1,099  
 16,332  
 7,245  
 200  
 28  
 374  
 32,074 

Total 
$121,701  
$35,595  
$17,821  
$42,325  
$59,123  
$1,189  
$3,441  
$7,004  
$288,199 

 

 
 
 


At June 30, 2011: 
Credit Risk Profile by Internally Assigned Grade  

  
  

  
One- to Four- Family Owner- Occupied Mortgage  
Consumer  
One- to Four- Family Non- Owner- Occupied Mortgage  
Multi- Family  
Non-Residential Real estate  
Construction  
Land  
Commercial and Agricultural  
Total 

  
(In thousands) 

Grade: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Pass 
$100,380  
$35,893  
$13,234  
$17,140  
$36,307  
$273  
$2,663  
$4,208  
$210,098 

Watch 
 6,805  
 378  
 2,865  
 13,023  
 11,845  
 644  
 1,322  
 1,911  
 38,793 

Special mention 
 1,002  
 127  
 1,030  
 1,593  
 9,573  
 —  
 —  
 163  
 13,488 

Substandard 
 4,715  
 241  
 1,122  
 14,540  
 7,431  
 167  
 —  
 239  
 28,455 

Total 
$112,902  
$36,639  
$18,251  
$46,296  
$65,156  
$1,084  
$3,985  
$6,521  
$290,834 

 
Delinquencies. The following
table provides information about delinquencies in our loan portfolio at the dates indicated.
 


  
At June 30, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

  
30-59 Days Past Due  
60-89 Days Past Due  
30-59 Days Past Due  
60-89 Days Past Due  
30-59 Days Past Due  
60-89 Days Past Due 

  
(In thousands) 

Residential real estate: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

One- to four-family 
$2,711  
$355  
$1,155  
$1,093  
$1,083  
$515 

Multi-family 
 489  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 — 

Nonresidential real estate and land 
 207  
 306  
 732  
 307  
 648  
 3,598 

Consumer and other loans 
 441  
 15  
 665  
 187  
 728  
 337 

Total 
$3,848  
$676  
$2,552  
$1,587  
$2,459  
$4,450 

 


55
 

 
Analysis and Determination of the
Allowance for Loan Losses. The allowance for loan losses is a valuation allowance for probable credit losses in the loan
portfolio. We evaluate the need to establish allowances against losses on loans no less than quarterly. When additional allowances
are necessary, a provision for loan losses is charged to earnings. The recommendations for increases or decreases to the allowance
are presented by management to the Board of Directors. Our methodology for assessing the appropriateness of the allowance for loan
losses consists of: (1) a specific allocation on identified impaired loans; and (2) a general valuation allowance on
the remainder of the loan portfolio.
 

Allowance Required for Identified
Impaired Loans. We establish a specific allocation of the general allowance or a charge off on certain identified impaired
loans based on such factors as: (1) the strength of the property’s or the business’ cash flows; (2) the availability
of other sources of repayment; (3) the amount due or past due; (4) the type and value of collateral; (5) the strength
of our collateral position; (6) the estimated cost to sell the collateral; and (7) the borrower’s effort to cure
the delinquency.
 
General Valuation Allowance on the
Remainder of the Loan Portfolio. We establish a general allowance for homogenous loans and loans that are not 90 days delinquent
to recognize the inherent losses associated with lending activities. This general valuation allowance is determined by segregating
the loans by loan category and assigning historical loss percentages to each category. The percentages are adjusted for significant
factors that, in management’s judgment, affect the collectibility of the portfolio as of the evaluation date. These significant
factors may include changes in existing general economic and business conditions affecting our primary lending areas and the national
economy, staff lending experience, recent loss experience in particular segments of the portfolio, specific reserve and classified
asset trends, delinquency trends and risk rating trends. These loss factors are subject to ongoing evaluation to ensure their relevance
in the current economic environment.
 
As a result of our systematic analysis
of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, the loss factors we presently use to determine the reserve level are based on
various risk factors such as trends in underperforming loans, trends and concentrations in loans and loan volume, economic trends
in our market area, particularly the impact of the gaming and tourism industry on the economy of our market area, the effect of
which has become significant in recent periods.
 
We also identify loans that may need to
be charged-off as a loss by reviewing all delinquent loans, classified loans and other loans that management may have concerns
about collectability. On a monthly basis, management reviews all substandard commercial loans and all loans that are more than
30 days delinquent. On a quarterly basis, management reviews all classified assets and on an annual basis, management reviews all
major lending relationships (relationships greater than $1.0 million). The review of major lending relationships includes completing
an updated property inspection report, and obtaining current tax returns and financial information about the borrower and the property.
When collateral dependent impaired loans are identified, management will reduce the loan to fair value and charge-off the difference
between the outstanding balance and fair value to the allowance for loan losses. Impaired loans measuring fair value under the
present value of cash flows are allocated a portion of the general allowance using a specific allocation to reduce the loans’
carrying value to the present value of estimated cash flows. No less than quarterly, management will review the allowance for loan
losses based upon the criteria discussed above and make adjustments to the allowance accordingly.
 
Any commercial loan that is included in
delinquent loans, classified loans, or other loans about which management may have concerns is individually reviewed for impairment
on a monthly basis. For individually reviewed loans, the borrowers’ inability to make payments under the terms of these loans,
or the existence of a shortfall in the collateral value relating to these loans, could result in our allocating a portion of the
allowance to the loans that were impaired.
 
At June 30, 2012, our allowance for loan
losses represented 1.95% of total loans and 34.8% of nonperforming loans and amounted to $5.6 million. At June 30, 2011, our
allowance for loan losses represented 1.83% of total loans and 25.9% of nonperforming loans and amounted to $5.3 million at such
date compared to $8.0 million at June 30, 2010. At June 30, 2010, our allowance for loan losses represented 2.54% of
total loans and 46.5% of nonperforming loans.
 


56
 

 
From June 30, 2011 to June 30,
2012, the loan portfolio experienced decreases of $4.5 million in nonperforming loans, $4.4 million
in nonperforming assets, and $1.9 million in troubled debt restructurings. Classified assets increased $1.8 million. A review
of these factors resulted in the determination to establish a loan loss provision of $3.7 million for the year ended June 30,
2012 in order to increase the coverage ratio of the allowance for loan loss to gross loans to account for an increase in loan
loss experience factors, as well as the increase in loans that were 30-59 days delinquent. The fiscal 2012 decreases in nonperforming
loans, nonperforming assets, and troubled debt restructurings were the result of troubled debt restructuring loans making payments
in accordance with their restructured terms for sufficient periods of time to allow the loans to be placed on accruing status.
For more information on the Note A/B strategy and the related charge-offs, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Operating Strategy – Improving our asset quality.” When
a loan first becomes a troubled debt restructuring, it is included in nonaccrual loans until a history of at least six consecutive
monthly payments can be established. Troubled debt restructurings are also classified as substandard assets for the life of the
restructured terms. Because nonaccrual loans are included in nonperforming loans and nonperforming assets and are also considered
classified assets, the payment in accordance with restructured terms of the troubled debt restructurings by certain of the restructured
loans permit them to be re-classified as performing was the primary reason for the decrease in nonperforming loans and nonperforming
assets. 
 
Additionally, from June 30, 2011 to
June 30, 2012 the loan portfolio experienced an aggregate decrease of $385,000 in loans 30-89 days delinquent. This change
is attributable to the improved payment history of loan customers.
  
The provision for loan losses was
$3.7 million for the year ended June 30, 2012 and $4.1 million for the year ended June 30, 2011. The amount of the
provision in the year ended June 30, 2012 was the result of continued weakness in nonresidential and multi-family markets,
primarily reflecting charge-offs on two loans that were restructured into a split Note A/B during 2012 and the one
previously restructured relationship that experienced further weaknesses with the loss of tenants during 2012. The amount of
the provision in the year ended June 30, 2011 was primarily the result of the increase in troubled debt restructurings.
As previously discussed, the increase in troubled debt restructurings adversely impacted nonaccrual loans, nonperforming
loans, nonperforming assets, and classified assets. The increased provision was necessary to replenish the allowance for loan
losses following the recognition of charge-offs related to several restructured loans.
 
The ratio of the allowance for loan losses
to nonperforming loans (coverage ratio) increased from 25.9% to 34.8% from June 30, 2011 to June 30, 2012. This increase
was a result of restructured loans performing in accordance with their restructured terms. At June 30, 2012 and 2011, troubled
debt restructurings were 61.0% and 78.4% of nonperforming loans, respectively. Troubled debt restructurings have generally been
charged off or written down to their fair value at the time of the restructuring. The fair value at the time of restructuring is
determined by a recent independent appraisal or cash flow analysis of the underlying collateral. As a result of the recent fair
value determinations of a majority of the loans that are included in nonperforming loans, the allowance for loan losses as a percentage
of nonperforming loans increased from June 30, 2011 to June 30, 2012.

57
 

 
The following table illustrates the changes
to the allowance for loan losses for the year ended June 30, 2012:
 
Allowance for Credit Losses and Recorded
Investment in Loans Receivable for the year ended June 30, 2012
 


  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

  
One-
                                                                     to Four- Family Mortgage Owner- Occupied    
Consumer    
One-
                                                                     to Four- Family Mortgage Non-Owner- Occupied    
Multi-
                                                                     Family    
Non-
                                                                     Residential Real Estate    
Construction    
Land    
Commercial
                                                                     and Agricultural    
Total   

  
(In thousands) 

Allowance for Credit Losses: 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

Beginning
    Balance: 
$800  
$310  
$112  
$2,610  
$1,462  
$3  
$12  
$26  
$5,335 

Charge
    offs 
 (529) 
 (302) 
 —  
 (1,233) 
 (1,804) 
 — 
 (8)  
 (23) 
$(3,899)

Recoveries 
 135  
 105  
 —  
 256  
 4  
 —  
 —  
 16  
$516 

Provision 
 260  
 364  
 124  
 282  
 2,620  
 —  
 7  
 5  
$3,662 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Ending
    Balance: 
$666  
$477  
$236  
$1,915  
$2,282  
$3  
$11  
$24  
$5,614 

Balance,
    Individually Evaluated 
$17  
$—  
$9  
$487  
$562  
$—  
$—  
$—  
$1,075 

Balance,
    Collectively Evaluated 
$649  
$477  
$227  
$1,428  
$1,720  
$3  
$11  
$24  
$4,539 

Financing
    receivables: Ending Balance 
$121,701  
$35,595  
$17,821  
$42,325  
$59,123  
$1,189  
$3,441  
$7,004  
$288,199 

Ending
    Balance: individually evaluated for impairment 
$5,992  
$1,652  
$1,051  
$14,000  
$7,177  
$—  
$28  
$240  
$30,140 

Ending
    Balance: collectively evaluated for impairment 
$102,175  
$28,561  
$16,019  
$27,914  
$47,307  
$1,189  
$3,330  
$5,616  
$232,111 

Ending
    Balance: loans acquired at fair value 
$13,534  
$5,382  
$751  
$411  
$4,639  
$—  
$83  
$1,148  
$25,948 

 


58
 

 
The following table sets forth the breakdown
of the allowance for loan losses by loan category at the dates indicated.
 



  
At June 30, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

  
Amount  
%
    of Allowance to Total Allowance  
%
    of Loans in Category to Total Loans  
Amount  
%
    of Allowance to Total Allowance  
%
    of Loans in Category to Total Loans  
Amount  
%
    of Allowance to Total Allowance  
%
    of Loans in Category to Total Loans 

  
(Dollars in thousands) 

One-
    to four-family residential real estate 
$902  
 16.1% 
 48.4% 
$912  
 17.1% 
 45.1% 
$419  
 5.2% 
 43.6%

Multi-family
    real estate 
 1,915  
 34.1  
 14.7  
 2,610  
 48.9  
 15.9  
 3,159  
 39.4  
 14.8 

Nonresidential
    real estate 
 2,282  
 40.6  
 20.5  
 1,462  
 27.4  
 22.4  
 3,298  
 41.1  
 24.6 

Land 
 11  
 0.2  
 1.2  
 12  
 0.2  
 1.4  
 10  
 0.2  
 1.7 

Agricultural 
 -  
 -  
 1.1  
 6  
 0.1  
 0.5  
 18  
 0.2  
 0.6 

Commercial 
 24  
 0.4  
 1.3  
 20  
 0.4  
 1.7  
 203  
 2.5  
 1.8 

Consumer 
 477  
 8.5  
 12.4  
 310  
 5.8  
 12.6  
 908  
 11.3  
 12.4 

Construction 
 3  
 0.1  
 0.4  
 3  
 0.1  
 0.4  
 4  
 0.1  
 0.5 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Total allowance
    for loan losses 
$5,614  
 100.0% 
 100.0% 
$5,335  
 100.0% 
 100.0% 
$8,019  
 100.0% 
 100.0%

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Total loans 
$288,199  
    
    
$290,834  
    
    
$315,254  
    
   

  



  
At June 30, 

  
2009    
2008   

  
Amount    
% of Allowance to Total Allowance    
% of Loans in Category to Total Loans    
Amount    
% of Allowance to Total Allowance    
% of Loans in Category to Total Loans   

  
(Dollars in Thousands) 

One- to four-family residential real estate 
$215  
 5.1% 
 44.9% 
$209  
 4.5% 
 46.5%

Multi-family real estate 
 322  
 7.6  
 17.0  
 315  
 6.8  
 15.1 

Nonresidential real estate and land 
 3,207  
 76.1  
 24.2  
 3,753  
 81.3  
 23.1 

Land 
 90  
 2.1  
 1.7  
 70  
 1.5  
 2.1 

Agricultural 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 — 

Commercial 
 54  
 1.3  
 1.6  
 7  
 0.2  
 2.1 

Consumer 
 325  
 7.8  
 10.0  
 265  
 5.7  
 10.2 

Construction 
 —  
 —  
 0.6  
 —  
 —  
 0.9 

Total allowance for loan losses 
$4,213  
 100.0% 
 100.0% 
$4,619  
 100.0% 
 100.0%

Total loans 
$277,302  
    
    
$289,744  
    
   

   
Although we believe that we use the best
information available to establish the allowance for loan losses, future adjustments to the allowance for loan losses may be necessary
and our results of operations could be adversely affected if circumstances differ substantially from the assumptions used in making
the determinations. Furthermore, while we believe we have established our allowance for loan losses in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles, there can be no assurance that the OCC, in reviewing our loan portfolio, will not request us to
increase our allowance for loan losses. The OCC may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses based on judgments different
from ours. In addition, because future events affecting borrowers and collateral cannot be predicted with certainty, there can
be no assurance that increases will not be necessary should the quality of any loans deteriorate as a result of the factors discussed
above. Any material increase in the allowance for loan losses may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

59
 

 
Analysis of Loan Loss Experience.
The following table sets forth an analysis of the allowance for loan losses for the periods indicated.
  


  
   
   
   
   
  

  
Year
Ended June 30,   

  
2012    
2011    
2010    
2009    
2008   

  
(Dollars in thousands) 

Allowance at beginning of period 
$5,335  
$8,019  
$4,213  
$4,619  
$2,671 

Provision for loan losses 
 3,662  
 4,140  
 4,847  
 2,447  
 4,718 

Charge-offs: 
    
    
    
    
   

One- to four-family residential real estate 
 529  
 803  
 124  
 101  
 343 

Land 
 8  
 —  
 —  
 2,537  
 — 

Nonresidential real estate 
 1,804  
 3,065  
 33  
 —  
 2,440 

Multi-family real estate 
 1,233  
 2,008  
 834  
 51  
 — 

Consumer and other loans 
 325  
 997  
 96  
 182  
 — 

Total charge-offs 
 3,899  
 6,873  
 1,087  
 2,871  
 2,783 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Recoveries: 
    
    
    
    
   

One- to four-family residential real estate 
 135  
 26  
 2  
 5  
 — 

Nonresidential real estate and land 
 4  
 7  
 19  
 —  
 — 

Multi-family real estate 
 256  
 —  
 5  
 —  
 — 

Consumer and other loans 
 121  
 16  
 20  
 13  
 13 

Total recoveries 
 516  
 49  
 46  
 18  
 13 

Net charge-offs 
 (3,383) 
 (6,824) 
 (1,041) 
 (2,853) 
 (2,770)

Loss on restructuring of loans 
 —  
 —  
 3  
 51  
 — 

Allowance at end of period 
$5,614  
$5,335  
$8,019  
$4,213  
$4,619 

Allowance to nonperforming loans 
 34.79% 
 25.90% 
 46.47% 
 70.51% 
 62.00%

Allowance to total loans outstanding at the end of the period 
 1.95% 
 1.83% 
 2.54% 
 1.52% 
 1.59%

Net charge-offs to average loans outstanding during the period 
 1.19% 
 2.30% 
 0.38% 
 1.00% 
 1.06%

 
The charge-offs in the year ended June
30, 2012 were primarily the result of reductions in the appraised values of collateral related to nonperforming loans.
 
The charge-offs in the year ended June 30,
2011 were primarily the result of the previously mentioned restructurings of 13 loans having an aggregate outstanding principal
balance of $18.0 million.
 
Charge-offs in the year ended June 30,
2010 were primarily the result of one loan secured by a mobile home park. The loan was charged-off in September, 2009 and taken
into other real estate owned at that time. The property was sold in February, 2010 and we restructured the loan to the new borrower
as a troubled debt restructuring. The loan is included in “Accruing restructured loans” and was performing in accordance
with its restructured terms at June 30, 2012.
 
Charge-offs in the year ended June
30, 2009 primarily resulted from four loans comprising two lending relationships. Three of the loans, included in one
relationship for a landscape nursery, were charged-off in August, 2008, the inventory and assets from the business were
liquidated, and the real estate was taken into other real estate owned. The real property was sold in June, 2009 and we
financed the sale as a troubled debt restructuring. Due to its performance history, it was classified as an accruing troubled
debt restructuring and was performing according to its restructured terms at June 30, 2012. The fourth loan was related to
Loan Relationship D included in “—Analysis of Nonperforming and Classified Assets.” In December
2011, this loan was restructured into two loans using the Note A/B split note strategy. The A loan has performed in
accordance with its restructured terms for six months. At June 30, 2012, this loan was classified as nonaccrual troubled debt
restructuring. The B loan was charged off in December, 2011.
 
The charge-offs in the year ended June
30, 2008 were primarily the result of the two loans that were foreclosed and taken into other real estate owned in May, 2008. One
property, a golf course, was sold in December, 2009. We provided the sales financing and restructured the loan as a troubled debt
restructuring due to additional collateral that was provided by the borrower at the time of restructuring. This loan was performing
according to terms and was considered an accruing troubled debt restructuring at June 30, 2012. The other property is land held
for future residential development by the borrower that is adjacent to the aforementioned golf course. This property is included
in other real estate owned at June 30, 2012.

60
 

 
Interest Rate Risk Management.
We manage the interest rate sensitivity of our interest-bearing liabilities and interest-earning assets in an effort to minimize
the adverse effects of changes in the interest rate environment. Deposit accounts typically react more quickly to changes in market
interest rates than mortgage loans because of the shorter maturities of deposits. As a result, sharp increases in interest rates
may adversely affect our earnings while decreases in interest rates may beneficially affect our earnings. To reduce the potential
volatility of our earnings, we have sought to improve the match between asset and liability maturities and rates, while maintaining
an acceptable interest rate spread. Our strategy for managing interest rate risk emphasizes: adjusting the maturities of borrowings;
adjusting the investment portfolio mix and duration; and generally selling in the secondary market newly originated conforming
fixed-rate 15-, 20- and 30-year one- to four-family residential real estate loans and available-for-sale securities. We currently
do not participate in hedging programs, interest rate swaps or other activities involving the use of derivative financial instruments.
  
We have an Asset/Liability Committee, which
includes members of management and Board members, to communicate, coordinate and control all aspects involving asset/liability
management. The committee establishes and monitors the volume, maturities, pricing and mix of assets and funding sources with the
objective of managing assets and funding sources to provide results that are consistent with liquidity, growth, risk limits and
profitability goals.
 
Economic Value of Equity Analysis.
We use an economic value of equity analysis prepared by a consulting firm to review our level of interest rate risk. This
analysis measures interest rate risk by computing changes in net economic value of our cash flows from assets, liabilities and
off-balance sheet items in the event of a range of assumed changes in market interest rates. Economic value of equity represents
the market value of portfolio equity and is equal to the market value of assets minus the market value of liabilities, with adjustments
made for off-balance sheet items. These analyses assess the risk of loss in market risk-sensitive instruments in the event of a
sudden and sustained 100 to 300 basis point increase or 100 and 200 basis point decrease in market interest rates with no effect
given to any steps that we might take to counter the effect of that interest rate movement. Because of the low level of market
interest rates, these analyses are not performed for decreases of more than 200 basis points.
 
The following table presents the change
in our net economic value of equity at June 30, 2012 that would occur in the event of an immediate change in interest rates,
with no effect given to any steps that we might take to counteract that change.
  


   
   
   
   
  

   
Economic Value of Equity (Dollars in Thousands)    
Economic Value of 
Equity as % of Economic
Value of Total Assets   

Basis Point (“bp”)  Change in Rates    
Amount    
Change    
% Change    
Economic Value Ratio   

 300  
$44,300  
$(16,896) 
 (27.61)% 
 9.50%

 200  
 48,662  
 (12,534) 
 (20.48)% 
 10.18%

 100  
 56,536  
 (4,660) 
 (7.61)% 
 11.46%

 0  
 61,196  
 —  
 —  
 12.08%

 (100) 
 65,083  
 3,887  
 6.35% 
 12.60%

 (200) 
 58,396  
 (2,800) 
 (4.58)% 
 11.44%

 
The model uses various assumptions in assessing
interest rate risk. These assumptions relate to interest rates, loan prepayment rates, deposit decay rates and the market values
of certain assets under differing interest rate scenarios, among others. As with any method of measuring interest rate risk, certain
shortcomings are inherent in the methods of analyses presented in the foregoing tables. For example, although certain assets and
liabilities may have similar maturities or periods to repricing, they may react in different degrees to changes in market interest
rates. Also, the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate in advance of changes in market interest
rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind changes in market rates. Additionally, certain assets, such as adjustable-rate
mortgage loans, have features that restrict changes in interest rates on a short-term basis and over the life of the asset. Further,
in the event of a change in interest rates, expected rates of prepayments on loans and early withdrawals from certificates could
deviate significantly from those assumed in calculating the table. Prepayment rates can have a significant impact on interest income.
Because of the large percentage of loans and mortgage-backed securities we hold, rising or falling interest rates have a significant
impact on the prepayment speeds of our earning assets that in turn affect the rate sensitivity position. When interest rates rise,
prepayments tend to slow. When interest rates fall, prepayments tend to rise. Our asset sensitivity would be reduced if prepayments
slow and vice versa. While we believe these assumptions to be reasonable, there can be no assurance that assumed prepayment rates
will approximate actual future mortgage-backed security and loan repayment activity.

61
 

 
Liquidity Management. Liquidity
is the ability to meet current and future financial obligations of a short-term nature. Our primary sources of funds consist of
deposit inflows, loan repayments, maturities and sales of securities and borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis.
While maturities and scheduled amortization of loans and securities are predictable sources of funds, deposit flows and loan prepayments
are greatly influenced by general interest rates, economic conditions and competition.
 
We regularly adjust our investments in
liquid assets based upon our assessment of: (1) expected loan demands; (2) expected deposit flows, in particular municipal
deposit flows; (3) yields available on interest-earning deposits and securities; and (4) the objectives of our asset/liability
management policy.
 
Our most liquid assets are cash and cash
equivalents. The levels of these assets depend on our operating, financing, lending and investing activities during any given period.
Cash and cash equivalents totaled $29.1 million at June 30, 2012. Securities classified as available-for-sale whose market
value exceeds our cost, which provide additional sources of liquidity, totaled $80.9 million at June 30, 2012. Total securities
classified as available-for-sale were $145.9 million at June 30, 2012. In addition, we had the ability to borrow a total of
approximately $92.1 million from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis at June 30, 2012.
 

At June 30, 2012, United Community
Bank’s total commitment to extend credit at variable rates was $29.1 million. The amount of fixed-rate commitments was approximately
$911,000 at June 30, 2012. The fixed-rate loan commitments at June 30, 2012 have interest rates ranging from 2.88% to
3.88%. In addition, the Bank had $334,000 of letters of credit outstanding at June 30, 2012. Certificates of deposit due within
one year of June 30, 2012 totaled $117.7 million. This represented 61.5% of certificates of deposit at June 30, 2012.
We believe the large percentage of certificates of deposit that mature within one year reflects customers’ hesitancy to invest
their funds for long periods in the current low interest rate environment. If these maturing deposits do not remain with us, we
will be required to seek other sources of funds, including other certificates of deposit and borrowings. Depending on market conditions,
we may be required to pay higher rates on such deposits or other borrowings than we currently pay on the certificates of deposit
due on or before June 30, 2012. We believe, however, based on past experience that a significant portion of our certificates
of deposit will remain with us. We have the ability to attract and retain deposits by adjusting the interest rates offered.
 
The following table presents certain of
our contractual obligations as of June 30, 2012.
  


  
   
Payments Due By Period 

Contractual Obligations 
Total  
Less than
 One Year  
One to Three
 Years  
Three to Five
 Years  
More Than Five
 Years 

  
(Dollars in Thousands) 

Long-term debt obligations 
$10,833  
$833  
$2,000  
$2,500  
$5,500 

Operating lease obligations 
 33  
 16  
 17  
 -  
 - 

Total 
$10,866  
$849  
$2,017  
$2,500  
$5,500 

 
Our primary investing activities are the
origination and purchase of loans and the purchase of securities. Our primary financing activities consist of activity in deposit
accounts and Federal Home Loan Bank advances. Deposit flows are affected by the overall level of interest rates, the interest rates
and products offered by us and our local competitors and other factors. We generally manage the pricing of our deposits to be competitive
and to increase core deposit relationships. Occasionally, we offer promotional rates on certain deposit products to attract deposits.

62
 

 
The following table presents our primary
investing and financing activities during the periods indicated.
  


  
   
  

  
Year Ended June 30,   

  
2012    
2011   

  
(Dollars in thousands) 

Investing activities: 
   
  

Loans disbursed or closed 
$(71,403) 
$(65,984)

Loan principal repayments 
 58,678  
 75,538 

Proceeds from maturities and principal repayments of securities 
 39,325  
 48,441 

Proceeds from sales of securities available-for-sale 
 85,494  
 50,622 

Purchases of securities 
 (152,404) 
 (104,381)

Increases in bank owned life insurance policies 
 (1,807) 
 (499)

Capital expenditures 
 (235) 
 (434)

Financing activities: 
    
   

(Decrease) increase in deposits, net of acquisition 
 13,902  
 (16,992)

Borrowings from Federal Home Loan Bank 
 10,000  
 - 

Repayments of Federal Home Loan Bank advances 
 (1,000) 
 (1,000)

Dividends paid to stockholders 
 (1,364) 
 (1,357)

Repurchases of common stock 
 (31) 
 (37)

 
Capital Management. United
Community Bank is subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the OCC, including a risk-based capital measure.
The risk-based capital guidelines include both a definition of capital and a framework for calculating risk-weighted assets by
assigning balance sheet assets and off-balance sheet items to broad risk categories. At June 30, 2012, we exceeded all of
our regulatory capital requirements. We are considered “well capitalized” under regulatory guidelines. See “Regulation
and Supervision—Federal Institution Regulation—Capital Requirements,” and Note 16 to the consolidated financial
statements included in Item 8 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.
In the normal course of operations, we engage in a variety of financial transactions that, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles, are not recorded in our financial statements. These transactions involve, to varying degrees, elements of
credit, interest rate and liquidity risk. Such transactions are used primarily to manage customers’ requests for funding
and take the form of loan commitments, letters of credit and lines of credit. For information about our loan commitments and unused
lines of credit, see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We
currently have no plans to engage in hedging activities in the future.
 
For the year ended June 30, 2012,
we engaged in no off-balance sheet transactions reasonably likely to have a material effect on our financial condition, results
of operations or cash flows.
 
Effect of Inflation and Changing Prices 
 
The financial statements and related financial
data presented in this report have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which require
the measurement of financial position and operating results in terms of historical dollars without considering the change in the
relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation. The primary impact of inflation on our operations is reflected in
increased operating costs. Unlike most industrial companies, virtually all the assets and liabilities of a financial institution
are monetary in nature. As a result, interest rates generally have a more significant impact on a financial institution’s
performance than do general levels of inflation. Interest rates do not necessarily move in the same direction or to the same extent
as the prices of goods and services.
 
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about
Market Risk 
 
The information required by this item is
incorporated herein by reference to the section captioned “Risk Management” in Item 7 of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K.

63
 

 
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data 

64
 


 
Management’s Report on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting


 
The Company’s management is responsible for establishing
and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. The internal control process has been designed under our supervision
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the Company’s financial
statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.
 
Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2012, utilizing the framework established in Internal
Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”).
Based on this assessment, management determined that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of June 30,
2012 was effective.
 
This annual report does not include an attestation report of
the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Management’s
report was not subject to attestation by the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm pursuant to temporary
rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit the Company to provide only management’s report in this annual
report.
 
September 7, 2012

65
 

 
Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm
 
To the Board of Directors of
 
United Community Bancorp and Subsidiaries:
 
We have audited the consolidated statements of financial condition
of United Community Bancorp and Subsidiaries as of June 30, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income,
comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the years then ended. The Company’s management
is responsible for these financial statements. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based
on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have,
nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of
internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances,
but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.
 
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of United Community Bancorp and Subsidiaries as of June 30, 2012
and 2011, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years then ended in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.
 
/s/ Clark, Schaefer, Hackett & Co.
 
Cincinnati, Ohio
September 7, 2012
 

66
 


 

UNITED COMMUNITY BANCORP AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition
 



(In thousands, except share amounts) 
June 30, 2012  
June 30, 2011 

Assets 
    
   

  
    
   

Cash and due from banks 
$1,872  
 2,543 

Interest-earning deposits in other financial institutions 
 27,207  
 28,616 

Cash and cash equivalents 
 29,079  
 31,159 

  
    
   

Investment securities: 
    
   

Securities available for sale - at estimated market value 
 21,275  
 49,230 

Securities held to maturity - at amortized cost 
 493  
 564 

Mortgage-backed securities available for sale - at estimated market value 
 124,621  
 74,119 

  
    
   

Loans receivable, net 
 283,154  
 285,877 

Loans available for sale 
 393  
 196 

  
    
   

Property and equipment, net 
 7,062  
 7,396 

Federal Home Loan Bank stock, at cost 
 6,588  
 2,507 

Accrued interest receivable: 
    
   

Loans 
 1,137  
 1,291 

Investments and mortgage-backed securities 
 585  
 681 

Other real estate owned, net 
 197  
 139 

Cash surrender value of life insurance policies 
 10,010  
 7,882 

Deferred income taxes 
 3,004  
 2,880 

Prepaid expenses and other assets 
 4,913  
 5,060 

Goodwill 
 2,522  
 2,522 

Intangible asset 
 870  
 1,028 

Total assets 
 495,903  
$472,531 

  
    
   

Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity 
    
   

  
    
   

Deposits 
$426,967  
 413,091 

Advances from FHLB 
 10,833  
 1,833 

Accrued interest on deposits 
 33  
 44 

Accrued interest on FHLB advance 
 8  
 3 

Advances from borrowers for payment of insurance and taxes 
 325  
 230 

Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
 2,749  
 3,184 

Total liabilities 
 440,915  
 418,385 

  
    
   

Stockholders' equity 
    
   

Preferred stock, $0.01 par value; 1,000,000 shares authorized, none issued 
 -  
 - 

Common stock, $0.01 par value; 19,000,000 shares authorized, 8,464,000 shares issued at June 30, 2012 and 2011; 7,834,782  and 7,840,382 shares outstanding at June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively 
 36  
 36 

Additional paid-in capital 
 36,958  
 37,089 

Retained earnings 
 27,060  
 26,435 

Less shares purchased for stock plans 
 (2,416) 
 (2,775)

Treasury Stock, at cost -  629,218 shares at June 30, 2012 and 623,628 shares at June 30, 2011 
 (7,122) 
 (7,091)

Accumulated other comprehensive income: 
    
   

Unrealized gain on securities available for sale, net of income taxes 
 472  
 452 

  
    
   

Total stockholders' equity 
 54,988  
 54,146 

  
    
   

Total liabilities and stockholders' equity 
$495,903  
$472,531 

 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
 

67
 

 
UNITED COMMUNITY BANCORP AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
Consolidated Statements of Income
(In thousands, except share amounts)
 



  
For the year ended June 30, 

(In thousands, except per share data) 
2012  
2011 

  
   
  

Interest income: 
    
   

Loans 
$15,159  
$16,958 

Investments and mortgage-backed securities 
 3,027  
 2,888 

Total interest income 
 18,186  
 19,846 

Interest expense: 
    
   

Deposits 
 4,176  
 5,516 

Borrowed funds 
 112  
 71 

Total interest expense 
 4,288  
 5,587 

  
    
   

Net interest income 
 13,898  
 14,259 

  
    
   

Provision for loan losses 
 3,662  
 4,140 

  
    
   

Net interest income after provision for loan losses 
 10,236  
 10,119 

  
    
   

Other income: 
    
   

Service charges 
 2,423  
 2,392 

Gain on sale of loans 
 505  
 519 

Gain on sale of investments 
 1,464  
 584 

Loss on sale of other real estate owned 
 (9) 
 (10)

Income from bank owned life insurance 
 321  
 274 

Other 
 273  
 279 

Total other income 
 4,977  
 4,038 

  
    
   

Other expense: 
    
   

Compensation and employee benefits 
 6,826  
 6,610 

Premises and occupancy expense 
 1,317  
 1,325 

Deposit insurance premium 
 281  
 775 

Advertising expense 
 379  
 408 

Data processing expense 
 1,356  
 1,161 

Provision for loss on real estate owned 
 47  
 - 

Acquisition expense 
 -  
 38 

Intangible amortization 
 158  
 372 

Professional fees 
 767  
 522 

Other operating expenses 
 1,305  
 1,275 

Total other expense 
 12,436  
 12,486 

  
    
   

Income before income taxes 
 2,777  
 1,671 

  
    
   

Income tax provision 
 788  
 501 

  
    
   

Net income 
$1,989  
$1,170 

  
    
   

Basic and diluted earnings per share 
$0.26  
$0.15 

 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
 

68
 

 
UNITED COMMUNITY BANCORP AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive
Income
(In thousands)
 



  
For the year ended 

  
June 30, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
   
  

Net income 
$1,989  
$1,170 

  
    
   

Other comprehensive income, net of tax   
    
   

Unrealized gain on securities available for sale 
 913  
 311 

  
    
   

Reclassification adjustment for gains on securities available for sale included in income 
 (893) 
 (356)

  
    
   

Total comprehensive income 
$2,009  
$1,125 

 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
 

69
 

 
UNITED COMMUNITY BANCORP AND SUBSIDIARY
 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders'
Equity
 



(In thousands, except per share data)
 
Common 
Stock
 
 
Additional Paid-In 
Capital
 
 
Retained Earnings
 
 
Shares Purchased for Stock plans
 
 
Treasury Stock
 
 
Unrealized 
Gain (Loss) on Securities Available for Sale
 
 
Total
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Balance at June 30, 2010
 
$
36
 
 
$
36,995
 
 
$
26,622
 
 
$
(3,042
)
 
$
(7,054
)
 
$
497
 
 
$
54,054
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Net income
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
1,170
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
1,170
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Cash dividends of $0.44 per share*
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(1,357
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(1,357
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Stock-based compensation expense
 
 
-
 
 
 
157
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
157
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Amortization of ESOP shares
 
 
-
 
 
 
(63
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
267
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
204
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Shares repurchased
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(37
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(37
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Unrealized loss on investments:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Net change during the period,net of deferred taxes of $23
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(45
)
 
 
(45
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Balance at June 30, 2011
 
$
36
 
 
$
37,089
 
 
$
26,435
 
 
$
(2,775
)
 
$
(7,091
)
 
$
452
 
 
$
54,146
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Net income
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
1,989
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
1,989
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Cash dividends of $0.44 per share*
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(1,364
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(1,364
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Stock-based compensation expense
 
 
-
 
 
 
48
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
48
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Amortization of ESOP shares
 
 
-
 
 
 
(179
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
359
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
180
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Shares repurchased
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(31
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(31
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Unrealized gain on investments:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Net change during the period, net of deferred taxes of $14
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
20
 
 
 
20
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Balance at June 30, 2012
 
$
36
 
 
$
36,958
 
 
$
27,060
 
 
$
(2,416
)
 
$
(7,122
)
 
$
472
 
 
$
54,988
 

 
* paid on all shares other than those held by United Community
MHC
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

70
 

 
UNITED COMMUNITY BANCORP AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
 



  
For the year ended 

  
June 30, 

(In thousands) 
2012  
2011 

  
   
  

Operating activities: 
    
   

Net income 
$1,989  
$1,170 

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash 
    
   

provided by operating activities: 
    
   

Depreciation 
 569  
 551 

Provision for loan losses 
 3,662  
 4,140 

Provision  for loss on real estate owned 
 47  
 - 

Deferred loan origination costs 
 (212) 
 (216)

Amortization of premium on investments 
 2,524  
 1,447 

Proceeds from sale of loans 
 15,668  
 21,748 

Loans disbursed for sale in the secondary market 
 (15,360) 
 (21,061)

Gain on sale of loans 
 (505) 
 (519)

Amortization of intangible asset 
 158  
 372 

Amortization of acquisition-related loan yield adjustment 
 (182) 
 (124)

Amortization of acquisition-related credit risk adjustment 
 -  
 (102)

Amortization of acquisition-related CD yield adjustment 
 (26) 
 (97)

Gain on sale of investment securities 
 (1,464) 
 (584)

Loss on sale of other real estate owned 
 9  
 10 

Increase in cash surrender value of life insurance 
 (321) 
 (274)

ESOP shares committed to be released 
 180  
 (87)

Stock-based compensation expense 
 48  
 157 

Deferred income taxes 
 (139) 
 1,711 

Effects of change in operating assets and liabilities: 
    
   

Accrued interest receivable 
 250  
 318 

Prepaid expenses and other assets 
 147  
 (1,608)

Accrued interest 
 (6) 
 (75)

Accrued expenses and other 
 (432) 
 16 

  
    
   

Net cash provided by operating activities 
 6,604  
 6,893 

  
    
   

Investing activities: 
    
   

Proceeds from maturity of available for sale investment securities 
 14,000  
 29,802 

Proceeds from sale of available for sale investment securities 
 29,216  
 17,712 

Proceeds from maturity of held to maturity securities 
 71  
 67 

Proceeds from repayment of mortgage-backed securities available for sale 
 25,254  
 18,572 

Proceeds from sale of mortgage-backed securities available for sale 
 56,278  
 32,910 

Proceeds from sale of other real estate owned 
 480  
 541 

Purchases of available for sale investment securities 
 (14,170) 
 (35,817)

Purchases of mortgage-backed securities available for sale 
 (134,153) 
 (68,065)

Proceeds from sale of Federal Home Loan Bank stock 
 -  
 8 

Purchases of Federal Home Loan Bank stock 
 (4,081) 
 (499)

Net decrease (increase) in loans 
 (1,139) 
 17,269 

Purchase of bank owned life insurance 
 (1,807) 
 (499)

Capital expenditures 
 (235) 
 (434)

  
    
   

Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 
 (30,286) 
 11,567 

  
    
   

Financing activities: 
    
   

Net increase (decrease) in deposits 
 13,902  
 (16,992)

Borrowings from Federal Home Loan Bank 
 10,000  
 - 

Repayments of Federal Home Loan Bank advances 
 (1,000) 
 (1,000)

Dividends paid to stockholders 
 (1,364) 
 (1,357)

Repurchases of common stock 
 (31) 
 (37)

Net increase in advances from borrowers for payment of insurance and taxes 
 95  
 62 

  
    
   

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 
 21,602  
 (19,324)

  
    
   

Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 
 (2,080) 
 (864)

  
    
   

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 
 31,159  
 32,023 

  
    
   

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 
$29,079  
$31,159 

 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

71
 

 



UNITED COMMUNITY BANCORP 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
NOTE 1 – BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
United Community Bancorp (the “Company”) is a Federally-chartered
corporation, which was organized to be the mid-tier holding company for United Community Bank (the “Bank”), which is
a Federally-chartered, FDIC-insured savings bank. The Company was organized in conjunction with the Bank’s reorganization
from a mutual savings bank to the mutual holding company structure on March 30, 2006. United Community MHC, a Federally-chartered
corporation, is the mutual holding company parent of the Company. At June 30, 2012, United Community MHC owned 59% of the
Company’s outstanding common stock and must always own at least a majority of the voting stock of the Company. In addition
to the shares of the Company, United Community MHC was capitalized with $100,000 in cash from the Company. The Company, through
the Bank, operates in a single business segment providing traditional banking services through its office and branches in Southeastern
Indiana. UCB Real Estate Management Holdings, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank, was formed for the purpose of holding
and operating real estate assets that are acquired by the Bank through, or in lieu of, foreclosure. UCB Financial Services, Inc.,
a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank, was formed for the purpose of collecting commissions on investments referred to Lincoln
Financial Group.
 
The Company evaluates events and transactions occurring subsequent
to the date of the financial statements for matters requiring recognition or disclosure in the financial statements.
 
PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION – The consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of the Company and the Bank. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
 
RECLASSIFICATIONS – Certain year-to-date and prior year
amounts presented have been reclassified in order to conform to the current year presentation.
 
USE OF ESTIMATES IN THE PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
- The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America (“GAAP”). In preparing consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP, management is required
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
period. The most significant estimates and assumptions in the Company’s financial statements are recorded in the allowances
for loan and other real estate losses and deferred income taxes. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates.
 
 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS – For purposes of reporting
cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash and interest-bearing deposits in other financial institutions with original
maturities of less than ninety days.
 
INVESTMENT SECURITIES – Investment and mortgage-backed
securities are classified upon acquisition into one of three categories: held to maturity, trading, and available for sale, in
accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 320, Investments. Debt securities that the Bank has the
positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held to maturity securities and reported at amortized cost. Debt
and equity securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling in the near-term are classified as trading
securities and reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in earnings. The Bank had no trading securities
at June 30, 2012 or 2011. Debt and equity securities not classified as either held to maturity securities or trading securities
are classified as available for sale securities and reported at fair value, with unrealized gains or losses excluded from earnings
and reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity, net of deferred taxes.
 
Securities are recorded net of applicable premium or discount
with the premium or discount being amortized on the interest method over the estimated average life of the investment.
 
The Bank designates its investment in the U. S. League Intermediate-Term
Portfolio, certain municipal bonds, and mortgage-backed securities as available for sale.
 
Gains and losses realized on the sale of investment securities
are accounted for on the trade date using the specific identification method.
 
LOANS RECEIVABLE - Loans receivable that management has the
intent and ability to hold until maturity or payoff are reported at their outstanding unpaid principal balances reduced by any
charge-offs or specific valuation allocations and net of any deferred fees or costs on originated loans, or unamortized premiums
or discounts on purchased loans. Interest on loans is calculated by using the simple interest method on daily balances of the principal
amount outstanding. Loans held for sale are recorded at lower of cost or market, determined in the aggregate. Loans are designated
for sale as a part of the Bank’s asset/liability management strategy. Market value is determined based on expected volatility
in interest rates and the anticipated holding period before the loan is sold. Due to the holding period being short term, the market
value and cost of the loan are approximately the same. The Bank had $393,000 and $196,000 in loans held for sale at June 30,
2012 and 2011, respectively.
 

72
 

 
The Bank defers all loan origination fees, net of certain direct
loan origination costs, and amortizes them over the contractual life of the loan as an adjustment of yield in accordance with ASC
310-20, Receivables – Nonrefundable Fees and Other Costs.
 
The Bank retains the servicing on loans sold and agrees to remit
to the investor loan principal and interest at agreed-upon rates. These rates can differ from the loan’s contractual interest
rate resulting in a “yield differential.” In addition to previously deferred loan origination fees and cash gains,
gains on the sale of loans can represent the present value of the future yield differential less normal servicing fees, capitalized
over the estimated life of the loans sold. Normal servicing fees are determined by reference to the stipulated minimum servicing
fee set forth by the government agencies to which the loans are sold. Such servicing fees are amortized to operations over the
life of the loans using the interest method. If prepayments are higher than expected, an immediate charge to operations is made.
If prepayments are lower than original estimates, then the related adjustments are made prospectively.
 
The mortgage servicing rights recorded by the Bank are segregated
into pools for valuation purposes using as pooling criteria the loan term and coupon rate in accordance with ASC 860-50-30.
Once pooled, each grouping of loans is evaluated on a discounted earnings basis to determine the present value of the future earnings
that a purchaser could expect to realize from each portfolio. Earnings are projected from a variety of sources including loan-servicing
fees, interest earned on float, net interest earned on escrows, miscellaneous income and costs to service the loans. The present
value of future earnings is the “economic” value for the pool. The Company has selected the amortized cost method for
valuation under guidance of ASC 860-50, Transfers and Servicing – Servicing Assets and Liabilities. 
 
The allowance for loan and lease losses is increased by charges
to income and decreased by charge-offs (net of recoveries). Management’s evaluation, which occurs no less than quarterly,
of the adequacy of the allowance is based on the Bank’s past loan loss experience, known and inherent losses such as amount
of loan, type of loan, concentrations, adverse situations that may affect the borrower’s ability to repay, the estimated
value of any underlying collateral, present value of expected future cash flows to support the loan, and current economic conditions.
In addition, various regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review the Bank’s
allowance for loan losses. Such agencies may require the Bank to recognize additions to the allowance based on judgments different
from those of management.
 
Although Management uses the best information available to make
these estimates, future adjustments to the allowance may be necessary due to economic, operating, regulatory and other conditions
that may be beyond the Bank’s control.
 

The Bank’s internal asset review committee reviews each
loan with three or more delinquent payments, and each loan ninety days or more past due as to principal or interest, and decides
whether the circumstances involved give reason to place the loan on non-accrual status. The Board of Directors reviews this information
as determined by the internal asset review committee each month. While a loan is classified as non-accrual, cash receipts are applied
to principal and interest in accordance with its contractual terms unless full payment of principal is not expected, in which case
cash receipts, whether designated as principal or interest, are applied as a reduction in the carrying value of the loan. A nonaccrual
loan is generally returned to accrual status when principal and interest payments are current, full collectibility of principal
and interest is reasonably assured and a consistent record of performance has been demonstrated. Interest income is generally recognized
on a cash basis.
 
A loan is defined as impaired when, based on current information
and events, it is probable that a creditor will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the
loan agreement. The Bank considers its investment in one- to four-family residential loans and consumer installment loans to be
homogeneous and therefore excluded from separate identification for evaluation of impairment. With respect to the Bank’s
investment in multi-family and nonresidential loans, such loans are determined to be cash flow dependent or collateral dependent.
Collateral dependent loans, as a practical expedient, are carried at the lower of cost or fair value based upon the most recent
real estate appraisals. Cash flow dependent loans are carried at lower of cost or fair value based on the present value of expected
future cash flows. Loans which are more than ninety days delinquent and are considered to constitute more than a minimum delay
in repayment are evaluated for impairment at that time. It is the Bank’s policy to charge off unsecured credits that are
one hundred and twenty days or more delinquent.
 
Cash receipts on a nonaccrual loan are applied to principal
and interest in accordance with its contractual terms unless full payment of principal is not expected, in which case cash receipts,
whether designated as principal or interest, are applied as a reduction of the carrying value of the loan. A nonaccrual loan is
generally returned to accrual status when principal and interest payments are current, full collectibility of principal and interest
is reasonably assured and a consistent record of performance has been demonstrated.
 
From time to time, as part of our loss mitigation strategy,
loans may be renegotiated in a troubled debt restructuring (“TDR”) when we determine that greater economic value will
ultimately be recovered under the new terms than through foreclosure, liquidation, or bankruptcy. We may consider the borrower’s
payment status and history, the borrower’s ability to pay upon a rate reset on an adjustable rate mortgage, size of the payment
increase upon a rate reset, period of time remaining prior to the rate reset, and other relevant factors in determining whether
a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty. TDRs are considered to be nonperforming, until they have been performing under
the new terms for at least six consecutive months. TDRs are accounted for as set forth in ASC 310, Receivables. A TDR may
be on non-accrual or it may accrue interest. A TDR is typically on non-accrual until the borrower successfully performs under the
new terms for six consecutive months. However, a TDR may be placed on accrual immediately following the TDR in those instances
where a borrower’s payments are current prior to the modification and management determines that principal and interest under
the new terms are fully collectible.
 

73
 

 
Existing performing loan customers who request a loan modification
(“non-TDR”) and who meet the Bank’s underwriting standards may, usually for a fee, modify their original loan
terms to terms currently offered. The modified terms of these loans are similar to the terms offered to new customers. The fee
assessed for modifying the loan is deferred and amortized over the life of the modified loan using the level-yield method and is
reflected as an adjustment to interest income. Each modification is examined on a loan-by-loan basis and if the modification of
terms represents more than a minor change to the loan, then the unamortized balance of the pre-modification deferred fees or costs
associated with the mortgage loan are recognized in interest income at the time of the modification. If the modification of terms
does not represent more than a minor change to the loan, then the unamortized balance of the pre-modification deferred fees or
costs continue to be deferred.
 
CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK - The Bank has residential and
commercial loans to customers in local counties in Southeastern Indiana, Northern Kentucky, and Southwestern Ohio. Although the
Bank has a diversified loan portfolio, the ability of a substantial portion of its debtors to honor their contracts is dependent
upon the local economy. Management maintains deposit accounts with financial institutions in excess of federal deposit insurance
limits. The Company has not experienced any losses in such accounts. The Company believes it is not exposed to any significant
credit risk on cash and cash equivalents.
 
OTHER REAL ESTATE OWNED - Real estate properties acquired through,
or in lieu of, foreclosure are initially recorded at lower of cost or market, with fair value based on the value of the underlying
collateral at the date of foreclosure, and are transferred to the Bank’s wholly-owned subsidiary, UCB Real Estate Management
Holdings, LLC. Holding costs, including losses from operations, are expensed when incurred. Valuations are periodically performed,
and an allowance for losses is established by a charge to operations if the carrying value of a property exceeds its estimated
net realizable value.
 
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT - Property and equipment is carried at
cost. Depreciation is provided on the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The estimated useful
lives are as follows:
 


Land improvements 
 7 - 15  years 

Buildings 
 15 - 39  years 

Furniture and equipment 
 3 - 10  years 

 
Significant renewals and betterments are charged to the property
and equipment account. Maintenance and repairs are charged to operations in the period incurred.
 
INCOME TAXES – The Company accounts for income taxes in
accordance with ASC 740-10-50. Pursuant to the provisions of ASC 740-10-50, a deferred tax liability or deferred tax asset is computed
by applying the current statutory tax rates to net taxable or deductible differences between the tax basis of an asset or liability
and its reported amount in the consolidated financial statements that will result in taxable or deductible amounts in future periods.
Deferred tax assets are recorded only to the extent that the amount of net deductible or taxable temporary differences or carry
forward attributes may be utilized against current period earnings, carried back against prior years’ earnings, offset against
taxable temporary differences reversing in future periods, or utilized to the extent of management’s estimate of future taxable
income. A valuation allowance is provided for deferred tax assets to the extent that the value of net deductible temporary differences
and carry forward attributes exceeds management’s estimates of taxes payable on future taxable income. Deferred tax liabilities
are provided on the total amount of net temporary differences taxable in the future. The Company applies a more likely than not
recognition threshold for all tax uncertainties.
 
The Company’s principal temporary differences between
pretax financial income and taxable income result primarily from timing differences for certain components of compensation and
post-retirement expense, book and tax bad debt deductions, depreciation and amortization of goodwill and other intangible assets.
 
The determination of current and deferred income taxes is an
accounting estimate which is based on the analyses of many factors including interpretation of federal and state income tax laws,
the evaluation of uncertain tax positions, differences between the tax and financial reporting basis of assets and liabilities
(temporary differences), estimates of amounts due or owed such as the timing of reversal of temporary differences and current financial
accounting standards. Actual results could differ from the estimates and tax law interpretations used in determining the current
and deferred income tax liabilities.
 
EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN - The Company accounts for the
United Community Bank Employee Stock Ownership Plan (“ESOP”) in accordance with ASC 718-40, Compensation –
Stock Compensation – Employee Stock Ownership Plans. ESOP shares pledged as collateral are reported as unearned ESOP
shares in stockholders’ equity. As shares are committed to be released from collateral, the Bank will record compensation
expense equal to the current market price of the shares. To the extent that the fair value of the ESOP shares differs from the
cost of such shares, the difference is recorded to stockholders’ equity as an adjustment to capital. Additionally, the shares
become outstanding for basic net income per share computations.
 

74
 

 
STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION - The Company applies the provisions
of ASC 718, Compensation – Stock Compensation, which requires the Company to measure the cost of employee services
received in exchange for awards of equity instruments and to recognize this cost in the financial statements over the period during
which the employee is required to provide such services. The Company has elected to recognize compensation cost associated with
its outstanding stock-based compensation awards with graded vesting on an accelerated basis pursuant to ASC 718. The expense is
calculated for stock options at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The expense associated with restricted
stock awards is calculated based upon the value of the common stock on the date of grant.
 
EARNINGS PER SHARE – Effective July 1, 2009, the
Company adopted ASC 260-10-65-2, Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions are Participating
Securities. This guidance concludes that non-vested shares with non-forfeitable dividend rights are considered participating
securities and, thus, subject to the two-class method pursuant to ASC 260, Earnings per Share, when computing basic and
diluted earnings per share. The Company’s restricted share awards contain non-forfeitable dividend rights but do not contractually
obligate the holders to share in the losses of the Company. Accordingly, during periods of net income, unvested restricted shares
are included in the determination of both basic and diluted EPS. During periods of net loss, these shares are excluded from both
basic and diluted EPS.
 
Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is based on the
weighted average number of common shares and unvested restricted shares outstanding, adjusted for ESOP shares not yet committed
to be released. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock,
such as outstanding stock options, were exercised or converted into common stock or resulted in the issuance of common stock. Diluted
EPS is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding to include the effects of contracts
or securities exercisable or which could be converted into common stock, if dilutive, using the treasury stock method.
 
For each of the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, outstanding
options to purchase 346,304 shares were excluded from the computations of diluted earnings per share as their effect would have
been anti-dilutive. The following is a reconciliation of the basic and diluted weighted average number of common shares outstanding:
 
 


  
June 30, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
  
 

Basic weighted average outstanding shares 
 7,645,075  
 7,627,418 

Effect of dilutive stock options 
 —    
 —   

Diluted weighted average outstanding shares 
 7,645,075  
 7,627,418 

 
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME – The Company presents in the consolidated
statement of comprehensive income those amounts from transactions and other events which currently are excluded from the consolidated
statement of income and are recorded directly to stockholders’ equity.
 
GOODWILL – In June 2010, the Company acquired three branches
from Integra Bank National Association (“Integra”), which was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting.
Under the purchase method, the Company is required to allocate the cost of an acquired company to the assets acquired, including
identified intangible assets, and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The excess
cost over the value of net assets acquired represents goodwill, which is not subject to amortization.
 
Goodwill arising from business combinations represents the value
attributable to unidentifiable intangible elements in the business acquired. Goodwill recorded by the Company in connection with
its acquisition relates to the inherent value in the business acquired and this value is dependent upon the Company’s ability
to provide quality, cost-effective services in a competitive market place. As such, goodwill value is supported ultimately by revenue
that is driven by the volume of business transacted. A decline in earnings as a result of a lack of growth or the inability to
deliver cost-effective services over sustained periods can lead to impairment of goodwill that could adversely impact earnings
in future periods.
 
Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment when
indicators of impairment exist, or at least annually, to determine the reasonableness of the recorded amount. Potential goodwill
impairment exists when the fair value of the reporting unit (as defined by GAAP) is less than its carrying value. An impairment
loss is recognized in earnings only when the carrying amount of goodwill is less than its implied fair value.
 
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS – ASC 820, Fair
Value Measurements and Disclosures, requires disclosure of the fair value of financial instruments, both assets and liabilities,
whether or not recognized in the consolidated balance sheet, for which it is practicable to estimate the value. For financial instruments
where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are estimated using present value or other valuation methods.
 


75
 

 
The following methods and assumptions are used in estimating
the fair values of financial instruments:  
 
Cash and cash equivalents 
The carrying values presented in the consolidated statements
of position approximate fair value.
 
Investments and mortgage-backed securities 
For investment securities (debt instruments) and mortgage-backed
securities, fair values are based on quoted market prices, where available. If a quoted market price is not available, fair value
is estimated using quoted market prices of comparable instruments.
 
Loans receivable 
The fair value of the loan portfolio is estimated by evaluating
homogeneous categories of loans with similar financial characteristics. Loans are segregated by types, such as residential mortgage,
commercial real estate, and consumer. Each loan category is further segmented into fixed and adjustable-rate interest, terms, and
by performing and non-performing categories. The fair value of performing loans, except residential mortgage loans, is calculated
by discounting contractual cash flows using estimated market discount rates which reflect the credit and interest rate risk inherent
in the loan. For performing residential mortgage loans, fair value is estimated by discounting contractual cash flows adjusted
for prepayment estimates using discount rates based on secondary market sources. The fair value for significant non-performing
loans is based on recent internal or external appraisals. Assumptions regarding credit risk, cash flow, and discount rates are
judgmentally determined by using available market information.
 
Federal Home Loan Bank stock 
The Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank system and
is required to maintain an investment based upon a pre-determined formula. The carrying values presented in the consolidated statements
of position approximate fair value.
 
Deposits 
The fair values of passbook accounts, interest-bearing checking
accounts, noninterest-bearing accounts, and money market savings and demand deposits approximate their carrying values. The fair
values of fixed maturity certificates of deposit are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation that applies interest rates
currently offered for deposits of similar maturities.
 
Advance from Federal Home Loan Bank 
The fair value is calculated using rates available to the Company
on advances with similar terms and remaining maturities.
 
Off-balance sheet items 
Carrying value is a reasonable estimate of fair value. These
instruments are generally variable rate or short-term in nature, with minimal fees charged.  
 
ADVERTISING - The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred.
Advertising costs consist primarily of television, radio, newspaper and billboard advertising.
 
EFFECT OF RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
In September 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update
(ASU) 2011-08, Testing Goodwill for Impairment, to simplify how entities test goodwill for impairment. This guidance permits an
entity to assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not (defined as more than fifty percent) that
the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform
the current two-step goodwill impairment test. The two-step goodwill impairment test is only required if the entity determines
that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. The adoption of this
guidance did not have a material effect on the Company’s financial statements.
 
In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05, Presentation of Comprehensive
Income, which requires an entity to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components
of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive
statements. In both choices, an entity is required to present each component of net income along with total net income, each component
of other comprehensive income along with a total for other comprehensive income, and a total amount for comprehensive income. This
ASU eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders’
equity. The amendments in this ASU do not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income or when an item
of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income. The ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within
those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. The adoption of this ASU will not impact the way the Company currently reports
comprehensive income, and will not have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
 

76
 

 
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-04, Fair Value Measurement
(Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs, which generally
represents clarifications of Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements, but also includes certain instances where a particular principle
or requirement for measuring fair value or disclosing information about fair value measurements has changed. This ASU is intended
to result in common principles and requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements
in accordance with U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). ASU 2011-04 is effective prospectively for
interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011 with earlier application not permitted. This ASU did not have a material
impact on the Company’s financial statements.
 
In April 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-02, Receivables (Topic
310) – A Creditor’s Determination of Whether a Restructuring is a Troubled Debt Restructuring, which clarifies which
loan modifications constitute troubled debt restructurings. In evaluating whether a restructuring constitutes a troubled debt restructuring,
a creditor must separately conclude under the guidance in ASU 2011-02 that the restructuring constitutes a concession and that
the debtor is experiencing financial difficulties. The amendments also clarify that a creditor is precluded from using the effective
interest rate test in the debtor’s guidance on restructuring of payables when evaluating whether a restructuring constitutes
a troubled debt restructuring. ASU 2011-02 is effective for the first interim or annual period beginning on or after June 15, 2011.
The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
 
In January 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010-06, Improving
Disclosure about Fair Value Measurements, under Topic 820, Fair value Measurements and Disclosures, to improve and provide new
disclosures for recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements under the three-level hierarchy of inputs for transfers in and
out of Levels 1 and 2, and activity in Level 3. This update also clarifies existing disclosures of the level of disaggregation
for the classes of assets and liabilities and the disclosure about inputs and valuation techniques. ASU No. 2010-06 became effective
during the year ended June 30, 2010, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the roll
forward of activity in Level 3 fair value measurements, which became effective for the interim period ending September 30, 2011.
The adoption of this remaining guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
 
In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-12, Comprehensive
Income (Topic 220): Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05. In order to defer only those changes in Update 2011-05 that
relate to the presentation of reclassification adjustments, the paragraphs in this Update supersede certain pending paragraphs
in Update 2011-05. Entities should continue to report reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income consistent
with the presentation requirements in effect before Update 2011-05. All other requirements in Update 2011-05 are not affected by
this Update, including the requirement to report comprehensive income either in a single continuous financial statement or in two
separate but consecutive financial statements. Public entities should apply these requirements for fiscal years, and interim periods
within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. This ASU is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company's financial
statements.
 
NOTE 2 – PLAN OF CONVERSION AND REORGANIZATION
 
The Boards of Directors of the MHC, the Company and the
Bank adopted a Plan of Conversion and Reorganization (the “Plan”) on March 10, 2011 as amended on September 6,
2012. Pursuant to the Plan, the MHC will convert from the mutual holding company form of organization to the fully public
form. The MHC will be merged into the Company, and the MHC will no longer exist. The Company will merge into a new Indiana
corporation named United Community Bancorp. As part of the conversion, the MHC’s ownership interest of the Company will
be offered for sale in a public offering. The existing publicly held shares of the Company, which represents the remaining
ownership interest in the Company, will be exchanged for new shares of common stock of United Community Bancorp, the new
Indiana corporation. The exchange ratio will ensure that immediately after the conversion and public offering, the public
shareholders of the Company will own the same aggregate percentage of United Community Bancorp common stock that they owned
immediately prior to that time (excluding shares purchased in the stock offering and cash received in lieu of fractional
shares). When the conversion and public offering are completed, all of the capital stock of the Bank will be owned by United
Community Bancorp, the Indiana corporation.
 
The Plan provides for the establishment, upon the completion
of the conversion, of special “liquidation accounts” for the benefit of certain depositors of the Bank in an amount
equal to the greater of the MHC’s ownership interest in the retained earnings of the Company as of the date of the latest
balance sheet contained in the prospectus or the retained earnings of the Bank at the time it reorganized into the MHC. Following
the completion of the conversion, under the rules of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Bank will not be
permitted to pay dividends on its capital stock to United Community Bancorp, its sole shareholder, if the Bank’s shareholder’s
equity would be reduced below the amount of the liquidation accounts. The liquidation accounts will be reduced annually to the
extent that eligible account holders and supplemental eligible account holders have reduced their qualifying deposits. Subsequent
increases will not restore an eligible account holder’s or a supplemental eligible account holder’s interest in the
liquidation accounts.
 

77
 

 
Direct costs of the conversion and public offering will be deferred
and reduce the proceeds from the shares sold in the public offering. If the conversion and public offering are not completed, all
costs will be charged to expense in the period in which the public offering is terminated. Costs of $557,000 had been incurred
and capitalized related to the conversion as of June 30, 2011. Additional costs of $712,000 have been incurred and capitalized
related to the conversion during the year ended June 30, 2012. The Company previously filed a registration statement on Form S-1
with the SEC relating to the conversion and the public offering (“Registration Statement”). As of the date of the filing
of this Form 10-K, the Company expects to file an amendment to the Registration Statement using the Company’s June 30, 2012
audited financial information.  
 
NOTE 3 – INVESTMENT AND MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES
 
Investment securities available for sale at June 30, 2012
consist of the following:
 


  
Amortized Cost 
Gross Unrealized Gains 
Gross Unrealized Losses 
Estimated Market Value

  
(In thousands)

Mortgage-backed securities 
$124,354  
$566  
$299  
$124,621 

Municipal bonds 
 20,548  
 693  
 93  
 21,148 

Other equity securities 
 210  
 —    
 83  
 127 

Total 
$145,112  
$1,259  
$475  
$145,896 

 
Investment securities held to maturity at June 30, 2012
consist of the following:
 


 
Amortized Cost 
Gross Unrealized Gains 
Gross Unrealized Losses 
Estimated Market Value

 
 (In thousands)

Municipal bonds 
$493  
$—    
$—    
$493 

 
Investment securities available for sale at June 30, 2011
consist of the following:
 


 
Amortized Cost 
Gross Unrealized Gains 
Gross Unrealized Losses 
Estimated Market Value

 
(In thousands)

Mortgage-backed securities 
$73,827  
$364  
$72  
$74,119 

U. S. Government corporations and agencies 
 28,817  
 39  
 —    
 28,856 

Municipal bonds 
 19,744  
 544  
 44  
 20,244 

Other equity securities 
 210  
 —    
 80  
 130 

Total 
$122,598  
$947  
$196  
$123,349 

 
 
Investment securities held to maturity at June 30, 2011
consist of the following:
 


 
Amortized Cost 
Gross Unrealized Gains 
Gross Unrealized Losses 
Estimated Market Value

 
(In thousands)

Municipal bonds 
$564 
$—   
$—   
$564

 
Gross proceeds on the sale of investment and mortgage-backed
securities were $85,494,000 and $50,622,000 for the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Gross realized gains
for the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 were $1,525,000 and $662,000, respectively. Gross realized losses for the years
ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 were $61,000 and $78,000, respectively.
 
The amount of investment securities pledged as security for
municipal deposits totaled $35.6 million as of June 30, 2012.
 

78
 

 
The mortgage-backed securities and municipal bonds available
for sale have the following maturities at June 30, 2012:
 


  
Amortized cost 
Estimated market value

  
(In thousands)

  
  
 

Due or callable in one year or less 
$-  
$- 

Due or callable in 1 - 5 years 
 64,324  
 64,661 

Due or callable in 5 - 10 years 
 70,110  
 70,410 

Due or callable in greater than 10 years 
 10,468  
 10,698 

Total debt securities 
$144,902  
$145,769 

 
All other securities available for sale at June 30, 2012
are saleable within one year. The Company held $493,000 and $564,000 in investment securities that are being held to maturity
at June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The investment securities held to maturity have annual returns of principal
and will be fully matured between 2014 and 2019.
 
The expected returns of principal of investments held to maturity
are as follows as of June 30, 2012 (in thousands):
 


2013 
 18 

2014 
 49 

2015 
 176 

2016 
 56 

2017 
 60 

2018 and thereafter 
 134 

  
$493 

 

79
 

 
The table below indicates the length of time individual investment
securities and mortgage-backed securities have been in a continuous loss position at June 30, 2012 and 2011:
 



  
Less than 12 Months 
12 Months or Longer 
Total

  
Fair Value 
Unrealized Losses 
Fair Value 
Unrealized Losses 
Fair Value 
Unrealized Losses

  
(Dollars in thousands)

June 30, 2012 
  
  
  
  
  
 

Municipal bonds 
$7,334  
$93  
$-  
$-  
$7,334  
$93 

Mortgage-backed securities 
 48,166  
 299  
 -  
 -  
 48,166  
 299 

Other equity securities 
 —    
 —    
 127  
 83  
 127  
 83 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

  
$55,500  
$392  
$127  
$83  
$55,627  
$475 

Number of investments 
 24  
    
 1  
    
 25  
   

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

June 30, 2011 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Municipal bonds 
$1,971  
$26  
$497  
$18  
$2,468  
$44 

Mortgage-backed securities 
 18,202  
 43  
 2,238  
 29  
 20,440  
 72 

Other equity securities 
 —    
 —    
 130  
 80  
 130  
 80 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

  
$20,173  
$69  
$2,865  
$127  
$23,038  
$196 

Number of investments 
 11  
    
 3  
    
 14  
   

 
Securities available for sale are reviewed for possible other-than-temporary
impairment on a quarterly basis. During this review, management considers the severity and duration of the unrealized losses as
well as its intent and ability to hold the securities until recovery, taking into account balance sheet management strategies and
its market view and outlook. Management also assesses the nature of the unrealized losses, taking into consideration factors such
as changes in risk-free interest rates, general credit spread widening, market supply and demand, creditworthiness of the issuer
or any credit enhancement providers, and the quality of the underlying collateral. Management does not intend to sell these securities
in the foreseeable future, and does not believe that it is more likely than not that the Bank will be required to sell a security
in an unrealized loss position prior to a recovery in its value. The decline in market value is due to changes in market interest
rates. The fair values are expected to recover as the securities approach maturity dates.
 
The detail of interest and dividends on investment securities
is as follows:
 


  
For the year ended June 30,

  
2012 
2011

  
(In thousands)

Taxable interest income 
$2,081  
$2,197 

Nontaxable interest income 
 753  
 639 

Dividends 
 193  
 52 

Total 
$3,027  
$2,888 

 
Mortgage-backed securities available for sale at June 30,
2012 consist of the following:

 


  
Amortized Cost 
Gross Unrealized Gains 
Gross Unrealized Losses 
Estimated Market Value

  
  
(In thousands) 
 

FNMA 
$67,299  
$259  
$132  
$67,426 

FHLMC 
 22,845  
 240  
 —    
 23,085 

GNMA 
 34,210  
 67  
 167  
 34,110 

  
    
    
    
   

  
$124,354  
$566  
$299  
$124,621 

 

80
 

 
Mortgage-backed securities available for sale at June 30, 2011
consist of the following:
 


  
Amortized Cost 
Gross Unrealized Gains 
Gross Unrealized Losses 
Estimated Market Value

  
  
(In thousands) 
 

FNMA 
$51,620  
$236  
$4  
$51,852 

FHLMC 
 17,103  
 107  
 68  
 17,142 

GNMA 
 5,104  
 21  
 —    
 5,125 

  
    
    
    
   

  
$73,827  
$364  
$72  
$74,119 

 
NOTE 4 – FINANCING RECEIVABLES
Financing receivables consist of the following:


  
At June 30,

  
2012 
2011

  
(In thousands)

Residential real estate 
    
   

One- to four-family 
$139,522  
$131,153 

Multi-family 
 42,325  
 46,296 

Construction 
 1,189  
 1,084 

Nonresidential real estate – commercial and office buildings 
 59,123  
 65,156 

Agricultural 
 3,150  
 1,661 

Land 
 3,441  
 3,985 

Commercial 
 3,854  
 4,860 

Consumer 
 35,595  
 36,639 

  
 288,199  
 290,834 

  
    
   

Less: 
    
   

Allowance for losses, restated 
 5,614  
 5,335 

Undisbursed portion of loans in process 
 355  
 333 

Deferred loan costs, net 
 (924) 
 (711)

  
$283,154  
$285,877 

 
As of June 30, 2012 and 2011, the Company was servicing loans
for the benefit of others in the amount of $59,630,000 and $60,833,000, respectively. The Company recognized $505,000 and $519,000
of pre-tax gains on sale of loans during the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The carrying value of mortgage servicing
rights approximated $537,000 and $547,000 as of June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. No impairment has been identified on the
mortgage servicing assets and correspondingly, no valuation allowance has been recognized as of June 30, 2012 and 2011. Amortization
expense associated with mortgage servicing assets totaled $151,000 and $67,000 for the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 
The Company sells loans in the secondary market. Proceeds from
the sales of mortgage loans totaled $15,668,000 and $21,748,000 during the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
The Company had $393,000 and $196,000 in one- to four-family fixed rate loans designated as held for sale at June 30, 2012
and 2011, respectively. It is generally management’s intention to hold all other loans originated to maturity or earlier
repayment.
 

81
 

 
The following table provides information with respect to nonaccrual
loans.
 


  
At
June 30,

  
2012  
2011 

  
(In thousands)  

Nonaccrual loans: 
    
   

One- to four-family – owner occupied 
$2,322  
$1,418 

One- to four-family – non-owner occupied 
 90  
 234 

Multi-family residential real estate 
 2,034  
 1,742 

  
    
   

Nonresidential real estate – commercial and office buildings 
 1,077  
 566 

Land 
 29  
 - 

Consumer 
 508  
 240 

Commercial 
 240  
 240 

Restructured nonaccrual loans: 
    
   

One- to four-family – owner occupied 
$2,404  
$1,318 

One- to four-family – non-owner occupied 
 197  
 335 

Multi-family residential real estate 
 4,251  
 10,358 

  
    
   

Nonresidential real estate – commercial and office buildings 
 2,987  
 4,146 

Total nonperforming loans 
$16,139  
$20,597 

Number of nonaccrual loans 
 74  
 61 

 
From time to time, as part of the loss mitigation process, loans
may be renegotiated in a TDR when we determine that greater economic value will ultimately be recovered under the new terms than
through foreclosure, liquidation, or bankruptcy. Management may consider the borrower’s payment status and history, the borrower’s
ability to pay upon a rate reset on an adjustable-rate mortgage, size of the payment increase upon a rate reset, period of time
remaining prior to the rate reset, and other relevant factors in determining whether a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty.
TDRs are considered to be nonperforming until they have been performing under the new terms for at least six consecutive months.
TDRs are accounted for as set forth in ASC 310 Receivables (“ASC 310”). A TDR may be on non-accrual or it may accrue
interest. A TDR is typically on non-accrual until the borrower successfully performs under the new terms for six consecutive months.
 
Existing performing loan customers who request a loan modification
(non-TDR) and who meet the Bank’s underwriting standards may, usually for a fee, modify their original loan terms to terms
currently offered. The modified terms of these loans are similar to the terms offered to new customers. The fee assessed for modifying
the loan is deferred and amortized over the life of the modified loan using the level-yield method and is reflected as an adjustment
to interest income. Each modification is examined on a loan-by-loan basis and if the modification of terms represents more than
a minor change to the loan, then the unamortized balance of the pre-modification deferred fees or costs associated with the mortgage
loan are recognized in interest income at the time of the modification. If the modification of terms does not represent more than
a minor change to the loan, then the unamortized balance of the pre-modification deferred fees or costs continue to be deferred.
 
During the third quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30,
2011, Management began restructuring loans into a Note A/Note B format. Upon performing a global analysis of the relationship with
the borrower, the terms of Note A are calculated using current financial information to determine the amount of payment at which
the borrower would have a debt service coverage ratio of 1.5x or better. That payment is calculated based upon a 20 to 30 year
amortization period, then fixed for two years, with the loan maturing at the end of the two years. The amount for Note B is the
difference of Note A and the original amount to be refinanced, plus reasonable closing costs. It is given the same interest rate
and balloon term as Note A, but no principal or interest payments are due until maturity. While no amount of the original indebtedness
of the borrower is forgiven through this process, the full amount of Note B is charged-off. Note A is treated as any other TDR
and, generally, may return to accrual status after a history of performance in accordance with the restructured terms of at least
six consecutive months is established.
 

82
 


 
The following tables summarize TDRs by loan type and accrual
status.
 


At June 30, 2012

  
Loan Status  
Total unpaid principal  
Related  
Recorded  
Number  
Average
Recorded 

(In thousands) 
Accrual  
Nonaccrual  
balance  
allowance  
investment  
of loans  
investment 

One- to four-family residential real estate 
$2,374  
$2,601  
$4,975  
$26  
$4,949  
 28  
$5,365 

Multi-family residential real estate 
 7,715  
 4,251  
 11,966  
 165  
 11,801  
 12  
 11,514 

Nonresidential real estate 
 3,122  
 2,987  
 6,109  
 465  
 5,644  
 8  
 6,194 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Total 
$13,211  
$9,839  
$23,050  
$656  
$22,394  
 48  
$23,073 

 


At June 30, 2011

  
Loan Status  
Total unpaid principal  
Related  
Recorded  
Number  
Average Recorded 

(In thousands) 
Accrual  
Nonaccrual  
balance  
allowance  
investment  
of loans  
investment 

One- to four-family residential real estate 
$4,128  
$1,653  
$5,781  
$—  
$5,781  
 34  
$3,474 

Multi-family residential real estate 
 2,041  
 10,358  
 12,399  
 1,173  
 11,226  
 11  
 7,800 

Nonresidential real estate 
 2,599  
 4,146  
 6,745  
 —  
 6,745  
 7  
 4,976 

Total 
$8,768  
$16,157  
$24,925  
$1,173  
$23,752  
 52  
$16,250 

 
Interest income recognized on TDRs is as follows:
 


  
For the year 

  
ended June 30, 2012 

  
  

One- to four-family residential real estate 
$81 

Multi-family residential real estate 
 314 

Nonresidential real estate 
 119 

Construction 
 - 

Commercial 
 - 

Consumer 
 - 

Total 
$514 

 

At June 30, 2012, the Bank had 48 loans totaling $23.1 million
that qualified as TDRs, and has established an allowance for losses on these loans of $656,000. With respect to the $23.1 million
in TDRs, the Bank charged off $5.3 million with respect to these loans at the time of the restructuring into the Note A/B format.
At June 30, 2011, the Bank had 52 loans totaling $24.9 million that qualified as TDRs, and had established a specific allocation
of the allowance for loss on these loans of $1.2 million. At June 30, 2012, the Bank had no other commitments to lend on its
TDRs. Management continues to monitor the performance of loans classified as TDRs on a monthly basis.
 

83
 

 
The following table is a rollforward of activity in our TDRs
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2012 and 2011.
 


  
2012  
2011 

(Dollar amounts in thousands) 
Recorded Investment  
Number
of Loans  
Recorded Investment  
Number of Loans 

  
   
   
   
  

Beginning balance 
$23,752  
 52  
$11,372  
 19 

  
    
    
    
   

Additions to TDRs 
 2,924  
 6  
 15,118  
 33 

  
    
    
    
   

Removals 
 (1,880) 
 (10) 
 -  
 - 

  
    
    
    
   

Charge offs 
 (1,386) 
 -  
 (1,995) 
 - 

  
    
    
    
   

Payments 
 (1,016) 
 -  
 (743) 
 - 

  
    
    
    
   

  
$22,394  
 48  
$23,752  
 52 

 
The following table provides a summary of the loans that were
restructured as TDRs during the year ended June 30, 2012:
 


  
  
   
   
Allocation of allowance for
    loan loss 

  
Number of Modifications 
Recorded investment prior to restructuring  
Recorded investment after restructuring  
Prior to restructuring  
After restructuring 

(Dollars in thousands) 
   
   
   
  

One- to Four-Family - Owner- Occupied 
4 
$1,340  
$1,181  
$-  
$- 

Non-Residential Real Estate 
1 
 722  
 615  
 93  
 - 

Multi-family Residential Real Estate Mortgage 
1 
 1,543  
 1,128  
 -  
 - 

Totals 
6 
$3,605  
$2,924  
$93  
$- 

 
The mortgage one- to four-family-owner-occupied loan restructurings
consisted of an interest rate reduction to a below market interest rate. The nonresidential real estate loan restructuring consisted
of a rate reduction to a below market interest rate. The multi-family residential real estate loan restructuring involved using
the Note A/B format with a market rate of interest on Note A and a below market rate of interest on Note B.
 
The Company considers TDRs that become 90 days or more past
due under the modified terms as subsequently defaulted. During the year ended June 30, 2012 the Company had one one- to four-family
residential loan subsequently default after modification. The recorded investment in the loan at the time of default was approximately
$81,000. The Company does not anticipate any further loss on the loan and the default of this loan had no material impact on the
allowance for loan losses for the year.
 

Loans that were included in TDRs at June 30, 2012 and 2011
were generally given concessions of interest rate reductions of between 25 and 300 basis points, and/or structured as interest
only payment loans for periods of one to three years. Many of these loans also have balloon payments due at the end of their lowered
rate period, requiring the borrower to refinance at market rates at that time. At June 30, 2012, there were 39 loans with required
principal and interest payments and 9 loans with required interest only payments. At June 30, 2011, there were 43 loans with
required principal and interest payments, and 9 loans with required interest only payments.
 
No loans over ninety days past due accrued interest for
the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011. Interest income that would have been recorded for the years ended June 30, 2012
and 2011 had nonaccruing loans been current according to their original terms was $377,000 and $274,000, respectively.
Interest related to nonaccrual loans included in interest income totaled $113,000 and $158,000 for the years ended
June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 

84
 

  
The following table illustrates certain disclosures required
by ASC 310-10-50-11B(c), (g) and (h).
 
Allowance for Credit Losses and Recorded
Investment in Loans Receivable
 
For the year ended June 30, 2012
 


  
One- to Four- Family Mortgage Owner Occupied  
Consumer  
One- to Four- Family Mortgage Nonowner- Occupied  
Multi- Family Mortgage  
Non- Residential Real Estate  
Construction  
Land  
Commercial and Agricultural  
Total 

  
(In thousands) 

Allowance for Credit Losses: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Beginning Balance: 
$800  
$310  
$112  
$2,610  
$1,462  
$3  
$12  
$26  
$5,335 

Charge offs 
 (529) 
 (302) 
 —  
 (1,233) 
 (1,804) 
 —  
 (8) 
 (23) 
$(3,899)

Recoveries 
 135  
 105  
 —  
 256  
 4  
 —  
 —  
 16  
$516 

Provision 
 260  
 364  
 124  
 282  
 2,620  
 —  
 7  
 5  
$3,662 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Ending Balance: 
$666  
$477  
$236  
$1,915  
$2,282  
$3  
$11  
$24  
$5,614 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Balance, Individually Evaluated 
$17  
$ —  
$9  
$487  
$562  
$—  
$—  
$—  
$1,075 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Balance, Collectively Evaluated 
$649  
$477  
$227  
$1,428  
$1,720  
$3  
$11  
$24  
$4,539 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Financing receivables: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Ending Balance 
$121,701  
$35,595  
$17,821  
$42,325  
$59,123  
$1,189  
$3,441  
$7,004  
$288,199 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Ending Balance: individually evaluated for impairment 
$5,992  
$1,652  
$1,051  
$14,000  
$7,177  
$—  
$28  
$240  
$30,140 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Ending Balance: collectively evaluated for impairment 
$102,175  
$28,561  
$16,019  
$27,914  
$47,307  
$1,189  
$3,330  
$5,616  
$232,111 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Ending Balance: loans acquired at fair value 
$13,534  
$5,382  
$751  
$411  
$4,639  
$—  
$83  
$1,148  
$25,948 

 

85
 

  

Allowance for Credit Losses
and Recorded Investment in Loans Receivable
 
For the year ended June 30, 2011
 


  
One- to Four- Family Mortgage Owner Occupied  
Consumer  
One- to Four- Family Mortgage Nonowner- Occupied  
Multi- Family Mortgage  
Non- Residential Real Estate  
Construction  
Land  
Commercial and Agricultural  
Total 

  
(In thousands) 

Allowance for Credit Losses: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Beginning Balance: 
$419  
$908  
$—  
$3,159  
$3,298  
$4  
$10  
$221  
$8,019 

Charge offs 
 (803) 
 (959) 
 —  
 (2,008) 
 (3,065) 
 —  
 —  
 (38) 
$(6,873)

Recoveries 
 26  
 15  
 —  
 —  
 7  
 —  
 —  
 1  
$49 

Provision 
 1,158  
 346  
 112  
 1,459  
 1,222  
 (1) 
 2  
 (158) 
$4,140 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Ending Balance: 
$800  
$310  
$112  
$2,610  
$1,462  
$3  
$12  
$26  
$5,335 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Balance, Individually Evaluated 
$18  
$—  
$ —  
$1,573  
$ —  
$—  
$—  
$—  
$1,591 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Balance, Collectively Evaluated 
$782  
$310  
$112  
$1,037  
$1,462  
$3  
$12  
$26  
$3,744 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Financing receivables: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Ending Balance 
$112,902  
$36,639  
$18,251  
$46,296  
$65,156  
$1,084  
$3,985  
$6,521  
$290,834 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Ending Balance: individually evaluated for impairment 
$—  
$—  
$531  
$11,223  
$4,545  
$167  
$—  
$—  
$16,466 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Ending Balance: collectively evaluated for impairment 
$97,258  
$29,640  
$16,744  
$34,568  
$53,694  
$917  
$3,743  
$4,183  
$240,747 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Ending Balance: loans acquired at fair value 
$15,644  
$6,999  
$976  
$505  
$6,917  
$—  
$242  
$2,338  
$33,621 

 

Federal regulations require us to review
and classify our assets on a regular basis. In addition, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) has
the authority to identify problem assets and, if appropriate, require them to be classified. There are three classifications for
problem assets: substandard, doubtful and loss. “Substandard assets” must have one or more defined weaknesses and are
characterized by the distinct possibility that we will sustain some loss if the deficiencies are not corrected. “Doubtful
assets” have the weaknesses of substandard assets with the additional characteristic that the weaknesses make collection
or liquidation in full on the basis of currently existing facts, conditions and values questionable, and there is a high possibility
of loss. An asset classified “loss” is considered uncollectible and of such little value that continuance as an asset
of the institution is not warranted. The regulations also provide for a “special mention” category, described as assets
which do not currently expose us to a sufficient degree of risk to warrant classification but do possess credit deficiencies or
potential weaknesses deserving our close attention. When we classify an asset as special mention, we account for those classifications
when establishing a general allowance for loan losses. If we classify an asset as substandard, doubtful or loss, we evaluate the
need to establish a specific allocation for the asset at that time or charge off a portion of the loan if there is a known loss.
 
 

86
 

 
The following table illustrates certain disclosures required
by ASC 310-10-50-29(b) at June 30, 2012 and 2011.
 
At June 30, 2012:
 


Credit Risk Profile by Internally Assigned Grade

  
One- to Four- Family Mortgage Owner Occupied  
Consumer  
One- to Four- Family Mortgage Nonowner- Occupied  
Multi- Family Mortgage  
Non- Residential Real Estate  
Construction  
Land  
Commercial and Agricultural  
Total 

  
(In thousands) 

Grade: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Pass 
$108,642  
$34,380  
$11,836  
$15,423  
$30,379  
$510  
$2,577  
$6,015  
$209,762 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Watch 
 6,503  
 683  
 4,059  
 10,223  
 11,250  
 479  
 836  
 615  
 34,648 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Special mention 
 268  
 24  
 827  
 347  
 10,249  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 11,715 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Substandard 
 6,288  
 508  
 1,099  
 16,332  
 7,245  
 200  
 28  
 374  
 32,074 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Total: 
$121,701  
$35,595  
$17,821  
$42,325  
$59,123  
$1,189  
$3,441  
$7,004  
$288,199 

 
At June 30, 2011:
 


Credit Risk Profile by Internally Assigned Grade

  
One- to Four- Family Owner- Occupied Mortgage  
Consumer  
One- to Four- Family Non- owner Occupied Mortgage  
Multi- family Mortgage  
Non-Residential Real estate  
Construction  
Land  
Commercial and Agricultural  
Total 

  
(In thousands) 

Grade: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Pass 
$100,380  
$35,893  
$13,234  
$17,140  
$36,307  
$273  
$2,663  
$4,208  
$210,098 

Watch 
 6,805  
 378  
 2,865  
 13,023  
 11,845  
 644  
 1,322  
 1,911  
 38,793 

Special mention 
 1,002  
 127  
 1,030  
 1,593  
 9,573  
 —  
 —  
 163  
 13,488 

Substandard 
 4,715  
 241  
 1,122  
 14,540  
 7,431  
 167  
 —  
 239  
 28,455 

Total: 
$112,902  
$36,639  
$18,251  
$46,296  
$65,156  
$1,084  
$3,985  
$6,521  
$290,834 

 
 
The following table illustrates certain
disclosures required by ASC 310-10-50-7A for gross loans.
 
At June 30, 2012:  


Age Analysis of Past Due Loans Receivable

  
30-59 days past due  
60-89 days past due  
Greater than 90 days  
Total past due  
Total current  
Total loans receivable 

  
   
(In thousands)  
   
   
  

One- to four-family mortgage – owner occupied 
$1,764  
$355  
$993  
$3,112  
$118,589  
$121,701 

Consumer 
 195  
 15  
 274  
 484  
 35,111  
 35,595 

One- to four-family mortgage nonowner occupied 
 947  
 —  
 53  
 1,000  
 16,821  
 17,821 

Multi-family mortgage	 
 489  
 —  
 —  
 489  
 41,836  
 42,325 

Non-residential real estate mortgage – commercial and office buildings 
 207  
 306  
 698  
 1,211  
 57,912  
 59,123 

Construction 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 1,189  
 1,189 

Land 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 3,441  
 3,441 

Commercial and agricultural 
 246  
 —  
 —  
 246  
 6,758  
 7,004 

Total 
$3,848  
$676  
$2,018  
$6,542  
$281,657  
$288,199 

 

87
 

 
At June 30, 2011:  
 


Age Analysis of Past Due Loans Receivable

  
30-59 days past due  
60-89 days past due  
Greater than 90 days  
Total past due  
Total current  
Total loans receivable 

  
(In thousands) 

One- to four-family mortgage – owner occupied	 
$978  
$995  
$939  
$2,912  
$109,990  
$112,902 

Consumer 
 425  
 187  
 54  
 666  
 35,973  
 36,639 

One- to four-family mortgage - nonowner -
    occupied 
 177  
 98  
 301  
 576  
 17,675  
 18,251 

Multi-family mortgage  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 46,296  
 46,296 

Non-residential real estate mortgage – commercial and office buildings 
 732  
 307  
 —  
 1,039  
 64,117  
 65,156 

Construction 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 1,084  
 1,084 

Land 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 3,985  
 3,985 

Commercial and agricultural 
 240  
 —  
 204  
 444  
 6,077  
 6,521 

Total 
$2,552  
$1,587  
$1,498  
$5,637  
$285,197  
$290,834 

 
The following table illustrates certain disclosures required
by ASC 310-10-50-15.  
 


  
Impaired Loans For the year ended June 30, 2012 

  
Recorded investment  
Unpaid principal balance  
Specific allowance  
Interest income recognized  
Average recorded investment 

  
(In thousands) 

With an allowance recorded: 
    
    
    
    
   

One- to four-family mortgage – owner occupied 
$40  
$70  
$(17) 
$—  
$33 

Consumer 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 — 

One- to four-family mortgage - nonowner- occupied 
 476  
 485  
 (9) 
 14  
 238 

Multi-family mortgage 
 4,266  
 4,754  
 (487) 
 119  
 5,375 

Non-residential real estate mortgage – commercial and office buildings 
 4,915  
 6,661  
 (562) 
 61  
 2,457 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Construction 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 — 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Land 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 — 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial and agricultural 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 — 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Total 
$9,697  
$11,970  
$(1,075) 
$194  
$8,103 

 


  
Impaired Loans For the year
    ended June 30, 2012 

  
Recorded
    investment  
Unpaid
    principal balance  
Specific
    allowance  
Interest
    income recognized  
Average
    recorded investment 

  
(In thousands) 

Without
    an allowance recorded: 
    
    
    
    
   

One- to four-family mortgage – owner occupied	 
$6,476  
$7,353  
$—  
$96  
$6,293 

Consumer 
 508  
 1,168  
 —  
 40  
 254 

One- to four-family mortgage - nonowner- occupied 
 285  
 403  
 —  
 2  
 260 

Multi-family mortgage 
 9,247  
 12,923  
 —  
 230  
 7,865 

Non-residential
    real estate mortgage – commercial and office buildings 
 1,709  
 4,216  
 —  
 39  
 4,510 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Construction 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 — 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Land 
 28  
 49  
 —  
 —  
 14 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial
    and agricultural 
 240  
 249  
 —  
 13  
 120 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Total 
$18,493  
$26,361  
$—  
$420  
$19,316 

 

88
 

 




  
Impaired
    Loans For the year ended June 30, 2012

  
Recorded
    investment 
Unpaid
    principal
    balance 
Specific
    allowance 
Interest
    income
    recognized 
Average
    recorded
    investment

  
(In thousands)

  
  
  
  
  
 

Total: 
    
    
    
    
   

One- to four-family mortgage – owner occupied 
$6,516  
$7,423  
$(17) 
$96  
$6,326 

Consumer 
 508  
 1,168  
 —    
 40  
 254 

One- to four-family mortgage - nonowner-occupied 
 761  
 888  
 (9) 
 16  
 498 

Multi-family mortgage 
 13,513  
 17,677  
 (487) 
 349  
 13,240 

Non-residential
    real estate mortgage – commercial and office buildings 
 6,624  
 10,877  
 (562) 
 100  
 6,967 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Construction 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —   

  
    
    
    
    
   

Land 
 28  
 49  
 —    
 —    
 14 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial
    and agricultural 
 240  
 249  
 —    
 13  
 120 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Total 
$28,190  
$38,331  
$(1,075) 
$614  
$27,419 

 


  
Impaired Loans For the
    year ended June 30, 2011

  
Recorded investment 
Unpaid principal
    balance 
Specific allowance 
Interest income
    recognized 
Average recorded
    investment

  
(In thousands)

With an allowance recorded: 
    
    
    
    
   

One- to four-family mortgage – owner occupied 
$26  
$44  
$(18) 
$2  
$26 

Consumer 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —   

One- to four-family mortgage - nonowner-occupied 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —   

Multi-family mortgage 
 6,484  
 8,057  
 (1,573) 
 278  
 5,637 

Non-residential
    real estate mortgage – commercial and office buildings 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —   

  
    
    
    
    
   

Total 
$6,510  
$8,101  
$(1,591) 
$280  
$5,663 

 


  
Impaired Loans For
    the year ended June 30, 2011

  
Recorded investment 
Unpaid principal
    balance 
Specific allowance 
Interest income
    recognized 
Average recorded
    investment

  
(In thousands)

With an allowance recorded: 
    
    
    
    
   

One- to four-family mortgage – owner-occupied 
$6,111  
$6,301  
$—    
$148  
$3,661 

Consumer 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —   

One- to four-family mortgage - nonowner-occupied 
 234  
 352  
 —    
 7  
 117 

Multi-family mortgage 
 6,483  
 6,483  
 —    
 108  
 5,261 

Non-residential
    real estate mortgage – commercial and office buildings 
 7,311  
 7,443  
 —    
 100  
 7,115 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Total 
$20,139  
$20,580  
$—    
$363  
$16,174 

 

89
 

 


  
Impaired Loans For the
    year ended June 30, 2011

  
Recorded investment 
Unpaid principal
    balance 
Specific allowance 
Interest income
    recognized 
Average recorded
    investment

  
(In thousands)

Total: 
    
    
    
    
   

One- to four-family mortgage – owner occupied 
$6,137  
$6,345  
$(18) 
$150  
$3,687 

Consumer 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —   

One- to four-family mortgage - nonowner- occupied 
 234  
 352  
 —    
 7  
 117 

Multi-family mortgage 
 12,967  
 14,541  
 (1,573) 
 386  
 10,898 

Non-residential
    real estate mortgage – commercial and office buildings 
 7,311  
 7,443  
 —    
 100  
 7,115 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Total 
$26,649  
$28,681  
$(1,591) 
$643  
$21,817 

 
Impaired loans at June 30, 2012 include
TDRs with a principal balance of $23.1 million and a recorded investment of $22.4 million. The Bank did not have any investments
in subprime loans at June 30, 2012 or 2011. Impaired loans at June 30, 2011 included troubled debt restructurings with a principal
balance of $24.9 million and a recorded investment of $23.8 million.
 
ASC 310-30, Loans and Debt Securities Acquired with Deteriorated
Credit Quality, requires acquired loans to be recorded at fair value and prohibits carrying over valuation allowances when
initially accounting for acquired impaired loans. Loans carried at fair value, mortgage loans held for sale, and loans to borrowers
in good standing under revolving credit agreements are excluded from the scope of this pronouncement. It limits the yield that
may be accreted to the excess of the undiscounted expected cash flows over the investor’s initial investment in the loan.
The excess of the contractual cash flows over expected cash flows may not be recognized as an adjustment of yield. Subsequent increases
in cash flows expected to be collected are recognized prospectively through an adjustment of the loan’s yield over its remaining
life. Decreases in expected cash flows are recognized as impairments.
 
The Company acquired loans pursuant to the acquisition of the
Integra branches in June 2010. The Company reviewed the loan portfolio at acquisition to determine whether there was evidence of
deterioration of credit quality since origination and if it was probable that it will be unable to collect all amounts due according
to the loan’s contractual terms. When both conditions existed, the Company accounted for each loan individually, considered
expected prepayments, and estimated the amount and timing of discounted expected principal, interest, and other cash flows (expected
at acquisition) for each loan. The Company determined the excess of the loan’s scheduled contractual principal and contractual
interest payments over all cash flows expected at acquisition as an amount that should not be accreted into interest income (nonaccretable
difference). The remaining amount, representing the excess of the loan’s cash flows expected to be collected over the amount
paid, is accreted into interest income over the remaining life of the loan (accretable yield).  
 
Over the life of the loan, the Company continues to estimate
cash flows expected to be collected. The Company evaluates at the balance sheet date whether the present value of its loans determined
using the effective interest rates has decreased, and if so, the Company establishes a valuation allowance for the loan. Valuation
allowances for acquired loans reflect only those losses incurred after acquisition; that is, the present value of cash flows expected
at acquisition that are not expected to be collected. Valuation allowances are established only subsequent to our acquisition of
the loans. For loans that are not accounted for as debt securities, the present value of any subsequent increase in the loan’s
or pool’s actual cash flows or cash flows expected to be collected is used first to reverse any existing valuation allowance
for that loan. For any remaining increases in cash flows expected to be collected, the Company adjusts the amount of accretable
yield recognized on a prospective basis over the loan’s remaining life.
 
The following table depicts the accretable yield (in thousands)
at the beginning and end of the period.
 


Balance, June 30, 2010 
$1,400 

Accretion 
 124 

Balance, June 30, 2011 
$1,276 

Accretion 
 182 

Balance, June 30, 2012 
$1,094 

 
NOTE 5 – OTHER REAL ESTATE OWNED
Other real estate owned consists of the following at:  
 


  
June 30,

  
2012 
2011

  
(In thousands)

One- to four-family residential 
$95  
$—   

Land 
 340  
 340 

Allowance for losses on real estate owned 
 (238) 
 (201)

  
$197  
$139 

 

90
 

 
Activity in the allowance for losses on real estate owned is
as follows:
 


  
For the year ended June 30,

  
(In thousands)

  
2012 
2011

Balance, beginning of period 
$201  
$212 

Allowance for losses on real estate owned 
 47  
 — 

Charged off upon sale of property 
 (10) 
 (11)

Balance, end of period 
$238  
$201 

 
NOTE 6 – PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
Property and equipment is summarized as follows:
 


  
June 30,

  
(In thousands)

  
2012 
2011

Land and land improvements 
$3,013  
$3,013 

Building and building improvements 
 4,788  
 4,759 

Furniture and equipment 
 3,966  
 3,871 

  
 11,767  
 11,643 

Less: accumulated depreciation 
 4,705  
 4,247 

  
$7,062  
$7,396 


 
NOTE 7 – DEPOSITS
Deposits at June 30, 2012 and 2011 consist of the following:
 


  
June 30, 2012 
June 30, 2011

  
(Dollars in thousands)

  
Weighted Average Rate 
Balance 
Weighted Average Rate 
Balance

  
  
  
  
 

Demand deposit
    accounts 
 0.25% 
$119,383  
 0.30% 
$112,675 

Savings 
 0.33% 
 80,023  
 0.40% 
 70,137 

Money
    market deposit accounts 
 0.49% 
 36,212  
 0.50% 
 33,939 

Total
    demand and passbook deposits 
    
 235,618  
    
 216,751 

  
    
    
    
   

  
    
    
    
   

Certificates of deposit: 
    
    
    
   

Less than 12 months 
 0.67% 
 28,568  
 1.05% 
 58,473 

12 months to 24 months 
 1.19% 
 90,561  
 1.71% 
 77,496 

24 months to 36 months 
 1.87% 
 5,990  
 2.71% 
 7,366 

More than 36 months 
 2.77% 
 23,497  
 3.10% 
 14,648 

Individual
    retirement accounts 
 2.23% 
 42,733  
 2.78% 
 38,357 

  
    
    
    
   

Total
    certificates of deposit 
    
 191,349  
    
 196,340 

  
    
    
    
   

Total
    deposit accounts 
    
$426,967  
    
$413,091 

 


91
 




 
Interest expense on deposits is as follows:
 


  
For the years ended June 30 

  
2012  
2011 

  
(Dollars in thousands) 

NOW and money market accounts 
$596  
$820 

Savings 
 275  
 273 

Certificates of deposit 
 3,305  
 4,423 

  
$4,176  
$5,516 

 
The aggregate amount of time deposits with a minimum denomination
of $100,000 was approximately $90,004,000 and $91,772,000 at June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Individual deposits with
denominations of more than $250,000 are not federally insured.
 
Total non-interest bearing deposits were $57,771,000 and $30,844,000
at June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Municipal deposits totaled $103,086,000 and $111,251,000 at June 30, 2012 and
2011, respectively.  
 
Maturities of certificate accounts are as follows:
 


  
June 30, 2012  
June 30, 2011 

  
(In thousands) 

One year or less 
$117,645  
$119,629 

1 – 2 years 
 37,951  
 49,892 

2 – 3 years 
 22,398  
 13,510 

3 – 4 years 
 3,824  
 11,851 

4 – 5 years 
 9,207  
 1,297 

Over 5 years 
 324  
 161 

Totals 
$191,349  
$196,340 

 
NOTE 8 – GOODWILL AND ACQUISITION INTANGIBLES
 
On June 4, 2010 the Company completed the purchase of three
banking offices of Integra Bank Corporation’s wholly-owned bank subsidiary, Integra Bank N.A., located in Milan, Versailles,
and Osgood, Indiana and a portfolio of selected loans originated by other offices of Integra Bank. This acquisition was consistent
with the Bank’s strategy to strengthen and expand its Southeast Indiana market share. This transaction added $53.0 million
in deposits and $45.9 million in loans. The deposits were purchased at a premium of 4.50%. As a result of the acquisition, the
Company recorded a core deposit intangible asset of $1,400,000 and goodwill of $2,522,000.
 
Goodwill 
As required by current accounting rules, the Company completed
its annual goodwill impairment testing as of June 30, 2012. In performing this assessment, the carrying value of the reporting
unit was compared to its estimated fair value, as calculated by a discounted present value of cash flows method. The estimated
fair value exceeded the carrying value and, therefore, no impairment charge was recorded.
 
Intangible Assets 
 
The Integra acquisition included a core deposit intangible asset
of $1,400,000. Amortization expense for the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 totaled $158,000 and $372,000, respectively.
Amortization of the core deposit intangible for future years is as follows (in thousands):  
 


2013 
$180 

2014 
 143 

2015 
 118 

2016 
 117 

2017 
 117 

2018 and thereafter 
 195 

  
$870 

 

92
 

  
NOTE 9 – FAIR VALUES OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
 
The estimated fair values of the Company’s financial instruments
are as follows:
 



 
 
June 30,  
 

 
 
2012  
 
 
2011  
 

 
 
Carrying Amounts
 
 
Fair Value
 
 
Carrying Amounts
 
 
Fair Value
 

 
 
(In thousands)
 

Financial assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Cash and interest-bearing deposits
 
$
29,079
 
 
$
29,079
 
 
$
31,159
 
 
$
31,159
 

Investment securities available for sale
 
 
21,275
 
 
 
21,275
 
 
 
49,230
 
 
 
49,230
 

Investment securities held to maturity
 
 
493
 
 
 
493
 
 
 
564
 
 
 
564
 

Mortgage-backed securities
 
 
124,621
 
 
 
124,621
 
 
 
74,119
 
 
 
74,119
 

Loans receivable and loans held for sale
 
 
283,547
 
 
 
280,244
 
 
 
286,073
 
 
 
280,040
 

Accrued interest receivable
 
 
1,722
 
 
 
1,722
 
 
 
1,972
 
 
 
1,972
 

Investment in FHLB stock
 
 
6,588
 
 
 
6,588
 
 
 
2,507
 
 
 
2,507
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Financial liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Deposits
 
$
426,967
 
 
$
429,208
 
 
$
413,091
 
 
$
414,794
 

Accrued interest payable
 
 
33
 
 
 
33
 
 
 
47
 
 
 
47
 

FHLB advances
 
 
10,833
 
 
 
10,911
 
 
 
1,833
 
 
 
1,874
 

Off-balance sheet items
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 


 
As discussed in Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Summary
of Significant Accounting Pronouncements, ASC 820-10-50-2 also establishes a fair value hierarchy which requires an entity
to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The standard
describes three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value:
 


Level 1
Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.

 
 

Level 2
Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.

 
 

Level 3
Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.

 
Fair value methods and assumptions are set forth below for each
type of financial instrument. Where quoted prices are available in an active market, securities are classified within Level 1
of the valuation hierarchy. Level 2 securities include U.S. Government and agency mortgage-backed securities, U.S. Government
agency bonds, municipal securities, and other real estate owned. If quoted market prices are not available, the Bank utilizes a
third party vendor to calculate the fair value of its available for sale securities. The third party vendor uses quoted prices
of securities with similar characteristics when available. If such quotes are not available, the third party vendor uses pricing
models or discounted cash flow models with observable inputs to determine the fair value of these securities. For other real
estate owned, the Bank utilizes appraisals obtained from independent third parties to determine fair value.
 
Fair value measurements for certain assets and liabilities measured
at fair value on a recurring basis:
 


  
Total  
Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1)  
Significant other observable inputs (Level 2)  
Significant other unobservable inputs (Level 3) 

June 30, 2012: 
    
    
    
   

Mortgage-backed securities 
$124,621  
$—  
$124,621  
$— 

Municipal bonds 
 21,148  
 —  
 21,148  
 — 

Other equity securities 
 127  
 127  
 —  
 — 

June 30, 2011: 
    
    
    
   

Mortgage-backed securities 
$74,119  
$—  
$74,119  
$— 

U.S. Government corporations and agencies 
 28,856  
 —  
 28,856  
 — 

Municipal bonds 
 20,244  
 —  
 20,244  
 — 

Other equity securities 
 130  
 130  
 —  
 — 

 


93
 

  
Fair value measurements for certain assets and liabilities measured
at fair value on a nonrecurring basis:
  



  
   
   
   
  

  
Total  
Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1)  
Significant other observable inputs (Level 2)  
Significant other unobservable inputs (Level 3) 

  
(In thousands) 

June 30, 2012: 
   
   
   
  

Other real estate owned 
$197  
$—  
$197  
$— 

Loans available for sale 
 393  
 —  
 393  
 — 

Impaired loans 
 28,190  
 —  
 28,190  
 — 

June 30, 2011: 
    
    
    
   

Other real estate owned 
$139  
$—  
$139  
$— 

Loans held for sale 
 196  
 —  
 196  
 — 

Impaired loans 
 25,202  
 —  
 25,202  
 — 


 
The adjustments to other real estate owned and impaired loans
are based primarily on current appraisals of the real estate cash flow analysis or other observable market prices.
 
NOTE 10 – BORROWED FUNDS
 
Pursuant to collateral agreements with the FHLB, advances are
secured by all stock in the FHLB held by the Bank and a blanket pledge agreement for qualifying first mortgage loans. The Bank
had $10,833,000 and $1,833,000 in outstanding FHLB advances at June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. At June 30, 2012, the
Bank had seven outstanding advances from the FHLB, including six new advances totaling $10,000,000 during the current year at interest
rates ranging from 0.63% to 2.63%. These advances require monthly interest payments and mature at dates ranging from January 2015
through January 2022. At June 30, 2011, the Bank had only one advance from the FHLB. The original amount of this advance was
$5,000,000 at a fixed interest rate of 3.2%. Principal payments of $83,000 are due on a monthly basis until the loan is paid in
full in April 2013. Interest payments are also due at the time that the principal payment is made. The weighted average interest
rate on outstanding FHLB advances as of June 30, 2012 is 1.74%. Maturities of FHLB advances are as follows (in thousands):
 


2013 
$833 

2014 
 - 

2015 
 2,000 

2016 
 1,000 

2017 
 1,500 

Thereafter 
 5,500 

Total 
$10,833 

 
NOTE 11 – EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
 
401(k) Profit Sharing Plan 
 
The Bank has a standard 401(k) profit sharing plan. Eligible
participants must be at least 18 years of age and have one year of service. The Bank makes matching contributions based on each
employee’s deferral contribution. Total expense under the plan for the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 totaled $124,000
and $123,000, respectively.
 
ESOP
 
As of June 30, 2012 and 2011, the ESOP owned 151,632 and
202,061 shares, respectively, of the Company’s common stock, which were held in a suspense account until released for allocation
to the participants. Additionally, as of June 30, 2012, the Company had committed to release from suspense 16,644 shares.
The Company recognized compensation expense of $180,000 and $204,000 during the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively,
which equals the fair value of the ESOP shares during the periods in which they became committed to be released. The fair value
of the unearned ESOP shares approximated $1,024,000 at June 30, 2012.
 
Contributions to the ESOP and shares released from the suspense
account will be allocated to each eligible participant based on the ratio of each such participant’s compensation, as defined
in the ESOP, to the total compensation of all eligible plan participants. Participants become 100% vested in their accounts upon
three years of service. Participants with less than three years of service are 0% vested in their accounts.
 

94
 

 
The term loan, which bears interest at 7.75%, is payable in
fifteen annual installments of $370,000 through December 31, 2020. Shares purchased with the loan proceeds are initially pledged
as collateral for the term loan and are held in a suspense account for future allocation to the ESOP participants. Each plan year,
in addition to any discretionary contributions, the Company shall contribute cash to the ESOP to enable the ESOP to make its principal
and interest payments under the term loan. Company contributions may be increased by any investment earnings attributable to such
contributions and any cash dividends paid with respect to Company stock held by the ESOP.
 
Deferred Compensation 
 
In March 2002, the Bank adopted a supplemental retirement income
program with selected officers and board members. To fund this plan, the Bank purchased single-premium life insurance policies
on each officer and director, at a cumulative total cost of $5,100,000. During the year ended June 30, 2011, an additional
insurance policy on a new director was purchased at a cost of $500,000. During the year ended June 30, 2012, policies were increased
to offset and recover existing benefit expenses. The cash surrender value of these policies was $10,010,000 and $7,882,000 at June 30,
2012 and 2011, respectively. The directors’ liability is accrued based on life expectancies, return on investment and a discount
rate. For the officers, an annual contribution based on actuarial assumptions is made to a secular trust with the employee as the
beneficiary. Deferred compensation payments are funded by available assets in the secular trust. No further funding is required
by the Bank, with the exception that upon a change in control of the Bank, the plan provides for full supplemental benefits which
would have occurred at age 65.
 
Future expected contributions for the funding of officers’
deferred compensation are as follows:
 


2013 
$507,000 

2014 
 272,000 

2015 
 173,000 

2016 
 165,000 

2017 
 160,000 

2018 and thereafter 
 534,000 

  
$1,811,000 

 
At June 30, 2012 and 2011, the Bank had accrued directors’
supplemental retirement expense of $1,265,000 and $1,304,000, respectively. Officers and directors supplemental retirement expense
totaled $473,000 and $397,000 for the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan 
A Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP) was established
to provide participating executives (as determined by the Company’s Board of Directors) with benefits that cannot be provided
under the 401(k) Profit Sharing Plan or ESOP as a result of limitations imposed by the Internal Revenue Code. The SERP will also
provide benefits to eligible employees if they retire or are terminated following a change in control before the complete allocation
of shares under the ESOP. SERP expense totaled $6,000 and $6,000 for the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 
Employee Severance Compensation Plan 
An Employee Severance Compensation Plan (Severance Plan) was
established to provide eligible employees with severance benefits if a change in control of the Bank occurs causing involuntary
termination of employment in a comparable position. Employees are eligible upon the completion of one year of service. Under the
Severance Plan, eligible employees will be entitled to severance benefits ranging from one month of compensation, as defined in
the plan, up to 199% of compensation. Such benefits are payable within five business days of termination of employment.
 
NOTE 12 – STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION
 
In November 2006, the Company adopted the United Community Bancorp
2006 Equity Incentive Plan (Equity Incentive Plan) for the issuance of restricted stock, incentive stock options and non-statutory
stock options to employees, officers and directors of the Company. The aggregate number of shares of common stock reserved and
available for issuance pursuant to awards granted under the Equity Incentive Plan is 580,630. Of the total shares available, 414,736
may be issued in connection with the exercise of stock options and 165,894 may be issued as restricted stock. The maximum number
of shares of common stock that may be covered by options granted under the Equity Incentive Plan to any one person during any one
calendar year is 103,684.
 
In December 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized
the funding of a trust that purchased 165,894 shares of the Company’s outstanding common stock to be used to fund restricted
stock awards granted under the Equity Incentive Plan.
 

95
 

 
In December 2006, the Company granted restricted stock awards
totaling 149,297 shares of common stock, incentive stock option awards totaling 219,446 shares of common stock and non-statutory
stock option awards totaling 153,815 shares of common stock. These awards vested at 20% annually from January 2008 through January
2012. The restricted stock awards were valued at the stock price on the date of grant, or $11.53 per share. The stock options were
valued using the Black Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions: expected volatility of 11.49%, risk-free interest
rate of 4.6%, expected term of ten years and expected dividend yield of 2.3%.
 
During the year ended June 30, 2012, 27,702 restricted share
awards and 69,260 stock options became fully vested. During the year ended June 30, 2011, 27,703 restricted share awards and
69,261 stock options became fully vested. Total recognized compensation expense for the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011
was $48,000 and $157,000, respectively. There is no remaining unvested expense as of June 30, 2012 that will be recorded as
expense in future periods.
 
Information related to stock options for the years ended June 30,
2012 and 2011 is as follows:
 


  
Shares  
Weighted Average Exercise Price  
Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Term 

Outstanding at June 30, 2010 
 346,304  
$11.53  
   

Granted 
 —  
 —  
   

Forfeited 
 —  
 —  
   

Exercised 
 —  
 —  
   

Outstanding at June 30, 2011 
 346,304  
 11.53  
   

Granted 
 —  
 —  
   

Forfeited 
 —  
 —  
   

Exercised 
 —  
 —  
   

Outstanding at June 30, 2012 
 346,304  
 11.53  
       4.5 years 

  
    
    
   

Exercisable at June 30, 2012 
 346,304  
 11.53  
       4.5 years 

  
    
    
   

Fair value of options 
    
$2.37  
   

 
A summary of the status of unvested stock options for the years
ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 is as follows:

 


  
Shares  
Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value 

  
   
  

Outstanding at June 30, 2010 
 138,521  
$2.37 

Granted 
 —  
 — 

Vested 
 (69,261) 
 2.37 

Forfeited 
 —  
 — 

Outstanding at June 30, 2011 
 69,260  
$2.37 

Granted 
 —  
 — 

Vested 
 (69,260) 
 2.37 

Forfeited 
 —  
 — 

Outstanding at June 30, 2012 
 —  
$— 

 

96
 

 
Information related to restricted stock grants for the years
ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 is as follows:
 


  
Shares  
Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value 

Outstanding at June 30, 2010 
 55,405  
$11.53 

Granted 
 —  
 — 

Vested 
 (27,703) 
 (11.53)

Forfeited 
 —  
 — 

  
    
   

Outstanding at June 30, 2011 
 27,702  
 11.53 

Granted 
 —  
 — 

Vested 
 (27,702) 
 (11.53)

Forfeited 
 —  
 — 

  
    
   

Outstanding at June 30, 2012 
 —  
$— 

 
 
NOTE 13 – SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION
 


  
Years Ended June 30, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
(In thousands) 

Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information is as follows: 
    
   

Cash paid during the period for: 
    
   

Income taxes, net of refunds received 
$128  
$733 

Interest 
$4,294  
$5,666 

  
    
   

Supplemental disclosure of non-cash investing and financing activities is as follows: 
    
   

Unrealized gains (losses) on securities designated as available for sale, net of tax 
$20  
$(45)

Transfers of loans to other real estate owned 
$594  
$393 

 
NOTE 14 – COMMITMENTS
 
Leases 
 
The Bank is party to various operating leases for property and
equipment. Lease expense for the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 was $16,000 and $56,000, respectively.
 
Future minimum lease payments under these lease agreements are
as follows as of June 30, 2012:
 


2013 
$16,000 

2014 
 16,000 

2015 
 1,000 

  
$33,000 

  
The Bank entered into lease agreements with various tenants
who lease space from the Bank in certain locations where the Bank has a branch office. Revenue from these leases for the years
ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 was $28,000 and $39,000, respectively.
 
Future minimum lease payments under these lease agreements are
as follows as of June 30, 2012:
 


2013 
$23,000 

2014 
 23,000 

2015 
 23,000 

2016 
 14,000 

  
$83,000 

 

97
 

 
Loans 
 
In the ordinary course of business, the Bank has various outstanding
commitments to extend credit that are not reflected in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. These commitments involve
elements of credit risk in excess of the amounts recognized in the balance sheet.
 
The Bank uses the same credit policies in making commitments
for loans as it does for loans that have been disbursed and recorded in the consolidated balance sheet. The Bank generally requires
collateral when it makes loan commitments, which generally consists of the right to receive first mortgages on improved or unimproved
real estate when performance under the contract occurs.
 
Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to a customer
as long as there is no violation of any condition established in the contract. Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates
or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee. Since some portions of the commitments are expected to expire without
being drawn upon, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Certain of these commitments
are for fixed-rate loans, and, therefore, their values are subject to market risk as well as credit risk. Generally, these commitments
do not extend beyond 90 days.
 
At June 30, 2012 the Bank’s total commitment to extend
credit at variable rates was $29,144,000. The amount of fixed-rate commitments was approximately $911,000 at June 30, 2012.
The fixed-rate loan commitments at June 30, 2012 have interest rates ranging from 2.88% to 3.88%. In addition, the Bank had
$334,000 of letters of credit outstanding at June 30, 2012.
 
At June 30, 2011 the Bank’s total commitment to extend
credit at variable rates was $26,709,000. The amount of fixed-rate commitments was approximately $679,000 at June 30, 2011.
The fixed-rate loan commitments at June 30, 2011 have interest rates ranging from 3.00% to 5.00%. In addition, the Bank had
$590,000 of letters of credit outstanding at June 30, 2011.
 
NOTE 15 – RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
Loans to executive officers, directors and their affiliated
companies, totaled $3,481,000 and $3,923,000 at June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. All loans were current at June 30,
2012 and 2011, respectively.
 
The activity in loans to executive officers, directors and their
affiliated companies are as follows:
 


  
For the year ended June 30, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
(In thousands) 

Beginning balance 
$3,923  
$3,517 

New loans 
 348  
 533 

Payments on loans 
 (790) 
 (127)

Ending balance 
$3,481  
$3,923 

  
Deposits from officers and directors and affiliates totaled
$1,337,000 and $1,626,000 at June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 
NOTE 16 – REGULATORY CAPITAL
 
The Bank is subject to regulatory capital requirements administered
by federal banking agencies. Capital adequacy guidelines and prompt corrective action regulation involve quantitative measures
of assets, liabilities, and certain off balance sheet items calculated under regulatory accounting practices. Capital amounts and
classifications are also subject to qualitative judgments by regulators. Failure to meet capital requirements can initiate regulatory
action that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
 
Prompt corrective action regulations provide five classifications:
well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized, although
these terms are not used to represent overall financial condition. If adequately capitalized, regulatory approval is required to
accept broker deposits. If undercapitalized, capital distributions are limited, as is asset growth and expansion, and capital restoration
plans are required. In October, 2011, the most recent regulatory notifications categorized the Bank as well capitalized. There
are no conditions or events since that notification that management believes have changed the institution’s category. Management
believes that, under current regulatory capital regulations, the Bank will continue to meet its minimum capital requirements in
the foreseeable future.
 
On June 7, 2012, the Federal Reserve Board issued a final rule
substantially amending the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Company and the Bank. The FDIC and the OCC subsequently
approved a similar final rule on June 13, 2012. The final rules set forth certain changes for the calculation of risk-weighted
assets, which we would be required to utilize beginning January 1, 2013. The standardized approach proposed rule utilizes an increased
number of credit risk exposure categories and risk weights, and also addresses: (i) a proposed alternative standard of creditworthiness
consistent with Section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act; (ii) revisions to recognition of credit risk mitigation; (iii) rules for risk
weighting of equity exposures and past due loans; (iv) revised capital treatment for derivatives and repo-style transactions; and
(v) disclosure requirements for top-tier banking organizations with $50 billion or more in total assets that are not subject to
the “advance approach rules” that apply to banks with greater than $250 billion in consolidated assets.
 

98
 

 

On August 30, 2012, the federal banking agencies issued proposed
rules that would implement the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. “Basel
III” refers to two consultative documents released by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in December 2009, the rules
text released in December 2010, and loss absorbency rules issued in January 2011, which include significant changes to bank capital,
leverage and liquidity requirements. The proposed rules are subject to a comment period running through October 22, 2012.
 
The proposed rules include new risk-based capital and leverage
ratios, which would be phased in from 2013 to 2019, and would revise the definition of what constitutes “capital” for
purposes of calculating those ratios. The proposed new minimum capital level requirements applicable to the Company and the Bank
under the proposals would be: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased
from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions.
The proposed rules would also establish a “capital conservation buffer” of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital
requirements, which must consist entirely of common equity Tier 1 capital and would result in the following minimum ratios: (i)
a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The
new capital conservation buffer requirement would be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and
would increase by that amount each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution would be subject to limitations
on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer
amount. These limitations would establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions.
 
The following tables summarize the Bank’s capital amounts
and the ratios required:
  


  
Actual  
For capital adequacy purposes  
To be well capitalized under prompt
    corrective action 

  
Amount  
Ratio  
Amount  
Ratio  
Amount  
Ratio 

  
(Dollars in thousands) 

June 30, 2012 
   
   
   
   
   
  

Tier 1 capital
    to risk-weighted assets 
$45,283  
 17.79% 
$10,180  
 4% 
$15,270  
 6%

Total capital to risk-weighted
    assets 
 48,476  
 19.05% 
 20,360  
 8% 
 25,451  
 10%

Tier 1 capital to adjusted
    total assets 
 45,283  
 9.24% 
 19,602  
 4% 
 24,502  
 5%

Tangible capital to adjusted
    total assets 
 45,283  
 9.24% 
 7,351  
 1.5% 
 NA  
 NA 

 


  
Actual  
For capital adequacy purposes  
To be well capitalized under prompt
    corrective action 

  
Amount  
Ratio  
Amount  
Ratio  
Amount  
Ratio 

  
(Dollars in thousands) 

June 30, 2011 
   
   
   
   
   
  

Tier 1 capital
    to risk-weighted assets 
$45,709  
 16.22% 
$11,271  
 4% 
$16,906  
 6%

Total capital to risk-weighted
    assets 
 49,213  
 17.47% 
 22,416  
 8% 
 28,177  
 10%

Tier 1 capital to adjusted
    total assets 
 45,709  
 9.80% 
 18,665  
 4% 
 23,331  
 5%

Tangible capital to adjusted
    total assets 
 45,709  
 9.80% 
 6,999  
 1.5% 
 NA  
 NA 

 
Dividends from the Bank are one of the major sources of funds
for the Company. These funds aid the parent company in payment of dividends to shareholders, expenses, and other obligations. Payment
of dividends to the parent company is subject to various legal and regulatory limitations. Regulatory approval is required prior
to the declaration of any dividends in excess of available retained earnings. The amount of dividends that may be declared without
regulatory approval is further limited to the sum of net income for the current year and retained net income for the preceding
two years, less any required transfers to surplus or common stock. As of June 30, 2012, the Bank has never paid dividends
to the Company in excess of regulatory limits.
 

99
 

 
Reconciliation of GAAP equity to regulatory capital is as follows
for the Bank:
 


  
June 30, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
(In thousands) 

GAAP equity 
$49,961  
$49,820 

Intangible assets, net 
 (3,393) 
 (3,550)

Unrealized gain on securities available for sale 
 (529) 
 (506)

Disallowed servicing rights (10%) 
 (54) 
 (55)

Disallowed deferred tax assets 
 (702) 
 - 

Tier 1 capital 
 45,283  
 45,709 

General allowance for loan losses 
 3,193  
 3,504 

Tangible capital 
$48,476  
$49,213 

  

100
 


  
NOTE 17 – INCOME TAXES
  
The components of the provision (benefit) for income taxes are
summarized as follows:
 


  
For the year ended June 30, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
(In thousands) 

Current tax expense (benefit): 
    
   

Federal 
$813  
$(971)

State 
 114  
 (239)

  
 927  
 (1,210)

  
    
   

Deferred tax expense (benefit): 
    
   

Federal 
 (162) 
 1,404 

State 
 23  
 307 

  
 (139) 
 1,711 

  
    
   

  
$788  
$501 

  
The tax effect of temporary differences that give rise to significant
portions of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at June 30, 2012 and 2011 are as follows:
 


  
June 30, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
(In thousands) 

Deferred tax assets arising from: 
    
   

Loan loss allowance 
$2,158  
$2,080 

Reserve for loss on real estate owned 
 -  
 79 

Vacation and bonus accrual 
 231  
 303 

Supplemental retirement 
 362  
 425 

Stock-based compensation 
 140  
 251 

Charitable contributions 
 15  
 63 

Acquisition-related expenses 
 159  
 174 

State depreciation differences 
 65  
 73 

Amortization of intangible assets 
 3  
 43 

Yield adjustment for purchased loans and deposits 
 425  
 513 

Nonaccrual interest 
 145  
 - 

Reserve for loss on deposit accounts 
 52  
 62 

AMT credit carryforward 
 5  
 5 

Federal net operating loss carryforward 
 417  
 - 

Unrealized gain in market value of loans held for sale 
 -  
 5 

Post-retirement health care benefits 
 49  
 50 

Total deferred tax assets 
 4,226  
 4,126 

  
    
   

Deferred tax liabilities arising from: 
    
   

Mortgage servicing rights 
 (206) 
 (214)

Depreciation 
 (348) 
 (393)

Deferred loan fees 
 (355) 
 (278)

Unrealized gain in market value of investments 
 (313) 
 (361)

Total deferred tax liabilities 
 (1,222) 
 (1,246)

  
    
   

Net deferred tax asset 
$3,004  
$2,880 

  

101
 

 
The rate reconciliation is as follows:
 


  
For the year ended June 30, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
(In thousands) 

  
   
  

Federal income taxes at statutory rate 
$945  
$568 

State taxes, net of federal benefit and impact of future change in state tax rates 
 98  
 148 

Deferred tax adjustment for vested restricted shares 
 57  
 40 

Increase (decrease) in taxes resulting primarily from: 
    
   

Non-taxable income on bank-owned life insurance 
 (109) 
 (93)

Non-deductible stock-based compensation 
 3  
 10 

Tax exempt income 
 (243) 
 (203)

Expiration of charitable contribution 
 -  
 83 

Non-cash charitable contribution 
 -  
 (53)

Other 
 37  
 1 

  
    
   

  
$788  
$501 

 
Retained earnings at June 30, 2012, and 2011, include approximately
$749,000 related to the pre-1987 allowance for loan losses for which no deferred federal income tax liability has been recognized.
These amounts represent an allocation of income to bad debt deductions for tax purposes only. If the Bank no longer qualifies as
a bank, or in the event of a liquidation of the Bank, income would be created for tax purposes only, which would be subject to
the then-current corporate income tax rate. The unrecorded deferred income tax liability on the above amount for financial statement
purposes was approximately $255,000.
 
The Company accounts for uncertainty in tax positions under
ASC 275-10-50-8. The Company had no unrecognized tax benefits as of June 30, 2012 and 2011. The Company recognized no interest
and penalties on the underpayment of income taxes during fiscal years June 30, 2012 and 2011, and had no accrued interest
and penalties on the balance sheet as of June 30, 2012 and 2011. The Company has no tax positions for which it is reasonably
possible that the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase with the next twelve months. The Company
is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and local income tax examinations by tax authorities for tax years ending on or before
June 30, 2008.  
 
NOTE 18 – PARENT ONLY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The following condensed financial statements summarize the financial
position of the Company (parent company only) as of June 30, 2012 and 2011, and the results of its operations and cash flows
for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 (all amounts in thousands):
 
UNITED COMMUNITY BANCORP
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
June 30, 2012 and 2011
  



  
2012  
2011 

ASSETS 
    
   

Cash and cash equivalents 
$2,029  
$1,502 

Securities available for sale – at estimated market value 
 127  
 130 

Accrued interest receivable 
 67  
 78 

Deferred income taxes 
 447  
 30 

Prepaid expenses and other assets 
 2,382  
 2,679 

Investment in United Community Bank 
 49,961  
 49,820 

  
$55,013  
$54,239 

  
    
   

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
    
   

Other liabilities 
 25  
 93 

Stockholders’ equity 
 54,988  
 54,146 

  
$55,013  
$54,239 



 

102
 

 
UNITED COMMUNITY BANCORP
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
June 30, 2012 and 2011
 


  
2012  
2011 

Interest income: 
    
   

ESOP loan 
$145  
$168 

Securities 
 8  
 8 

Other income: 
    
   

Equity in earnings of United Community Bank 
 2,118  
 1,350 

  
    
   

Net revenue 
 2,271  
 1,526 

  
    
   

Operating expenses: 
    
   

Other operating expenses 
 364  
 333 

  
    
   

Income before income taxes 
 1,907  
 1,193 

  
    
   

Income tax expense (benefit) 
 (82) 
 23 

Net income 
$1,989  
$1,170 

  
UNITED COMMUNITY BANCORP
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
June 30, 2012 and 2011
 


  
2012  
2011 

Operating activities: 
    
   

Net income 
$1,989  
$1,170 

  
    
   

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: 
    
   

Equity in earnings of United Community Bank 
 (2,118) 
 (1,350)

Dividends received from United Community Bank 
 2,000  
 - 

Shares committed to be released 
 180  
 (87)

Amortization and expense of stock-based compensation plans 
 48  
 157 

Deferred income taxes 
 (417) 
 214 

Effects of change in assets and liabilities 
 240 
 (5)

  
    
   

  
 1,922  
 99 

  
    
   

  
    
   

Financing activities: 
    
   

Purchase of treasury stock 
 (31) 
 (37)

Dividends paid to stockholders 
 (1,364) 
 (1,357)

  
 (1,395) 
 (1,394)

  
    
   

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 
 527  
 (1,295)

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 
 1,502  
 2,797 

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 
$2,029  
$1,502 

  


103
 

  
NOTE 19 – QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
The following tables present quarterly financial information
for the Company for 2012 and 2011:
 



 
 
For the year ended June 30, 2012
 

 
 
(In thousands)
 

 
 
Fourth quarter
 
 
Third quarter
 
 
Second quarter
 
 
First quarter
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Interest income
 
$
4,509
 
 
$
4,290
 
 
$
4,700
 
 
$
4,687
 

Interest expense
 
 
1,054
 
 
 
1,025
 
 
 
1,057
 
 
 
1,152
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Net interest income
 
 
3,455
 
 
 
3,265
 
 
 
3,643
 
 
 
3,535
 

Provision for loan losses
 
 
1,750
 
 
 
333
 
 
 
681
 
 
 
898
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Net interest income after provision for loan losses
 
 
1,705
 
 
 
2,932
 
 
 
2,962
 
 
 
2,637
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Other income
 
 
1,758
 
 
 
888
 
 
 
1,205
 
 
 
1,126
 

Other expense
 
 
3,090
 
 
 
3,056
 
 
 
3,141
 
 
 
3,149
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Income before income taxes
 
 
373
 
 
 
764
 
 
 
1,026
 
 
 
614
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Provision for income taxes
 
 
29
 
 
 
307
 
 
 
314
 
 
 
138
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Net income
 
$
344
 
 
$
457
 
 
$
712
 
 
$
476
 

 
 


 
 
For the year ended June 30, 2011
 

 
 
(In thousands)
 

 
 
Fourth quarter
 
 
Third quarter
 
 
Second quarter
 
 
First quarter
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Interest income
 
$
4,907
 
 
$
4,876
 
 
$
5,033
 
 
$
5,030
 

Interest expense
 
 
1,233
 
 
 
1,286
 
 
 
1,433
 
 
 
1,635
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Net interest income
 
 
3,674
 
 
 
3,590
 
 
 
3,600
 
 
 
3,395
 

Provision for loan losses
 
 
755
 
 
 
2,204
 
 
 
538
 
 
 
643
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Net interest income after provision for loan losses
 
 
2,919
 
 
 
1,386
 
 
 
3,062
 
 
 
2,752
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Other income
 
 
1,275
 
 
 
795
 
 
 
973
 
 
 
995
 

Other expense
 
 
3,082
 
 
 
2,949
 
 
 
3,204
 
 
 
3,251
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Income (loss) before income taxes
 
 
1,112
 
 
 
(768
)
 
 
831
 
 
 
496
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Provision (benefit) for income taxes
 
 
316
 
 
 
(125
)
 
 
131
 
 
 
179
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Net income (loss)
 
$
796
 
 
$
(643
)
 
$
700
 
 
$
317
 

   

104
 

 
 


Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
 
Not applicable.
 
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
 
The Company’s management, including
the Company’s principal executive officer and principal financial officer, have evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s
“disclosure controls and procedures,” as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, (the “Exchange Act”). Based upon their evaluation, the principal executive officer and principal
financial officer concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, the Company’s disclosure controls and
procedures were effective for the purpose of ensuring that the information required to be disclosed in the reports that the Company
files or submits under the Exchange Act with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”): (1) is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and (2) is accumulated
and communicated to the Company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate
to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
 
Management’s annual report on internal
control over financial reporting is incorporated herein by reference to Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This annual
report does not include an attestation report of the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm regarding internal
control over financial reporting. Management’s report was not subject to attestation by the Company’s independent registered
public accounting firm pursuant to rules of the SEC that permit the Company to provide only Management’s report in this report.
 
There was no change in the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Company’s fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2012 that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
 
PART III
 
Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
 
The Company’s Board of Directors consists
of nine members and is divided into three classes with three-year staggered terms, with one-third of the directors elected each
year.
 
Information regarding the directors of the
Company is set forth below. Unless otherwise stated, each individual has held his current occupation for the last five years. The
age indicated for each individual is as of June 30, 2012.
 
Directors with Terms Ending in 2012
  
Jerry W. Hacker served as
the owner and President of Dee’s Delights, Inc., a wholesaler, manufacturer, importer and exporter of miniatures in
North Bend, Ohio from 1983 until 2006. He is now retired. Age 69. Director since 1987 (including term as a director of
Perpetual Federal Savings and Loan Association).
 
As the former owner and President of
a wholesaler, manufacturer, importer and exporter of miniatures in North Bend, Ohio, Mr. Hacker provides the Board with
essential business and management experience, as well as, valuable leadership capability. Mr. Hacker’s twenty-five
years of service on the Board also provides the Board with substantial knowledge of the Company’s and United Community
Bank’s business and history. In addition, Mr. Hacker’s continued involvement in community organizations and local
matters is a vital component of a well-rounded board.
 
James D. Humphrey has served as
the Judge of the Circuit Court of Dearborn and Ohio Counties, Indiana since January 1, 1999. Age 54. Director since 2011.
 
Mr. Humphrey’s legal experience,
including his service as the Judge of the Circuit Court, provides the board with the legal knowledge necessary to assess issues
facing the Board effectively. In addition, Mr. Humphrey’s involvement in community organizations and local political
matters is a vital component of a well-rounded board.
 
Ralph B. Sprecher is Chairman of
the Board. He previously was the Vice President of Midwest Operations for Joseph E. Seagram, a beverage distribution company, and
is now retired. Age 71. Director since 1993 (including term as a director of Perpetual Federal Savings and Loan Association).

105
 


 
Mr. Sprecher has considerable management
and operational experience through thirty-five years of business experience with Joseph E. Seagrams, including his role as Vice
President of Midwest Operations. In addition, Mr. Sprecher provides valuable local community insight through his familiarity and
participation in our community through various local organizations.
 
Directors with Terms Ending in 2013
  
Eugene B. Seitz, II is an
officer and co-owner of Seitz Agency, Inc., an insurance agency. Mr. Seitz also serves as Assistant Secretary of the
Board of Directors. Mr. Seitz’s brother, G. Mike Seitz, also serves on the Board of Directors and
Mr. Seitz’s cousin, James W. Kittle, is a Senior Vice President of Lending with United Community Bank. Age 55.
Director since 1995 (including term as a director of Perpetual Federal Savings and Loan Association).
 
Mr. Seitz provides the Board with
extensive marketing and operational knowledge through his experience as an officer and one of three owners of Seitz Agency,
Inc., a long standing insurance agency in our local market. Mr. Seitz also has considerable management experience within the
insurance industry and knowledge of the corporate governance practices necessary to guide management. Mr. Seitz’s
experience in dealing with the insurance needs of the agency’s clients, his lifelong residency and community
involvement provide the Board with significant knowledge regarding the communities in which the Bank operates.
 
G. Mike Seitz is an officer
and one of three shareholders of Seitz Agency, Inc., an insurance agency. Mr. Seitz also serves as Secretary of the
Board of Directors. Mr. Seitz’s brother, Eugene B. Seitz, also serves on the Board of Directors and
Mr. Seitz’s cousin, James W. Kittle, is a Senior Vice President of Lending with the Bank. Age 65. Director since
1971 (including term as a director of Progressive Federal Savings Bank).
 
As an officer and one of
three shareholders of Seitz Agency, Inc., a long standing insurance agency in our local market, Mr. Seitz provides the Board
with significant management, strategic and operational expertise. Through his role as an officer and co-owner Seitz Agency,
Inc. Mr. Seitz provides the Board with essential knowledge and understanding of the local business environment. In addition,
Mr. Seitz’s forty-one years of dedicated service on United Community Bank’s Board of Directors provides the Board
with invaluable expertise and knowledge of United Community Bank’s business and its history.
 
Elmer G. McLaughlin has served
as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of United Community Bancorp since its inception in 2006 and of United
Community Bank since the merger of Perpetual Federal and Progressive Federal to form United Community Bank on April 12,
1999. Before the merger, Mr. McLaughlin served for nine years as President, and 19 years as a director, of Perpetual
Federal Savings and Loan Association, and was Executive Vice President and head of Operations and senior loan officer of
Perpetual Federal from 1978 until 1990. Mr. McLaughlin is the brother of W. Michael McLaughlin, a Senior Vice President
of Operations at United Community Bank. Age 60. Director since 1980 (including term as a director of Perpetual Federal
Savings and Loan Association).
 
As Executive Vice President and Chief
Operating Officer, Mr. McLaughlin successfully assisted United Community Bank in its mutual holding company reorganization
and navigated the various issues facing financial institutions and public companies during one of the most challenging
economic periods in recent history. Mr. McLaughlin’s thirty-four years of experience as an employee and officer of
United Community Bank provides the Board with valuable expertise and knowledge of all aspects of the business and its
history. In addition, Mr. McLaughlin’s life-long residency and community involvement in our area make him a vital part
of our Board.
 
Directors with Terms Ending in 2014
  
William F. Ritzmann has served
as President and Chief Executive Officer of United Community Bancorp since its inception in 2006 and of United Community Bank
since the merger of Perpetual Federal and Progressive Federal to form United Community Bank on April 12, 1999. Before
the merger, Mr. Ritzmann served for 23 years as director, President and Managing Officer of Progressive Federal Savings
Bank. Age 64. Director since 1975 (including term as a director of Progressive Federal Savings Bank).
 
Mr. Ritzmann’s extensive
experience in the local banking industry and involvement in business and civic organizations in the communities in which
United Community Bank serves affords the Board valuable insight regarding the business and operation of United Community
Bank. Mr. Ritzmann’s knowledge of all aspects of United Community Bancorp’s and United Community
Bank’s business and history, combined with his success and continued drive for responsible growth and excellence, over
the past thirty-seven years, position him well to continue to serve as our President and Chief Executive Officer.
 
Robert J. Ewbank has been a partner
in the Lawrenceburg, Indiana law firm of Ewbank & Kramer LLP since 1978. Age 63. Director since 1984 (including term as
a director of Progressive Federal Savings Bank).

106
 

 
Mr. Ewbank’s legal experience as a
partner of the firm Ewbank & Kramer LLP, affords the Board in-depth knowledge and understanding of the issues facing the Bank
and the Company and the unique skills needed to guide the Company and its management effectively. Through Mr. Ewbank’s experience
as owner of Ewbank Land Title Company, Mr. Ewbank also offers the Board management experience in the small firm setting and critical
experience in real estate matters. In addition, with over twenty-eight years of service on the Board, Mr. Ewbank brings significant
knowledge of the Company’s and the Bank’s business and history to the Board.
 
Richard C. Strzynski has been a
self-employed certified public accountant in Aurora, Indiana, since 1979. Age 64. Director since 1993 (including term as a director
of Progressive Federal Savings Bank).
 
Mr. Strzynski’s experience as a self
-employed certified public accountant provides the Board with critical experience in accounting matters and understanding of business
financial statements. In addition, Mr. Strzynski ’s familiarity with and participation in our local community through various
community organizations has allowed him to develop strong ties to the community, providing the Board with valuable insight regarding
the local business and consumer environment.
 
Executive Officers of United Community Bancorp and United
Community Bank, who are not also Directors 
 



Name

 

Age at
        June 30, 2012

 

Principal Position


 
 
 
 
 

James W. Kittle
 
54
 
Senior Vice President, Lending

 
 
 
 
 

Vicki A. March, CPA
 
56
 
Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer

 
 
 
 
 

W. Michael McLaughlin
 
53
 
Senior Vice President, Operations

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Unless otherwise noted, all officers have
held the position described below for at least the past five years.
 
James W. Kittle has served as Senior
Vice President, Lending of the Bank since 1980, including with Progressive Federal Savings Bank prior to the merger.
 
Vicki A. March has served as Chief
Financial Officer, Treasurer and Senior Vice President, Finance of the Bank, since 1999 and for United Community Bancorp since
its inception in March 2006. Ms. March previously served as Treasurer of the Bank from 1980 to 1999, including with Progressive
Federal Savings Bank prior to the merger.
 
W. Michael McLaughlin has served
as Senior Vice President, Operations of the Bank since 1983, including with Perpetual Federal prior to the merger.
 
 
 
Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance
 
Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act requires
the Company’s executive officers and directors, and persons who own more than 10% of any registered class of the Company’s
equity securities, to file reports of ownership and changes in ownership with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Executive
officers, directors and greater than 10% stockholders are required by regulation to furnish the Company with copies of all Section
16(a) reports they file.
 
Based solely on the Company’s review
of copies of the reports it has received and written representations provided to it from the individuals required to file the reports,
the Company believes that each of its executive officers and directors has complied with applicable reporting requirements for
transactions in United Community Bancorp common stock during the year ended June 30, 2012, except that Messrs. Ritzmann, Elmer
G. McLaughlin and Kittle each filed a Form 5 reporting two late transactions regarding the disposition of shares for tax withholding
purposes occurring in fiscal years 2012 and 2011, and Mr. W. Michael McLaughlin filed a Form 5 reporting three late transactions
regarding the disposition of shares for tax withholding purposes occurring in fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010.
 
Code of Ethics
 
The Company has adopted a Code of Ethics
and Business Conduct that is designed to ensure that the Company’s directors, executive officers and employees meet the highest
standards of ethical conduct. The Code of Ethics and Business Conduct requires that the Company’s directors, executive officers
and employees avoid conflicts of interest, comply with all laws and other legal requirements, conduct business in an honest and
ethical manner and otherwise act with integrity and in the Company’s best interest. Under the terms of the Code of Ethics
and Business Conduct, directors, executive officers and employees are required to report any conduct that they believe in good
faith to be an actual or apparent violation of the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct.

107
 

 
As a mechanism to encourage compliance with
the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, the Company has established procedures to receive, retain and treat complaints received
regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters. These procedures ensure that individuals may submit concerns
regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters in a confidential and anonymous manner. The Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
also prohibits the Company from retaliating against any director, executive officer or employee who reports actual or apparent
violations of the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. A copy of the code of ethics is available, without charge, upon written
request to c/o Corporate Secretary, 92 Walnut Street, Lawrenceburg, Indiana 47025.
 
Corporate Governance
 
The following table identifies our standing
committees and their members as of June 30, 2012. All members of each committee are independent in accordance with the listing
standards of the NASDAQ Stock Market.
 


Director
 

Audit
Committee
 

Nominating and
Corporate Governance Committee
 

 
 
Compensation Committee

Ralph B. Sprecher
 
X
 
 
   
   X*

Jerry W. Hacker
 
 
 
X
 
X

James D. Humphrey
 
 
 
X
 
 

Eugene B. Seitz, II
 
X
   
  X*
 
X

Richard C. Strzynski
 
   X*
 
 
 
 

Number of Meetings in Fiscal 2012
 
12
 
1
 
1

_______________________
* Chairman
 
 
 
Audit Committee 
 
The Board of Directors has a separately-designated
standing Audit Committee established in accordance with Section 3(a)(58)(A) of the Exchange Act, as amended. The Audit Committee
is responsible for reviewing the following: the integrity of the financial reports and other financial information provided by
the Company to any governmental body or the public, including any certification, report, opinion or review performed by the Company’s
independent registered public accounting firm; the Company’s compliance with legal and regulatory requirements; the independent
registered public accounting firm’s qualifications and independence; the performance of the Company’s internal audit
functions, its independent registered public accounting firm and system of internal controls and disclosure procedures regarding
finance, accounting, legal compliance and ethics that management and the Board has established; the Company’s auditing, accounting
and financial reporting processes generally; and the preparation of information required by the Securities and Exchange Commission
rules to be included in the Company’s annual proxy statement. The Audit Committee meets periodically with the independent
registered public accountants and management to review accounting, auditing, internal control structure and financial reporting
matters. The Board of Directors has determined that Mr. Strzynski is an audit committee financial expert under the rules of
the SEC. The Audit Committee acts under a written charter adopted by the Board of Directors, a copy of which is available free
of charge within the Investor Relations portion of our website at www.bankucb.com, and is available in print to any shareholder
who requests a copy.
 
Compensation Committee 
 
The Compensation Committee is
responsible for all matters regarding the Company’s and the Bank’s employee compensation and benefit programs.
The Compensation Committee operates under a written charter, a copy of which is available free of charge within the Investor
Relations portion of our website at www.bankucb.com, and is available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy.

108
 

 
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
 
The Nominating and Corporate Governance
Committee takes a leadership role in shaping governance policies and practices, including recommending to the Board of Directors
the corporate governance policies and guidelines applicable to United Community and monitoring compliance with these policies and
guidelines. In addition, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for identifying individuals qualified
to become Board members and recommending to the Board the director nominees for election at the next annual meeting of stockholders.
It leads the Board in its annual review of the Board’s performance and recommends director candidates for each committee
for appointment by the Board. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee acts under a written charter adopted by the Board
of Directors, a copy of which is available free of charge within the Investor Relations portion of our website at www.bankucb.com,
and is available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy.
 
 
Item 11. Executive Compensation
 
Summary Compensation Table
 
 	The following
information is furnished for the chief executive officer and the two other most highly compensated executive officers during the
year ended June 30, 2012. 
 


Name
    and Principal Position
 
Year
 
 
Salary
    ($)
 
 
Bonus
    ($)(1)
 
 
Stock
    Awards ($)
 
 
Option
    Awards ($)
 
 
Nonqualified
    Deferred
 Compensation ($)
 
 
All
    Other Compensation($)(2)
 
 
Total
    ($)
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

William F. Ritzmann
 
 
2012
 
 
 
177,054
 
 
 
7,849
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
6,000
 
 
 
247,691
 
 
 
438,594
 

President
    and
 
 
2011
 
 
 
172,847
 
 
 
3,731
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
6,000
 
 
 
144,740
 
 
 
327,318
 

Chief
    Executive Officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Elmer G. McLaughlin
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 

Executive
    Vice President,
 
 
2012
 
 
 
130,638
 
 
 
7,092
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
169,119
 
 
 
306,849
 

Chief
    Operating Officer
 
 
2011
 
 
 
126,851
 
 
 
3,060
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
86,985
 
 
 
216,896
 

and Corporate
    Secretary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

James W. Kittle
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 

Senior
    Vice President,
 
 
2012
 
 
 
103,715
 
 
 
6,635
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
60,650
 
 
 
171,000
 

Lending
 
 
2011
 
 
 
99,787
 
 
 
8,392
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
50,682
 
 
 
158,861
 

 
__________________

(1)Reflects amounts earned under the cash profit-sharing plan and the cash bonus program.

(2)Details of the amounts reported in the “All Other Compensation” column are provided in the table below. The table
excludes perquisites, which did not exceed $10,000 in the aggregate for each named executive officer:
 


109
 

 


Item 
William F. Ritzmann  
Elmer G. McLaughlin  
James W.   Kittle 

Employer matching contribution to   401(k) plan 
$8,375  
$645  
$8,268 

Market value of allocations under the employee stock ownership plan 
 17,242  
 17,242  
 14,254 

Value of insurance premiums under endorsement method split-dollar life insurance arrangement 
 1,650  
 1,075  
 572 

Dividends paid on stock awards 
 1,168  
 876  
 621 

Contributions to Executive Supplemental Retirement Income Agreement Trust (“SRIAT”) 
 122,967  
 114,018  
 24,241 

Tax indemnification payment for income recognized on contributions to SRIAT 
 96,289  
 35,263  
 12,694 

       Total 
 247,691  
 169,119  
 60,650 

 
Employment Agreements
 
United Community Bancorp and the Bank are
both parties to substantially similar employment agreements with Messrs. Ritzmann, McLaughlin and Kittle. The employment agreements
with Messrs. Ritzmann and McLaughlin each provide for a three-year term, and the employment agreement with Mr. Kittle has a two-year
term. The employment agreements may be renewed on an annual basis by the respective Boards of Directors. The agreements provide
for base salaries, which for 2012 were $179,830, $131,976 and $103,167 for Messrs. Ritzmann, McLaughlin and Kittle, respectively.
In addition to base salary, the employment agreements provide for, among other things, participation in stock-based benefit plans,
retirement plans and fringe benefits.
 
United Community Bancorp or the Bank will
pay or reimburse the executive for reasonable costs and legal fees resulting from any dispute or question of interpretation relating
to his employment agreement, provided the executive is successful on the merits in a legal judgment, arbitration or settlement.
The employment agreements also provide that United Community Bancorp or the Bank will indemnify the executives to the fullest extent
legally allowable. For Messrs. Ritzmann and McLaughlin, amounts due under the employment agreements may be paid by either United
Community Bancorp or the Bank, as appropriate, but they will not receive duplicative payments under both agreements.
 
The employment agreements provide Messrs.
Ritzmann, McLaughlin and Kittle with certain severance payments and benefits continuation upon termination of employment. The employment
agreements provide that United Community Bancorp or the Bank may terminate an executive’s employment for cause, as described
in the employment agreements, at any time, with no further benefits payable following such termination. If United Community Bancorp
or the Bank terminates an executive’s employment for reasons other than for death, cause or in connection with a change in
control, the executive or, upon his death, his beneficiary, will receive a payment equivalent to his base salary for the remaining
term of the agreement, plus the value of the cash bonus paid to the executive during the 12-month period preceding termination
of employment. The executive will also receive continued health, life, disability and other benefits through the earlier of the
agreement expiration date or coverage by another employer. Upon the executive’s death during the agreement term, the agreement
will automatically expire and the executive’s estate will receive the salary the executive would have received through the
last day of the third month following the month in which he died.
 
The employment agreements provide that
if the executive voluntarily terminates employment without written consent of United Community Bancorp or the Bank, other than
with “good reason” in connection with a change in control, as defined in the agreement, the executive shall not engage
in competition with United Community Bancorp or the Bank within Dearborn County or within 30 miles of the principal business of
United Community Bancorp or the Bank.
 
Upon the executive’s involuntary
termination or constructive termination (i.e., a voluntary termination with “good reason,” under circumstances
described in the agreement) within one year following a change in control, the executive will receive an amount equal to the product
of 2.99 and the executive’s “base amount,” as defined under Internal Revenue Code Section 280G. Under Internal
Revenue Code Section 280G, the base amount equals the executive’s average annual taxable compensation over the five
taxable years preceding the year in which the change in control occurs. The executive will also receive continued coverage under
all health, life, disability and other benefit plans until the earlier of the expiration of the agreement term or the date the
executive becomes covered under another employer’s benefit plans.
 

110
 

 
Internal Revenue Code Section 280G
provides that severance payments that equal or exceed three times an individual’s base amount are deemed to be “excess
parachute payments” if they are contingent upon a change in control. Individuals receiving excess parachute payments are
subject to a 20% excise tax on the amount of the payment in excess of the base amount, and the employer may not deduct the payments
in excess of the base amount. The employment agreements limit payments made to the executives in connection with a change in control
to amounts that will not exceed the limits imposed by Section 280G.
 
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
 
The Bank maintains a supplemental executive
retirement plan which provides participants with retirement benefits that cannot be provided under the 401(k) Plan and/or the ESOP
as a result of limitations imposed by the Internal Revenue Code, but that would have been provided under the plans, but for the
Internal Revenue Code limitations. In addition to providing benefits that would otherwise be lost as a result of the Internal Revenue
Code limitations on tax-qualified plans, the supplemental executive retirement plan also provides supplemental benefits upon a
change in control before the scheduled repayment of the ESOP loan. Messrs. Ritzmann and McLaughlin currently participate in the
supplemental executive retirement plan.
 
Executive Supplemental Retirement Income Agreements
 
The Company has entered into Executive Supplemental
Retirement Income Agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Senior Vice President of Lending, Senior
Vice President of Operations, and Chief Financial Officer for the purpose of providing each executive with additional compensation
for 180 months following the executive’s retirement or other termination of service. The Bank established an irrevocable
trust in connection with each arrangement. The trusts are funded with contributions from the Bank for the purpose of meeting the
Bank’s obligations under the Executive Supplemental Retirement Income Agreements. The respective trust assets are beneficially
owned by each individual with an Executive Supplemental Retirement Income Agreement and, thus, each individual recognizes taxable
income with respect to contributions made to the trust. The Bank reimburses the executives each year for income taxes paid by the
executives with respect to trust contributions. Earnings on the trust’s assets are taxable to those individuals who maintain
an Executive Supplemental Retirement Income Agreement with the Bank.
 
The Executive Supplemental Retirement Income
Agreements require each executive to adhere to a non-competition agreement following termination of employment. In the event our
executive breaches the non-competition agreement all payments under the Executive Supplemental Retirement Income Agreement will
cease.

111
 

 
Director Compensation
 
The following
table sets forth the compensation paid to our non-employee directors for their board service during fiscal 2012. 
  


Name 
Fees Earned or Paid in Cash ($)  
Stock Awards ($)  
Option Awards ($)  
All Other Compensation ($)(1)  
Total ($) 

Robert J. Ewbank 
$25,000  
 -  
 -  
$219  
$25,219 

Jerry W. Hacker 
 25,000  
 -  
 -  
 219  
 25,219 

James D. Humphrey 
 25,000  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 25,000 

Eugene B. Seitz, II 
 27,250  
 -  
 -  
 219  
 27,469 

G. Michael Seitz 
 28,500  
 -  
 -  
 219  
 28,719 

Ralph B. Sprecher 
 29,900  
 -  
 -  
 219  
 30,119 

Richard C. Strzynski 
 25,000  
 -  
 -  
 219  
 25,219 


 _________________________________

(1)Represents dividends paid on stock awards that vested in fiscal 2012.
 
Cash Retainer and Meeting Fees for
Non-Employee Directors. The following table sets forth the applicable retainers and fees that were paid to our non-employee
directors for their service on the Boards of Directors of United Community Bancorp and United Community Bank during fiscal 2012.
Additionally, Mr. Sprecher will receive $4,900 annually for his service as Chairman of the Board, Mr. G. Michael Seitz will
receive $3,500 annually for his service as Secretary of the Board and Mr. Eugene Seitz will receive $2,250 annually for his
service as Assistant Secretary of the Board. Directors do not receive any fees for their service on the Board of Directors of United
Community MHC. Employee directors do not receive any retainers or fees for their services on the Boards of Directors.
 


Annual retainer for United Community Bancorp. 
$5,000 

  
   

Annual retainer for United Community Bank 
$14,800 

  
   

Annual fee for service on committees of United Community Bank 
$5,200 

 
Directors Retirement Plan. The
Bank sponsors a directors retirement plan for the purpose of providing eligible directors with a cash benefit upon retirement.
Under the plan, a non-employee director who has completed at least three years of service with the Bank and has attained the designated
“benefit age” (ranging from age 72 years to age 80 years and 9 months) set forth in an individual agreement under the
plan will receive a retirement benefit of $20,000 per year for ten years, payable in monthly installments. A participating director
may also receive an early retirement benefit upon termination of service following completion of at least three years of participation
in the plan and attainment of age 65. The early retirement benefit equals $10,000 per year for ten years upon retirement after
age 65 but before age 68, or $15,000 per year for ten years upon retirement after age 68 but before the designated benefit age.
Upon the death of a director who has begun receiving benefits under the plan, the Bank will pay any remaining benefits to the director’s
designated beneficiary. If the director dies while still in service as a director of the Bank, the Bank will pay the director’s
beneficiary the survivor benefit set forth in the director’s individual joinder agreement under the plan. Upon termination
of service in connection with a change in control, a participating director becomes entitled to the same retirement benefit the
director would have received if he remained in service until reaching his designated benefit age, payable over a ten-year period.
The plan also provides that the Board may approve a disability benefit equal to the actuarially-determined annuitized value of
a director’s benefit under the plan upon a termination of service due to disability. In addition to the above benefits, the
plan provides the director’s beneficiary with a separate lump sum benefit of $10,000 for the payment of funeral expenses.
In consideration for the benefits provided under the plan and outlined above, participating directors agree not to engage in certain
competitive business activities while serving on the board or following termination of service for reasons other than a change
in control. No benefits are payable under the plan upon a termination of service for cause. Directors G. Michael Seitz, Sprecher,
Hacker, Strzynski, Ewbank, Eugene B. Seitz and Humphrey currently participate in the plan. 

112
 


 
Item 12. Security Ownership
of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Related Stockholder Matters
 
(a)	 The following table provides
information as of June 30, 2012 about the persons and entities known to United Community Bancorp to be the beneficial owners of
more than 5% of United Community Bancorp’s outstanding common stock. A person or entity may be considered to beneficially
own any shares of common stock over which the person or entity has, directly or indirectly, sole or shared voting or investing
power.
 


Name and Address 
Number of Shares Owned  
Percent of Common Stock Outstanding (1) 

United Community MHC (2) 92 Walnut Street Lawrenceburg, Indiana 47025 
 4,655,200  
 59.4%


_______________


(1)
Based on 7,834,782 shares of United Community Bancorp’s common stock outstanding and entitled to vote as of June 30, 2012.

(2)
The members of the board of directors of United Community Bancorp and United Community Bank also constitute the board of directors of United Community MHC.

  

113
 

 
(b) 	The following table
provides information as of June 30, 2012 about the shares of United Community Bancorp common stock that may be considered to be
beneficially owned by each director, named executive officer listed in the Summary Compensation Table, and all directors
and executive officers of United Community Bancorp as a group. A person may be considered to beneficially own any shares of common
stock over which he or she has, directly or indirectly, sole or shared voting or investment power. Unless otherwise indicated,
none of the shares listed are pledged as security and each of the named individuals has sole voting power and sole investment
power with respect to the number of shares shown.
 


Name 
Number of Shares Owned (1)  
Options Exercisable Within 60 Days  
Percent of Common Stock Outstanding (2) 

William F. Ritzmann 
 73,147(3) 
 66,357  
 1.8%

Ralph B. Sprecher 
 31,976(4) 
 12,442  
 * 

Robert J. Ewbank 
 54,976(5) 
 12,442  
 * 

Jerry W. Hacker 
 34,976(6) 
 12,442  
 * 

James D. Humphrey 
 —  
 —  
 * 

James W. Kittle 
 46,176(7) 
 35,253  
 1.0 

Elmer G. McLaughlin 
 63,844(8) 
 49,768  
 1.4 

G. Michael Seitz 
 39,976  
 12,442  
 * 

Eugene B. Seitz, II 
 36,276(9) 
 12,442  
 * 

Richard C. Strzynski 
 19,976  
 12,442  
 * 

All directors and executive officers as a group (12 persons) 
 489,255  
 296,536  
 10.0 

__________________________

*Less than 1.0%.



(1)
Includes shares held in the reporting person’s 401(k) Plan account as follows: Mr. Ritzmann, 10,704 shares, Mr. Elmer G. McLaughlin, 30,486 shares and Mr. Kittle, 6,320 shares. These amounts reflect ownership units in the employer stock fund of the 401(k) Plan, which consists of both issuer stock and a reserve of cash. The actual number of shares held by the individual may vary when such units are actually converted into shares upon distribution of the units to the individual.

(2)
Based on 7,834,782 shares of the Company’s common stock outstanding and entitled to vote as of June 30, 2012.

(3)
Includes 14,783 shares held in Mr. Ritzmann’s individual retirement account and 11,773 shares allocated to Mr. Ritzmann’s account under the ESOP.

(4)
Includes 20,000 shares held in Mr. Sprecher’s individual retirement account.

(5)
Includes 5,300 shares held by Mr. Ewbank’s spouse and 29,700 shares held by one corporation controlled by Mr. Ewbank. Also includes 29,700 shares pledged as security.

(6)
Includes 9,000 shares held in Mr. Hacker’s individual retirement account and 6,000 shares held in Mr. Hacker’s spouse’s individual retirement account.

(7)
Includes 750 shares held in Mr. Kittle’s individual retirement account, 1,850 shares held in Mr. Kittle’s spouse’s individual retirement account and 7,992 shares allocated to Mr. Kittle’s account under the ESOP. Also includes 7,427 shares pledged as security.

(8)
Includes 11,331 shares allocated to Mr. McLaughlin’s account under the ESOP. Also includes 22,029 shares pledged as security.

(9)
Includes 5,840 shares held in Mr. Seitz’s individual retirement account and includes 5,000, 5,000 and 5,000 shares, respectively, held in three custodian accounts for Mr. Seitz’s children. Also includes 10,000 shares pledged as security.

 

114
 

 

(c)Changes in Control
 
Management of the Company knows of no arrangements,
including any pledge by any person of securities of the Company, the operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change
in control of the Company.
 
(d)	Equity Compensation Plans
 
The Company has adopted the 2006 Equity
Incentive Plan, pursuant to which equity may be awarded to participants. The plan was approved by stockholders. The following table
sets forth certain information with respect to the Company’s equity compensation plan as of June 30, 2012.


  
   
   
  

Plan Category   
(a) Number of securities to be  issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights    
(b) Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights    
(c) Number of securities  remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plan (excluding securities reflected in column (a))   

Equity compensation plan approved by security holders 
 346,304  
$11.53  
 58,072 

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders 
 -  
 -  
 - 

Total (1) 
 346,304  
$11.53  
 58,072 

  
    
    
   

 

(1)The 2006 Equity Incentive Plan provides for a proportionate adjustment to the number of shares reserved thereunder in the event
of a stock split, stock dividend, reclassification or similar event.
 
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
and Director Independence 
 
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
 
Loans and Extensions of Credit. The
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 generally prohibits loans by United Community Bancorp to its executive officers and directors. However,
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act contains a specific exemption from such prohibition for loans by the Bank to its executive officers and
directors in compliance with federal banking regulations. Federal regulations require that all loans or extensions of credit to
executive officers and directors of insured institutions must be made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates
and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with other persons and must not involve more than the
normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. The Bank is therefore prohibited from making any new loans or extensions
of credit to executive officers and directors at different rates or terms than those offered to the general public, except for
loans made pursuant to programs generally available to all employees. Notwithstanding this rule, federal regulations permit the
Bank to make loans to executive officers and directors at reduced interest rates if the loan is made under a benefit program generally
available to all other employees and does not give preference to any executive officer or director over any other employee.
 
Pursuant to the Audit Committee Charter,
the Audit Committee periodically reviews for approval all of the Company’s and the Bank’s transactions with directors
and executive officers of the Company and with firms that employ directors, as well as any other related person transactions, for
the purpose of recommending to the disinterested members of the Board of Directors that the transactions are fair, reasonable and
within Company policy and should be ratified and approved. In accordance with banking regulations and its policy, the Board of
Directors also reviews all loans made to a director or executive officer in an amount that, when aggregated with the amount of
all other loans to such person and his or her related interests, exceed the greater of $25,000 or 5% of the Bank’s capital
and surplus (up to a maximum of $500,000) and such loan must be approved in advance by a majority of the disinterested members
of the Board of Directors. Additionally, pursuant to the Bank’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, all executive officers
and directors of the Bank must disclose any existing or potential conflicts of interest to the Chief Executive Officer of the Bank.
Such potential conflicts of interest include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) the Bank conducting business with or competing
against an organization in which a family member of an executive officer or director has an ownership or employment interest and
(ii) the ownership of more than 5% of the outstanding securities or 5% of total assets of any business entity that does business
with or is in competition with the Bank.

115
 

 
The aggregate amount of loans granted by
United Community Bank to its executive officers and directors was $3.5 million at, June 30, 2012, or approximately 6.3% of stockholders’
equity. These loans were performing according to their original terms at June 30, 2012. United Community Bank has an employee loan
program whereby employees, including executive officers, and directors, may obtain loans with preferential interest rates compared
to those prevailing at the time for comparable loans with persons not related to United Community Bank. The following information
is furnished for outstanding loans made by United Community Bank to related persons (directors, executive officers and their immediate
family members) under the United Community Bank employee loan program as of June 30, 2012:




 Name 
Largest Aggregate Principal Outstanding for 2012 ($)  
Principal Outstanding at June 30, 2012 ($)  
Principal Paid During 2012 ($)  
Interest Paid During 2012 ($)  
Interest Rate Payable (%) 

William F. Ritzmann 
   
   
   
   
  

President and 
 22,729  
 -  
 22,729  
 638  
 1.798 

Chief Executive Officer 
 92,392  
 89,892  
 2,500  
 935  
 0.895 

  
 116,654  
 110,737  
 5,917  
 1,358  
 0.919 

     Total 
    
 200,629  
    
    
   

  
    
    
    
    
   

Matthew P. Ritzmann 
 308,764  
 300,303  
 8,461  
 9,833  
 3.067 

Son of William F. Ritzmann 
 268,201  
 259,206  
 8,995  
 3,146  
 1.010 

and employee of United Community Bank 
 20,657  
 19,705  
 952  
 662  
 2.895 

     Total 
    
 579,214  
    
    
   

Ralph B. Sprecher	
Chairman of the Board  
 363,697  
 353,854  
 9,843  
 6,061  
 1.455 

     Total 
    
 353,854  
    
    
   

Robert J. Ewbank                 
 80,378  
 80,378  
 (4,687) 
 4,234  
 5.250 

Director 
 207,065  
 198,243  
 8,822  
 3,426  
 1.455 

  
 227,757  
 217,188  
 10,569  
 12,331  
 6.000 

  
 33,743  
 33,743  
 (10,836) 
 367  
 1.395 

     Total 
    
 529,552  
    
    
   

Elmer G. McLaughlin                 
 104,171  
 99,596  
 4,575  
 1,221  
 1.085 

Executive Vice President 
 133,531  
 -  
 133,531  
 1,038  
 1.897 

and Chief Operating Officer 
 99,000  
 99,000  
 -  
 1,003  
 0.895 

     Total 
    
 198,596  
    
    
   

Eugene B. Seitz, II                 
 167,424  
 161,226  
 6,198  
 2,802  
 1.571 

Director 
 53,366  
 53,061  
 305  
 820  
 1.395 

     Total 
    
 214,287  
    
    
   

James W. Kittle  
 90,022  
 85,084  
 4,938  
 1,076  
 1.067 

Senior Vice President 
 29,094  
 21,098  
 7,996  
 554  
 1.955 

  
 86,854  
 80,645  
 6,209  
 884  
 0.895 

     Total 
    
 186,827  
    
    
   

W. Michael McLaughlin 
    
    
    
    
   

Senior Vice President 
 100,389  
 84,049  
 16,340  
 1,060  
 1.071 

  
 58,776  
 58,776  
 (2,711) 
 550  
 0.895 

  
 40,873  
 40,873  
 (20,918) 
 352  
 0.895 

     Total 
    
 183,698  
    
    
   

Brenda Wheat 
 142,850  
 -  
 142,850  
 792  
 1.280 

Stepdaughter of Elmer G. 
 83,969  
 -  
 83,969  
 437  
 1.088 

McLaughlin 
 334,701  
 334,701  
 (334,701) 
 1,972  
 1.007 

  
 8,478  
 8,478  
 (8,478) 
 160  
 2.895 

     Total 
    
 343,179  
    
    
   

Jerry W. Hacker Director 
 536,715  
 509,219  
 27,496  
 34,069  
 6.500 

     Total 
    
 509,219  
    
    
   

Richard C. Strzynski 
 13,155  
 4,423  
 8,732  
 162  
 1.536 

Director 
 23,570  
 23,570  
 (7,233) 
 247  
 1.395 

     Total 
    
 27,993  
    
    
   

James D. Humphrey 
 93,929  
 80,759  
 13,170  
 4,808  
 5.500 

  
 72,745  
 72,745  
 (5,392) 
 1,639  
 2.395 

     Total 
    
 153,504  
    
    
   

Total for all executive officers, directors and related persons  
    
$3,480,552  
    
    
   

  


116
 

 
Other Transactions. Ewbank
& Kramer LLP of Lawrenceburg, Indiana, of which Robert J. Ewbank is a partner, performs legal services for the Bank. Mr. Ewbank
is also President and owner of Ewbank Land Title, Inc., which performs title searches and provides title insurance for loans that
the Bank originates. Mr. Ewbank’s wife is the owner of Working Environments, Inc., which provides the Bank with interior
design and decorating services for its offices. In fiscal 2012, the Bank paid $42,300 in legal fees to Ewbank & Kramer LLP
and $30,800 to Working Environments, Inc. for interior design and decorating services including furnishings for United Community
Bank’s offices. Ewbank Land and Title, Inc. performs title search services and provides title insurance for some of United
Community Bank’s real estate loans. The cost of these services is primarily the responsibility of the Bank’s borrowers,
with the fees being collected by the Bank from the borrower when a loan is closed. In fiscal 2012, the amount of fees paid for
such services to Ewbank Land and Title, Inc. was $405,000, of which the Bank paid $34,600. We believe that the fees paid to Ewbank
& Kramer LLP, Ewbank Land Title, Inc. and Working Environments, Inc. were based on normal terms and conditions as would apply
to unaffiliated clients of those firms. During the fiscal 2012, United Community Bank made payments of approximately $145,650
to the Seitz Insurance Agency, an insurance agency of which G. Michael Seitz and Eugene B. Seitz, both directors of United Community
Bank and United Community Bancorp, are officers and co-owners, for insurance coverage provided by third-party insurance companies
and of such amount the Seitz Insurance Agency retained approximately $16,000 as commissions for its services. There are no other
transactions or series of similar transactions between the Bank and any director or executive officer in which the amount involved
exceeds $120,000 since the beginning of the Bank’s last fiscal year, or which are currently proposed.
 
Director
Independence
 
The Company’s Board of Directors
currently consists of nine members, each of whom are “independent” under the listing standards of the NASDAQ Stock
Market, except for William F. Ritzmann, the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and United Community Bank, Elmer
G. McLaughlin, the Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer and Corporate Secretary of United Community and United Community
Bank, Robert J. Ewbank and G. Michael Seitz. In determining the independence of its directors, the Board considered transactions,
relationships or arrangements between United Community, United Community Bank and its directors that were required to be disclosed
in Item 13 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Board also considered transactions, relationships or arrangements between the
Company, United Community Bank and its directors that were not required to be disclosed in Item 13 of this Annual Report on Form
10-K.

117
 

 
Item 14. Principal Accountant
Fees and Services
 
The following table sets forth the fees
billed to the Company for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 by Clark, Schaefer, Hackett & Co.:
 


  
2012  
2011 

Audit fees(1)  
$310,385  
$173,540 

Audit related fees(2)  
 -  
 11,146 

Tax fees(3)  
 16,060  
 19,950 

All other fees (4)  
 113,410  
 132,363 

_____________

(1)Consists of fees for professional services rendered for the audit of the consolidated financial statements and the review of
the financial statements included in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, including the restated Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the
year ended June 30, 2011 and the restated Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A for the quarterly period ended December 31, 2011, both
of which occurred during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012.

(2)For 2012 and 2011, consists of an information systems review for audit purposes.

(3)For both 2012 and 2011, consists of fees for tax return preparation, planning and tax advice.

(4)For 2012, consists of consulting fees related to regulatory and accounting matters, and services related to the stock offering.
For 2011, consists of consulting fees related to regulatory reporting and miscellaneous compliance reviews, administration fees
for deferred compensation and retirement plans for senior employees and Board members, and services related to the stock offering.
 
Policy on Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit
Services 
 
The Audit Committee is responsible for appointing,
setting compensation and overseeing the work of the independent registered public accounting firm. In accordance with its charter,
the Audit Committee approves, in advance, all audit and permissible non-audit services to be performed by the independent registered
public accounting firm. This approval process ensures that the independent registered public accounting firm does not provide any
non-audit services to the Company that are prohibited by law or regulation.
 
During the year ended June 30, 2012, all
services were approved, in advance, by the Audit Committee in compliance with these procedures.
 
PART IV 
 
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement
Schedules 
 
List of Documents Filed as Part of This
Report
 

(1) Financial Statements. The following
consolidated financial statements are filed under Item 8 hereof:
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm
Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition as
of June 30, 2012 and 2011
Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years
Ended June 30, 2012 and 2011
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
(Loss) for the Years Ended June 30, 2012 and 2011
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity
for the Years Ended June 30, 2012 and 2011  
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years
Ended June 30, 2012 and 2011
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
(2) Financial Statement Schedules. All
schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulations are either not required under the related instructions
or are inapplicable, and therefore have been omitted.
 


118
 

 
(3) Exhibits. The following is a
list of exhibits as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is also the Exhibit Index. 
 


 
 


No.
 

Description
 

 
 

  2.1
Amended and Restated Plan of Conversion and Reorganization, dated March 10, 2011,  as amended and restated as of May 12, 2011 (1)

 
 

  3.1
Charter of United Community Bancorp (2)

 
 

  3.2
Amended and Restated Bylaws of United Community Bancorp (3)

 
 

  4.1
Specimen Stock Certificate of United Community Bancorp (2)

 
 

10.1
United Community Bank Employee Stock Ownership Plan and Trust Agreement*(2)

 
 

10.2
Form of ESOP Loan Documents*(2)

 
 

10.3
United Community Bank 401(k) Profit Sharing Plan and Trust and Adoption Agreement*(2)

 
 

10.4
Amended and Restated United Community Bank Employee Severance Compensation Plan*(4)

 
 

10.5
Amended and Restated United Community Bank Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan*(4)

 
 

10.6
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between United Community Bancorp and Certain Executive Officers*(4)

 
 

10.7
Employment Agreement between United Community Bank and Certain Executive Officers*(4)

 
 

10.8
United Community Bank Directors Retirement Plan*(2)

 
 

10.9
First Amendment to the United Community Bank Directors’ Retirement Plan (4)

 
 

10.10
Executive Supplemental Retirement Income Agreements between United Community Bank and William F. Ritzmann, Elmer G. McLaughlin and James W. Kittle and Grantor Trust Agreements thereto*(3)

 
 

10.11
First Amendment to the United Community Bank Executive Supplemental Retirement Income Agreement (4)

 
 

10.12
Rabbi Trust related to Directors Retirement Plan and Executive Supplemental Retirement Income Agreements*(2)

 
 

10.13
United Community Bancorp 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (5)

 
 

21
Subsidiaries

 
 

23
Consent of Clark, Schaefer, Hackett & Co.

 
 

31.1
Rule 13(a)-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer

 
 

31.2
Rule 13(a)-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer

 
 

32
Certifications Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350

 
 

**101
The following materials from United Community Bancorp’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2012 formatted in Extensible Business Reporting Language (“XBRL”): (i) Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition; (ii) Consolidated Statements of Income; (iii) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income; (iv) Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity; (v) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows; and (vi) Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

 
 

*
Management contract or compensation plan or arrangement.

**
Furnished, not filed


(1)Incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2011 (File No.
0-51800).

(2)Incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended, as initially filed
with the SEC on December 14, 2005 (File No. 333-130302).

(3)Incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 2, 2011
(File No. 0-51800).

(4)Incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 2, 2009
(File No. 0-51800).

(5)Incorporated herein by reference to Appendix C to the Company’s definitive Proxy Statement filed with the SEC on October 5,
2006.  
 


119
 

 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.
 


 
 
 
 

 
 
UNITED COMMUNITY BANCORP

 
 
 
 

Date: September 7, 2012
 
By:

/s/ William F. Ritzmann
 

 
 
 
William F. Ritzmann

 
 
 

President and Chief Executive Officer
(Duly Authorized Representative)
 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.
 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 /s/ William F. Ritzmann

 
 
September 7, 2012

 
William F. Ritzmann
 
 

 
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
 
 

 
(Principal Executive Officer)
 
 

 
 
 
 


 
 
 /s/
Vicki A. March
/
 
September 7, 2012

 
Vicki A. March
 
 

 
Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
 
 

 
(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)
 
 

 
 
 
 

By:
 /s/ Ralph B. Sprecher

 
 
September 7, 2012

 
Ralph B. Sprecher
 
 

 
Chairman of the Board
 
 

 
 
 
 


 
 
 /s/ Robert J. Ewbank

 
 
September 7, 2012

 
Robert J. Ewbank
 
 

 
Director
 
 

 
 
 
 

By:

/s/ Jerry W. Hacker
 
 
September 7, 2012

 
Jerry W. Hacker
 
 

 
Director
 
 

 
 
 
 


 
 
 /s/ Elmer G. McLaughlin

 
 
September 7, 2012

 
Elmer G. McLaughlin
 
 

 

Chief Operating Officer and Director
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 /s /
George M. Seitz
 
 
September 7, 2012

 
George M. Seitz
 
 

 
Director
 
 

 
 
 
 


 
 
 /s/ Eugene B. Seitz

 
 
September 7, 2012

 
Eugene B. Seitz
 
 

 
Director
 
 

 
 
 
 


 
 
 /s/ Richard C. Strzynski

 
 
September 7, 2012

 
Richard C. Strzynski
 
 

 
Director
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
/s/ James D. Humphrey

/
 
September 7, 2012

 
James D. Humphrey
 
 

 
Director
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 


120


 




