
10-K
1
d263461d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549 
FORM 10-K   


þ
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 
or   


¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the transition period
from            to             Commission file number: 001-32891  Hanesbrands Inc. 
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
 






Maryland
 
20-3552316

(State of incorporation)
 
(I.R.S. employer identification no.)

 1000 East Hanes Mill Road Winston-Salem, North Carolina
 
27105

(Address of principal executive office)
 
(Zip code)
 (336) 519-8080  (Registrant’s telephone number including area code)  Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share and related
 Preferred Stock Purchase Rights  Name of each exchange on which registered:  New York Stock Exchange
 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes  þ    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Exchange Act.    Yes  ¨    No  þ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.    Yes  þ    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every
Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes  þ    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  þ Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
(Check one):  










Large accelerated filer þ
 
Accelerated filer ¨
 
Non-accelerated filer ¨
 
Smaller reporting company ¨


 

 
(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
 

 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).    Yes  ¨    No  þ 
As of July 1, 2011, the aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock held by non-affiliates was approximately
$2,829,904,217 (based on the closing price of the common stock of $29.45 per share on that date, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange and, for purposes of this computation only, the assumption that all of the registrant’s directors and
executive officers are affiliates and that beneficial holders of 5% or more of the outstanding common stock are not affiliates).  As of
February 10, 2012, there were 97,552,757 shares of the registrant’s common stock outstanding. DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE  Part III of this Form 10-K incorporates by reference to portions of the registrant’s proxy statement for its 2012
annual meeting of stockholders.     
 


Table of Contents
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 










 
  
Page
 

 Forward-Looking Statements
  
 
1
  

 Where You Can Find More Information
  
 
2
  




PART I 
  




 Item 1
  
 Business
  
 
4
  

 Item 1A
  
 Risk Factors
  
 
16
  

 Item 1B
  
 Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
29
  

 Item 1C
  
 Executive Officers of the Registrant
  
 
29
  

 Item 2
  
 Properties
  
 
31
  

 Item 3
  
 Legal Proceedings
  
 
32
  

 Item 4
  
 Mine Safety Disclosures
  
 
32
  




PART II 
  




 Item 5
  
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
  
 
33
  

 Item 6
  
Selected Financial Data
  
 
35
  

 Item 7
  
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  
 
36
  

 Item 7A
  
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
  
 
74
  

 Item 8
  
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
75
  

 Item 9
  
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
 
75
  

 Item 9A
  
Controls and Procedures
  
 
75
  

 Item 9B
  
Other Information
  
 
76
  




PART III 
  




 Item 10
  
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
76
  

 Item 11
  
Executive Compensation
  
 
76
  

 Item 12
  
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
  
 
76
  

 Item 13
  
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
76
  

 Item 14
  
Principal Accounting Fees and Services
  
 
76
  




 PART IV
  




 Item 15
  
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 
  
 
77
  

 Signatures
  
 
78
  

 Index to Exhibits
  
 
E-1
  

 Financial Statements
  
 
F-1
  
 Trademarks, Trade Names and Service Marks  We own or have rights to use the trademarks, service marks and trade names that we use in conjunction with the operation of our business. Some of the more important trademarks that we own or have rights
to use that may appear in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include the Hanes, Champion, C9 by Champion, Playtex, Bali, L’eggs, Just My Size, barely there, Wonderbra, Stedman,
Outer Banks, Zorba, Rinbros, Duofold and Gear for Sports marks, which may be registered in the United States and other jurisdictions. We do not own any trademark, trade name or service mark of any other company appearing
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 


Table of Contents
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933
and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). Forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts, and can generally be identified by the use of
words such as “may,” “believe,” “will,” “expect,” “project,” “estimate,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “continue” or similar expressions. In
particular, information appearing under “Business,” “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” includes forward-looking statements. Forward-looking
statements inherently involve many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these statements. Where, in any forward-looking statement, we express an expectation or belief as to future
results or events, such expectation or belief is based on the current plans and expectations of our management, expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis. However, there can be no assurance that any such expectation or belief
will result or will be achieved or accomplished. The following include some but not all of the factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated: 
 


 
•
 
 current economic conditions, including consumer spending levels and the price elasticity of our products; 
 


 
•
 
 the impact of significant fluctuations and volatility in various input costs, such as cotton and oil-related materials, utilities, freight and wages;
  


 
•
 
 the highly competitive and evolving nature of the industry in which we compete; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to successfully manage social, political, economic, legal and other conditions affecting our domestic and foreign operations and our supply
chain sources, such as political instability and acts of war or terrorism, natural disasters, disruption of markets, operational disruptions, changes in import and export laws, currency restrictions and currency exchange rate fluctuations;
  


 
•
 
 the impact of the loss of one or more of our suppliers of finished goods or raw materials; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to effectively manage our inventory and reduce inventory reserves; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to optimize our global supply chain;   


 
•
 
 our ability to continue to effectively distribute our products through our distribution network; 
 


 
•
 
 the risk of significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; 
 


 
•
 
 financial difficulties experienced by, or loss of or reduction in sales to, any of our top customers or groups of customers;
  


 
•
 
 gains and losses in the shelf space that our customers devote to our products; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products; 
 


 
•
 
 increasing pressure on margins;   


 
•
 
 our ability to keep pace with changing consumer preferences; 
 


 
•
 
 the impact of any inadequacy, interruption or failure with respect to our information technology or any data security breach;
  


 
•
 
 our ability to protect our reputation and brand images; 
  1 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 our ability to protect our trademarks, copyrights and patents; 
 


 
•
 
 our debt and debt service requirements that restrict our operating and financial flexibility and impose interest and financing costs;
  


 
•
 
 the financial ratios that our debt instruments require us to maintain; 
 


 
•
 
 future financial performance, including availability, terms and deployment of capital; 
 


 
•
 
 market returns on the plan assets of our pension plans; 
 


 
•
 
 the impact of a significant decline in the fair value of the intangible assets and goodwill on our balance sheet; 
 


 
•
 
 unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to comply with international trade, environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in our relationship with our employees and costs and adverse publicity from violations of labor or environmental laws by us or our suppliers;
  


 
•
 
 our ability to attract and retain key personnel;   


 
•
 
 new litigation or developments in existing litigation; and 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to successfully integrate and grow acquisitions. 
There may be other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Our actual
results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements. We can give no assurances that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will occur or, if any
of them does, what impact they will have on our results of operations and financial condition. You should carefully read the factors described in the “Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of certain
risks that could, among other things, cause our actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements.  All
forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to update or
revise forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances that arise after the date made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, other than as required by law. 
WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION 
We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
“SEC”). You can inspect, read and copy these reports, proxy statements and other information at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain information regarding the operation of the
SEC’s Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that makes available reports, proxy statements and other information that we file electronically. 
  2 


Table of Contents
We make available copies of materials we file with, or furnish to, the SEC free of charge at
www.hanesbrands.com (in the “Investors” section). By referring to our corporate website, www.hanesbrands.com, or any of our other websites, we do not incorporate any such website or its contents into this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. 
  3 


Table of Contents
PART I 
Item 1. Business  General  We are a consumer goods company with a portfolio of leading
apparel brands, including Hanes, Champion, Bali, Playtex, Just My Size, L’eggs, barely there, Wonderbra, Gear for Sports, Stedman, Zorba, Rinbros, Sol y
Oro, Outer Banks and Duofold. We design, manufacture, source and sell a broad range of basic apparel such as T-shirts, bras, panties, men’s underwear, kids’ underwear, casualwear, activewear, socks and hosiery.
 The basic apparel sector of the apparel industry is characterized by frequently replenished items, such as T-shirts, bras,
panties, men’s underwear, kids’ underwear, socks and hosiery. Growth and sales in the basic apparel sector are not primarily driven by fashion, in contrast to other areas of the broader apparel industry. We focus on the core attributes of
comfort, fit and value, while remaining current with regard to consumer trends. The majority of our core styles continue from year to year, with variations only in color, fabric or design details. Some products, however, such as intimate apparel,
activewear and sheer hosiery, do have more of an emphasis on style and innovation. We continue to invest in our largest and strongest brands to achieve our long-term growth goals. In addition to designing and marketing basic apparel, we have a long
history of operating a global supply chain that incorporates a mix of self-manufacturing, third party contractors and third party sourcing.  Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to December 31. All references to “2011,” “2010” and “2009” relate to the fiscal years ended on December 31,
2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010, respectively.  Our operations are managed and reported in five
operating segments, each of which is a reportable segment for financial reporting purposes: Innerwear, Outerwear, Hosiery, Direct to Consumer and International. These segments are organized principally by product category, geographic location and
distribution channel. Each segment has its own management that is responsible for the operations of the segment’s businesses but the segments share a common supply chain and media and marketing platforms. The following table summarizes our
operating segments by category:   








 Segment
  
 Primary Products
  
 Primary Brands

Innerwear
  
Intimate apparel, such as bras, panties and shapewear
  
Hanes, Bali, Playtex, barely there, Just My Size, Wonderbra






  
Men’s underwear and kids’ underwear
  
Hanes, Polo Ralph Lauren*






  
Socks
  
Hanes, Champion





Outerwear
  
Activewear, such as performance T-shirts and shorts, fleece, sports bras and thermals
  
Champion, Gear for Sports, Duofold






  
Casualwear, such as T-shirts, fleece and sport shirts
  
Hanes, Just My Size, Champion, Hanes Beefy-T, Outer Banks





Hosiery
  
Hosiery
  
L’eggs, Hanes, Donna Karan,* DKNY,* Just My Size





Direct to Consumer
  
Activewear, men’s underwear, kids’ underwear, intimate apparel, socks, hosiery and casualwear
  
Hanes, Bali, Champion, Playtex, barely there, Just My Size, L’eggs





International
  
Activewear, men’s underwear, kids’ underwear, intimate apparel, socks, hosiery and casualwear
  
Hanes, Champion, Wonderbra,** Playtex,** Stedman, Zorba, Kendall,* Rinbros, Sol y Oro, Ritmo, Track N Field

  4 


Table of Contents
 


*
Brand used under a license agreement. 


**
As a result of the February 2006 sale of the European branded apparel business of Sara Lee Corporation, or “Sara Lee,” we are not permitted to sell this brand
in the member states of the European Union, or the “EU,” several other European countries and South Africa.  Our brands have a strong heritage in the basic apparel industry. According to The NPD Group/Consumer Tracking Service, or “NPD,” our brands held either the number one or number two U.S. market
position by units sold in most product categories in which we compete, for the 12-month period ended November 30, 2011. 
Our products are sold through multiple distribution channels. During 2011, approximately 41% of our net sales were to mass merchants in
the United States, 14% were to national chains and department stores in the United States, 13% were in our International segment, 8% were in our Direct to Consumer segment in the United States and 24% were to other retail channels in the United
States such as embellishers, specialty retailers, wholesale clubs, collegiate bookstores, discount retailers and sporting goods stores. We have strong, long-term relationships with our top customers, including relationships of more than 10 years
with each of our top 10 customers. The size and operational scale of the high-volume retailers with which we do business require extensive category and product knowledge and specialized services regarding the quantity, quality and planning of
product orders. We have organized multifunctional customer management teams, which has allowed us to form strategic long-term relationships with these customers and efficiently focus resources on category, product and service expertise. We also have
customer-specific programs such as the C9 by Champion products marketed and sold through Target stores.  Our ability to
react to changing customer needs and industry trends is key to our success. Our design, research and product development teams, in partnership with our marketing teams, drive our efforts to bring innovations to market. We seek to leverage our
insights into consumer demand in the basic apparel industry to develop new products within our existing lines and to modify our existing core products in ways that make them more appealing, addressing changing customer needs and industry trends.
Examples of our recent innovations include:   


 
•
 
 Champion Seamless Adjustable sports bras that combine the comfort of a seamless bra with the adjustability and back close of a traditional bra
to deliver maximum support (2012).   


 
•
 
 Hanes Comfort Toe Seam socks that were developed with patented knitting technology that enables the toe seam to lay completely flat for all-day
comfort (2011).   


 
•
 
 barely there No Slip Fit bras that are designed with a unique Lycra® lining on the back band and straps that have a delicate silicone design to help the bras stay in place, eliminating unexpected slips or slides (2011).
  


 
•
 
 barely there Dreamform bras that have the same support and design features as traditional cup and band bras but with the unsurpassed comfort for
which barely there has become famous (2011).   


 
•
 
 Bali Comfort Revolution wirefree bras that are completely seamless and feature ultra-thin stretch foam cups and a soft comfort band to provide
fit, flexibility and comfort (2011).   


 
•
 
 The Bali One Smooth U Powershape collection that includes a lingerie-inspired shapewear designed with comfortable, lightweight Lycra® to help whittle the waist and flatten the tummy, slim the thighs and smooth lumps and bumps (2011).
  


 
•
 
 barely there Smart Sizes, a new bra sizing system that simplifies and streamlines the traditional bra sizing configuration from 16 sizes to just
five sizes with innovative, “shape to fit” technology (2010).   


 
•
 
 The Wonderbra Secret Agent No Slip Fit collection that includes bras that feature shaping stay-in-place back and no slip straps that secretly
work together to ensure everything stays comfortably in place all day (2010).   


 
•
 
 Bali Comfort-U bras with a feature that ensures that the straps and back stay in place, delivering the ultimate fit and comfort in a place most
women don’t think to look—the back (2010). 
  5 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Hanes Comfort Flex underwear that features a softer, more stretchable waistband that comfortably shifts without pinching or binding (2010).
  


 
•
 
 Hanes dyed V-neck underwear T-shirts in black, gray and navy colors (2009). 
 


 
•
 
 Playtex 18 Hour Seamless smoothing bras that feature fused fabric to smooth sides and back (2009). 
 


 
•
 
 Bali Natural Uplift bras that feature advanced lift for the bust without adding size (2009). 
Our Brands  Our
portfolio of leading brands is designed to address the needs and wants of various consumer segments across a broad range of basic apparel products. Each of our brands has a particular consumer positioning that distinguishes it from its competitors
and guides its advertising and product development. We discuss some of our most important brands in more detail below. 
Hanes is the largest and most widely recognized brand in our portfolio. The Hanes brand covers all of our product
categories, including men’s underwear, kids’ underwear, bras, panties, socks, T-shirts, fleece and sheer hosiery. Hanes stands for outstanding comfort, style and value. According to NPD, Hanes is the number one brand of total
apparel in the U.S. as well as the leading brand of men’s and boys’ underwear, women’s and girls’ panties, and socks for the family by units sold for the 12-month period ended November 30, 2011. 
Champion is our second-largest brand. For over 90 years, Champion has been outfitting athletes in authentic, high-quality
athletic apparel. From high-performance sports bras and classic T-shirts to gym essentials like mesh shorts and fleece hoodies, our signature Double Dry fabric keeps athletes cool and dry, enhancing the workout experience. We believe that
Champion’s combination of comfort, fit and design provides athletes with mobility, durability and up-to-date styles, all product qualities that are important in the sale of athletic products. We also distribute C9 by Champion
products exclusively through Target stores.  Bali is the third-largest brand within our portfolio, offering a range of
bras, panties and shapewear sold in the department store channel. Playtex, the fourth-largest brand within our portfolio, offers a line of bras, panties and shapewear, including products that offer solutions for hard to fit figures. Our brand
portfolio also includes the following well-known brands: Just My Size, L’eggs, barely there, Wonderbra, Gear for Sports and Outer Banks. These brands serve to round out our product offerings, allowing us to
give consumers a variety of options to meet their diverse needs.  Our Segments 
Innerwear  The Innerwear segment focuses on core apparel products, such as women’s intimate apparel, men’s underwear, kids’ underwear and socks, marketed under well-known brands that are trusted by
consumers. According to NPD, we are the women’s intimate apparel category leader in the United States with our Hanes, Bali, Playtex, barely there, Just My Size and Wonderbra brands, and we are also the
leading manufacturer and marketer of men’s underwear and kids’ underwear under the Hanes and Polo Ralph Lauren brand names (based on NPD unit share for the 12 months ending November 30, 2011). During 2011, net sales from our
Innerwear segment were $2.1 billion, representing approximately 44% of total net sales.  Outerwear 
We are a leader in the casualwear and activewear markets through our Hanes, Champion, Just My Size and Duofold
brands, where we sell products such as T-shirts and fleece to both retailers and wholesalers. Our casualwear lines offer a range of quality, comfortable clothing for men, women and children marketed under the Hanes and Just My Size
brands. The Just My Size brand offers casual apparel designed exclusively to meet the needs of plus-size women. In addition to 
  6 


Table of Contents

activewear for men and women, Champion provides uniforms for athletic programs and includes an apparel program, C9 by Champion, at Target stores. We also license our
Champion name for footwear and sports accessories. In our wholesale casualwear category, which we sometimes refer to as “imagewear”, we supply our T-shirts, sport shirts and fleece products, including brands such as Hanes,
Champion, Outer Banks and Hanes Beefy-T, to customers, primarily wholesalers, who then resell to screen printers and embellishers. In 2010, we acquired GearCo, Inc., known as Gear for Sports, a leading seller of licensed logo
apparel in collegiate bookstores and other channels. During 2011, net sales from our Outerwear segment were $1.5 billion, representing approximately 31% of total net sales.  Hosiery  We are the leading marketer of women’s sheer hosiery
in the United States. We compete in the hosiery market by striving to offer superior values and executing integrated marketing activities, as well as focusing on the style of our hosiery products. We market hosiery products under our
L’eggs, Hanes and Just My Size brands. During 2011, net sales from our Hosiery segment were $163 million, representing approximately 4% of total net sales. 
Direct to Consumer  Our Direct to Consumer operations include our value-based (“outlet”) stores and Internet operations which sell products from our portfolio of leading brands. We sell our branded products
directly to consumers through our outlet stores, as well as our websites operating under the Hanes, One Hanes Place, Just My Size and Champion names. Our Internet operations are supported by our catalogs. As of
December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, we had 216 and 224 outlet stores, respectively. During 2011, net sales from our Direct to Consumer segment were $375 million, representing approximately 8% of total net sales. 
International  Our International segment includes products that span across the Innerwear, Outerwear and Hosiery reportable segments and are primarily marketed under the Hanes, Champion, Wonderbra,
Playtex, Stedman, Zorba, Rinbros, Kendall, Sol y Oro, Ritmo and Track N Field brands. During 2011, net sales from our International segment were $581 million, representing approximately 13% of total
net sales and included sales in Latin America, Asia, Canada, Europe and Australia. Our largest international markets are Japan, Canada, Mexico, Europe and Brazil, and we have sales offices in India and China. 
Design, Research and Product Development  At the core of our design, research and product development capabilities is an integrated team of over 325 professionals. A facility located in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, is the center of our
research, technical design and product development efforts. We also employ creative design and product development personnel in our design center in New York City and design personnel at the Gear for Sports facility in Lenexa, Kansas. In 2011, 2010
and 2009, we spent approximately $47 million, $47 million and $46 million, respectively, on design, research and product development, including the development of new and improved products.  Customers  In 2011, approximately 87% of our net sales were to customers in
the United States and approximately 13% were to customers outside the United States. Domestically, almost 82% of our net sales were wholesale sales to retailers, 9% were direct to consumers and 9% were wholesale sales to wholesalers and third party
embellishers. We have well-established relationships with some of the largest apparel retailers in the world. Our largest customers are Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (“Wal-Mart”), Target Corporation (“Target”) and Kohl’s Corporation
(“Kohl’s”), accounting for 25%, 16% and 6%, respectively, of our total sales in 2011. As is common in the basic apparel industry, we generally do not have purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products.
However, all of our key customer relationships have been in place for 10 years or more. Wal-Mart, Target, Kohl’s, CVS Caremark Corporation (“CVS”) and SanMar Corporation (“SanMar”) are our only customers with sales that
exceed 10% of any individual segment’s sales. In our Innerwear segment, Wal-Mart accounted for 39% of sales, Target accounted for 16% of sales and Kohl’s accounted for 11% of sales during 2011. In our Outerwear segment, Target accounted
for 27% of sales, Wal-Mart accounted for 15% of sales and SanMar accounted for 10% of sales during 2011. In our Hosiery segment, Wal-Mart accounted for 20% of sales, Target accounted for 13% of sales and CVS accounted for 10% of sales during 2011.

  7 


Table of Contents
Due to their size and operational scale, high-volume retailers such as Wal-Mart and Target
require extensive category and product knowledge and specialized services regarding the quantity, quality and timing of product orders. We have organized multifunctional customer management teams, which has allowed us to form strategic long-term
relationships with these customers and efficiently focus resources on category, product and service expertise. Smaller regional customers attracted to our leading brands and quality products also represent an important component of our distribution.
Our organizational model provides for an efficient use of resources that delivers a high level of category and channel expertise and services to these customers.  Sales to the mass merchant channel in the United States accounted for approximately 41% of our net sales in 2011. We sell all of our product categories in this channel primarily under our Hanes,
Champion, Just My Size and Playtex brands. Mass merchants feature high-volume, low-cost sales of basic apparel items along with a diverse variety of consumer goods products, such as grocery and drug products and other hard
lines, and are characterized by large retailers, such as Wal-Mart. Our largest mass merchant customer is Wal-Mart, which accounted for approximately 25% of our net sales in 2011. 
Sales to the national chains and department stores channel in the United States accounted for approximately 14% of our net sales in 2011.
These retailers target a higher-income consumer than mass merchants, focus more of their sales on apparel items rather than other consumer goods such as grocery and drug products and are characterized by large retailers such as Kohl’s, JC
Penney Company, Inc. and Sears Holdings Corporation. We sell all of our product categories in this channel. Traditional department stores target higher-income consumers and carry more high-end, fashion conscious products than national chains or mass
merchants and tend to operate in higher-income areas and commercial centers. Traditional department stores are characterized by large retailers such as Macy’s, Inc. and Dillard’s, Inc. We sell products in our intimate apparel, hosiery,
socks, activewear and underwear categories through department stores.  Sales in our Direct to Consumer segment in the United
States accounted for approximately 8% of our net sales in 2011. We sell our branded products directly to consumers through our 216 outlet stores, as well as our websites operating under the Hanes, One Hanes Place, Just My Size
and Champion names. Our outlet stores are value-based, offering the consumer a savings of 25% to 40% off suggested retail prices, and sell first-quality, excess, post-season, obsolete and slightly imperfect products. Our websites, supported
by our catalogs, address the growing direct to consumer channel that operates in today’s 24/7 retail environment, and we have an active database of approximately 4.5 million consumers receiving our catalogs and emails. 
Sales in our International segment represented approximately 13% of our net sales in 2011, and included sales in Latin America, Asia,
Canada, Europe and Australia. Our largest international markets are Japan, Canada, Mexico, Europe and Brazil. We also have sales offices in India and China and we operate in several locations in Latin America including Mexico, Argentina, Brazil and
Central America. From an export business perspective, we use distributors to service customers in the Middle East and Asia, and have a limited presence in Latin America. The brands that are the primary focus of the export business include
Hanes and Champion socks, Champion activewear, Hanes underwear and Bali, Playtex, Wonderbra and barely there intimate apparel. As discussed below under “Intellectual Property,” we are
not permitted to sell Wonderbra and Playtex branded products in the member states of the EU, several other European countries and South Africa. For more information about our sales on a geographic basis, see Note 19 to our financial
statements.  Sales in other channels in the United States represented approximately 24% of our net sales in 2011. We sell
T-shirts, golf and sport shirts and fleece sweatshirts to wholesalers and third party embellishers primarily under our Hanes, Hanes Beefy-T and Outer Banks brands. Sales to wholesalers and third party embellishers accounted for
approximately 8% of our net sales in 2011. We also sell a significant range of our underwear, activewear and socks products under the Champion brand to wholesale clubs, such as Costco Wholesale Corporation, and sporting goods stores, such as
The Sports Authority, Inc. We sell primarily legwear and underwear products under the Hanes and L’eggs brands to food, drug and variety stores. We also sell licensed logo apparel in collegiate bookstores. We sell products
that span across our Innerwear, Outerwear and Hosiery segments to the U.S. military for sale to servicemen and servicewomen and through discount retailers, such as the Dollar General Corporation and Family Dollar Stores, Inc. 
  8 


Table of Contents
Inventory  Effective inventory management is a key component of our future success. Because our customers generally do not purchase our products under long-term supply contracts, but rather on a purchase order
basis, effective inventory management requires close coordination with the customer base. We seek to ensure that products are available to meet customer demands while effectively managing inventory levels. We employ various types of inventory
management techniques that include collaborative forecasting and planning, supplier-managed inventory, key event management and various forms of replenishment management processes. Our supplier-managed inventory initiative is intended to shift raw
material ownership and management to our suppliers until consumption, freeing up cash and improving response time. We have demand management planners in our customer management group who work closely with customers to develop demand forecasts that
are passed to the supply chain. We also have professionals within the customer management group who coordinate daily with our larger customers to help ensure that our customers’ planned inventory levels are in fact available at their individual
retail outlets. Additionally, within our supply chain organization we have dedicated professionals who translate the demand forecast into our inventory strategy and specific production plans. These individuals work closely with our customer
management team to balance inventory investment/exposure with customer service targets.  Seasonality 
Our operating results are subject to some variability due to seasonality and other factors. Generally, our diverse range of product
offerings helps mitigate the impact of seasonal changes in demand for certain items. We generally have higher sales during back-to-school shopping and holiday selling seasons and during periods of cooler weather which benefits certain product
categories such as fleece. Sales levels in any period are also impacted by customers’ decisions to increase or decrease their inventory levels in response to anticipated consumer demand. Our customers may cancel orders, change delivery
schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice to us. Media, advertising and promotion expenses (“MAP”) may vary from period to period during a fiscal year depending on the timing of our advertising campaigns for
retail selling seasons and product introductions.  Marketing  Our strategy is to bring consumer-driven innovation to market in a compelling way. Our approach is to build targeted, effective multimedia advertising and marketing campaigns to increase awareness of our
key brands. Driving growth platforms across categories is a major element of our strategy as it enables us to meet key consumer needs and leverage advertising dollars. We believe that the strength of our consumer insights, our distinctive brand
propositions and our focus on integrated marketing give us a competitive advantage in the fragmented apparel marketplace.  In
2011, we launched a number of new advertising and marketing initiatives:   


 
•
 
 Hanes announced a new Facebook application to share comfort with those who need it most. Fans of Hanes on Facebook were able to
personalize and send free virtual Comfort Packages to friends and family via a digital tool on the Hanes Facebook page. For each package sent, Hanes pledged to donate $1 to the National Breast Cancer Foundation, Inc. to promote early
cancer detection and provide mammograms for those in need. Hanes has given over $1 million to breast cancer awareness since 2009.   


 
•
 
 L’eggs launched a national marketing campaign featuring the iconic brand’s first national television advertising in more than 14 years
and a new tagline: You’re in luck. You’re in L’eggs. L’eggs also announced a partnership with Dress for Success, an international not-for-profit organization that promotes the economic independence of disadvantaged women
by providing professional attire, a network of support and career development tools. As part of the partnership, L’eggs will donate up to 10,000 pairs of leg wear to Dress For Success through a virtual leg wear drive on Facebook.

  9 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Hanes launched new national television ads for its women’s intimate apparel, including Hanes ComfortFlex Fit Bras that shape to fit
and Hanes No Ride Up Panties that know their place and stay in place. The ads began airing on national network morning, daytime and primetime shows, as well as national cable shows, in April 2011 and continued throughout the year.
  


 
•
 
 Bali launched its Live Beautifully Daily campaign, a national movement focused on helping women embrace how to Live Beautifully Daily through
the way they look and feel. As part of the movement’s kickoff, Bali joined with Jennifer Rade, one of the country’s top celebrity stylists, to encourage women to Live Beautifully Daily, as well as pledged to donate up to $50,000 to
its long-standing partner, The Breast Cancer Research Foundation, which plays a critical role in helping women with breast cancer Live Beautifully Daily. 
 


 
•
 
 Hanes imagewear, a major supplier of T-shirts, sportshirts and fleece to the decorated apparel industry, announced a partnership with Box Tops
for Education that will enable schools across the United States to earn valuable Box Tops when they order Hanes products or apparel for their spiritwear and eventwear needs. The exclusive partnership, called Hanes4Education, is open to more
than 69,000 U.S. schools participating in the Box Tops for Education program and includes all Hanes T-shirt styles as well as sport shirts and fleece items. 
We also continued some of our existing advertising and marketing initiatives: 
 


 
•
 
 Hanes continued its men’s underwear marketing campaign starring Michael Jordan in support of Hanes underwear with ComfortFlex
Waistbands and Lay Flat Collar T-Shirts. The campaign included a new series of television commercial showing that Hanes Lay Flat Collar undershirts will never suffer from wavy “bacon necks” like other shirts and highlighting the
superior comfort of the Hanes ComfortFlex Waistband.   


 
•
 
 Champion continued its “How You Play” national advertising campaign. The campaign includes print, out-of-home and online components
and is designed to capture the enjoyment of sport and the love of the game.   


 
•
 
 This spring, Champion will launch ChampionSportBras.com, including an updated bra blog designed to spur online dialogue around all
things related to breast health and sports bras. The blog features comments and questions by women of all fitness levels from industry experts to first-time exercisers as well as the latest on emerging product innovations and style choices.
  


 
•
 
 Hanes continued its “For Future Generations” national environmental advertising campaign which takes a lighthearted approach to the
brand’s environmental responsibility efforts, including eco-friendly products.   


 
•
 
 We continued our television advertising campaign in support of Hanes socks for the family, highlighting the new Comfort Toe Seam feature.
  


 
•
 
 We continued our innovative and expressive advertising and marketing campaign called “Girl Talk,” in which confident, everyday women talk
about their breasts, in support of our Playtex 18 Hour and Playtex Secrets product lines.   


 
•
 
 Hanes conducted its 3rd annual Holiday Sock Drive which encouraged its nearly two million Facebook fans to support a drive to contribute socks
to those in need through the Salvation Army. Hanes has contributed more than 1.7 million socks since 2009.   


 
•
 
 Hanes developed a Facebook sampling program to give its fans an opportunity to try the latest comfort innovations. For women, this included
weekly promotions such as Wedgie-Free Wednesdays (for Hanes No Ride Up panties), Happy Toe Tuesdays (for Hanes Comfort Toe Seam socks), and Comfort Flex Fit Fridays (for Hanes Comfort Flex Fit bras). For men, this included the
Comfort Challenge promotion encouraging men to try the Hanes Lay Flat Collar undershirt. 
  10 


Table of Contents
Distribution  As of December 31, 2011, we distributed our products from 36 distribution centers. These facilities include 15 facilities located in the United States and 21 facilities located outside the United
States in regions where we manufacture our products. We internally manage and operate 18 of these facilities, and we use third party logistics providers who operate the other 18 facilities on our behalf. International distribution operations use a
combination of third party logistics providers, as well as owned and operated distribution operations, to distribute goods to our various international markets.  Manufacturing and Sourcing  During 2011, approximately 66% of our finished
goods sold were manufactured through a combination of facilities we own and operate and facilities owned and operated by third party contractors who perform some of the steps in the manufacturing process for us, such as cutting and/or sewing. We
sourced the remainder of our finished goods from third party manufacturers who supply us with finished products based on our designs. We believe that our balanced approach to product supply, which relies on a combination of owned, contracted and
sourced manufacturing located across different geographic regions, increases the efficiency of our operations, reduces product costs and offers customers a reliable source of supply. 
Finished Goods That Are Manufactured by Hanesbrands 
The manufacturing process for the finished goods that we manufacture begins with raw materials we obtain from suppliers. The principal raw
materials in our product categories are cotton and synthetics. Our costs for cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles vary based upon the fluctuating cost of cotton, which is affected by, among other factors, weather, consumer demand, speculation on
the commodities market, the relative valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. We are able to lock in the cost of cotton reflected
in the price we pay for yarn from our primary yarn suppliers in an attempt to protect our business from the upward volatility of the market price of cotton. Under our agreements with these suppliers, we have the ability to periodically fix the
cotton cost component of our yarn purchases. When we elect to fix the cotton cost component under these agreements, interim fluctuations in the price of cotton do not impact the price we pay for the specified volume of yarn, and it is the yarn
suppliers’ responsibility to procure the cotton at the agreed upon pricing through arrangements they make with their cotton suppliers. In addition to cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles, we use thread, narrow elastic and trim for product
identification, buttons, zippers, snaps and lace.  Fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may also influence the prices
of items used in our business, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and foam. Alternate sources of these materials and services are readily available. Cotton and synthetic materials are typically spun into yarn, which is then knitted into
cotton, synthetic and blended fabrics. We source all of our yarn requirements from large-scale suppliers. To a lesser extent, we purchase fabric from several domestic and international suppliers in conjunction with scheduled production. These
fabrics are cut and sewn into finished products, either by us or by third party contractors. Most of our cutting and sewing operations are strategically located in Asia, Central America and the Caribbean Basin. 
Rising fuel, energy and utility costs may have a significant impact on our manufacturing costs. These costs may fluctuate due to a number
of factors outside our control, including government policy and regulation, foreign exchange rates and weather conditions.  We
currently operate 43 manufacturing facilities. In making decisions about the location of manufacturing operations and third party sources of supply, we consider a number of factors, including labor, local operating costs, quality, regional
infrastructure, applicable quotas and duties, and freight costs. For example, our textile production plant in Nanjing, China, enables us to expand and leverage our production scale in Asia as we balance our supply chain across hemispheres, thereby
diversifying our production risks. 
  11 


Table of Contents
Finished Goods That Are Manufactured by Third Parties 
In addition to our manufacturing capabilities, we also source finished goods we design from third party manufacturers, also referred to as
“turnkey products.” Many of these turnkey products are sourced from international suppliers by our strategic sourcing hubs in Hong Kong and other locations in Asia.  All contracted and sourced manufacturing must meet our high quality standards. Further, all contractors and third party manufacturers must be preaudited and adhere to our strict supplier and business
practices guidelines. These requirements provide strict standards covering hours of work, age of workers, health and safety conditions and conformity with local laws and Hanesbrands’ standards. Each new supplier must be inspected and agree to
comprehensive compliance terms prior to performance of any production on our behalf. We audit compliance with these standards and maintain strict compliance performance records. In addition to our audit procedures, we require certain of our
suppliers to be Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production, or “WRAP,” certified. WRAP is a recognized apparel certification program that independently monitors and certifies compliance with certain specified manufacturing standards that
are intended to ensure that a given factory produces sewn goods under lawful, humane and ethical conditions. WRAP uses third party, independent certification firms and requires factory-by-factory certification. 
Geographic Financial Summary  For a summary of our operations by geographic area for each of the three most recent fiscal years, including revenues from external customers and long-lived assets, see Note 19 to our financial statements
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Trade Regulation  We are exposed to certain risks of doing business outside of the United States. We import goods into the United States and other countries from company-owned facilities in Asia, Central America, the
Caribbean Basin and Mexico, and from suppliers in those areas and in Europe, South America, Africa and the Middle East. These import transactions are subject to customs, trade and other laws and regulations governing their entry into the United
States and other countries and to tariffs applicable to such merchandise.  In addition, much of the merchandise we import is
subject to duty free entry into the United States under various trade preferences and/or free trade agreements provided the goods meet certain criteria and characteristics. Compliance with these specific requirements as well as all other
requirements is reviewed periodically by the United States Customs and Border Control and other governmental agencies. 
Finally, imported apparel merchandise may be subject to various restrictive trade actions initiated by the United States government,
domestic industry, labor or other parties under various United States laws. Such actions could result in the United States government imposing additional tariffs or other restrictions against apparel under special safeguard actions applicable to
China, other safeguard actions applicable to any country, or antidumping or countervailing duties applicable to specific products from specific countries. Currently there are no such actions, additional, special or safeguard duties or quotas imposed
against products which we import into the United States. Our management evaluates the possible impact of these and similar actions on our ability to import products from China and other countries. If such safeguards or duties were to be imposed, we
do not expect that these restraints would have a material impact on us.  Our management monitors new developments and risks
relating to duties, tariffs and quotas. Changes in these areas have the potential to harm or, in some cases, benefit our business. In response to the changing import environment management has chosen to continue its balanced approach to
manufacturing and sourcing. We attempt to limit our sourcing exposure through geographic diversification with a mix of company-owned and contracted production, as well as shifts of production among countries and contractors. We intend to continue to
manage our supply chain from a global perspective and adjust as needed to changes in the global production environment.  We
also monitor a number of international security risks. We are a member of the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism, or “C-TPAT,” a partnership between the government and private sector initiated after the events of
September 11, 2001 to improve supply chain and border security. C-TPAT partners work with U.S. Customs and Border Protection to protect their supply chains from concealment of terrorist weapons, including weapons of mass destruction. In
exchange, U.S. Customs and Border Protection provides reduced inspections at the port of arrival and expedited processing at the border. 
  12 


Table of Contents
Competition  The basic apparel market is highly competitive and rapidly evolving. Competition generally is based upon brand name recognition, price, product quality, selection, service and purchasing convenience. Our
businesses face competition today from other large corporations and foreign manufacturers. Fruit of the Loom, Inc., a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., competes with us across most of our segments through its own offerings and those of its
Russell Corporation and Vanity Fair Intimates offerings. Other competitors in our Innerwear segment include Limited Brands, Inc.’s Victoria’s Secret brand, Jockey International, Inc., Warnaco Group Inc. and Maidenform Brands, Inc. Other
competitors in our Outerwear segment include various private label and controlled brands sold by many of our customers, Gildan Activewear, Inc. and Gap Inc. We also compete with many small manufacturers across all of our business segments, including
our International segment. Additionally, department stores and other retailers, including many of our customers, market and sell basic apparel products under private labels that compete directly with our brands. 
Our competitive strengths include our strong brands with leading market positions, our high-volume, core products focus, our significant
scale of operations, our global supply chain and our strong customer relationships.   


 
•
 
 Strong brands with leading market positions. According to NPD, our brands held either the number one or number two U.S. market position by units
sold in most product categories in which we compete, and our largest brand, Hanes, was the top-selling apparel brand in the United States by units sold, for the 12-month period ended November 30, 2011. 
 


 
•
 
 High-volume, core products. We sell high-volume, frequently replenished basic apparel products. The majority of our core styles continue from
year to year, with variations only in color, fabric or design details, and are frequently replenished by consumers. We believe that our status as a high-volume seller of core basic apparel products creates a more stable and predictable revenue base
and reduces our exposure to dramatic fashion shifts often observed in the general apparel industry.   


 
•
 
 Significant scale of operations. According to NPD, we are the largest seller of basic apparel in the United States as measured by units sold for
the 12-month period ended November 30, 2011. Most of our products are sold to large retailers that have high-volume demands. We believe that we are able to leverage our significant scale of operations to provide us with greater manufacturing
efficiencies, purchasing power and product design, marketing and customer management resources than our smaller competitors.   


 
•
 
 Global supply chain. Our global supply chain provides us with a balanced approach to product supply, which relies on a combination of owned,
contracted and sourced manufacturing located across different geographic regions, increases the efficiency of our operations, reduces product costs and offers customers a reliable source of supply. Our global supply chain enables us to expand and
leverage our production scale as we balance our supply chain across hemispheres, thereby diversifying our production risks.   


 
•
 
 Strong customer relationships. We sell our products primarily through large, high-volume retailers, including mass merchants, department stores
and national chains. We have strong, long-term relationships with our top customers, including relationships of more than 10 years with each of our top ten customers. We have aligned significant parts of our organization with corresponding parts of
our customers’ organizations. We also have entered into customer-specific programs such as the C9 by Champion products marketed and sold through Target stores. 
  13 


Table of Contents
Intellectual Property  Overview  We market our products under hundreds of trademarks and
service marks in the United States and other countries around the world, the most widely recognized of which are Hanes, Champion, C9 by Champion, Playtex, Bali, L’eggs, Just My Size, barely there, Wonderbra, Stedman, Outer Banks,
Zorba, Rinbros, Duofold and Gear for Sports. Some of our products are sold under trademarks that have been licensed from third parties, such as Polo Ralph Lauren men’s underwear, and we also hold licenses from various
toy and media companies giving us the right to use certain of their proprietary characters, names and trademarks.  Some of our
own trademarks are licensed to third parties, such as Champion for athletic-oriented accessories. In the United States and Canada, the Playtex trademark is owned by Playtex Marketing Corporation, of which we own a 50% interest and
which grants to us a perpetual royalty-free license to the Playtex trademark on and in connection with the sale of apparel in the United States and Canada. The other 50% interest in Playtex Marketing Corporation is owned by Playtex Products,
Inc., an unrelated third party, who has a perpetual royalty-free license to the Playtex trademark on and in connection with the sale of non-apparel products in the United States. Outside the United States and Canada, we own the Playtex
trademark and perpetually license such trademark to Playtex Products, Inc. for non-apparel products. In addition, as described below, as part of Sara Lee’s sale in February 2006 of its European branded apparel business, an affiliate of Sun
Capital Partners, Inc., or “Sun Capital,” has an exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free license to manufacture, sell and distribute apparel products under the Wonderbra and Playtex trademarks in the member states of the European
Union, as well as several other European nations and South Africa. We also own a number of copyrights. Our trademarks and copyrights are important to our marketing efforts and have substantial value. We aggressively protect these trademarks and
copyrights from infringement and dilution through appropriate measures, including court actions and administrative proceedings. 
Although the laws vary by jurisdiction, trademarks generally remain valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are
properly maintained. Most of the trademarks in our portfolio, including our core brands, are covered by trademark registrations in the countries of the world in which we do business, in addition to many other jurisdictions around the world, with
registration periods generally ranging between seven and 10 years depending on the country. Generally, trademark registrations can be renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks are in use. We have an active program designed to ensure that our
trademarks are registered, renewed, protected and maintained. We plan to continue to use all of our core trademarks and plan to renew the registrations for such trademarks as needed. Most of our copyrights are unregistered, although we have a
sizable portfolio of copyrighted lace designs that are the subject of a number of registrations at the U.S. Copyright Office. 
We place high importance on product innovation and design, and a number of these innovations and designs are the subject of patents.
However, we do not regard any segment of our business as being dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. In addition, we own proprietary trade secrets, technology and know-how that we have not patented. 
Shared Trademark Relationship with Sun Capital  In February 2006, Sara Lee sold its European branded apparel business to an affiliate of Sun Capital. In connection with the sale, Sun Capital received an exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free license to
manufacture, sell and distribute apparel products under the Wonderbra and Playtex trademarks in the member states of the European Union, as well as Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Moldova, Morocco, Norway, Russia,
Serbia-Montenegro, South Africa, Switzerland, Ukraine, Andorra, Albania, Channel Islands, Lichtenstein, Monaco, Gibraltar, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Reunion and French Guyana, which we refer to as the “Covered Nations.” We are not permitted
to sell Wonderbra and Playtex branded products in the Covered Nations, and Sun Capital is not permitted to sell Wonderbra and Playtex branded products outside of the Covered Nations. In connection with the sale, we also
have received an exclusive, perpetual royalty-free license to sell DIM and UNNO branded products in Panama, Honduras, El Salvador, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Belize, Guatemala, Mexico, Puerto Rico, the United States, Canada and, for
DIM products, Japan. We are not permitted to sell DIM or UNNO branded apparel products outside of these countries and Sun Capital is not permitted to sell DIM or UNNO branded apparel products inside these
countries. In addition, the rights to certain European-originated brands previously part of Sara Lee’s branded apparel portfolio were transferred to Sun Capital and are not included in our brand portfolio. 
  14 


Table of Contents
Corporate Social Responsibility 
We have a formal corporate social responsibility (“CSR”) program that consists of five core initiatives: a global ethics program
for all employees worldwide; a facility compliance program that seeks to ensure company and supplier plants meet our labor and social compliance standards; a product safety program; global environmental management and energy management systems that
seek to reduce the environmental impact of our operations; and a commitment to corporate philanthropy which seeks to meet the “fundamental needs” of the communities in which we live and work. We employ more than 15 full-time CSR personnel
across the world to manage our program.  Hanesbrands and its global social compliance program are fully accredited by the Fair
Labor Association (the “FLA”), a leading independent nongovernmental international workers’ rights organization. The FLA works with industry, civil society organizations and colleges and universities to protect workers’ rights
and improve working conditions in factories around the world, and a representative of Hanesbrands sits on the FLA governing board. Participating companies in the FLA are required to fulfill 10 comprehensive obligations to protect workers’
rights, including conducting internal monitoring of facilities, submitting to independent monitoring audits and verification, and managing and reporting information on their compliance efforts. The FLA conducts unannounced independent external
monitoring audits of a sample of a participating company’s plants and suppliers and publishes the results of those audits for the public to review. In November 2010, As You Sow, a San Francisco-based shareholder advocacy organization, issued a
report on apparel supply chain compliance programs and rated Hanesbrands’ program with the third-highest grade of companies studied.  We are committed to reducing our greenhouse gas footprint, and we have implemented a comprehensive corporate energy policy to minimize energy consumption, reduce operating costs, and continually reduce
emissions to the environment. We manage this commitment by reducing our energy consumption as much as possible, exploring better supply chain management to reduce our use of energy-intensive transportation, adopting cleaner technologies where
possible and actively tracking our energy metrics. Currently, more than 30% of our total worldwide energy use comes from renewable sources. We have reduced our CO2 emissions per unit manufactured by more than 16% since 2007. We have also worked closely with Energy Star, a program of
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency that helps save money and protect the environment through energy efficient products and practices. Hanesbrands earned the U.S. EPA Energy Star partner of the year award in 2010 and 2011 for energy efficiency
progress. In Newsweek magazine’s latest annual list of the 500 greenest companies in America, Hanesbrands ranks No. 150.  We also incorporate Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (“LEED”) practices into many remodeling and new construction projects for our facilities around the world, including sales
offices, retail stores, headquarters buildings, distribution centers and manufacturing facilities. We have earned the U.S. Green Building Council’s LEED sustainability certification for six of our facilities with two further certifications
pending. In total, we have 20 percent of our worldwide square footage that is either LEED certified or in the process of achieving certification. Our more than 1 million-square-foot fabric production plant in Nanjing, China, is one of the few
manufacturing facilities with certification in that country, and our 1.3 million-square-foot distribution center in Perris, California, is one of the largest LEED-certified distribution centers in the world. Sustainable features of the
LEED-certified facilities include reduction of energy usage through extensive use of natural skylighting, motion-detection lighting, advanced climate control technology, reduction of water usage through low-water bathroom fixtures and low-water
landscaping, innovative site grading techniques and use of locally produced concrete.  Our corporate philanthropic efforts are
focused on meeting the “fundamental needs” of the communities in which we live and work. In 2011, we were again the largest corporate giver to our local United Way in Forsyth County, N.C., with our corporate and employee gifts totaling
more than $2 million. In Central America and the Caribbean Basin, we have instituted the unique Green For Good program (Viviendo Verde), in which we use the proceeds from recycling waste materials in our manufacturing operations for community
improvement projects, such as school and health-clinic renovations, that also are supported through extensive employee volunteerism. We are preparing the rollout of this program in Asia. For more detail on the full range of our CSR efforts,
including our commitment to and work in our communities, go to www.hanesbrandsCSR.com. 
  15 


Table of Contents
Environmental Matters  We have a well-developed environmental program that focuses heavily on energy use (in particular the use of renewable energy), water use and wastewater treatment, and the use of chemicals that comply with
our restricted substances list. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that govern our activities, operations and products that may have adverse environmental, health and safety effects, including laws and
regulations relating to generating emissions, water discharges, waste, product and packaging content and workplace safety. Noncompliance with these laws and regulations may result in substantial monetary penalties and criminal sanctions. We are
aware of hazardous substances or petroleum releases at a few of our facilities and are working with the relevant environmental authorities to investigate and address such releases. We also have been identified as a “potentially responsible
party” at a few waste disposal sites undergoing investigation and cleanup under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly known as Superfund) or state Superfund equivalent programs. Where we have
determined that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can reasonably be estimated, we have accrued amounts in our balance sheet for losses related to these sites. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations and our remedial
environmental obligations historically have not had a material impact on our operations, and we are not aware of any proposed regulations or remedial obligations that could trigger significant costs or capital expenditures in order to comply.
 Governmental Regulation  We are subject to U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations that could affect our business, including those promulgated under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Consumer Product Safety
Act, the Flammable Fabrics Act, the Textile Fiber Product Identification Act, the rules and regulations of the Consumer Products Safety Commission and various environmental laws and regulations. While we have had a product safety program in place
for many years focused heavily on children’s products, we have reinforced our product safety team and technological capabilities to ensure that we fully comply with the new Consumer Products Safety Improvement Act. Our international businesses
are subject to similar laws and regulations in the countries in which they operate. Our operations also are subject to various international trade agreements and regulations. See “— Trade Regulation.” While we believe that we are in
compliance in all material respects with all applicable governmental regulations, current governmental regulations may change or become more stringent or unforeseen events may occur, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial
position or results of operations.  Employees  As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 53,300 employees, approximately 7,900 of whom were located in the United States. Of the employees located in the United States, approximately 2,200 were
full or part-time employees in our stores within our direct to consumer channel. As of December 31, 2011, in the United States, approximately 30 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Some of our international employees
were also covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe our relationships with our employees are good. 
Item 1A. Risk Factors  This section describes circumstances or events that could have a negative effect on our financial results or operations or that could change, for the worse, existing trends in our businesses. The
occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the trading prices of our common stock. The risks and uncertainties
described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that currently are not known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely affect our businesses and operations.

  16 


Table of Contents
Economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause
our customers, suppliers and other business partners to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 
Although the majority of our products are replenishment in nature and tend to be purchased by consumers on a planned, rather than on an
impulse, basis, our sales are impacted by discretionary spending by consumers. Discretionary spending is affected by many factors that are outside of our control, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation,
consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, currency exchange rates, taxation, energy prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Reduced sales at our wholesale customers may lead to
lower retail inventory levels, reduced orders to Hanesbrands, or order cancellations. These lower sales volumes, along with the possibility of restrictions on access to the credit markets, may result in our customers experiencing financial
difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. This may result in higher credit risk relating to receivables from our customers who are experiencing these financial difficulties. Any of these occurrences could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  In addition, economic conditions,
including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our suppliers of raw materials and finished goods, logistics and other service
providers and financial institutions which are counterparties to our credit facilities and derivatives transactions. In addition, the inability of these third parties to overcome these difficulties may increase. If third parties on which we rely for
raw materials, finished goods or services are unable to overcome financial difficulties and provide us with the materials and services we need, or if counterparties to our credit facilities or derivatives transactions do not perform their
obligations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.  Significant
fluctuations and volatility in the price of various input costs, such as cotton and oil-related materials, utilities, freight and wages, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
 The economic environment in which we are operating continues to be uncertain and volatile, which could have
unanticipated adverse effects on our business during 2012 and beyond. We have seen a sustained increase in various input costs, such as cotton and oil-related materials, utilities, freight and wages, which impacted our results in 2011 and will
continue to do so through at least the first half of 2012. Inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of materials and labor may impact our ability to maintain satisfactory margins. For example, the cost of the materials
that are used in our manufacturing process, such as oil-related commodity prices and other raw materials, such as dyes and chemicals, and other costs, such as fuel, energy and utility costs, can fluctuate as a result of inflation and other factors.
Similarly, a significant portion of our products are manufactured in other countries and declines in the value of the U.S. dollar may result in higher manufacturing costs. Increases in inflation may not be matched by rises in income, which also
could have a negative impact on spending. In addition, sudden decreases in the costs for materials, including cotton, may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production, which could result in lower profitability, particularly
if these decreases result in downward price pressure. If, in the future we incur volatility in the costs for materials, including cotton, and labor that we are unable to offset through price adjustments or improved efficiencies, or if consumer
spending declines or if our competitors’ unwillingness to follow our price changes results in downward price pressure, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. 
We operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market, and our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected if we
fail to compete effectively in the future.  The basic apparel market is highly competitive and evolving rapidly.
Competition is generally based upon brand name recognition, price, product quality, selection, service and purchasing convenience. Our businesses face competition today from other large corporations and foreign manufacturers, as well as, department
stores and other retailers, including many of our customers, that market and sell basic apparel products under private labels that compete directly with our brands. Our customers may buy goods that are manufactured by others, which represents a lost
business opportunity for us, or they may sell private label products manufactured by us, which have significantly lower gross margins than our branded products. In our Outerwear segment, we also face competition in the wholesale casualwear
(imagewear) category from other manufacturers with respect to the sale of lower-margin products to wholesalers and third party embellishers, whose purchasing decisions are primarily driven by price, rather than brand name recognition. Increased
competition may result in a loss of or a reduction in shelf space and promotional support and reduced prices, in each case decreasing our cash flows, 
  17 


Table of Contents

operating margins and profitability. Our ability to remain competitive in the areas of price, quality, brand recognition, research and product development, manufacturing and distribution will, in
large part, determine our future success. If we fail to compete successfully, our market share, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected.  Any disruption to our supply chain or adverse impact on its extensive network of operations may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
 We have an extensive global supply chain. A significant portion of our products are manufactured in or sourced from
locations in Asia, Central America, the Caribbean Basin and Mexico. Potential events that may disrupt our supply chain operations include:   


 
•
 
 political instability and acts of war or terrorism or other international events resulting in the disruption of trade; 
 


 
•
 
 other security risks;   


 
•
 
 operational disruptions;   


 
•
 
 disruptions in shipping and freight forwarding services; 
 


 
•
 
 increases in oil prices, which would increase the cost of shipping; 
 


 
•
 
 interruptions in the availability of basic services and infrastructure, including power shortages; 
 


 
•
 
 fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates resulting in uncertainty as to future asset and liability values, cost of goods and results of
operations that are denominated in foreign currencies;   


 
•
 
 extraordinary weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or fires; and 
 


 
•
 
 the occurrence of an epidemic, the spread of which may impact our ability to obtain products on a timely basis. 
Disruptions in our supply chain could negatively impact our business by interrupting production, increasing our cost of sales, disrupting
merchandise deliveries, delaying receipt of products into the United States or preventing us from sourcing our products at all. Depending on timing, these events could also result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. All of
the foregoing can have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  The loss of one or
more of our suppliers of finished goods or raw materials may interrupt our supplies and materially harm our business. 
We purchase all of the raw materials used in our products and approximately 34% of the apparel designed by us from a limited number of
third party suppliers and manufacturers. Our ability to meet our customers’ needs depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials and finished products from our third party suppliers and manufacturers. Our business,
financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our principal third party suppliers or manufacturers experience financial difficulties that they are not able to overcome resulting from worldwide economic
conditions, production problems, difficulties in sourcing raw materials, lack of capacity or transportation disruptions, or if for these or other reasons they raise the prices of the raw materials or finished products we purchase from them. The
magnitude of this risk depends upon the timing of any interruptions, the materials or products that the third party manufacturers provide and the volume of production. 
  18 


Table of Contents
Our dependence on third parties for raw materials and finished products subjects us to the
risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products. Quality failures by our third party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition that affect their production could disrupt our ability to
supply quality products to our customers and thereby materially harm our business.  If we fail to manage our inventory effectively, we
may be required to establish additional inventory reserves or we may not carry enough inventory to meet customer demands, causing us to suffer lower margins or losses.  We are faced with the constant challenge of balancing our inventory with our ability to meet marketplace needs. We continually monitor our inventory levels to best balance current supply and demand with
potential future demand that typically surges when consumers no longer postpone purchases in our product categories, and we are continuing to implement strategies such as supplier-managed inventory. Inventory reserves can result from the complexity
of our supply chain, a long manufacturing process and the seasonal nature of certain products. Increases in inventory levels may also be needed to service our business as we continue to optimize our supply chain to further enhance efficiency,
improve working capital and asset turns and reduce costs. As a result, we could be subject to high levels of obsolescence and excess stock. Based on discussions with our customers and internally generated projections, we produce, purchase and/or
store raw material and finished goods inventory to meet our expected demand for delivery. However, we sell a large number of our products to a small number of customers, and these customers generally are not required by contract to purchase our
goods. If, after producing and storing inventory in anticipation of deliveries, demand is lower than expected, we may have to hold inventory for extended periods or sell excess inventory at reduced prices, in some cases below our cost. Additionally,
sudden decreases in the costs for materials, including cotton, may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production; if this occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial
condition or cash flow, particularly if we hold a large amount of excess inventory. There are inherent uncertainties related to the recoverability of inventory, and it is possible that market factors and other conditions underlying the valuation of
inventory may change in the future and result in further reserve requirements. Excess inventory charges can reduce gross margins or result in operating losses, lowered plant and equipment utilization and lowered fixed operating cost absorption, all
of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 
Conversely, we also are exposed to lost business opportunities if we underestimate market demand and produce too little inventory for any
particular period. Because sales of our products are generally not made under contract, if we do not carry enough inventory to satisfy our customers’ demands for our products within an acceptable time frame, they may seek to fulfill their
demands from one or several of our competitors and may reduce the amount of business they do with us. Any such action could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 
We may not be able to achieve the benefits we are seeking through optimizing our supply chain, which could impair our ability to further enhance
efficiency, improve working capital and asset turns and reduce costs.  We have restructured our supply chain over the
past five years to create more efficient production clusters that utilize fewer, larger facilities and to balance our production capability between the Western Hemisphere and Asia. We consolidated our distribution network by implementing new
warehouse management systems and technology and adding new distribution centers and new third party logistics providers to replace parts of our legacy distribution network. With our global supply chain infrastructure in place, we continue to be
focused long-term on optimizing our supply chain to further enhance efficiency, improve working capital and asset turns and reduce costs through several initiatives, such as supplier-managed inventory for raw materials and sourced goods ownership
arrangements. If we are not able to optimize our supply chain, we may not be successful at improving working capital and asset turns and reducing costs.  Our business could be harmed if we are unable to deliver our products to the market due to problems with our distribution network. 
We distribute our products from facilities that we operate as well as facilities that are operated by third party logistics providers.
Because substantially all of our products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, our operations could be interrupted by extraordinary weather conditions or natural disasters, such as

  19 


Table of Contents

hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or fires near our distribution centers. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the adverse effects that
could be caused by significant disruptions to our distribution network. In addition, our distribution network is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from our distribution
facilities. If we are unable to successfully operate our distribution network, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.  Due to the extensive nature of our foreign operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results of operations. 
We sell a majority of our products in transactions denominated in U.S. dollars; however, we purchase many of our raw materials, pay a
portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. As a result, when the U.S. dollar weakens against any of these currencies, our cost of sales could increase substantially. Outside the United States, we may pay
for materials or finished products in U.S. dollars, and in some cases a strengthening of the U.S. dollar could effectively increase our costs where we use foreign currency to purchase the U.S. dollars we need to make such payments. We use foreign
exchange forward and option contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. We are also exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the
reported results in our financial statements due to the translation of operating results and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries. 
We rely on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of or material reduction in sales to any of
our top customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  In 2011, our top 10 customers accounted for 62% of our net sales and our top customers, Wal-Mart and Target, accounted for 25% and 16% of our net sales, respectively. We expect that these customers will
continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales in the future. In addition, our top customers are the largest market participants in our primary distribution channels across all of our product lines. Any loss of or material reduction in
sales to any of our top 10 customers, especially Wal-Mart and Target, would be difficult to recapture, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 
Sales to our customers could be reduced if they devote less selling space to apparel products, which could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  Over time, some of our customers that sell a
variety of goods may devote less selling space to apparel products. If any of our customers devote less selling space to apparel products, our sales to those customers could be reduced even if we maintain our share of their apparel business. Any
material reduction in sales resulting from reductions in apparel selling space could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  We generally do not sell our products under contracts, and as a result, our customers are generally not contractually obligated to purchase our products, which causes some uncertainty as to future
sales and inventory levels.  We generally do not enter into purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase
our products, and as a result, most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis. If any of our customers experiences a significant downturn in its business, or fails to remain committed to our products or brands, the customer is generally under
no contractual obligation to purchase our products and, consequently, may reduce or discontinue purchases from us. In the past, such actions have resulted in a decrease in sales and an increase in our inventory and have had an adverse effect on our
business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If such actions occur again in the future, our business, results of operations and financial condition will likely be similarly affected. 
  20 


Table of Contents
Our existing customers may require products on an exclusive basis, forms of economic support and other
changes that could be harmful to our business.  Customers increasingly may require us to provide them with some of our
products on an exclusive basis, which could cause an increase in the number of stock keeping units, or “SKUs,” we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. Moreover, our customers may
increasingly seek markdown allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support which reduce our gross margins and affect our profitability. Our financial performance is negatively affected by these pricing pressures when we are forced to
reduce our prices without being able to correspondingly reduce our production costs.  Sales of and demand for our products may decrease
if we fail to keep pace with evolving consumer preferences and trends, which could have an adverse effect on net sales and profitability.  Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to evolving consumer preferences and trends and to translate these preferences and trends into marketable product offerings. If we
are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends or misjudge the market for our products, our sales may be lower than expected and we may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory. In
response, we may be forced to increase our marketing promotions, provide markdown allowances to our customers or liquidate excess merchandise, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and profitability. Our brand image may
also suffer if customers believe that we are no longer able to offer innovative products, respond to consumer preferences or maintain the quality of our products.  Any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure with respect to our information technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. 
Our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on our information technology systems. As part of our
efforts to consolidate our operations, we also expect to continue to incur costs associated with the integration of our information technology systems across our company over the next several years. This process involves the consolidation or
possible replacement of technology platforms so that our business functions are served by fewer platforms. We are subject to the risk that we will not be able to absorb the level of systems change, commit the necessary resources or focus the
management attention necessary for the implementation to succeed. Many key strategic initiatives of major business functions, such as our supply chain and our finance operations, depend on advanced capabilities enabled by the new systems and if we
fail to properly execute or if we miss critical deadlines in the implementation of this initiative, we could experience serious disruption and harm to our business. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to
upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of our business. 
If we experience a data security breach and confidential customer information is disclosed, we may be subject to penalties and experience negative
publicity, which could affect our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business.  We and
our customers could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third parties due to a security failure in our systems. The collection of data and processing of transactions through our Direct to Consumer operations require us to receive
and store a large amount of personally identifiable data. This type of data is subject to legislation and regulation in various jurisdictions. We may become exposed to potential liabilities with respect to the data that we collect, manage and
process, and may incur legal costs if our information security policies and procedures are not effective or if we are required to defend our methods of collection, processing and storage of personal data. Future investigations, lawsuits or adverse
publicity relating to our methods of handling personal data could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows due to the costs and negative market reaction relating to such developments. 
  21 


Table of Contents
The success of our business is tied to the strength and reputation of our brands, including brands
that we license to other parties. If other parties take actions that weaken, harm the reputation of or cause confusion with our brands, our business, and consequently our sales, results of operations and cash flows, may be adversely affected.
 We license some of our important trademarks to third parties. For example, we license Champion to third parties
for athletic-oriented accessories. Although we make concerted efforts to protect our brands through quality control mechanisms and contractual obligations imposed on our licensees, there is a risk that some licensees may not be in full compliance
with those mechanisms and obligations. In that event, or if a licensee engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand’s business, adversely
affecting our sales and results of operations. Similarly, any misuse of the Wonderbra or Playtex brands by Sun Capital could result in negative publicity and a loss of sales for our products under these brands, any of which may have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  We design, manufacture, source and
sell products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties. If any licensor takes actions related to their trademarks that would cause their brands or our company reputational harm, our business may be adversely affected.
 We design, manufacture, source and sell a number of our products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties
such as our Polo Ralph Lauren men’s underwear. Because we do not control the brands licensed to us, our licensors could make changes to their brands or business models that could result in a significant downturn in a brand’s
business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. If any licensor engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, or if any of the brands licensed to us violates the trademark rights of
another or are deemed to be invalid or unenforceable, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand’s business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations, and we may be required to expend significant amounts on public
relations, advertising and, possibly, legal fees.  We are prohibited from selling our Wonderbra and Playtex intimate apparel products in
the EU, as well as certain other countries in Europe and South Africa, and therefore are unable to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise in such countries. 
Sun Capital has an exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free license to manufacture, sell and distribute apparel products under the
Wonderbra and Playtex trademarks in the member states of the EU, as well as Russia, South Africa, Switzerland and certain other nations in Europe. Due to the exclusive license, we are not permitted to sell Wonderbra and
Playtex branded products in these nations and Sun Capital is not permitted to sell Wonderbra and Playtex branded products outside of these nations. Consequently, we will not be able to take advantage of business opportunities
that may arise relating to the sale of Wonderbra and Playtex products in these nations. For more information on these sales restrictions see “Business — Intellectual Property.” 
If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business may be adversely affected. 
Our trademarks and copyrights are important to our marketing efforts and have substantial value. We aggressively protect these trademarks
and copyrights from infringement and dilution through appropriate measures, including court actions and administrative proceedings. We are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing our intellectual property rights. Infringement or
counterfeiting of our products could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our business. Actions we have taken to establish and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our
products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. In addition, unilateral actions in the United States or
other countries, such as changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on our ability to enforce those rights. 
The value of our intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual
property rights. We may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not
protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. We are from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation
proceedings with respect to some items of our intellectual property. 
  22 


Table of Contents
Our substantial indebtedness subjects us to various restrictions and could decrease our profitability
and otherwise adversely affect our business.  We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As described in
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources,” our indebtedness includes the $600 million revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Loan
Facility”) under our senior secured credit facility that we entered into in 2006 and amended and restated in December 2009 and further amended in February 2011 (the “2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility”), our $500 million Floating
Rate Senior Notes due 2014 (the “Floating Rate Senior Notes”), our $500 million 8.000% Senior Notes due 2016 (the “8% Senior Notes”), our $1 billion 6.375% Senior Notes due 2020 (the “6.375% Senior Notes”) and the $225
million accounts receivable securitization facility that we entered into in November 2007 (the “Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility”). The 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility and the indentures governing the Floating Rate Senior
Notes, the 8% Senior Notes and the 6.375% Senior Notes contain restrictions that affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to borrow funds, pay dividends or make other distributions, make investments,
engage in transactions with affiliates, or create liens on our assets.  Our leverage also could put us at a competitive
disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged. These competitors could have greater financial flexibility to pursue strategic acquisitions, secure additional financing for their operations by incurring additional debt, expend
capital to expand their manufacturing and production operations to lower-cost areas and apply pricing pressure on us. In addition, because many of our customers rely on us to fulfill a substantial portion of their basic apparel demand, any concern
these customers may have regarding our financial condition may cause them to reduce the amount of products they purchase from us. Our leverage could also impede our ability to withstand downturns in our industry or the economy. 
If we are unable to maintain financial ratios associated with our indebtedness, such failure could cause the acceleration of the maturity of such
indebtedness which would adversely affect our business.  Covenants in the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility and the
Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum total debt to EBITDA (earnings before income taxes, depreciation expense and amortization), or leverage ratio. Economic conditions
could impact our ability to maintain the financial ratios contained in these agreements. If we fail to maintain these financial ratios, that failure could result in a default that accelerates the maturity of the indebtedness under such facilities,
which could require that we repay such indebtedness in full, together with accrued and unpaid interest, unless we are able to negotiate new financial ratios or waivers of our current ratios with our lenders. Even if we are able to negotiate new
financial ratios or waivers of our current financial ratios, we may be required to pay fees or make other concessions that may adversely impact our business. Any one of these options could result in significantly higher interest expense in 2012 and
beyond. For information regarding our compliance with these covenants, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Trends and Uncertainties
Affecting Liquidity.”  If we fail to meet our payment or other obligations, the lenders could foreclose on, and acquire control of,
substantially all of our assets.  The lenders under the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility have received a pledge of
substantially all of our existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries, with certain customary or agreed-upon exceptions for foreign subsidiaries and certain other subsidiaries. Additionally, these lenders generally have a lien on
substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries, with certain exceptions. The financial institutions that are party to the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility have a lien on certain of our domestic accounts receivables. As
a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility or the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility, the lenders under those facilities will be entitled to
foreclose on substantially all of our assets and, at their option, liquidate these assets. 
  23 


Table of Contents
Our indebtedness could restrict our ability to obtain additional capital in the future.
 The restrictions contained in the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility and in the indentures governing the Floating
Rate Senior Notes, the 8% Senior Notes and the 6.375% Senior Notes could limit our ability to obtain additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures or acquisitions, meet our debt payment obligations and capital commitments, fund any
operating losses or future development of our business affiliates, obtain lower borrowing costs that are available from secured lenders or engage in advantageous transactions that monetize our assets, or conduct other necessary or prudent corporate
activities.  If we need to incur additional debt or issue equity in order to fund working capital and capital expenditures or
to make acquisitions and other investments, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we are not able to obtain sufficient financing, we may be unable to maintain or expand our business. If we raise funds
through the issuance of debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred stock issued will have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock in the event of a liquidation, and the terms of the debt securities may
impose restrictions on our operations. If we raise funds through the issuance of equity, the issuance would dilute the ownership interest of our stockholders.  Market returns could have a negative impact on the return on plan assets for our pension, which may require significant funding. 
The plan assets of our pension plans, which had a return of approximately negative 1% and positive 12% during 2011 and 2010, respectively,
are invested mainly in domestic and international equities, bonds and real estate. We are unable to predict the variations in asset values or the severity or duration of any disruptions in the financial markets or adverse economic conditions in the
United States, Europe and Asia. The funded status of these plans, and the related cost reflected in our financial statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic
environment. Under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the “Pension Protection Act”), losses of asset values may necessitate increased funding of the plans in the future to meet minimum federal government requirements. Under the Pension
Protection Act funding rules, our U.S. qualified pension plan is approximately 73% funded as of December 31, 2011. This underfunding resulted from the decline in market value of the plans’ investment portfolios resulting from the global
financial and credit crisis that began near the end of 2007 and a reduction in the discount rate used to determine the present value of the plans’ benefit obligation. Any additional downward pressure on the asset values of these plans may
require us to fund obligations earlier than we had originally planned, which would have a negative impact on cash flows from operations. 
Our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. A decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or
of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as an operating expense in our Consolidated Statement of Income.  Goodwill, trademarks and other identifiable intangible assets must be tested for impairment at least annually. The fair value of the goodwill assigned to a business unit could decline if projected
revenues or cash flows were to be lower in the future due to effects of the global economy or other causes. If the carrying value of intangible assets or of goodwill were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value,
with the impairment loss recognized as a noncash charge in the Consolidated Statement of Income.  As of December 31, 2011,
we had approximately $433 million of goodwill and $170 million of trademarks and other identifiable intangibles on our balance sheet, which together represent 15% of our total assets. No impairment was identified as a result of the testing conducted
in 2011, and we have not had any impairment charges in the last three years. However, changes in the future outlook of a business unit could result in an impairment loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and
financial condition. 
  24 


Table of Contents
To service our debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign
subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the United States, which could increase our income tax expense.  The
amount of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the United States may significantly impact our U.S. federal income tax expense. We pay U.S. federal income taxes on that portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries
that is expected to be remitted to the United States and be taxable. In order to service our debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the United States, which may
significantly increase our income tax expense. Consequently, our strategic initiative to enhance our global supply chain by optimizing lower-cost manufacturing capacity and to support our commercial operations outside the United States may result in
capital investments outside the United States that impact our income tax expense.  Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to
additional income tax liabilities could increase our income taxes and decrease our net income.  We are subject to
income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and, in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations
for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and
liabilities, the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, changes in tax laws, adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns and other factors. Our tax determinations are regularly subject to
audit by tax authorities and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact
our net income for future periods.  Our balance sheet includes a significant amount of deferred tax assets. We must generate sufficient
future taxable income to realize the deferred tax benefits.  As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $549
million of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet, which represents 14% of our total assets. Deferred tax assets relate to temporary differences (differences between the assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the
assets and liabilities in the calculation of taxable income). The recognition of deferred tax assets is reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that the tax benefits associated with the deferred tax benefits will not be
realized. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the actual effective tax rates or the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become
taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase the valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, which would cause an increase in our effective tax rate. A significant increase in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition or results of operations.  Compliance with environmental and other regulations could require
significant expenditures.  We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that govern
our activities, operations and products that may have adverse environmental, health and safety effects, including laws and regulations relating to generating emissions, water discharges, waste, product and packaging content and workplace safety.
Noncompliance with these laws and regulations may result in substantial monetary penalties and criminal sanctions. Future events that could give rise to manufacturing interruptions or environmental remediation include changes in existing laws and
regulations, the enactment of new laws and regulations, a release of hazardous substances on or from our properties or any associated offsite disposal location, or the discovery of contamination from current or prior activities at any of our
properties. While we are not aware of any proposed regulations or remedial obligations that could trigger significant costs or capital expenditures in order to comply, any such regulations or obligations could adversely affect our business, results
of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  International trade regulations may increase our costs or limit the amount of
products that we can import from suppliers in a particular country, which could have an adverse effect on our business. 
Because a significant amount of our manufacturing and production operations are located, or our products are sourced from, outside the
United States, we are subject to international trade laws and regulations. The international trade laws and regulations to which we are subject or may become subject to include tariffs, safeguard, trade preferences, free trade agreements, quotas or
other restrictions. These regulations could limit the countries in which we produce or from which we source our products or significantly increase the cost of operating in or obtaining materials originating from certain countries. Restrictions
imposed by international trade 
  25 


Table of Contents

regulations can have a particular impact on our business when, after we have moved our operations to a particular location, new unfavorable regulations are enacted in that area or favorable
regulations currently in effect are changed. The countries in which our products are manufactured or into which or from they are imported may from time to time impose additional new regulations, or modify existing regulations, including: 
 


 
•
 
 additional duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports, including retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions, which may or may not be based on
WTO rules, and which would increase the cost of products produced in such countries;   


 
•
 
 limitations on the quantity of goods which may be imported into the United States from a particular country, including the imposition of further
“safeguard” mechanisms by the U.S. government or governments in other jurisdictions, limiting our ability to import goods from particular countries, such as China; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in the classification and/or valuation of products that could result in higher duty rates than we have historically paid;
  


 
•
 
 modification of the trading status of certain countries; 
 


 
•
 
 requirements as to where products are manufactured;   


 
•
 
 creation of export licensing requirements, imposition of restrictions on export quantities or specification of minimum export pricing; or
  


 
•
 
 creation of other restrictions on imports.  Adverse international trade regulations, including those listed above, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 
We had approximately 53,300 employees worldwide as of December 31, 2011, and our business operations and financial performance could be
adversely affected by changes in our relationship with our employees or changes to U.S. or foreign employment regulations.  We had approximately 53,300 employees worldwide as of December 31, 2011. This means we have a significant exposure to changes in domestic and foreign laws governing our relationships with our
employees, including wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers’ compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll taxes, which likely would have a
direct impact on our operating costs. Approximately 45,400 of those employees were outside of the United States. A significant increase in minimum wage or overtime rates in countries where we have employees could have a significant impact on our
operating costs and may require that we relocate those operations or take other steps to mitigate such increases, all of which may cause us to incur additional costs, expend resources responding to such increases and lower our margins. 
In addition, some of our employees are members of labor organizations or are covered by collective bargaining agreements. If there were a
significant increase in the number of our employees who are members of labor organizations or become parties to collective bargaining agreements, we would become vulnerable to a strike, work stoppage or other labor action by these employees that
could have an adverse effect on our business. 
  26 


Table of Contents
We may suffer negative publicity if we or our third party manufacturers violate labor laws or engage
in practices that are viewed as unethical or illegal, which could cause a loss of business.  We cannot fully control
the business and labor practices of our third party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in Asia, Central America and the Caribbean Basin. If one of our own manufacturing operations or one of our third party manufacturers violates or is
accused of violating local or international labor laws or other applicable regulations, or engages in labor or other practices that would be viewed in any market in which our products are sold as unethical, we could suffer negative publicity, which
could tarnish our brands’ image or result in a loss of sales. In addition, if such negative publicity affected one of our customers, it could result in a loss of business for us.  Our business depends on our senior management team and other key personnel.  Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel, some of whom have unique talents and experience and would be difficult to replace. The loss or
interruption of the services of a member of our senior management team or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business during the transitional period that would be required for a successor to assume the responsibilities
of the position. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain key managers, sales people and others. We may not be able to attract or retain these employees, which could adversely affect our business. 
Businesses that we may acquire may fail to perform to expectations, and we may be unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses with our
existing business.  From time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisition opportunities to support and strengthen
our business. We may not be able to realize all or a substantial portion of the anticipated benefits of acquisitions that we may consummate. Newly acquired businesses may not achieve expected results of operations, including expected levels of
revenues, and may require unanticipated costs and expenditures. Acquired businesses may also subject us to liabilities that we were unable to discover in the course of our due diligence, and our rights to indemnification from the sellers of such
businesses, even if obtained, may not be sufficient to offset the relevant liabilities. In addition, the integration of newly acquired businesses may be expensive and time-consuming and may not be entirely successful. Integration of the acquired
businesses may also place additional pressures on our systems of internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses or if acquired businesses fail to produce targeted results, it could
have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.  If the IRS determines that our spin off from Sara Lee does
not qualify as a “tax-free” distribution or a “tax-free” reorganization, we may be subject to substantial liability.  Sara Lee has received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or the “IRS,” to the effect that, among other things, the spin off qualifies as a tax-free distribution for U.S.
federal income tax purposes under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”), and as part of a tax-free reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code, the
transfer to us of assets and the assumption by us of liabilities in connection with the spin off will not result in the recognition of any gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes to Sara Lee. 
Although the private letter ruling relating to the qualification of the spin off under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal
Revenue Code generally is binding on the IRS, the continuing validity of the ruling is subject to the accuracy of factual representations and assumptions made in connection with obtaining such private letter ruling. Also, as part of the IRS’s
general policy with respect to rulings on spin off transactions under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, the private letter ruling obtained by Sara Lee is based upon representations by Sara Lee that certain conditions which are necessary
to obtain tax-free treatment under Section 355 and Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code have been satisfied, rather than a determination by the IRS that these conditions have been satisfied. Any inaccuracy in these
representations could invalidate the ruling.  If the spin off does not qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income
tax purposes, then, in general, Sara Lee would be subject to tax as if it has sold the common stock of our company in a taxable sale for its fair market value. Sara Lee’s stockholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable
distribution equal to the fair 
  27 


Table of Contents

market value of our common stock that was distributed to them, taxed as a dividend (without reduction for any portion of a Sara Lee’s stockholder’s basis in its shares of Sara Lee
common stock) for U.S. federal income tax purposes and possibly for purposes of state and local tax law, to the extent of a Sara Lee’s stockholder’s pro rata share of Sara Lee’s current and accumulated earnings and profits (including
any arising from the taxable gain to Sara Lee with respect to the spin off). It is expected that the amount of any such taxes to Sara Lee’s stockholders and to Sara Lee would be substantial. 
Pursuant to a tax sharing agreement we entered into with Sara Lee in connection with the spin off, we agreed to indemnify Sara Lee and
its affiliates for any liability for taxes of Sara Lee resulting from: (1) any action or failure to act by us or any of our affiliates following the completion of the spin off that would be inconsistent with or prohibit the spin off from
qualifying as a tax-free transaction to Sara Lee and to Sara Lee’s stockholders under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code, or (2) any action or failure to act by us or any of our affiliates following the completion
of the spin off that would be inconsistent with or cause to be untrue any material, information, covenant or representation made in connection with the private letter ruling obtained by Sara Lee from the IRS relating to, among other things, the
qualification of the spin off as a tax-free transaction described under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code. Our indemnification obligations to Sara Lee and its affiliates are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. We
expect that the amount of any such taxes to Sara Lee would be substantial.  Anti-takeover provisions of our charter and bylaws, as well
as Maryland law and our stockholder rights agreement, may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you might consider favorable. 
Our charter permits our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate
number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. In addition, our Board of Directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set
the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Our Board of Directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a
transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Under Maryland law, our Board of Directors also is permitted, without stockholder approval, to
implement a classified board structure at any time.  Our bylaws, which only can be amended by our Board of Directors, provide
that nominations of persons for election to our Board of Directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by or at the direction of our Board of Directors or by a
stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of our bylaws. Also, under Maryland law, business combinations between us and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested
stockholder, including mergers, consolidations, share exchanges or, in circumstances specified in the statute, asset transfers or issuances or reclassifications of equity securities, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which
the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. An interested stockholder includes any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or any affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the
two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our stock. A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if our Board of Directors approved in advance the transaction by
which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. However, in approving a transaction, our Board of Directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions
determined by our Board. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our Board of Directors and approved by two supermajority votes or our common stockholders
must receive a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares. The statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by our Board of Directors prior to the time that the
interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. 
  28 


Table of Contents
In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights agreement which provides that in the event
of an acquisition of or tender offer for 15% of our outstanding common stock, our stockholders, other than the acquirer, shall be granted rights to purchase our common stock at a certain price. The stockholder rights agreement could make it more
difficult for a third party to acquire our common stock without the approval of our Board of Directors.  These and other
provisions of Maryland law or our charter and bylaws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be considered favorably by our
stockholders.  Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 
Not applicable.  
Item 1C. Executive Officers of the Registrant   The chart below lists our executive officers
and is followed by biographic information about them. Our executive officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors to serve until his or her successor is elected and qualifies or until his or her death, resignation or removal. No family
relationship exists between any of our directors or executive officers.   










 Name
  
 Age
 
  
 Positions

 Richard A. Noll
  
 
54
  
  
Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer

 Gerald W. Evans Jr.
  
 
52
  
  
Co-Chief Operating Officer

 William J. Nictakis
  
 
51
  
  
Co-Chief Operating Officer

 Richard D. Moss
  
 
54
  
  
Chief Financial Officer

 Joia M. Johnson
  
 
51
  
  
Chief Legal Officer, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary

 Kevin W. Oliver
  
 
54
  
  
Chief Human Resources Officer

 Michael E. Faircloth
  
 
46
  
  
Chief Supply Chain Officer

 W. Howard Upchurch
  
 
47
  
  
President, Innerwear/Hosiery

 John T. Marsh
  
 
46
  
  
President, Outerwear
 Richard A. Noll has served as Chairman of the Board of Directors since January 2009, as our Chief
Executive Officer since April 2006 and as a director since our formation in September 2005. From December 2002 until September 2006, he also served as a Senior Vice President of Sara Lee. From July 2005 to April 2006, Mr. Noll served as
President and Chief Operating Officer of Sara Lee Branded Apparel. Mr. Noll served as Chief Executive Officer of Sara Lee Bakery Group from July 2003 to July 2005 and as the Chief Operating Officer of Sara Lee Bakery Group from July 2002 to
July 2003. From July 2001 to July 2002, Mr. Noll was Chief Executive Officer of Sara Lee Legwear, Sara Lee Direct and Sara Lee Mexico. Mr. Noll joined Sara Lee in 1992 and held a number of management positions with increasing
responsibilities while employed by Sara Lee. Mr. Noll currently serves on the Board of Directors of The Fresh Market, Inc., a specialty grocery retailer.  Gerald W. Evans Jr. has served as the Co-Chief Operating Officer of the Company since October 1, 2011. Prior to his appointment as Co-Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Evans served as our
Co-Operating Officer, President International, since November 2010. From February 2009 until November 2010, he was our President, International Business and Global Supply Chain. From February 2008 until February 2009, he served as our President,
Global Supply Chain and Asia Business Development. From September 2006 until February 2008, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Supply Chain Officer. From July 2005 until September 2006, Mr. Evans served as a Vice President of Sara Lee
and as Chief Supply Chain Officer of Sara Lee Branded Apparel. Mr. Evans served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Sara Lee Sportswear and Underwear from March 2003 until June 2005 and as President and Chief Executive Officer of Sara
Lee Sportswear from March 1999 to February 2003. 
  29 


Table of Contents
William J. Nictakis has served as the Co-Chief Operating Officer of the Company since
October 1, 2011. Prior to his appointment as Co-Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Nictakis served as our Co-Operating Officer, President U.S., since November 2010. From November 2007 until November 2010, he was our President, Chief Commercial
Officer. From June 2003 until November 2007, Mr. Nictakis served as President of the Sara Lee Bakery Group. From May 1999 through June 2003, Mr. Nictakis was Vice President, Sales, of Frito-Lay, Inc., a subsidiary of PepsiCo, Inc. that
manufactures, markets, sells and distributes branded snacks.  Richard D. Moss has served as our Chief Financial Officer
since October 1, 2011. Prior to his appointment as Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Moss served as the Company’s Chief Treasury and Tax Officer since December 2010, as a Senior Vice President since September 2006 and as Treasurer since
June 2006. From January 2006 until the completion of the Company’s spin off from Sara Lee Corporation, Mr. Moss served as Treasurer of Sara Lee Branded Apparel. From August 2002 to December 2005, Mr. Moss served as Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of Chattem, Inc., a leading marketer and manufacturer of branded over-the-counter health-care products, toiletries and dietary supplements.  Joia M. Johnson has served as our Chief Legal Officer, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since January 2007, a position previously known as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
Corporate Secretary. From May 2000 until January 2007, Ms. Johnson served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of RARE Hospitality International, Inc., an owner, operator and franchisor of national chain restaurants.
Ms. Johnson currently serves on the Board of Directors of Crawford & Company, the world’s largest independent provider of claims management solutions to the risk management and insurance industry. 
Kevin W. Oliver has served as our Chief Human Resources Officer since September 2006, a position previously known as Executive Vice
President, Human Resources. From January 2006 until September 2006, Mr. Oliver served as a Vice President of Sara Lee and as Senior Vice President, Human Resources of Sara Lee Branded Apparel. From February 2005 to December 2005,
Mr. Oliver served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources for Sara Lee Food and Beverage and from August 2001 to January 2005 as Vice President, Human Resources for the Sara Lee Bakery Group. 
Michael E. Faircloth has served as our Chief Supply Chain Officer since December 2010. Prior to his appointment as Chief Supply
Chain Officer, Mr. Faircloth served as our Senior Vice President, Supply Chain Support from October 2009 to November 2010, as our Vice President, Supply Chain Support from March 2009 to September 2009 and as our Vice President of
Engineering & Quality from July 2006 to March 2009. Prior to the completion of the Company’s spin off from Sara Lee Corporation, Mr. Faircloth served as Vice President, Industrialization of Sara Lee Corporation. 
W. Howard Upchurch has served as our President, Innerwear/Hosiery since January 2011. Prior to his appointment as President,
Innerwear/Hosiery, Mr. Upchurch served as our Executive Vice President and General Manager, Domestic Innerwear from January 2008 until December 2010 and as our Senior Vice President and General Manager, Intimate Apparel from July 2006 until
December 2007. Prior to the completion of the Company’s spin off from Sara Lee Corporation, Mr. Upchurch served as President of Sara Lee Intimates and Hosiery.  John T. Marsh has served as our President, Outerwear since May 2011. Prior to his appointment as President, Outerwear, Mr. Marsh served as our Outerwear Group General Manager during April
2011, as our Senior Vice President and General Manager, Casualwear from January 2008 to March 2011, as our Vice President and General Manager, Casualwear from September 2007 to December 2007 and as our Vice President and General Manager, Imagewear
from July 2006 to September 2007. Prior to the completion of the Company’s spin off from Sara Lee Corporation, Mr. Marsh served as Vice President of Hanes Printables. 
  30 


Table of Contents
Item 2. Properties 
We own and lease properties supporting our administrative, manufacturing, distribution and direct outlet activities. We own our
approximately 470,000 square-foot headquarters located in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, which houses our various sales, marketing and corporate business functions. Research and development as well as certain product-design functions also are
located in Winston-Salem, while other design functions are located in New York City and Lenexa, Kansas. Our products are manufactured through a combination of facilities we own and operate and facilities owned and operated by third party contractors
who perform some of the steps in the manufacturing process for us, such as cutting and/or sewing. We source the remainder of our finished goods from third party manufacturers who supply us with finished products based on our designs. 
As of December 31, 2011, we owned and leased properties in 24 countries, including 43 manufacturing facilities and 36 distribution
centers, as well as office facilities. The leases for these properties expire between 2012 and 2023, with the exception of some seasonal warehouses that we lease on a month-by-month basis. 
As of December 31, 2011, we also operated 216 direct outlet stores in 42 states, most of which are leased under five-year, renewable
lease agreements and several of which are leased under 10-year agreements. We believe that our facilities, as well as equipment, are in good condition and meet our current business needs. 
The following table summarizes our properties by country as of December 31, 2011: 
 
















 Properties by Country (1)
  
Owned SquareFeet
 
  
Leased SquareFeet
 
  
Total
 

 United States
  
 
2,761,956
  
  
 
7,555,481
  
  
 
10,317,437
  

 Non-U.S. facilities:
  



  



  




 El Salvador
  
 
1,426,866
  
  
 
218,736
  
  
 
1,645,602
  

 Honduras
  
 
356,279
  
  
 
1,248,299
  
  
 
1,604,578
  

 China
  
 
1,070,912
  
  
 
60,584
  
  
 
1,131,496
  

 Dominican Republic
  
 
835,240
  
  
 
178,033
  
  
 
1,013,273
  

 Mexico
  
 
75,255
  
  
 
522,180
  
  
 
597,435
  

 Canada
  
 
—  
  
  
 
379,675
  
  
 
379,675
  

 Vietnam
  
 
251,337
  
  
 
112,426
  
  
 
363,763
  

 Costa Rica
  
 
246,914
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
246,914
  

 Thailand
  
 
277,733
  
  
 
22,818
  
  
 
300,551
  

 Belgium
  
 
—  
  
  
 
165,398
  
  
 
165,398
  

 Brazil
  
 
—  
  
  
 
164,549
  
  
 
164,549
  

 Argentina
  
 
116,538
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
116,538
  

 11 other countries
  
 
—  
  
  
 
127,312
  
  
 
127,312
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total non-U.S. facilities
  
 
4,657,074
  
  
 
3,200,010
  
  
 
7,857,084
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Totals
  
 
7,419,030
  
  
 
10,755,491
  
  
 
18,174,521
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Excludes vacant land. 
  31 


Table of Contents
The following table summarizes the properties primarily used by our segments as of
December 31, 2011:   
















Properties by Segment (1)
  
Owned SquareFeet
 
  
Leased SquareFeet
 
  
Total
 

 Innerwear
  
 
3,398,331
  
  
 
4,402,427
  
  
 
7,800,758
  

 Outerwear
  
 
2,309,149
  
  
 
3,184,991
  
  
 
5,494,140
  

 Hosiery
  
 
303,445
  
  
 
93,000
  
  
 
396,445
  

 Direct to Consumer
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,837,235
  
  
 
1,837,235
  

 International
  
 
191,793
  
  
 
1,156,855
  
  
 
1,348,648
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Totals
  
 
6,202,718
  
  
 
10,674,508
  
  
 
16,877,226
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Excludes vacant land, facilities under construction, facilities no longer in operation intended for disposal, sourcing offices not associated with a particular segment,
and office buildings housing corporate functions.  Item 3. Legal
Proceedings  Although we are subject to various claims and legal actions that occur from time to time in the ordinary
course of our business, we are not party to any pending legal proceedings that we believe could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 
Not applicable. 
  32 


Table of Contents
PART II 
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities  Market for our Common Stock 
Our common stock currently is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, or the “NYSE,” under the symbol “HBI.” A
“when-issued” trading market for our common stock on the NYSE began on August 16, 2006, and “regular way” trading of our common stock began on September 6, 2006. Prior to August 16, 2006, there was no public market
for our common stock. Each share of our common stock has attached to it one preferred stock purchase right. These rights initially will be transferable with and only with the transfer of the underlying share of common stock. We have not made any
unregistered sales of our equity securities.  The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for our common stock
for the indicated periods:   












 
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 2011
  



  




 Quarter ended April 2, 2011
  
$
27.75
  
  
$
22.24
  

 Quarter ended July 2, 2011
  
$
33.10
  
  
$
26.59
  

 Quarter ended October 1, 2011
  
$
33.36
  
  
$
23.64
  

 Quarter ended December 31, 2011
  
$
28.26
  
  
$
21.74
  





 2010
  



  




 Quarter ended April 3, 2010
  
$
28.40
  
  
$
20.95
  

 Quarter ended July 3, 2010
  
$
31.45
  
  
$
23.44
  

 Quarter ended October 2, 2010
  
$
27.88
  
  
$
23.28
  

 Quarter ended January 1, 2011
  
$
28.42
  
  
$
23.94
  
 Holders of Record  On February 10, 2012, there were 38,661 holders of record of our common stock. Because many of the shares of our common stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we
are unable to determine the exact number of beneficial stockholders represented by these record holders, but we believe that there were approximately 72,473 beneficial owners of our common stock as of February 10, 2012. 
Dividends  We currently
do not pay regular dividends on our outstanding stock. The declaration of any future dividends and, if declared, the amount of any such dividends, will be subject to our actual future earnings, capital requirements, regulatory restrictions, debt
covenants, other contractual restrictions and to the discretion of our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors may take into account such matters as general business conditions, our financial condition and results of operations, our capital
requirements, our prospects and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant.  Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities
 We did not repurchase any of our common stock during the quarter or year ended December 31, 2011. 
  33 


Table of Contents
Performance Graph  The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock with the comparable cumulative return of the S&P MidCap 400 Index and the S&P 1500 Apparel,
Accessories & Luxury Goods Index. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in our common stock and each index on December 31, 2006. The stock price performance on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price
performance.    

 Equity Compensation Plan Information  The following table provides information about our equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2011.   




















 Plan Category
  
Number of Securities to beIssued Upon Exerciseof Outstanding 
Options,Warrants and Rights
 
  
Weighted AverageExercise Priceof Outstanding Options,Warrants and
Rights
 
  
Number of SecuritiesRemaining Available forFuture Issuance 
underEquity CompensationPlans (1)
 

 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders
  

  
 
6,782,031
  
  
$
22.88
  
  

  
 
3,604,527
  

 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders
  

  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  

  
 
—  
  


  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  

  
  
  
 

 Total
  

  
 
6,782,031
  
  
$
22.88
  
  

  
 
3,604,527
  
  


(1)
The amount appearing under “Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans” includes 1,686,686 shares available
under the Hanesbrands Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006 and 1,917,841 shares available under the Hanesbrands Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan of 2006. 
  34 


Table of Contents
Item 6. Selected Financial Data
 The following table presents our selected historical financial data. The statement of income data for the years ended
December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 and the balance sheet data as of December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011 have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The statement of income data for the years ended January 3, 2009 and December 29, 2007 and the balance sheet data as of January 2, 2010, January 3, 2009 and December 29, 2007 has
been derived from our financial statements not included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  The data should be read in
conjunction with our historical financial statements and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
 
























 
  
Years Ended
 

 
  
December 31,2011
 
  
January 1,2011
 
  
January 2,2010
 
  
January 3,2009
 
 
December 29,2007
 


  
  
  
 

 
  
(amounts in thousands, except per share data)
 

 Statement of Income Data:
  



  



  



  



 




 Net sales
  
$
4,637,143
 
  
$
4,326,713
 
  
$
3,891,275
 
  
$
4,248,770
 
 
$
4,474,537
 

 Cost of sales
  
 
3,096,772
 
  
 
2,911,944
 
  
 
2,626,001
 
  
 
2,871,420
 
 
 
3,033,627
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
1,540,371
 
  
 
1,414,769
 
  
 
1,265,274
 
  
 
1,377,350
 
 
 
1,440,910
 

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
1,062,090
 
  
 
1,010,581
 
  
 
940,530
 
  
 
1,009,607
 
 
 
1,040,754
 

 Gain on curtailment of postretirement benefits
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(32,144
) 

 Restructuring
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
53,888
 
  
 
50,263
 
 
 
43,731
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating profit
  
 
478,281
 
  
 
404,188
 
  
 
270,856
 
  
 
317,480
 
 
 
388,569
 

 Other expense (income)
  
 
6,377
 
  
 
20,221
 
  
 
49,301
 
  
 
(634
) 
 
 
5,235
 

 Interest expense, net
  
 
156,297
 
  
 
150,236
 
  
 
163,279
 
  
 
155,077
 
 
 
199,208
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income tax expense
  
 
315,607
 
  
 
233,731
 
  
 
58,276
 
  
 
163,037
 
 
 
184,126
 

 Income tax expense
  
 
48,919
 
  
 
22,438
 
  
 
6,993
 
  
 
35,868
 
 
 
57,999
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
266,688
 
  
$
211,293
 
  
$
51,283
 
  
$
127,169
 
 
$
126,127
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings per share — basic
  
$
2.73
 
  
$
2.19
 
  
$
0.54
 
  
$
1.35
 
 
$
1.31
 

 Earnings per share — diluted
  
$
2.69
 
  
$
2.16
 
  
$
0.54
 
  
$
1.34
 
 
$
1.30
 

 Weighted average shares — basic
  
 
97,710
 
  
 
96,500
 
  
 
95,158
 
  
 
94,171
 
 
 
95,936
 

 Weighted average shares — diluted
  
 
99,251
 
  
 
97,774
 
  
 
95,668
 
  
 
95,164
 
 
 
96,741
 








 
  
December 31,2011
 
  
January 1,2011
 
  
January 2,2010
 
  
January 3,2009
 
 
December 29,2007
 


  
  
  
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Balance Sheet Data:
  



  



  



  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
35,345
 
  
$
43,671
 
  
$
38,943
 
  
$
67,342
 
 
$
174,236
 

 Total assets
  
 
4,034,669
 
  
 
3,790,002
 
  
 
3,326,564
 
  
 
3,534,049
 
 
 
3,439,483
 

 Noncurrent liabilities:
  



  



  



  



 




 Long-term debt
  
 
1,807,777
 
  
 
1,990,735
 
  
 
1,727,547
 
  
 
2,130,907
 
 
 
2,315,250
 

 Other noncurrent liabilities
  
 
612,112
 
  
 
407,243
 
  
 
385,323
 
  
 
469,703
 
 
 
146,347
 

 Total noncurrent liabilities
  
 
2,419,889
 
  
 
2,397,978
 
  
 
2,112,870
 
  
 
2,600,610
 
 
 
2,461,597
 

 Total stockholders’ equity
  
 
681,061
 
  
 
562,674
 
  
 
334,719
 
  
 
185,155
 
 
 
288,904
 

  35 


Table of Contents
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations   This management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and
results of operations, or MD&A, contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Please see “Forward-Looking Statements” and “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of
the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our historical financial statements and related notes thereto and the other disclosures contained elsewhere in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K. The results of operations for the periods reflected herein are not necessarily indicative of results that may be expected for future periods, and our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in the
forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including but not limited to those listed under “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
MD&A is a supplement to our financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and is
provided to enhance your understanding of our results of operations and financial condition. Our MD&A is organized as follows:   


 
•
 
 Overview. This section provides a general description of our company and operating segments, business and industry trends, our key business
strategies and background information on other matters discussed in this MD&A.   


 
•
 
 Components of Net Sales and Expenses. This section provides an overview of the components of our net sales and expenses that are key to an
understanding of our results of operations.   


 
•
 
 2011 Highlights. This section discusses some of the highlights of our performance and activities during 2011. 
 


 
•
 
 Consolidated Results of Operations and Operating Results by Business Segment. These sections provide our analysis and outlook for the
significant line items on our statements of income, as well as other information that we deem meaningful to an understanding of our results of operations on both a consolidated basis and a business segment basis. 
 


 
•
 
 Liquidity and Capital Resources. This section provides an analysis of trends and uncertainties affecting liquidity, cash requirements for
our business, sources and uses of our cash and our financing arrangements.   


 
•
 
 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. This section discusses the accounting policies that we consider important to the evaluation and
reporting of our financial condition and results of operations, and whose application requires significant judgments or a complex estimation process.   


 
•
 
 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements. This section provides a summary of the most recent authoritative accounting pronouncements that
we will be required to adopt in a future period.  Overview 
Our Company  We are a consumer goods company with a portfolio of leading apparel brands, including Hanes, Champion, Bali, Playtex, Just My Size, L’eggs, barely there, Wonderbra, Gear for Sports,
Stedman, Zorba, Rinbros, Sol y Oro, Outer Banks and Duofold. We design, manufacture, source and sell a broad range of basic apparel such as T-shirts, bras, panties, men’s underwear, kids’ underwear, casualwear, activewear, socks
and hosiery. According to NPD, our brands held either the number one or number two U.S. market position by units sold in most product categories in which we compete, for the 12-month period ended November 30, 2011. 
Our Segments  Our operations are managed and reported in five operating segments, each of which is a reportable segment for financial reporting purposes: Innerwear, Outerwear, Hosiery, Direct to Consumer and
International. These segments are organized principally by product category, geographic location and distribution channel. Each segment has its own management that is responsible for the operations of the segment’s businesses but the segments
share a common supply chain and media and marketing platforms. Certain prior year segment operating profit disclosures have been revised to conform to the current year presentation. These changes were primarily the result of our decision to cease
allocating certain compensation related expenses to the segments. 
  36 


Table of Contents
The types of products and services from which each reportable segment derives its revenues
are as follows:   


 
•
 
 Innerwear sells basic branded products that are replenishment in nature under the product categories of women’s intimate apparel, men’s
underwear, kids’ underwear and socks.   


 
•
 
 Outerwear sells basic branded products that are primarily seasonal in nature under the product categories of casualwear and activewear to both
retailers and wholesalers, as well as licensed logo apparel in collegiate bookstores and other channels.   


 
•
 
 Hosiery sells products in categories such as pantyhose, knee highs and tights. 
 


 
•
 
 Direct to Consumer includes our value-based (“outlet”) stores and Internet operations which sell products from our portfolio of leading
brands. Our Internet operations are supported by its catalogs.   


 
•
 
 International primarily relates to the Latin America, Asia, Canada, Europe and Australia geographic locations which sell products that span across the
Innerwear, Outerwear and Hosiery reportable segments.  Outlook for 2012 
We continue to operate in an uncertain and volatile economic environment, which has impacted our business in 2011 and will continue to do
so in 2012. After a strong performance in 2011 with sales growth of 7%, we expect modest sales growth in 2012 of 2% to 4% with projected net sales of $4.7 billion to $4.8 billion compared to $4.6 billion in 2011. The primary drivers of the projected
net sales growth are expected to be shelf space gains and net price increases in our Innerwear segment and double-digit shelf space gains in our International segment. These sales gains are expected to be partially offset by sales declines in our
Outerwear segment due to lower sales in both our retail and wholesale casualwear categories partially offset by continued sales growth in our activewear category. The growth in our activewear category is expected to come from new programs at major
sporting goods retailers as well as expansion of our C9 by Champion brand at Target. The expected net sales decline in the wholesale casualwear (imagewear) category is the result of structural challenges within this market relating to higher
cotton costs and the hyper-competitive pricing environment.  We are focused on delivering profitable growth and remain highly
committed to strong cash flow generation and utilizing that cash flow to de-leverage and pay down debt as the year unfolds. Through expected improvements in working capital, primarily from reduction in inventory levels as a result of declining
cotton costs, and operating results, we expect to generate approximately $445 million to $545 million in operating cash flows in 2012. We expect to use these cash flows primarily for debt reduction. 
  37 


Table of Contents
Business and Industry Trends 
Inflation and Changing Prices  The economic environment in which we are operating continues to be uncertain and volatile, which could have unanticipated adverse effects on our business during 2012 and beyond. We have seen a sustained
increase in various input costs, such as cotton and oil-related materials, utilities, freight and wages, which have impacted our results in 2011 and will continue to do so through at least the first half of 2012. Based on current market conditions,
we expect the estimated impact of cost inflation could be in the range of $250 million to $300 million higher in 2012 over 2011, of which approximately $200 million relates to higher cotton costs. The cost inflation will primarily impact the first
two quarters of 2012. Rising demand for cotton resulting from the economic recovery, weather-related supply disruptions, significant declines in U.S. inventory and a sharp rise in the futures market for cotton caused cotton prices to surge upward
during 2010 and 2011. While cotton prices have declined in recent months, we will continue to have higher prices for cotton and oil-related materials reflected in our cost of sales, which will continue to impact our results through at least the
first half of 2012.  Cotton is the primary raw material used in manufacturing many of our products. While we have sold our yarn
operations, we are still exposed to fluctuations in the cost of cotton. During 2010, cotton prices hit their highest levels in 140 years, although they declined some in the second half of 2011 and into 2012. Increases in the cost of cotton can
result in higher costs in the price we pay for yarn from our large-scale yarn suppliers and may result in the need to implement future price increases in order to maintain our margins. Decreases in cotton prices can lead to lower margins for
inventory and products produced from cotton we have already purchased, particularly if there is downward price pressure as a result of consumer demand, competition or other factors. Price increases during 2011, including those implemented in
response to higher prices for cotton and other raw materials, contributed favorably to net sales growth and positively affected margins.  Our costs for cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles vary based upon the fluctuating cost of cotton, which is affected by, among other factors, weather, consumer demand, speculation on the commodities
market, the relative valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. We are able to lock in the cost of cotton reflected in the price we
pay for yarn from our primary yarn suppliers in an attempt to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of cotton. Under our agreements with these suppliers, we have the ability to periodically fix the cotton cost component of our
yarn purchases. When we elect to fix the cotton cost component under these agreements, interim fluctuations in the price of cotton do not impact the price we pay for the specified volume of yarn. The yarn suppliers bear the risk of cotton
fluctuations for the yarn volume specified and it is their responsibility to procure the cotton at the agreed upon pricing through arrangements they make with their cotton suppliers. However, our business can be affected by dramatic movements in
cotton prices. Although the cost of cotton used in goods manufactured by us has historically represented only approximately 6% of our cost of sales, it rose to around 12% in 2011 primarily as a result of cost inflation. Costs incurred today for
materials and labor, including cotton, typically do not impact our results as the inventory is sold approximately six to nine months later.  Inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of materials and labor may impact our ability to maintain satisfactory margins. For example, the cost of the materials that are used in
our manufacturing process, such as oil-related commodities and other raw materials, such as dyes and chemicals, and other costs, such as fuel, energy and utility costs, can fluctuate as a result of inflation and other factors. Costs incurred for
materials and labor are capitalized into inventory and impact our results as the inventory is sold. In addition, a significant portion of our products are manufactured in countries other than the United States and declines in the value of the
U.S. dollar may result in higher manufacturing costs. Increases in inflation may not be matched by rises in consumer income, which also could have a negative impact on spending. 
Other Business and Industry Trends  The basic apparel market is highly competitive and evolving rapidly. Competition is generally based upon brand name recognition, price, product quality, selection, service and purchasing convenience. The
majority of our core styles continue from year to year, with variations only in color, fabric or design details. Some products, however, such as intimate apparel, activewear and sheer hosiery, do have more of an emphasis on style and innovation. Our
businesses face competition from other large corporations and foreign manufacturers, as well as smaller companies, department stores, specialty stores and other retailers that market and sell basic apparel products under private labels that compete
directly with our brands. 
  38 


Table of Contents
Our top 10 customers accounted for 62% of our net sales. Our largest customers in 2011 were
Wal-Mart, Target and Kohl’s, which accounted for 25%, 16% and 6% of total sales, respectively. The growth in retailers can create pricing pressures as our customers grow larger and seek to have greater concessions in their purchase of our
products, while they can be increasingly demanding that we provide them with some of our products on an exclusive basis. To counteract these effects, it has become increasingly important to leverage our national brands through investment in our
largest and strongest brands as our customers strive to maximize their performance especially in today’s challenging economic environment. In addition, during the past several years, various retailers, including some of our largest customers,
have experienced significant difficulties, including restructurings, bankruptcies and liquidations, and the ability of retailers to overcome these difficulties may increase due to worldwide economic conditions. Brands are important in our core
categories to drive traffic and project required quality and value.  Anticipating changes in and managing our operations in
response to consumer preferences remains an important element of our business. In recent years, we have experienced changes in our net sales and cash flows in accordance with changes in consumer preferences and trends. For example, we expect the
trend of declining hosiery sales to continue consistent with the overall decline in the industry and with shifts in consumer preferences. The Hosiery segment only comprised 4% of our net sales in 2011 however, and as a result, the decline in the
Hosiery segment has not had a significant impact on our net sales, revenues or cash flows. Generally, we manage the Hosiery segment for cash, placing an emphasis on reducing our cost structure and managing cash efficiently. 
Our Key Business Strategies  Our key business strategies are focused on optimizing our strong brands to drive modest sales growth domestically and internationally, using our low-cost global supply chain and implementing cost savings
initiatives to expand margins, and delivering strong cash flow to create value.  We seek to drive modest sales growth by
consistently offering consumers brands they trust and products with unsurpassed value. Our brands have a strong heritage in the basic apparel industry. According to NPD, our brands held either the number one or number two U.S. market position by
units sold in most product categories in which we compete, for the 12-month period ended November 30, 2011. Internationally, our commercial markets include Mexico, Canada, Japan, India, Brazil and China, where a substantial amount of gross domestic
product growth outside the United States will be concentrated over the next decade. Our ability to react to changing customer needs and industry trends is key to our success. Our design, research and product development teams, in partnership with
our marketing teams, drive our efforts to bring innovations to market. We seek to leverage our insights into consumer demand in the basic apparel industry to develop new products within our existing lines and to modify our existing core products in
ways that make them more appealing, addressing changing customer needs and industry trends. We also support our key brands with targeted, effective advertising and marketing campaigns. 
We seek to expand margins through optimizing our low-cost global supply chain and streamlining our operations to reduce costs. We believe
that we are able to leverage our significant scale of operations to provide us with greater manufacturing efficiencies, purchasing power and product design, marketing and customer management resources than our smaller competitors. Our global supply
chain spans across both the Western and Eastern hemispheres and provides us with a balanced approach to product supply, which relies on a combination of owned, contracted and sourced manufacturing located across different geographic regions,
increases the efficiency of our operations, reduces product costs and offers customers a reliable source of supply. Our global supply chain enables us to expand and leverage our production scale as we balance our supply chain across hemispheres,
thereby diversifying our production risks. We have generated significant cost savings, margin expansion and contributions to cash flow and will continue to do so as we further optimize our size, scale and production capability. For example, we
commenced production at our textile production plant in Nanjing, China, which is our first company-owned textile facility in Asia, in the fourth quarter of 2009 and we ramped up production over time and are now at full capacity. The Nanjing
facility, along with our other textile facilities and arrangements with outside contractors, enables us to expand and leverage our production scale as we balance our supply chain across hemispheres to support our production capacity. 
  39 


Table of Contents
We seek to effectively generate strong cash flow through optimizing our capital structure
and managing working capital levels. Our strong cash flows have resulted in a flexible long-term capital structure that is able to deliver shareholder value in numerous ways, including debt reduction and our ability to selectively pursue strategic
acquisitions. In addition, we intend to improve turns for inventory which will also contribute to strong cash flows in 2012. 
Seasonality and Other Factors  Our operating results are subject to some variability due to seasonality and other factors. Generally, our diverse range of product offerings helps mitigate the impact of seasonal changes in demand for
certain items. We generally have higher sales during back-to-school shopping and holiday selling seasons and during periods of cooler weather, which benefits certain product categories such as fleece. Sales levels in any period are also impacted by
customers’ decisions to increase or decrease their inventory levels in response to anticipated consumer demand. Our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice to us. Media,
advertising and promotion expenses may vary from period to period during a fiscal year depending on the timing of our advertising campaigns for retail selling seasons and product introductions. 
Although the majority of our products are replenishment in nature and tend to be purchased by consumers on a planned, rather than on an
impulse, basis, our sales are impacted by discretionary spending by consumers. Discretionary spending is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the
availability of consumer credit, currency exchange rates, taxation, electricity power rates, gasoline prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Many of these factors are outside our control.
Consumers’ purchases of discretionary items, including our products, could decline during periods when disposable income is lower, when prices increase in response to rising costs, or in periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic
conditions. These consumers may choose to purchase fewer of our products or to purchase lower-priced products of our competitors in response to higher prices for our products, or may choose not to purchase our products at prices that reflect our
price increases that become effective from time to time.  Changes in product sales mix can impact our gross profit as the
percentage of our sales attributable to higher margin products, such as intimate apparel and male underwear, and lower margin products, such as casualwear and activewear, as well as the amount attributable to higher and lower margin products within
the same product category, fluctuate from time to time. Our customers may change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice to us, which makes trends in product sales mix difficult to predict. However, certain changes in product sales mix are
seasonal in nature, as sales of socks, hosiery and fleece products generally have higher sales during the last two quarters (July to December) of each fiscal year as a result of cooler weather, back-to-school shopping and holidays, while other
changes in product mix may be attributable to customers’ preferences and discretionary spending.  Components of Net Sales and Expenses
 Net sales  We generate net sales by selling basic apparel products such as T-shirts, bras, panties, men’s underwear, kids’ underwear, socks, hosiery, casualwear and activewear. Our net sales are recognized
net of discounts, coupons, rebates, volume-based incentives and cooperative advertising costs. We recognize revenue when (i) there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, (ii) the sales price is fixed or determinable, (iii) title
and the risks of ownership have been transferred to the customer and (iv) collection of the receivable is reasonably assured, which occurs primarily upon shipment. Net sales include an estimate for returns and allowances based upon historical
return experience. We also offer a variety of sales incentives to resellers and consumers that are recorded as reductions to net sales. Royalty income from license agreements with manufacturers of other consumer products that incorporate our brands
is also included in net sales.  Cost of sales 
Our cost of sales includes the cost of manufacturing finished goods, which consists of labor, raw materials such as cotton and
petroleum-based products and overhead costs such as depreciation on owned facilities and equipment. Our cost of sales also includes finished goods sourced from third party manufacturers that supply us with products

  40 


Table of Contents

based on our designs as well as charges for slow moving or obsolete inventories. Rebates, discounts and other cash consideration received from a vendor related to inventory purchases are
reflected in cost of sales when the related inventory item is sold. Our costs of sales do not include shipping costs, comprised of payments to third party shippers, or handling costs, comprised of warehousing costs in our distribution facilities,
and thus our gross margins may not be comparable to those of other entities that include such costs in cost of sales. 
Selling, general and administrative expenses  Our selling, general and administrative expenses include selling, advertising, costs of shipping, handling and distribution to our customers, research and development, rent on leased facilities,
depreciation on owned facilities and equipment and other general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses also include management payroll, benefits, travel, information systems, accounting, insurance and legal
expenses.  Restructuring  We have from time to time closed facilities and reduced headcount, including in connection with previously announced restructuring and business transformation plans. We refer to these activities as
restructuring actions. When we decide to close facilities or reduce headcount, we take estimated charges for such restructuring, including charges for exited non-cancelable leases and other contractual obligations, as well as severance and benefits.
If the actual charge is different from the original estimate, an adjustment is recognized in the period such change in estimate is identified.  Other expenses  Other expenses include charges such as losses on
early extinguishment of debt, costs to amend and restate our credit facilities, fees associated with sales of certain trade accounts receivable to financial institutions, and charges related to the termination of certain interest rate hedging
arrangements.  Interest expense, net  Our interest expense is net of interest income. Interest income is the return we earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Our cash and cash equivalents are invested in highly liquid investments with
original maturities of three months or less.  Income tax expense 
Our effective income tax rate fluctuates from period to period and can be materially impacted by, among other things: 
 


 
•
 
 changes in the mix of our earnings from the various jurisdictions in which we operate; 
 


 
•
 
 the tax characteristics of our earnings;   


 
•
 
 the timing and amount of earnings of foreign subsidiaries that we repatriate to the United States, which may increase our tax expense and taxes paid;
and   


 
•
 
 the timing and results of any reviews of our income tax filing positions in the jurisdictions in which we transact business.

  41 


Table of Contents
Highlights from the year ended December 31, 2011 
 


 
•
 
 Total net sales in 2011 were $4.64 billion, compared with $4.33 billion in 2010, representing a 7% increase. 
 


 
•
 
 Operating profit was $478 million in 2011 compared with $404 million in 2010, representing an 18% increase. As a percent of sales, operating profit was
10.3% in 2011 compared to 9.3% in 2010.   


 
•
 
 Diluted earnings per share were $2.69 in 2011, compared with $2.16 in 2010. 
 


 
•
 
 Gross capital expenditures were $90 million in 2011, compared to $106 million in 2010. Proceeds from sales of assets were $14 million in 2011 and
$46 million in 2010.  Consolidated Results of Operations — Year Ended December 31, 2011 (“2011”)
Compared with Year Ended January 1, 2011 (“2010”)   




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
January 1,
 
  
Higher
 
 
Percent
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2011
 
  
(Lower)
 
 
Change
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Net sales
  
$
4,637,143
 
  
$
4,326,713
 
  
$
310,430
 
 
 
7.2
 % 

 Cost of sales
  
 
3,096,772
 
  
 
2,911,944
 
  
 
184,828
 
 
 
6.3
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
1,540,371
 
  
 
1,414,769
 
  
 
125,602
 
 
 
8.9
 

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
1,062,090
 
  
 
1,010,581
 
  
 
51,509
 
 
 
5.1
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating profit
  
 
478,281
 
  
 
404,188
 
  
 
74,093
 
 
 
18.3
 

 Other expenses
  
 
6,377
 
  
 
20,221
 
  
 
(13,844
) 
 
 
(68.5
) 

 Interest expense, net
  
 
156,297
 
  
 
150,236
 
  
 
6,061
 
 
 
4.0
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income tax expense
  
 
315,607
 
  
 
233,731
 
  
 
81,876
 
 
 
35.0
 

 Income tax expense
  
 
48,919
 
  
 
22,438
 
  
 
26,481
 
 
 
118.0
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
266,688
 
  
$
211,293
 
  
$
55,395
 
 
 
26.2
 % 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Net Sales   




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
January 1,
 
  
Higher
 
  
Percent
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2011
 
  
(Lower)
 
  
Change
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Net sales
  
$
4,637,143
 
  
$
4,326,713
 
  
$
310,430
 
  
 
7.2 
% 
 Consolidated net sales were higher by $310 million or 7% in 2011 compared to 2010. The net sales growth
reflects net price increases, incremental net sales from Gear for Sports, which was acquired in the fourth quarter of 2010, and a favorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by lower unit sales volume in most categories.
 Our three largest segments, Innerwear, Outerwear and International, demonstrated growth in net sales, with Outerwear and
International delivering double digit sales growth. Outerwear, International and Innerwear segment net sales were higher by $200 million (16%), $72 million (14%) and $45 million (2%), respectively. Hosiery and Direct to Consumer segment net
sales were lower by $4 million (2%) and $2 million (1%), respectively. 
  42 


Table of Contents
Gross Profit 
 




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
January 1,
 
  
Higher
 
  
Percent
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2011
 
  
(Lower)
 
  
Change
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Gross profit
  
$
1,540,371
 
  
$
1,414,769
 
  
$
125,602
 
  
 
8.9 
% 
 As a percent of net sales, our gross profit was 33.2% in 2011 compared to 32.7% in 2010. Our gross profit
was higher by $126 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The higher gross profit was primarily attributable to higher gross profit of $76 million from the Outerwear segment, of which $69 million was attributable to Gear for Sports, $28 million from the
International segment and $22 million from the Innerwear segment, partially offset by lower gross profit of $8 million from the Hosiery segment and $2 million from the Direct to Consumer segment. General corporate expenses within gross profit, which
are not allocated to segments, were $10 million lower in 2011 compared to 2010.  Our results in 2011 benefited primarily from
net price increases of $310 million (which includes the impact of higher sales incentives of $54 million), favorable product sales mix of $53 million, efficiency savings from our supply chain optimization of $41 million, a favorable impact related
to foreign currency exchange rates of $10 million, lower start-up and shut-down costs of $9 million and receipt of a one-time termination fee of $5 million related to a royalty license agreement. Gross profit was negatively impacted by higher input
costs of $266 million, particularly cotton and energy and oil-related materials, higher other manufacturing costs of $23 million (which is net of the elimination of $24 million of excess 2010 costs related to servicing sales growth), and lower sales
volumes of $12 million.  The average cotton price reflected in our results was $1.09 per pound in 2011 compared to 69 cents
per pound in 2010. These amounts do not include the impact of cotton costs on the cost of sourced goods. While cotton prices have declined in recent months, we will continue to have higher prices for cotton and oil-related materials reflected in our
cost of sales, which will continue to impact our results through at least the first half of 2012.  Selling, General and
Administrative Expenses   




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
January 1,
 
  
Higher
 
  
Percent
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2011
 
  
(Lower)
 
  
Change
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
$
1,062,090
 
  
$
1,010,581
 
  
$
51,509
 
  
 
5.1 
% 
 Our selling, general and administrative expenses were $52 million higher in 2011 compared to 2010. As a
percent of net sales our selling, general and administrative expenses were 22.9% in 2011 compared to 23.4% in 2010. Outerwear, International and Innerwear segment selling, general and administrative expenses were higher by $29 million, $25 million
and $7 million, respectively, and Direct to Consumer and Hosiery segment selling, general and administrative expenses were lower by $5 million and $1 million, respectively. General corporate expenses within selling, general and administrative
expenses, which are not allocated to segments, were $6 million lower in 2011 compared to 2010.  The higher selling, general and
administrative expenses were primarily attributable to higher selling and other marketing expenses of $34 million, incremental administrative costs of $9 million attributable to Gear for Sports, higher distribution expenses of $7 million (which is
net of the elimination of $8 million of excess 2010 costs related to servicing sales growth) and higher expenses as a result of opening new retail stores or expanding existing stores of $6 million, partially offset by lower pension expense of $4
million and lower non-media related media, advertising and promotion (“MAP”) expenses of $3 million. 
  43 


Table of Contents
Operating Profit 
 




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
January 1,
 
  
Higher
 
  
Percent
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2011
 
  
(Lower)
 
  
Change
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Operating profit
  
$
478,281
 
  
$
404,188
 
  
$
74,093
 
  
 
18.3 
% 
 The higher operating profit was primarily attributable to higher operating profit of $47 million from the
Outerwear segment, $15 million from the Innerwear segment, $3 million from the International segment and $3 million from the Direct to Consumer segment, partially offset by lower operating profit of $7 million from the Hosiery segment. In addition,
general corporate expenses within cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses, which are not allocated to segments, were $15 million lower in 2011 compared to 2010. 
Other Expenses   




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
January 1,
 
  
Higher
 
 
Percent
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2011
 
  
(Lower)
 
 
Change
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Other expenses
  
$
6,377
 
  
$
20,221
 
  
$
(13,844
) 
 
 
(68.5
)% 
 In December 2011, we recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $3 million related to the
repurchase of $197 million of the Floating Rate Senior Notes. In 2011, we also incurred charges of $3 million for funding fees associated with the sales of certain trade accounts receivable to financial institutions. 
In November 2010, we completed the sale of our 6.375% Senior Notes. The proceeds from the sale of the 6.375% Senior Notes were used to
retire early the entire $691 million outstanding under the floating-rate Term Loan Facility and reduce the outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Loan Facility, and to pay fees and expenses related to the transaction. In connection with this
transaction, we recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $14 million related to unamortized debt issuance costs and the associated fees and expenses.  In addition, during 2010 we wrote off unamortized debt issuance costs and incurred charges for funding fees associated with the sales of certain trade accounts receivable to financial institutions, which
combined totaled $6 million. The write-off related to unamortized debt issuance costs resulted from the repayment of $57 million of principal under the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility and from a reduction in borrowing capacity
available under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility in February 2010.  Interest Expense, net
  




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
January 1,
 
  
Higher
 
  
Percent
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2011
 
  
(Lower)
 
  
Change
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Interest expense, net
  
$
156,297
 
  
$
150,236
 
  
$
6,061
 
  
 
4.0 
% 
 Interest expense, net was higher by $6 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The higher interest expense was
primarily attributable to higher outstanding debt balances that increased interest expense by $12 million. In addition, the refinancing of our debt structure in November 2010, which included the sale of our $1 billion 6.375% Senior Notes, and
the amendment of the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility in February 2011, together with a lower LIBOR, combined caused a net decrease in interest expense in 2011 of $6 million. 
Our weighted average interest rate on our outstanding debt was 5.63% during 2011 compared to 5.91% in 2010. 
  44 


Table of Contents
Income Tax Expense 
 





$000000.00



$000000.00



$000000.00



$000000.00


 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
January 1,
 
  
Higher
 
  
Percent
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2011
 
  
(Lower)
 
  
Change
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Income tax expense
  
$
48,919
 
  
$
22,438
 
  
$
26,481
 
  
 
118.0 
% 
 Our effective income tax rate was 15.5% in 2011 compared to 9.6% in 2010. The effective income tax rate of
9.6% for 2010 was primarily attributable to a discrete, non-recurring income tax benefit of approximately $20 million. The income tax benefit resulted from a change in estimate associated with the remeasurement of unrecognized tax benefit
accruals and the determination that certain tax positions had been effectively settled following the finalization of tax reviews and audits for amounts that were less than originally anticipated. This non-recurring income tax benefit was partially
offset by a higher proportion of our 2011 earnings attributed to foreign subsidiaries related to our manufacturing operations than in 2010 which are taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate.
Net Income   





$000000.00



$000000.00



$000000.00



$000000.00


 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
January 1,
 
  
Higher
 
  
Percent
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2011
 
  
(Lower)
 
  
Change
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Net income
  
$
266,688
 
  
$
211,293
 
  
$
55,395
 
  
 
26.2 
% 
 Net income for 2011 was higher than 2010 primarily due to higher operating profit of $74 million and
lower other expenses of $14 million, which was partially offset by higher income tax expense of $26 million and higher interest expense of $6 million. 
  45 


Table of Contents
Operating Results by Business Segment — Year Ended December 31, 2011 (“2011”)
Compared with Year Ended January 1, 2011 (“2010”)   





$0000000.00



$0000000.00



$0000000.00



$0000000.00


 
  
Years Ended
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
December 31,
 
 
January 1,
 
 
Higher
 
 
Percent
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2011
 
 
(Lower)
 
 
Change
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Net sales:
  



 



 



 




 Innerwear
  
$
2,058,017
 
 
$
2,012,922
 
 
$
45,095
 
 
 
2.2
 % 

 Outerwear
  
 
1,459,790
 
 
 
1,259,935
 
 
 
199,855
 
 
 
15.9
 

 Hosiery
  
 
162,960
 
 
 
166,780
 
 
 
(3,820
) 
 
 
(2.3
) 

 Direct to Consumer
  
 
375,440
 
 
 
377,847
 
 
 
(2,407
) 
 
 
(0.6
) 

 International
  
 
580,936
 
 
 
509,229
 
 
 
71,707
 
 
 
14.1
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net sales
  
$
4,637,143
 
 
$
4,326,713
 
 
$
310,430
 
 
 
7.2
 % 







 Segment operating profit:
  



 



 



 




 Innerwear
  
$
286,054
 
 
$
271,348
 
 
$
14,706
 
 
 
5.4
 % 

 Outerwear
  
 
133,663
 
 
 
86,564
 
 
 
47,099
 
 
 
54.4
 

 Hosiery
  
 
47,702
 
 
 
54,990
 
 
 
(7,288
) 
 
 
(13.3
) 

 Direct to Consumer
  
 
29,365
 
 
 
26,622
 
 
 
2,743
 
 
 
10.3
 

 International
  
 
63,110
 
 
 
59,675
 
 
 
3,435
 
 
 
5.8
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total segment operating profit
  
 
559,894
 
 
 
499,199
 
 
 
60,695
 
 
 
12.2
 







 Items not included in segment operating profit:
  



 



 



 




 General corporate expenses
  
 
(67,062
) 
 
 
(82,502
) 
 
 
(15,440
) 
 
 
(18.7
) 

 Amortization of trademarks and other intangibles
  
 
(14,551
) 
 
 
(12,509
) 
 
 
2,042
 
 
 
16.3
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating profit
  
 
478,281
 
 
 
404,188
 
 
 
74,093
 
 
 
18.3
 

 Other expenses
  
 
(6,377
) 
 
 
(20,221
) 
 
 
(13,844
) 
 
 
(68.5
) 

 Interest expense, net
  
 
(156,297
) 
 
 
(150,236
) 
 
 
6,061
 
 
 
4.0
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income tax expense
  
$
315,607
 
 
$
233,731
 
 
$
81,876
 
 
 
35.0
 % 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 A significant portion of the selling, general and administrative expenses in each segment is an allocation
of our consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses, however certain expenses that are specifically identifiable to a segment are charged directly to such segment. Certain prior year segment selling, general and administrative expenses
have been revised to conform to the current year presentation. These changes were primarily the result of our decision to cease allocating certain compensation related expenses to the segments. Other than this change, the allocation methodology for
the consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses for 2011 was consistent with 2010. Our consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses before segment allocations were $52 million higher in 2011 compared to 2010. 
Innerwear   





$0000000.00



$0000000.00



$0000000.00



$0000000.00


 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
January 1,
 
  
Higher
 
  
Percent
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2011
 
  
(Lower)
 
  
Change
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Net sales
  
$
2,058,017
 
  
$
2,012,922
 
  
$
45,095
 
  
 
2.2
 % 

 Segment operating profit
  
 
286,054
 
  
 
271,348
 
  
 
14,706
 
  
 
5.4
 
 Overall net sales in the Innerwear segment were higher by $45 million in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily
due to stronger net sales in our male underwear and socks product categories, partially offset by lower net sales in our intimate apparel product category. 
  46 


Table of Contents
Net sales in the male underwear product category were 7% or $63 million higher in 2011
compared to 2010, primarily due to net price increases, partially offset by lower unit sales volume.  Higher net sales of $20
million or 7% in our socks product category reflect higher Hanes brand net sales of $25 million, partially offset by lower Champion brand net sales of $6 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The higher Hanes brand net sales were
primarily due to net price increases, partially offset by lower unit sales volume, and the lower Champion brand net sales were primarily attributable to the loss of a seasonal program. 
Intimate apparel product category net sales were $37 million or 4% lower in 2011 compared to 2010. Our bras and panties product category
net sales were $27 million lower primarily due to lower unit sales volume resulting from a softness in the intimate apparel category, partially offset by net price increases. Our panties product category net sales were $10 million lower primarily
due to lower unit sales volume resulting from a softness in the intimate apparel category, partially offset by net price increases and space gains.  Innerwear segment gross profit was higher by $22 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The higher gross profit was primarily due to higher net product pricing of $172 million (which includes the impact of
higher sales incentives of $50 million), efficiency savings related to our supply chain optimization of $26 million and favorable product sales mix of $14 million. In 2011, our gross profit was positively impacted by a favorable product sales mix of
$14 million which was primarily attributable to a shift in sales to higher margin products within our male underwear product category. These factors were offset by $133 million of higher input costs such as cotton costs related to finished goods
manufactured internally in our facilities, vendor prices, wages and energy and oil-related materials, lower sales volume of $48 million and higher other manufacturing costs of $12 million. The higher other manufacturing costs of $12 million includes
the elimination of $24 million of excess 2010 costs related to servicing sales growth.  Innerwear segment operating profit was
higher in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily as a result of higher gross profit, partially offset by higher distribution expenses of $10 million related to higher costs to implement our price increases partially offset by the elimination of excess 2010
costs related to servicing sales growth.  Outerwear 
 




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

  
  
December 31,2011
 
  
January 1,2011
 
  
Higher(Lower)
 
  
PercentChange
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Net sales
  
$
1,459,790
 
  
$
1,259,935
 
  
$
199,855
 
  
 
15.9
 % 

 Segment operating profit
  
 
133,663
 
  
 
86,564
 
  
 
47,099
 
  
 
54.4
 
 Outerwear segment net sales were higher by $200 million or 16% in 2011 compared to 2010. Outerwear’s
segment net sales include the impact of Gear for Sports, which was acquired in the fourth quarter of 2010 and contributed $206 million of the segment’s net sales growth and $69 million of gross profit growth for 2011. The Gear for Sports
category includes sales of licensed logo apparel in collegiate bookstores and other channels.  Our Champion brand
activewear net sales were higher by $23 million or 4% due to higher unit sales volume in the mass merchant and wholesale club channels and space gains in the department store and wholesale club channels. Our Champion brand has achieved growth
by focusing on the fast growing active demographic with a unique moderate price positioning.  Our wholesale casualwear
(imagewear) category net sales were higher by $21 million and lower in the retail casualwear category by $48 million. The higher net sales in the wholesale casualwear category of 6% were primarily due to net price increases, partially offset by
lower unit sales volume. The lower net sales in the retail casualwear category were impacted by a retailer’s decision to focus our Just My Size brand toward more core basics versus a mix with fashion-oriented lines, partially offset by
net price increases.  Outerwear segment gross profit was higher by $76 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The higher gross
profit was primarily due to higher net product pricing of $83 million (which includes the impact of higher sales incentives of $3 million), favorable product sales mix of $66 million, higher sales volume of $28 million and efficiency savings

  47 


Table of Contents

related to our supply chain optimization of $15 million, partially offset by $106 million of higher input costs such as cotton costs related to finished goods manufactured internally in our
facilities, vendor prices, wages and energy and oil-related materials and higher other manufacturing costs of $7 million. In 2011, our gross profit was positively impacted by a favorable product sales mix of $66 million, which was primarily
attributable to a shift in sales to higher margin products related to our activewear product category and a benefit from higher margin products of Gear for Sports.  Outerwear segment operating profit was higher in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily as a result of higher gross profit, partially offset by higher selling and other marketing expenses of $25 million,
incremental administrative costs of $9 million attributable to Gear for Sports, partially offset by lower distribution expenses of $5 million. The higher selling and other marketing expenses were primarily due to higher sales volumes and the
incremental costs resulting from the acquisition of Gear for Sports.  Hosiery 
 




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
January 1,
 
  
Higher
 
 
Percent
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2011
 
  
(Lower)
 
 
Change
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Net sales
  
$
162,960
 
  
$
166,780
 
  
$
(3,820
) 
 
 
(2.3
)% 

 Segment operating profit
  
 
47,702
 
  
 
54,990
 
  
 
(7,288
) 
 
 
(13.3
) 
 Net sales in the Hosiery segment declined by $4 million or 2%, which was primarily due to lower net sales
of our L’eggs brand to mass retailers and food and drug stores, partially offset by higher net sales of the DKNY brand in the wholesale club channel. The hosiery category has been in a state of consistent decline for the past
decade, as the trend toward casual dress reduced demand for sheer hosiery. Generally, we manage the Hosiery segment for cash, placing an emphasis on reducing our cost structure and managing cash efficiently. 
Hosiery segment gross profit was lower by $8 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The lower gross profit for 2011 compared to 2010 was
primarily the result of unfavorable product sales mix of $6 million and higher other manufacturing costs of $5 million. 
Hosiery segment operating profit was lower in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily as a result of lower gross profit. 
Direct to Consumer   




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
January 1,
 
  
Higher
 
 
Percent
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2011
 
  
(Lower)
 
 
Change
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Net sales
  
$
375,440
 
  
$
377,847
 
  
$
(2,407
) 
 
 
(0.6
)% 

 Segment operating profit
  
 
29,365
 
  
 
26,622
 
  
 
2,743
 
 
 
10.3
 
 Direct to Consumer segment net sales were lower by $2 million in 2011 compared to 2010 due to lower net
sales related to our Internet operations. Comparable store sales were 1% higher in 2011 compared to 2010.  Direct to Consumer
segment gross profit was $2 million lower in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to lower sales volume of $7 million and higher input costs of $5 million, partially offset by higher net product pricing of $10 million. 
Direct to Consumer segment operating profit was higher in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to lower non-media related MAP expenses of
$6 million and lower other selling and marketing expenses of $5 million, partially offset by lower gross profit and higher expenses of $6 million as a result of opening new retail stores or expanding existing stores. 
  48 


Table of Contents
International 
 




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
January 1,
 
  
Higher
 
  
Percent
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2011
 
  
(Lower)
 
  
Change
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Net sales
  
$
580,936
 
  
$
509,229
 
  
$
71,707
 
  
 
14.1
 % 

 Segment operating profit
  
 
63,110
 
  
 
59,675
 
  
 
3,435
 
  
 
5.8
 
 Overall net sales in the International segment were higher by $72 million or 14% in 2011 compared to 2010,
primarily as a result of sales growth in Asia, Latin America, Australia and Europe, which reflects net price increases, space gains and a favorable impact of $24 million related to foreign currency exchange rates. Excluding the impact of foreign
exchange rates on currency, International segment net sales were higher by 9% in 2011 compared to 2010. The favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates in our International segment was primarily due to the strengthening of the Japanese yen,
Canadian dollar, Euro and Brazilian real compared to the U.S. dollar.  During 2011, we experienced higher net sales, in each
case excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, in our activewear, intimate apparel and male underwear product categories in Asia of $24 million, in our hosiery, male underwear and intimate apparel product categories in Latin America
of $19 million, in our activewear product category in Australia of $16 million, which benefited from the acquisition of the assets of the TNF Group Unit Trust from TNF Group Pty Ltd, as trustee, and of Player Sportswear Unit Trust from Player
Sportswear Pty Ltd, as trustee (collectively “TNF”) in April 2011, and in our casualwear product category in Europe of $6 million. These higher net sales were partially offset by lower net sales in our intimate apparel product category in
Canada of $11 million. The higher net sales in Asia are primarily attributable to space gains and receipt of a one-time termination fee of $5 million related to a royalty license agreement, partially offset by higher sales returns related to a
customer in China. In certain international markets we are focusing on adopting global designs for some product categories to quickly launch new styles to expand our market position. The higher net sales reflect our successful efforts to improve our
strong positions.  International segment gross profit was higher by $28 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The higher gross
profit was primarily a result of higher net product pricing of $45 million, a favorable impact related to foreign currency exchange rates of $10 million and receipt of a one-time termination fee of $5 million related to a royalty license agreement,
partially offset by vendor price increases of $21 million and unfavorable product sales mix of $7 million.  International
segment operating profit was higher in 2011 compared to 2010, which was primarily attributable to the higher gross profit, partially offset by higher selling and other marketing expenses of $11 million, higher distribution expenses of $7 million and
higher spending in certain other areas. The higher selling and marketing expenses were primarily due to incremental costs resulting from the acquisition of the assets of TNF and costs associated with the growth of our business in China. The changes
in foreign currency exchange rates, which are included in the impact on gross profit above, had a favorable impact on operating profit of $4 million in 2011 compared to 2010.  General Corporate Expenses  General corporate expenses were lower in
2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to lower start-up and shut-down costs of $9 million associated with the consolidation and globalization of our supply chain and lower pension expense of $4 million. 
  49 


Table of Contents
Consolidated Results of Operations — Year Ended January 1, 2011 (“2010”) Compared
with Year Ended January 2, 2010 (“2009”)   




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 

 
  
January 1,
 
  
January 2,
 
  
Higher
 
 
Percent
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
(Lower)
 
 
Change
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Net sales
  
$
4,326,713
 
  
$
3,891,275
 
  
$
435,438
 
 
 
11.2
 % 

 Cost of sales
  
 
2,911,944
 
  
 
2,626,001
 
  
 
285,943
 
 
 
10.9
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
1,414,769
 
  
 
1,265,274
 
  
 
149,495
 
 
 
11.8
 

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
1,010,581
 
  
 
940,530
 
  
 
70,051
 
 
 
7.4
 

 Restructuring
  
 
—  
  
  
 
53,888
 
  
 
(53,888
) 
 
 
NM
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating profit
  
 
404,188
 
  
 
270,856
 
  
 
133,332
 
 
 
49.2
 

 Other expenses
  
 
20,221
 
  
 
49,301
 
  
 
(29,080
) 
 
 
(59.0
) 

 Interest expense, net
  
 
150,236
 
  
 
163,279
 
  
 
(13,043
) 
 
 
(8.0
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income tax expense
  
 
233,731
 
  
 
58,276
 
  
 
175,455
 
 
 
301.1
 

 Income tax expense
  
 
22,438
 
  
 
6,993
 
  
 
15,445
 
 
 
220.9
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
211,293
 
  
$
51,283
 
  
$
160,010
 
 
 
312.0
 % 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Net Sales   




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 

 
  
January 1,
 
  
January 2,
 
  
Higher
 
  
Percent
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
(Lower)
 
  
Change
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Net sales
  
$
4,326,713
 
  
$
3,891,275
 
  
$
435,438
 
  
 
11.2
 % 
 Consolidated net sales were higher by $435 million, or 11%, in 2010 compared to 2009, reflecting
significant space and distribution gains at retailers, positive retail sell-through and inventory restocking at retail. Our significant space and distribution gains at retailers contributed approximately 6% of sales growth, while approximately 4% of
growth was driven by increased retail sell-through, retailer inventory restocking and foreign currency exchange rates. Early in the fourth quarter of 2010 we completed the acquisition of Gear for Sports which accounted for 1% of our higher net
sales. All three of our largest segments delivered double digit sales growth in 2010, with the Outerwear segment achieving 20% sales growth.  Innerwear, Outerwear and International segment net sales were higher by $179 million (10%), $208 million (20%) and $71 million (16%), respectively, in 2010 compared to 2009. Direct to
Consumer segment net sales were higher by $8 million (2%), while Hosiery and Other segment net sales were lower by $19 million (10%) and $13 million, respectively, in 2010 compared to 2009. Outerwear’s segment net sales include
the acquisition of Gear for Sports during the fourth quarter of 2010 which contributed 4% of the segment’s growth for the year.  International segment net sales were higher by 16% in 2010 compared to 2009, which reflected a favorable impact of $22 million related to foreign currency exchange rates due to the strengthening of
the Canadian dollar, Japanese yen, Brazilian real and Mexican peso compared to the U.S. dollar, partially offset by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to the Euro. International segment net sales were higher by 11% in 2010
compared to 2009 after excluding the impact of foreign exchange rates on currency. 
  50 


Table of Contents
Gross Profit 
 




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 

 
  
January 1,2011
 
  
January 2,2010
 
  
Higher(Lower)
 
  
PercentChange
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Gross profit
  
$
1,414,769
 
  
$
1,265,274
 
  
$
149,495
 
  
 
11.8 
% 
 As a percent of net sales, our gross profit was 32.7% in 2010 compared to 32.5% in 2009, increasing as a
result of the items described below. Our results in 2010 primarily benefited from higher sales volumes and savings from cost reduction initiatives and were negatively impacted by higher cotton costs and higher service costs. 
Our gross profit was higher by $149 million in 2010 compared to 2009 due primarily to higher sales volume of $203 million, savings
from our prior restructuring actions of $29 million, vendor price reductions of $27 million, lower start-up and shut-down costs of $16 million associated with the consolidation and globalization of our supply chain, a $10 million favorable impact
related to foreign currency exchange rates and lower accelerated depreciation of $5 million. The favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates in our International segment was primarily due to the strengthening of the Canadian dollar, Japanese
yen, Brazilian real and Mexican peso compared to the U.S. dollar, partially offset by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to the Euro.  In 2010, our gross profit was negatively impacted by an unfavorable product sales mix of $54 million which was primarily attributable to a shift in sales to lower margin products within our casualwear,
socks and intimate apparel product categories, higher sales incentives of $34 million, higher cotton costs of $33 million, lower product pricing of $12 million, primarily in the first half of 2010, higher other manufacturing costs of $6 million and
higher production costs of $4 million. The higher production costs were primarily attributable to $25 million of incremental costs to service higher demand, partially offset by lower energy and oil-related costs of $21 million. Our 2010 sales
incentives were higher due to higher sales volumes and, as a percentage of sales, sales incentives were flat compared to 2009. 
We incurred one-time restructuring related write-offs of $4 million in 2009 for stranded raw materials and work in process inventory
determined not to be salvageable or cost-effective to relocate, which did not recur in 2010.  The cotton prices reflected in
our results were 69 cents per pound in 2010 compared to 55 cents per pound in 2009. We continued to see higher prices for cotton and oil-related materials in the market in 2010. 
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 
 




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 

 
  
January 1,2011
 
  
January 2,2010
 
  
Higher(Lower)
 
  
PercentChange
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
$
1,010,581
 
  
$
940,530
 
  
$
70,051
 
  
 
7.4 
% 
 Our selling, general and administrative expenses were $70 million higher in 2010 compared to 2009. As
a percent of net sales our selling, general and administrative expenses were 23.4% in 2010 compared to 24.2% in 2009.  Our
non-media related MAP expenses and media related MAP expenses were higher by $12 million and $5 million, respectively, during 2010 compared to 2009 when we reduced spending due to the recession. MAP expenses may vary from period to period
during a fiscal year depending on the timing of our advertising campaigns for retail selling seasons and product introductions. For example, during the second quarter of 2010 we launched new television advertising featuring new Hanes
men’s underwear with Comfort Flex Waistbands and Lay Flat Collar T-shirts, we introduced new advertising supporting Playtex 18 Hour cooling products and we launched new advertising supporting the new barely there
Smart Sizes bra sizing system. 
  51 


Table of Contents
We also incurred higher distribution expenses of $28 million, higher selling and other
marketing expenses of $17 million and higher consulting expenses of $7 million. The higher distribution expenses were primarily due to higher sales volumes and $10 million of incremental costs to service higher demand such as overtime and rework
expenses in our distribution centers while the higher selling and other marketing expenses were primarily due to higher sales volumes. In addition, we recognized an $8 million gain related to the sale of our yarn operations to Parkdale America, LLC
(“Parkdale America”) in 2009 that did not recur in 2010.  We also incurred higher expenses of $7 million in 2010
compared to 2009 as a result of opening new retail stores or expanding existing stores. We opened five retail stores during 2010.  These higher expenses were partially offset by lower pension expense of $7 million, savings of $4 million from our prior restructuring actions, lower accelerated depreciation of $3 million and lower stock
compensation and certain other benefit expenses of $2 million in 2010 compared to 2009.  Changes due to foreign currency
exchange rates, which are included in the impact of the changes discussed above, resulted in higher selling, general and administrative expenses of $7 million in 2010 compared to 2009. 
Restructuring   




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
January 1,
 
  
January 2,
 
  
Higher
 
 
Percent
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
(Lower)
 
 
Change
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Restructuring
  
$
—  
  
  
$
53,888
 
  
$
(53,888
) 
 
 
NM
  
 During 2009, we incurred $54 million in restructuring charges, which primarily related to employee
termination and other benefits, charges related to contract obligations, other exit costs associated with facility closures approved during that period and fixed asset impairment charges that did not recur in 2010. 
Operating Profit   




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
January 1,
 
  
January 2,
 
  
Higher
 
  
Percent
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
(Lower)
 
  
Change
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Operating profit
  
$
404,188
 
  
$
270,856
 
  
$
133,332
 
  
 
49.2 
% 
 Operating profit was higher in 2010 compared to 2009 as a result of higher gross profit of
$149 million and lower restructuring charges of $54 million, partially offset by higher selling, general and administrative expenses of $70 million. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a favorable impact on operating profit
of $3 million in 2010 compared to 2009.  Other Expenses 
 




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
January 1,
 
  
January 2,
 
  
Higher
 
 
Percent
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
(Lower)
 
 
Change
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Other expenses
  
$
20,221
 
  
$
49,301
 
  
$
(29,080
) 
 
 
(59.0
)% 
 In November 2010, we completed the sale of our 6.375% Senior Notes. The proceeds from the sale of the
6.375% Senior Notes were used to retire early the entire $691 million outstanding under the floating-rate Term Loan Facility and reduce the outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Loan Facility, and to pay fees and expenses related to the
transaction. In connection with this transaction, we recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $14 million related to unamortized debt issuance costs and the associated fees and expenses. 
In addition, during 2010 we wrote off unamortized debt issuance costs and incurred charges for funding fees associated with the sales of
certain trade accounts receivable to financial institutions, which combined totaled $6 million. The write-off related to unamortized debt issuance costs resulted from the repayment of $57 million of

  52 


Table of Contents

principal under the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility and from a reduction in borrowing capacity available under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility from $250 million to
$150 million that we effected in recognition of our lower trade accounts receivable balance resulting from the sales of certain trade accounts receivable to a financial institution outside the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility.
 During 2009, we recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $17 million related to unamortized debt issuance costs
and fees paid in connection with the execution of the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility and the issuance of the 8% Senior Notes. As a result of the refinancing of our outstanding borrowings under the 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facility and
repayment of the outstanding borrowings under our $450 million second lien credit facility that we entered into in 2006 (the “Second Lien Credit Facility”), we recognized a loss of $26 million in 2009 related to termination of certain
interest rate hedging arrangements. In addition, in 2009 we incurred a $2 million loss on early extinguishment of debt related to unamortized debt issuance costs resulting from the prepayment of $140 million of principal under the 2006 Senior
Secured Credit Facility and we incurred costs of $4 million to amend the 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facility and the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility.  Interest Expense, Net   




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
January 1,
 
  
January 2,
 
  
Higher
 
 
Percent
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
(Lower)
 
 
Change
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Interest expense, net
  
$
150,236
 
  
$
163,279
 
  
$
(13,043
) 
 
 
(8.0
)% 
 Interest expense, net was lower by $13 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The lower interest expense
was primarily attributable to lower outstanding debt balances that reduced interest expense by $12 million. In addition, the refinancing of our debt structure in December 2009, which included the amendment and restatement of the 2006 Senior Secured
Credit Facility into the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility, the issuance of the 8% Senior Notes and the settlement of certain outstanding interest rate hedging instruments, and the refinancing of our debt structure in November 2010, which
included the sale of our 6.375% Senior Notes, combined with a lower London Interbank Offered Rate, or “LIBOR,” and federal funds rate, caused a net decrease in interest expense in 2010 compared to 2009 of $1 million. 
Our weighted average interest rate on our outstanding debt was 5.91% during 2010 compared to 6.86% in 2009. 
Income Tax Expense   




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
January 1,
 
  
January 2,
 
  
Higher
 
  
Percent
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
(Lower)
 
  
Change
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Income tax expense
  
$
22,438
 
  
$
6,993
 
  
$
15,445
 
  
220.9
 
% 
 Our effective income tax rate was 9.6% in 2010 compared to 12.0% in 2009. The effective income tax rate of
9.6% for 2010 was primarily attributable to a discrete, non-recurring income tax benefit of approximately $20 million. The income tax benefit resulted from a change in estimate associated with the remeasurement of unrecognized tax benefit
accruals and the determination that certain tax positions had been effectively settled following the finalization of tax reviews and audits for amounts that were less than originally anticipated. This non-recurring income tax benefit was partially
offset by a lower proportion of our earnings attributed to foreign subsidiaries related to our manufacturing operations than in 2009 which are taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate. 
Our strategic initiative to enhance our global supply chain by optimizing lower-cost manufacturing capacity and to support our commercial
operations outside the United States resulted in capital investments outside the United States in 2009 and 2010 that impacted our effective tax rate. 
  53 


Table of Contents
Net Income 
 




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
January 1,
 
  
January 2,
 
  
Higher
 
  
Percent
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
(Lower)
 
  
Change
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Net income
  
$
211,293
 
  
$
51,283
 
  
$
160,010
 
  
 
312.0 
% 
 Net income for 2010 was higher than 2009 primarily due to higher operating profit of $133 million,
lower other expenses of $29 million and lower interest expense of $13 million, which was partially offset by higher income tax expense of $15 million. 
  54 


Table of Contents
Operating Results by Business Segment — Year Ended January 1, 2011 (“2010”) Compared
with Year Ended January 2, 2010 (“2009”)   




















 
  
Years Ended
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
January 1,2011
 
 
January 2,2010
 
 
Higher(Lower)
 
 
PercentChange
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Net sales:
  



 



 



 




 Innerwear
  
$
2,012,922
 
 
$
1,833,616
 
 
$
179,306
 
 
 
9.8
 % 

 Outerwear
  
 
1,259,935
 
 
 
1,051,735
 
 
 
208,200
 
 
 
19.8
 

 Hosiery
  
 
166,780
 
 
 
185,710
 
 
 
(18,930
) 
 
 
(10.2
) 

 Direct to Consumer
  
 
377,847
 
 
 
369,739
 
 
 
8,108
 
 
 
2.2
 

 International
  
 
509,229
 
 
 
437,804
 
 
 
71,425
 
 
 
16.3
 

 Other
  
 
—  
  
 
 
12,671
 
 
 
(12,671
) 
 
 
NM
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net sales
  
$
4,326,713
 
 
$
3,891,275
 
 
$
435,438
 
 
 
11.2
 % 

 Segment operating profit:
  



 



 



 




 Innerwear
  
$
271,348
 
 
$
242,853
 
 
$
28,495
 
 
 
11.7
 % 

 Outerwear
  
 
86,564
 
 
 
57,920
 
 
 
28,644
 
 
 
49.5
 

 Hosiery
  
 
54,990
 
 
 
61,575
 
 
 
(6,585
) 
 
 
(10.7
) 

 Direct to Consumer
  
 
26,622
 
 
 
37,090
 
 
 
(10,468
) 
 
 
(28.2
) 

 International
  
 
59,675
 
 
 
45,341
 
 
 
14,334
 
 
 
31.6
 

 Other
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,164
) 
 
 
2,164
 
 
 
NM
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total segment operating profit
  
 
499,199
 
 
 
442,615
 
 
 
56,584
 
 
 
12.8
 

 Items not included in segment operating profit:
  



 



 



 




 General corporate expenses
  
 
(82,502
) 
 
 
(89,568
) 
 
 
(7,066
) 
 
 
(7.9
) 

 Amortization of trademarks and other intangibles
  
 
(12,509
) 
 
 
(12,443
) 
 
 
66
 
 
 
0.5
 

 Restructuring
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(53,888
) 
 
 
(53,888
) 
 
 
NM
  

 Inventory write-off included in cost of sales
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(4,135
) 
 
 
(4,135
) 
 
 
NM
  

 Accelerated depreciation included in cost of sales
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(8,641
) 
 
 
(8,641
) 
 
 
NM
  

 Accelerated depreciation included in selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(3,084
) 
 
 
(3,084
) 
 
 
NM
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating profit
  
 
404,188
 
 
 
270,856
 
 
 
133,332
 
 
 
49.2
 

 Other expenses
  
 
(20,221
) 
 
 
(49,301
) 
 
 
(29,080
) 
 
 
(59.0
) 

 Interest expense, net
  
 
(150,236
) 
 
 
(163,279
) 
 
 
(13,043
) 
 
 
(8.0
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income tax expense
  
$
233,731
 
 
$
58,276
 
 
$
175,455
 
 
 
301.1
 % 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 A significant portion of the selling, general and administrative expenses in each segment is an allocation
of our consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses, however certain expenses that are specifically identifiable to a segment are charged directly to such segment. Certain prior year segment operating profit disclosures have been
revised to conform to the current year presentation. These changes were primarily the result of our decision to cease allocating certain compensation related expenses to the segments. Our consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses
before segment allocations was $70 million higher in 2010 compared to 2009. 
  55 


Table of Contents
Innerwear 
 




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
January 1,2011
 
  
January 2,2010
 
  
Higher(Lower)
 
  
PercentChange
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Net sales
  
$
2,012,922
 
  
$
1,833,616
 
  
$
179,306
 
  
 
9.8
 % 

 Segment operating profit
  
 
271,348
 
  
 
242,853
 
  
 
28,495
 
  
 
11.7
 
 Overall net sales in the Innerwear segment were higher by $179 million or 10% in 2010 compared to
2009, primarily due to space and distribution gains, stronger sales at retail and retailer inventory restocking. We have achieved space and distributions gains by leveraging our scale and consumer insight. Our strong brands across all distribution
channels and our innovation processes allow us to take advantage of long-term consumer trends.  Net sales in our male underwear
product category were 19% or $146 million higher in 2010 compared to 2009, which reflect higher net sales in our Hanes brand of $135 million primarily due to distribution gains related to a new customer in the discount retail
channel, space gains in the mass merchant and department store channels and increased retail sell through. Our male underwear product category continues to benefit from the increased media support for our Hanes brand and from our
identification of key long-term megatrends such as comfort and dyed and color products. We have developed innovations to capitalize on these trends such as Hanes Lay Flat Collar T-shirts and the Hanes Comfort Flex Waistband.
 Intimate apparel product category net sales were $22 million higher in 2010 compared to 2009. Our bra category net sales
were $13 million higher in the average figure sizes driven primarily by space and distribution gains. Our panties category net sales were higher by $9 million primarily due to distribution gains related to a new customer in the discount retail
channel. From a brand perspective, our net sales were higher in our smaller brands (barely there, Just My Size and Wonderbra) by $21 million, in our Hanes brand by $8 million and in our Bali brand by
$3 million, partially offset by lower net sales in our Playtex brand of $6 million and lower private label net sales of $4 million.  Higher net sales of $12 million in our socks product category reflect higher Hanes brand net sales of $26 million, partially offset by lower Champion brand net sales of
$14 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The higher Hanes brand net sales were primarily due to space gains in the mass merchant channel and increased retail sell through and the lower Champion brand net sales were primarily due to
lower net sales in the wholesale club channel.  Innerwear segment gross profit was higher by $45 million in 2010 compared
to 2009. The higher gross profit was primarily due to higher sales volume of $101 million, savings from our prior restructuring actions of $21 million, vendor price reductions of $15 million and higher product pricing of
$3 million before increased sales incentives. These lower costs were partially offset by higher sales incentives of $43 million due to higher sales volumes and investments made with retailers, unfavorable product sales mix of
$22 million, higher cotton costs of $13 million, higher production costs of $11 million and higher other manufacturing costs of $5 million. The higher production costs were due to incremental costs to service higher demand, partially
offset by lower energy and oil-related costs.  As a percent of segment net sales, gross profit in the Innerwear segment was
31.6% in 2010 compared to 32.3% in 2009.  Innerwear segment operating profit was higher in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily as a
result of higher gross profit and savings of $2 million from prior restructuring actions primarily for compensation and related benefits, partially offset by higher media related MAP expenses of $7 million, higher distribution expenses of
$7 million and higher non-media related MAP expenses of $4 million. 
  56 


Table of Contents
Outerwear 
 




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
January 1,2011
 
  
January 2,2010
 
  
Higher(Lower)
 
  
PercentChange
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Net sales
  
$
1,259,935
 
  
$
1,051,735
 
  
$
208,200
 
  
 
19.8
 % 

 Segment operating profit
  
 
86,564
 
  
 
57,920
 
  
 
28,644
 
  
 
49.5
 
 Outerwear segment net sales, which benefited from space and distribution gains and stronger sales at
retail, were higher by $208 million or 20% in 2010 compared to 2009. Our casualwear category net sales were higher in both the wholesale and retail product categories by $64 million and $59 million, respectively. The higher net sales
in the wholesale casualwear (imagewear) category of 22% were primarily due to stronger sales at retail and replenishment timing of inventory levels by third party embellishers and wholesalers. The higher net sales in the retail casualwear product
category of 21% reflect space gains primarily from an exclusive agreement entered into with Wal-Mart in April 2009 to develop, source and merchandise a line of women’s clothing designed to meet the needs of plus size women. 
Our Champion brand activewear net sales, which continue to be positively impacted by our marketing investment in the brand, were
higher by $49 million or 10% due to stronger sales at retail and space gains in the sporting goods channel. Our Champion brand has achieved consistent growth by focusing on the fast growing active demographic with a unique moderate price
positioning.  The acquisition of Gear for Sports in early November 2010 added an incremental $36 million of net sales for the
year. The Gear for Sports category includes sales of licensed logo apparel in collegiate bookstores and other channels. 
Outerwear segment gross profit was higher by $48 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The higher gross profit was primarily due to
higher sales volume of $70 million, lower sales incentives of $15 million, savings of $7 million from our cost reduction initiatives and prior restructuring actions, lower production costs of $5 million related to lower energy
and oil-related costs, vendor price reductions of $5 million, lower other manufacturing costs of $3 million and lower on-going excess and obsolete inventory costs of $2 million. These lower costs were partially offset by lower product
pricing of $22 million primarily in the first half of 2010, higher cotton costs of $20 million and unfavorable product sales mix of $15 million.  As a percent of segment net sales, gross profit in the Outerwear segment was 22.1% in 2010 compared to 21.9% in 2009, increasing as a result of the items described above. 
Outerwear segment operating profit was higher in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily as a result of higher gross profit, lower media related
MAP expenses of $3 million and lower spending in numerous areas of $3 million, partially offset by higher distribution expenses of $15 million, higher selling and other marketing expenses of $7 million and higher non-media related MAP
expenses of $4 million.  Hosiery 
 




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
January 1,2011
 
  
January 2,2010
 
  
Higher(Lower)
 
 
PercentChange
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Net sales
  
$
166,780
 
  
$
185,710
 
  
$
(18,930
) 
 
 
(10.2
)% 

 Segment operating profit
  
 
54,990
 
  
 
61,575
 
  
 
(6,585
) 
 
 
(10.7
) 
 Net sales in the Hosiery segment declined by $19 million or 10%, which was primarily due to lower net
sales of our L’eggs brand to mass retailers and food and drug stores and our Hanes brand to national chains and department stores. The hosiery category has been in a state of consistent decline for the past decade, as the trend
toward casual dress reduced demand for sheer hosiery. Generally, we manage the Hosiery segment for cash, placing an emphasis on reducing our cost structure and managing cash efficiently. 
  57 


Table of Contents
Hosiery segment gross profit was lower by $9 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The
lower gross profit for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily the result of lower sales volume of $11 million and higher on-going excess and obsolete inventory costs of $2 million, partially offset by lower production costs of $2 million and
vendor price reductions of $1 million.  As a percent of segment net sales, gross profit in the Hosiery segment was 50.2%
in 2010 compared to 49.8% in 2009.  Hosiery segment operating profit was lower in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily as a result
of lower gross profit and higher media related MAP expenses of $2 million, partially offset by lower distribution expenses of $2 million.  Direct to Consumer   




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
January 1,2011
 
  
January 2,2010
 
  
Higher(Lower)
 
 
PercentChange
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Net sales
  
$
377,847
 
  
$
369,739
 
  
$
8,108
 
 
 
2.2
 % 

 Segment operating profit
  
 
26,622
 
  
 
37,090
 
  
 
(10,468
) 
 
 
(28.2
) 
 Direct to Consumer segment net sales were $8 million or 2% higher in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily
due to higher net sales in our outlet stores attributable to new stores opened after 2009 and higher net sales related to our Internet operations. Comparable store sales in 2010 were flat compared to 2009. 
Direct to Consumer segment gross profit was slightly higher in 2010 compared to 2009. The higher gross profit was primarily due to higher
sales volume of $4 million and higher product pricing of $2 million which was offset by higher other product costs of $5 million.  As a percent of segment net sales, gross profit in the Direct to Consumer segment was 61.1% in 2010 compared to 62.4% in 2009.  Direct to Consumer segment operating profit was lower in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily as a result of higher expenses of $7 million as a result of opening new retail stores or expanding existing stores
and higher non-media related MAP expenses of $3 million.  International 
 




















 
  
Years Ended
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
January 1,2011
 
  
January 2,2010
 
  
Higher(Lower)
 
  
PercentChange
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Net sales
  
$
509,229
 
  
$
437,804
 
  
$
71,425
 
  
 
16.3
 % 

 Segment operating profit
  
 
59,675
 
  
 
45,341
 
  
 
14,334
 
  
 
31.6
 
 Overall net sales in the International segment were higher by $71 million or 16% in 2010 compared to
2009, primarily as a result of stronger net sales in Canada, Europe, Mexico, Brazil, China, India and Argentina, which reflects space and distribution gains and stronger sales at retail, and a favorable impact of $22 million related to foreign
currency exchange rates, partially offset by lower sales in Japan.  Excluding the impact of foreign exchange rates on currency,
International segment net sales increased by 11% in 2010 compared to 2009. The favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates in our International segment was primarily due to the strengthening of the Canadian dollar, Japanese yen, Brazilian
real, and Mexican peso compared to the U.S. dollar, partially offset by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to the Euro. 
  58 


Table of Contents
During 2010, we experienced higher net sales, in each case excluding the impact of foreign
currency exchange rates, in our activewear, intimate apparel and male underwear product categories in Canada of $11 million, in our casualwear product category in Europe of $11 million, in our intimate apparel product category in Mexico of
$7 million, in our male underwear and hosiery product categories in Brazil of $7 million, in our thermals and male underwear product categories in China of $5 million, in our male underwear product category in India of $3 million, in
our intimate apparel product category in Argentina of $3 million and higher net sales of $6 million in all other regions, partially offset by lower net sales in our activewear and male underwear product categories in Japan of $4 million.
Our innerwear product categories in Canada and Mexico have continued to produce strong sales growth as we hold leading positions with strong market shares in intimate apparel and male underwear product categories. In certain international markets we
are focusing on adopting global designs for some product categories to quickly launch new styles to expand our market position. The higher net sales reflect our successful efforts to improve our strong positions. 
International segment gross profit was higher by $37 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The higher gross profit was primarily a result
of higher sales volume of $22 million, a favorable impact related to foreign currency exchange rates of $10 million, vendor price reductions of $6 million and higher product pricing of $5 million, partially offset by higher sales
incentives of $6 million.  As a percent of segment net sales, gross profit in the International segment was 38.8% in 2010
compared to 36.7% in 2009, increasing as a result of the items described above.  International segment operating profit was
higher in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily as a result of the higher gross profit, partially offset by higher selling and other marketing expenses of $9 million, higher distribution expenses of $7 million, higher non-media related MAP
expenses of $3 million and higher consulting expenses of $2 million.  The changes in foreign currency exchange rates,
which are included in the impact on gross profit above, had a favorable impact on operating profit of $3 million in 2010 compared to 2009.  Other   




















 
  
Years Ended
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
January 1,2011
 
  
January 2,2010
 
 
Higher(Lower)
 
 
PercentChange
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Net sales
  
$
—  
  
  
$
12,671
 
 
$
(12,671
) 
 
 
NM
  

 Segment operating loss
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(2,164
) 
 
 
2,164
 
 
 
NM
  
 Sales in our Other segment primarily consisted of sales of yarn to third parties, which were intended to
maintain asset utilization at certain manufacturing facilities and generate approximate break even margins. In October 2009, we completed the sale of our yarn operations as a result of which we ceased making our own yarn and now source all of our
yarn requirements from large-scale yarn suppliers. As a result of the sale of our yarn operations, we no longer have net sales in our Other segment.  General Corporate Expenses  General corporate expenses were
$7 million lower in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to lower start-up and shut-down costs of $16 million associated with the consolidation and globalization of our supply chain, lower pension expense of $7 million and lower stock
compensation and certain other benefits of $1 million, partially offset by lower gains on sales of assets of $12 million and higher other expenses of $4 million. 
  59 


Table of Contents
Liquidity and Capital Resources 
Trends and Uncertainties Affecting Liquidity  Our primary sources of liquidity are cash generated by operations and availability under our Revolving Loan Facility, Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility and international loan facilities. At
December 31, 2011, we had $571 million of borrowing availability under our $600 million Revolving Loan Facility (after taking into account outstanding letters of credit), $66 million of short-term borrowing availability under our international
loan facilities and $35 million in cash and cash equivalents. We currently believe that our existing cash balances and cash generated by operations, together with our available credit capacity, will enable us to comply with the terms of our
indebtedness and meet foreseeable liquidity requirements.  The following have impacted or are expected to impact liquidity:
  


 
•
 
 we have principal and interest obligations under our debt; 
 


 
•
 
 we expect to continue to invest in efforts to improve operating efficiencies and lower costs; 
 


 
•
 
 we may selectively pursue strategic acquisitions;   


 
•
 
 we could increase or decrease the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the United States, which could
significantly impact our effective income tax rate; and   


 
•
 
 our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to 10 million shares of our stock in the open market (2.8 million of which we have
repurchased as of December 31, 2011 at a cost of $75 million), although we may choose not to repurchase any stock and instead focus on other uses of cash such as the repayment of our debt. 
We expect to be able to manage our working capital levels and capital expenditure amounts to maintain sufficient levels of liquidity.
Factors that could help us in these efforts include higher sales volume and the realization of additional cost benefits from previous restructuring and related actions.  The economic environment in which we are operating continues to be uncertain and volatile, which could have unanticipated adverse effects on our business during 2012 and beyond. We have seen a sustained
increase in various input costs, such as cotton and oil-related materials, utilities, freight and wages, which have impacted our results in 2011 and will continue to do so through at least the first half of 2012. During 2011, we experienced
substantial pressure on profitability due to the economic climate, such as higher cotton, energy and labor costs. Rising demand for cotton resulting from the economic recovery, weather-related supply disruptions, significant declines in U.S.
inventory and a sharp rise in the futures market for cotton caused cotton prices to surge upward during 2010 and early 2011. Because of systemic cost inflation in 2011, particularly for cotton, energy and labor, we implemented price increases during
2011. The timing, magnitude and frequency of price increases varied by product category, channel of trade, and country, with some increases occurring as frequently as quarterly. While cotton prices have declined in recent months, we will continue to
have higher prices for cotton and oil-related materials reflected in our cost of sales, which will continue to impact our results through at least the first half of 2012.  Based on current market conditions, we expect the estimated impact of inflation could be in the range of $250 million to $300 million higher in 2012 over 2011, of which approximately $200 million relates
to higher cotton costs. We expect the cost inflation will primarily impact the first two quarters of 2012. The three price increases we implemented between February and October in 2011 will help mitigate the inflation. Looking forward, cotton prices
have moderated and appear to have settled at levels considerably lower than 2011 record prices. We have been working with our retail partners on appropriate pricing strategies to implement when lower cotton prices work through our supply chain.
 The profitability of Outerwear’s wholesale casualwear category is being adversely affected by hypercompetitive pricing
in the wholesale screen-print market. We expect pricing in this market’s basic-product promotional sector to continue to remain problematic, and in response we will de-emphasize the promotional basic sector while maintaining our presence in the
more profitable premium-product and core-product sectors where we have a stronger position.  Due to lower unit volumes from
price elasticity and the impact of wholesale casualwear category issues described above, we are adjusting manufacturing capacity, primarily by taking time in our facilities as well as eliminating certain contractors. We expect to incur approximately
$20 million in charges related to these proposed actions, which will primarily impact the first quarter of 2012. These charges will be offset by efficiency savings of approximately $30 million to $40 million we expect to realize from our supply
chain optimization initiatives in 2012.  The hosiery category has been in a state of consistent decline for the past decade,
as the trend toward casual dress reduced demand for sheer hosiery. The Hosiery segment comprised only 4% of our net sales in 2011, however, and as a result, the decline in the Hosiery segment has not had a significant impact on our net sales or cash
flows. Generally, we manage the Hosiery segment for cash, placing an emphasis on reducing our cost structure and managing cash efficiently.  Cash Requirements for Our Business  We rely on our cash flows
generated from operations and the borrowing capacity under our Revolving Loan Facility, Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility and international loan facilities to meet the cash requirements of our business. The primary cash requirements of our
business are payments to vendors in the normal course of business, capital expenditures, maturities of debt and related interest payments, contributions to our pension plans and repurchases of our stock. We believe we have sufficient cash and
available borrowings for our liquidity needs. 
  60 


Table of Contents
Our working capital increased during 2011, primarily in the form of inventory, as a result
of cost inflation. In 2012, we expect working capital to be lower due to lower inventory levels as a result of the sale of inventory containing higher input costs and a reduction in inventory unit levels. 
Capital spending has varied significantly from year to year as we built and seek to optimize our global supply chain in an effort to
streamline our operations and reduce costs. We spent $90 million on gross capital expenditures during 2011, which were offset by cash proceeds of $14 million primarily from a sale-leaseback transaction. During 2012, we expect net capital
expenditures of approximately $45 million to continue to support our infrastructure. Pension Plans 
Under the Pension Protection Act funding rules, our U.S. qualified pension plan is approximately 73% funded as of December 31, 2011
compared to 74% funded as of January 1, 2011. The funded status reflects an increase in the benefit obligation due to a decrease in the discount rate used in the valuation of the liability and a decrease in the fair value of plan assets as a
result of the stock market’s performance during 2011.  We expect to make required cash contributions of approximately $35
million to the U.S. qualified pension plan in 2012 based on a preliminary calculation by our actuary. We expect pension expense in 2012 of approximately $17 million compared to $11 million in 2011. See Note 15 to our financial statements for more
information on the plan asset and pension expense components. In June 2010, the U.S. Congress passed legislation that provides for pension funding relief for companies with defined benefit pension plans by allowing those companies to choose
between two alternative funding schedules: amortizing funding shortfalls over 15 years for any two plan years between 2008 and 2011, or paying interest on a funding shortfall for only two plan years of the employer’s choosing after which a
seven-year amortization would apply. In December 2011, we elected the latter “2+7” alternative amortization schedule for the 2011 plan year, which will benefit us with improved cash flow starting in 2012 due to expected lower pension
contributions; however, total cash flow over the course of the next several years will remain the same.  Share Repurchase
Program  On February 1, 2007, we announced that our Board of Directors granted authority for the repurchase of up to
10 million shares of our common stock. Share repurchases are made periodically in open-market transactions, and are subject to market conditions, legal requirements and other factors. Additionally, management has been granted authority to
establish a trading plan under Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act in connection with share repurchases, which will allow us to repurchase shares in the open market during periods in which the stock trading window is otherwise closed for our
company and certain of our officers and employees pursuant to our insider trading policy. Since inception of the program, we have purchased 2.8 million shares of our common stock at a cost of $75 million (average price per share of $26.33). The
primary objective of our share repurchase program is to reduce the impact of dilution caused by the exercise of options and vesting of stock unit awards. While we may repurchase additional stock under the program, we may choose not to repurchase any
stock and focus more on other uses of cash in the next 12 months.  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements within the meaning of Item 303(a)(4) of SEC Regulation S-K. 
Future Contractual Obligations and Commitments  The following table contains information on our contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2011, and their expected timing on future cash flows and liquidity.
  61 


Table of Contents
 
























 
  
AtDecember 31,2011
 
  
Payments Due by Period
 

 (in thousands)
  
  
Less Than1 Year
 
  
1 - 3 Years
 
  
3 - 5 Years
 
  
Thereafter
 

 Operating activities:
  



  



  



  



  




 Inventory purchase obligations
  
$
461,329
 
  
$
461,329
 
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  

 Marketing and advertising obligations
  
 
47,824
 
  
 
37,578
 
  
 
6,954
 
  
 
3,292
 
  
 
—  
  

 Uncertain tax positions
  
 
47,688
 
  
 
9,122
 
  
 
18,632
 
  
 
10,601
 
  
 
9,333
 

 Deferred compensation
  
 
10,691
 
  
 
2,751
 
  
 
3,139
 
  
 
1,833
 
  
 
2,968
 

 Interest on debt obligations (1)
  
 
815,841
 
  
 
119,133
 
  
 
233,410
 
  
 
208,298
 
  
 
255,000
 

 Operating lease obligations
  
 
272,291
 
  
 
55,715
 
  
 
79,907
 
  
 
61,839
 
  
 
74,830
 

 Defined benefit plan minimum contributions
  
 
35,000
 
  
 
35,000
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Severance and other restructuring payments
  
 
2,182
 
  
 
1,963
 
  
 
219
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Other long-term obligations (2)
  
 
99,713
 
  
 
19,955
 
  
 
40,194
 
  
 
32,506
 
  
 
7,058
 

 Investing activities:
  



  



  



  



  




 Capital expenditures
  
 
1,986
 
  
 
1,986
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Financing activities:
  



  



  



  



  




 Debt
  
 
1,974,710
 
  
 
166,933
 
  
 
293,277
 
  
 
514,500
 
  
 
1,000,000
 

 Notes payable
  
 
63,075
 
  
 
63,075
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
3,832,330
 
  
$
974,540
 
  
$
675,732
 
  
$
832,869
 
  
$
1,349,189
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Interest obligations on floating rate debt instruments are calculated for future periods using interest rates in effect at December 31, 2011.
  


(2)
Represents the projected payment for long-term liabilities recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet for certain employee benefit claims, royalty-bearing license
agreement payments and capital leases.  Sources and Uses of Our Cash 
The information presented below regarding the sources and uses of our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2011 and
January 1, 2011 was derived from our financial statements.   












 
  
Years Ended
 

 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
January 1,2011
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Operating activities
  
$
167,957
 
 
$
133,054
 

 Investing activities
  
 
(85,633
) 
 
 
(283,995
) 

 Financing activities
  
 
(89,519
) 
 
 
155,685
 

 Effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on cash
  
 
(1,131
) 
 
 
(16
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(8,326
) 
 
 
4,728
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
  
 
43,671
 
 
 
38,943
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
  
$
35,345
 
 
$
43,671
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  62 


Table of Contents
Operating Activities 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $168 million in 2011 compared to $133 million in 2010. The net increase in cash
provided by operating activities of $35 million for 2011 compared to 2010 is primarily attributable to higher net income, partially offset by higher uses of working capital.  Net inventory increased $288 million from January 1, 2011 primarily due to higher input costs such as cotton and oil-related materials. 
Accounts receivable was $27 million lower compared to January 1, 2011 primarily due to lower sales in the latter half of the fourth
quarter of 2011 compared to 2010.  Investing Activities 
Net cash used in investing activities was $86 million in 2011 compared to $284 million in 2010. The net decrease in cash used in
investing activities of $198 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily the result of net cash used in the acquisition of Gear for Sports during 2010 of $223 million and lower gross capital expenditures of $16 million, partially offset by
lower proceeds from sales of assets of $32 million and net cash used for the acquisition of the assets of TNF in April 2011 of $9 million. During 2011, proceeds from sales of assets of $14 million primarily resulted from a sale-leaseback
transaction involving one distribution center.  Financing Activities 
Net cash used in financing activities was $90 million in 2011 compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $156 million
in 2010. The lower net cash from financing activities of $245 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily the result of lower net borrowings of $250 million resulting from the issuance of the $1 billion 6.375% Senior Notes and related
repayment of $750 million in debt under the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility in 2010 which did not recur in 2011. In addition, we repurchased $197 million of Floating Rate Senior Notes in 2011. These reductions were partially offset by higher net
borrowings of $87 million on the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility, higher net borrowings on the Revolving Loan Facility of $66 million and higher net borrowings on notes payable of $28 million. In addition, we made lower
payments of $20 million to amend our credit facilities and received higher proceeds from stock options exercised of $11 million in 2011 compared to 2010, partially offset by a payment of $11 million to Sara Lee Corporation in 2011. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents  As of December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, cash and cash equivalents were $35 million and $44 million, respectively. The lower cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2011
was primarily the result of net cash used in financing activities of $90 million and net cash used in investing activities of $86 million, partially offset by net cash provided by operating activities of $168 million. 
Financing Arrangements  We believe our financing structure provides a secure base to support our operations and key business strategies. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all financial covenants under our
credit facilities. We continue to monitor our covenant compliance carefully in this difficult economic environment. We expect to maintain compliance with our covenants during 2012, however economic conditions or the occurrence of events discussed
above under “Risk Factors” could cause noncompliance.  2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility 
The 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility initially provided for aggregate borrowings of $1.15 billion, consisting of the $750 million
Term Loan Facility and the $400 million Revolving Loan Facility. The proceeds of the Term Loan Facility were used to refinance all amounts outstanding under the Term A loan facility (in an initial principal amount of $250 million) and Term
B loan facility (in an initial principal amount of $1.4 billion) under the 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facility and to repay all amounts outstanding under the Second Lien Credit Facility. Proceeds of the Revolving Loan Facility were used to pay
fees and expenses in connection with these transactions, and are used for general corporate purposes and working capital needs. 
  63 


Table of Contents
A portion of the Revolving Loan Facility is available for the issuances of letters of credit
and the making of swingline loans, and any such issuance of letters of credit or making of a swingline loan will reduce the amount available under the Revolving Loan Facility. At our option, we may add one or more term loan facilities or increase
the commitments under the Revolving Loan Facility in an aggregate amount of up to $300 million so long as certain conditions are satisfied, including, among others, that no default or event of default is in existence and that we are in pro
forma compliance with the financial covenants described below. In order to support our working capital needs and fund the acquisition of Gear for Sports, in September 2010, we increased the commitments under the Revolving Loan Facility from $400
million to $600 million. In November 2010, we used proceeds from the issuance of the 6.375% Senior Notes to repay all outstanding borrowings under the Term Loan Facility and to reduce the outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Loan Facility. As
of December 31, 2011, we had $15 million outstanding under the Revolving Loan Facility, $14 million of standby and trade letters of credit issued and outstanding under this facility and $571 million of borrowing availability. At
December 31, 2011, the interest rate on the Revolving Loan Facility was 5.50%.  The 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility is
guaranteed by substantially all of our existing and future direct and indirect U.S. subsidiaries, with certain customary or agreed-upon exceptions for certain subsidiaries. We and each of the guarantors under the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility
have granted the lenders under the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility a valid and perfected first priority (subject to certain customary exceptions) lien and security interest in the following: 
 


 
•
 
 the equity interests of substantially all of our direct and indirect U.S. subsidiaries and 65% of the voting securities of certain first tier foreign
subsidiaries; and   


 
•
 
 substantially all present and future property and assets, real and personal, tangible and intangible, of us and each guarantor, except for certain
enumerated interests, and all proceeds and products of such property and assets.  The Revolving Loan Facility
matures on December 10, 2015. All borrowings under the Revolving Loan Facility must be repaid in full upon maturity. Outstanding borrowings under the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility are prepayable without penalty. 
At our option, borrowings under the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility may be maintained from time to time as (a) Base Rate loans,
which shall bear interest at the highest of (i) 1/2 of 1% in excess of the federal funds rate, (ii) the rate publicly announced by JPMorgan Chase Bank as its “prime rate” at its principal office in New York City, in effect from
time to time and (iii) the LIBO Rate (as defined in the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility and adjusted for maximum reserves) for LIBOR-based loans with a one-month interest period plus 1.0%, in effect from time to time, in each case plus the
applicable margin, or (b) LIBOR-based loans, which shall bear interest at the higher of (i) LIBO Rate (as defined in the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility and adjusted for maximum reserves), as determined by reference to the rate for
deposits in dollars appearing on the Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page for the respective interest period or other commercially available source designated by the administrative agent, and (ii) 2.00%, plus the applicable margin in effect from time to
time. The applicable margin is determined by reference to a leverage-based pricing grid set forth in the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility. The applicable margin ranges from a maximum of 4.75% in the case of LIBOR-based loans and 3.75% in the case
of Base Rate loans if our leverage ratio is greater than or equal to 4.00 to 1, and will step down in 0.25% increments to a minimum of 4.00% in the case of LIBOR-based loans and 3.00% in the case of Base Rate loans if our leverage ratio is less than
2.50 to 1.  The 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility requires us to comply with customary affirmative, negative and financial
covenants. The 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility requires that we maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum total debt to EBITDA (earnings before income taxes, depreciation expense and amortization, as computed pursuant to the 2009
Senior Secured Credit Facility), or leverage ratio. The interest coverage ratio covenant requires that the ratio of our EBITDA for the preceding four fiscal quarters to our consolidated total interest expense for such period shall not be less than a
specified ratio for each fiscal quarter beginning with the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009. This ratio was 2.50 to 1 for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009 and increases over time until it reaches 3.25 to 1 for the third fiscal quarter of 2011 and
thereafter. The leverage ratio covenant requires that the ratio of our total debt to EBITDA for the preceding four fiscal quarters will not be more than a specified ratio for 
  64 


Table of Contents

each fiscal quarter beginning with the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009. This ratio was 4.50 to 1 for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009 and declines over time until it reaches 3.75 to 1 for the
second fiscal quarter of 2011 and thereafter. The method of calculating all of the components used in the covenants is included in the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility.  In February 2011, we amended the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility, which includes the Revolving Loan Facility, to reflect improved debt ratings. This amendment reduced the interest rate, extended the
maturity date by two years to December 10, 2015, and increased the flexibility of debt covenants and the use of excess cash flow. In addition, the commitment fee for the unused portion of revolving loan commitments was reduced from 75 basis
points to 50 basis points. Further, the applicable margin pricing grid for the loans, which varies based on our Leverage Ratio (as defined below), was reduced by 125 basis points at each applicable Leverage Ratio level. 
Pursuant to this amendment, the ratio of total debt to EBITDA (the “Leverage Ratio”) that we may not exceed was increased from
4.00 to 1 for each fiscal quarter ending between October 16, 2010 and April 15, 2011 to 4.50 to 1, and will decline over time to 3.75 to 1. Also, the minimum ratio of EBITDA to consolidated total interest expense that we are required to
maintain was decreased from 3.25 to 1 for each fiscal quarter ending between July 16, 2011 and October 15, 2012 to 3.00 to 1 and will increase over time to 3.25 to 1. In addition, we will be required to maintain a maximum ratio of senior
secured indebtedness to EBITDA, which for each fiscal quarter ending between October 16, 2010 and October 15, 2012 cannot exceed 2.50 to 1 and will decline over time to 2.00 to 1. The methods of calculating all of the components used in
these ratios are included in the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility. This amendment also significantly increased the flexibility of the indebtedness, investment and restricted payments baskets and use of excess cash flow under the 2009 Senior
Secured Credit Facility.  The 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility contains customary events of default, including nonpayment of
principal when due; nonpayment of interest, fees or other amounts after stated grace period; material inaccuracy of representations and warranties; violations of covenants; certain bankruptcies and liquidations; any cross-default to material
indebtedness; certain material judgments; certain events related to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”), actual or asserted invalidity of any guarantee, security document or subordination provision or
non-perfection of security interest, and a change in control (as defined in the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility). 
6.375% Senior Notes  On November 9, 2010, we issued $1 billion aggregate principal amount of the 6.375% Senior Notes. The 6.375% Senior Notes are senior unsecured obligations that rank equal in right of payment with all
of our existing and future unsubordinated indebtedness. The 6.375% Senior Notes bear interest at an annual rate equal to 6.375%. Interest is payable on the 6.375% Senior Notes on June 15 and December 15 of each year. The 6.375% Senior
Notes will mature on December 15, 2020. The net proceeds from the sale of the 6.375% Senior Notes were approximately $979 million. As noted above, these proceeds were used to repay all outstanding borrowings under the Term Loan Facility and
reduce the outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Loan Facility and to pay fees and expenses relating to these transactions. The 6.375% Senior Notes are guaranteed by substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries. 
We may redeem some or all of the notes prior to December 15, 2015 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of
6.375% Senior Notes redeemed plus an applicable premium. We may redeem some or all of the 6.375% Senior Notes at any time on or after December 15, 2015 at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the 6.375% Senior Notes plus a
premium of 3.188% if redeemed during the 12-month period commencing on December 15, 2015, 2.125% if redeemed during the 12-month period commencing on December 15, 2016, 1.062% if redeemed during the 12-month period commencing on
December 15, 2017 and no premium if redeemed after December 15, 2018, as well as any accrued and unpaid interest as of the redemption date. In addition, at any time prior to December 15, 2013, we may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate
principal amount of the 6.375% Senior Notes at a redemption price of 106.375% of the principal amount of the 6.375% Senior Notes redeemed with the net cash proceeds of certain equity offerings. 
The indenture governing the 6.375% Senior Notes contains customary events of default which include (subject in certain cases to customary
grace and cure periods), among others, nonpayment of principal or interest; breach of other agreements in such indenture; failure to pay certain other indebtedness; failure to pay certain final judgments; failure of certain guarantees to be
enforceable; and certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency. 
  65 


Table of Contents
8% Senior Notes 
On December 10, 2009, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of the 8% Senior Notes. The 8% Senior Notes are senior
unsecured obligations that rank equal in right of payment with all of our existing and future unsubordinated indebtedness. The 8% Senior Notes bear interest at an annual rate equal to 8%. Interest is payable on the 8% Senior Notes on June 15
and December 15 of each year. The 8% Senior Notes will mature on December 15, 2016. The net proceeds from the sale of the 8% Senior Notes were approximately $480 million. As noted above, these proceeds, together with the proceeds from
borrowings under the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility, were used to refinance borrowings under other loan facilities and to pay fees and expenses relating to these transactions. The 8% Senior Notes are guaranteed by substantially all of our
domestic subsidiaries. We may redeem some or all of the notes prior to December 15, 2013 at a redemption price equal to
100% of the principal amount of 8% Senior Notes redeemed plus an applicable premium. We may redeem some or all of the 8% Senior Notes at any time on or after December 15, 2013 at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the 8% Senior
Notes plus a premium of 4% if redeemed during the 12-month period commencing on December 15, 2013, 2% if redeemed during the 12-month period commencing on December 15, 2014 and no premium if redeemed after December 15, 2015, as well
as any accrued and unpaid interest as of the redemption date. In addition, at any time prior to December 15, 2012, we may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the 8% Senior Notes at a redemption price of 108% of the principal
amount of the 8% Senior Notes redeemed with the net cash proceeds of certain equity offerings.  The indenture governing the 8%
Senior Notes contains customary events of default which include (subject in certain cases to customary grace and cure periods), among others, nonpayment of principal or interest; breach of other agreements in such indenture; failure to pay certain
other indebtedness; failure to pay certain final judgments; failure of certain guarantees to be enforceable; and certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency.  Floating Rate Senior Notes  On December 14, 2006, we issued
$500 million aggregate principal amount of the Floating Rate Senior Notes. The Floating Rate Senior Notes are senior unsecured obligations that rank equal in right of payment with all of our existing and future unsubordinated indebtedness. The
Floating Rate Senior Notes bear interest at an annual rate, reset semi-annually, equal to LIBOR plus 3.375%. Interest is payable on the Floating Rate Senior Notes on June 15 and December 15 of each year. The Floating Rate Senior Notes will
mature on December 15, 2014. The net proceeds from the sale of the Floating Rate Senior Notes were approximately $492 million. These proceeds, together with our working capital, were used to repay an outstanding debt balance under another
loan facility. The Floating Rate Senior Notes are guaranteed by substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries. We may redeem
some or all of the Floating Rate Senior Notes at any time on or after December 15, 2008 at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the Floating Rate Senior Notes plus a premium of 2% if redeemed during the 12-month period commencing
on December 15, 2008, 1% if redeemed during the 12-month period commencing on December 15, 2009 and no premium if redeemed after December 15, 2010, as well as any accrued and unpaid interest as of the redemption date. 
The indenture governing the Floating Rate Senior Notes contains customary events of default which include (subject in certain cases to
customary grace and cure periods), among others, nonpayment of principal or interest; breach of other agreements in such indenture; failure to pay certain other indebtedness; failure to pay certain final judgments; failure of certain guarantees to
be enforceable; and certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency.  We repurchased $197 million of the Floating Rate Senior Notes
at 100% of the principal amount thereof in 2011. We repurchased $3 million of the Floating Rate Senior Notes for $2.8 million resulting in a gain of $0.2 million in 2009. 
  66 


Table of Contents
Accounts Receivable Securitization 
The Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility provides for up to $225 million in funding accounted for as a secured borrowing, limited
to the availability of eligible receivables, and is secured by certain domestic trade receivables. Under the terms of the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility, we and certain of our subsidiaries sell, on a revolving basis, certain domestic
trade receivables to HBI Receivables LLC (“Receivables LLC”), a wholly-owned bankruptcy-remote subsidiary that in turn uses the trade receivables to secure the borrowings, which are funded through conduits that issue commercial paper in
the short-term market and are not affiliated with us or through committed bank purchasers if the conduits fail to fund. The assets and liabilities of Receivables LLC are fully reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, and the securitization is
treated as a secured borrowing for accounting purposes. The borrowings under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility remain outstanding throughout the term of the agreement subject to us maintaining sufficient eligible receivables, by
continuing to sell trade receivables to Receivables LLC, unless an event of default occurs. The Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility will terminate on March 16, 2012; however, we plan to extend the term. 
Availability of funding under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility depends primarily upon the eligible outstanding receivables
balance. As of December 31, 2011, we had $167 million outstanding under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility. The outstanding balance under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility is reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet
in the line “Accounts receivable securitization facility.” Unless the conduits fail to fund, the yield on the commercial paper, which is the conduits’ cost to issue the commercial paper plus certain dealer fees, is considered a
financing cost and is included in interest expense on the Consolidated Statement of Income. If the conduits fail to fund, the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility would be funded through committed bank purchasers, and the interest rate
payable at our option at the rate announced from time to time by HSBC Bank USA, N.A. as its prime rate or at the LIBO Rate (as defined in the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility) plus the applicable margin in effect from time to time. In
addition, Receivables LLC is required to make certain payments to a conduit purchaser, a committed purchaser, or certain entities that provide funding to or are affiliated with them, in the event that assets and liabilities of a conduit purchaser
are consolidated for financial and/or regulatory accounting purposes with certain other entities. The average blended interest rate for the outstanding balance as of December 31, 2011 was 1.44%. 
The Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility contains customary events of default and requires us to maintain the same interest
coverage ratio and leverage ratio contained from time to time in the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility, provided that any changes to such covenants will only be applicable for purposes of the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility if approved
by the Managing Agents or their affiliates. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all financial covenants. 
Notes Payable  Notes payable were $63 million at December 31, 2011 and $51 million at January 1, 2011. At December 31, 2011, we had $66 million of borrowing availability under our international loan
facilities. We were in compliance with the financial covenants contained in each of the international loan facilities at December 31, 2011.  Undistributed Earnings from Foreign Subsidiaries  As of
December 31, 2011, the cumulative amount of undistributed earnings from our foreign subsidiaries was approximately $1.3 billion, of which less than $1 million of cash and cash equivalents was held by foreign subsidiaries whose undistributed
earnings are considered permanently reinvested, and $18 million of cash and cash equivalents was held by foreign subsidiaries whose undistributed earnings are not considered permanently reinvested. Our intention is to reinvest the cash and cash
equivalents of those entities whose undistributed earnings we have previously asserted as being permanently reinvested in our international operations. We reassess our reinvestment assertions each reporting period and currently believe that we have
sufficient other sources of liquidity to support our assertion that such undistributed earnings held by foreign subsidiaries may be considered to be reinvested permanently. 
  67 


Table of Contents
We repatriated $28 million, $21 million and $23 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively, from earnings generated in such years. The amount of the current year foreign earnings that we have repatriated in the past has been determined, and the amount that we expect to repatriate during 2012 will be determined, based upon a
variety of factors including current year earnings of the foreign subsidiaries, foreign investment needs and the cash flow needs we have in the U.S., such as for the repayment of debt and other domestic obligations. The majority of our repatriation
of the earnings of foreign subsidiaries has historically occurred at year-end, although we may always repatriate funds earlier in the year based on the needs of our business. When we repatriate funds to the U.S., we are required to pay taxes on
these amounts based on applicable U.S. tax rates, net of any foreign tax that would be allowed to be deducted or taken as a credit against U.S. income tax. We paid $2 million, $2 million and $5 million in additional U.S. federal income taxes in
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, as a result of repatriation of foreign earnings generated in such years. We do not currently expect the amount of repatriated foreign earnings or the resulting additional tax expense in 2012 to differ materially
from prior fiscal years.  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
We have chosen accounting policies that we believe are appropriate to accurately and fairly report our operating results and financial
condition in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We apply these accounting policies in a consistent manner. Our significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 2, titled “Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies,” to our financial statements.  The application of critical accounting policies requires
that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures. These estimates and assumptions are based on historical and other factors believed to be reasonable under
the circumstances. We evaluate these estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis and may retain outside consultants to assist in our evaluation. If actual results ultimately differ from previous estimates, the revisions are included in results of
operations in the period in which the actual amounts become known. The critical accounting policies that involve the most significant management judgments and estimates used in preparation of our financial statements, or are the most sensitive to
change from outside factors, are described below:  Sales Recognition and Incentives 
We recognize revenue when (i) there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, (ii) the sales price is fixed or determinable,
(iii) title and the risks of ownership have been transferred to the customer and (iv) collection of the receivable is reasonably assured, which occurs primarily upon shipment. We record provisions for any uncollectible amounts based upon
our historical collection statistics and current customer information. Our management reviews these estimates each quarter and makes adjustments based upon actual experience.  Note 2(d), titled “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies — Sales Recognition and Incentives,” to our financial statements describes a variety of sales incentives that we
offer to resellers and consumers of our products. Measuring the cost of these incentives requires, in many cases, estimating future customer utilization and redemption rates. We use historical data for similar transactions to estimate the cost of
current incentive programs. Our management reviews these estimates each quarter and makes adjustments based upon actual experience and other available information. We classify the costs associated with cooperative advertising as a reduction of
“Net sales” in our Consolidated Statements of Income.  Accounts Receivable Valuation 
Accounts receivable consist primarily of amounts due from customers. We carry our accounts receivable at their net realizable value. In
determining the appropriate allowance for doubtful accounts, we consider a combination of factors, such as the aging of trade receivables, industry trends, and our customers’ financial strength, credit standing, and payment and default history.
Changes in the aforementioned factors, among others, may lead to adjustments in our allowance for doubtful accounts. The calculation of the required allowance requires judgment by our management as to the impact of these and other factors on the
ultimate realization of our trade receivables. Charges to the allowance for doubtful accounts are reflected in the “Selling, general and administrative expenses” line and charges to the allowance for customer chargebacks and other customer
deductions are primarily reflected as a reduction in the “Net sales” line of our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our management reviews these 
  68 


Table of Contents

estimates each quarter and makes adjustments based upon actual experience. Because we cannot predict future changes in the financial stability of our customers, actual future losses from
uncollectible accounts may differ from our estimates. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in their inability to make payments, a large reserve might be required. The amount of actual historical losses has not
varied materially from our estimates for bad debts.  Inventory Valuation 
We carry inventory on our balance sheet at the estimated lower of cost or market. Cost is determined by the first-in, first-out, or
“FIFO,” method for our inventories. We carry obsolete, damaged, and excess inventory at the net realizable value, which we determine by assessing historical recovery rates, current market conditions and our future marketing and sales
plans. Because our assessment of net realizable value is made at a point in time, there are inherent uncertainties related to our value determination. Market factors and other conditions underlying the net realizable value may change, resulting in
further reserve requirements. A reduction in the carrying amount of an inventory item from cost to market value creates a new cost basis for the item that cannot be reversed at a later period. While we believe that adequate write-downs for inventory
obsolescence have been provided in the financial statements, consumer tastes and preferences will continue to change and we could experience additional inventory write-downs in the future. 
Rebates, discounts and other cash consideration received from a vendor related to inventory purchases are reflected as reductions in the
cost of the related inventory item, and are therefore reflected in cost of sales when the related inventory item is sold. 
Income Taxes  Deferred taxes are recognized for the future tax effects of temporary differences between financial and income tax reporting using tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected
to reverse. We have recorded deferred taxes related to operating losses. Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent on future taxable income in specific jurisdictions, the amount and timing of which are uncertain, possible changes in tax laws
and tax planning strategies. If in our judgment it appears that we will not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to offset losses during the carryforward periods, we have recorded valuation allowances to reduce those deferred tax assets to
amounts expected to be ultimately realized. An adjustment to income tax expense would be required in a future period if we determine that the amount of deferred tax assets to be realized differs from the net recorded amount. 
Federal income taxes are provided on that portion of our income of foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the United
States and be taxable, reflecting the decisions made by us with regards to earnings permanently reinvested in foreign jurisdictions. Decisions we make as to the amount of earnings permanently reinvested in foreign jurisdictions, due to anticipated
cash flow or other business requirements, may impact our federal income tax provision and effective tax rate.  We periodically
estimate the probable tax obligations using historical experience in tax jurisdictions and our informed judgment. There are inherent uncertainties related to the interpretation of tax regulations in the jurisdictions in which we transact business.
The judgments and estimates made at a point in time may change based on the outcome of tax audits, as well as changes to, or further interpretations of, regulations. Income tax expense is adjusted in the period in which these events occur, and these
adjustments are included in our Consolidated Statements of Income. If such changes take place, there is a risk that our effective tax rate may increase or decrease in any period. A company must recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax
position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position
are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate resolution.  In conjunction with the spin off, we and Sara Lee entered into a tax sharing agreement, which allocates responsibilities between us and Sara Lee for taxes and certain other tax matters. Under the tax
sharing agreement, Sara Lee generally is liable for all U.S. federal, state, local and foreign income taxes attributable to us with respect to taxable periods ending on or before September 5, 2006. Sara Lee also is liable for income taxes
attributable to us with respect to taxable periods beginning before September 5, 2006 and ending after September 5, 2006, but only to the extent those taxes are allocable to the portion of the taxable period ending on September 5,
2006. We are generally liable for all other taxes attributable to us. Changes in the amounts payable or receivable by us under the stipulations of this agreement may impact our tax provision in any period. 
  69 


Table of Contents
As previously disclosed, we disagreed with Sara Lee as to the amount of deferred taxes that
should have been attributable to our United States and Canadian operations on our opening balance sheet as of September 6, 2006 following our spin off from Sara Lee. The computation of this amount is governed by a tax sharing agreement
entered into in connection with the spin off. We have had differing interpretations of the tax sharing agreement from Sara Lee, and, in accordance with the dispute resolution provisions of the agreement, we along with Sara Lee submitted that dispute
to arbitration before a three-member tribunal in August 2009. A hearing was held in August 2010. Based on our computation of the final amount of deferred taxes for our opening balance sheet as of September 6, 2006, the amount that we
expected to collect from Sara Lee based on our computation of $72 million, which reflects a preliminary cash installment received from Sara Lee of $18 million, was included as a receivable in “Other current assets.” 
On July 1, 2011, the tribunal issued a 2-1 decision in which the majority disagreed with our interpretation of the tax sharing
agreement and awarded us $3 million, plus interest based on the majority’s interpretation of the tax sharing agreement. This amount reflects other payments made or acknowledged to be owed by the parties under the tax sharing agreement. As a
result of the tribunal’s decision, during the second quarter of 2011 we recorded a non-cash transaction that reduced “Other current assets” and “Additional paid-in capital” by $69 million. 
Stock Compensation  We established the Hanesbrands Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006 (the “Omnibus Incentive Plan”) to award stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units,
deferred stock units, performance shares and cash to our employees, non-employee directors and employees of our subsidiaries to promote the interest of our company and incent performance and retention of employees. Stock-based compensation is
estimated at the grant date based on the award’s fair value and is recognized as expense over the requisite service period. Estimation of stock-based compensation for stock options granted, utilizing the Black-Scholes option-pricing model,
requires various highly subjective assumptions including volatility and expected option life. We use a combination of the volatility of our company and the volatility of peer companies for a period of time that is comparable to the expected life of
the option to determine volatility assumptions. We utilize the simplified method outlined in SEC accounting rules to estimate expected lives for options granted. The simplified method is used for valuing stock option grants by eligible public
companies that do not have sufficient historical exercise patterns on options granted to employees. We estimate forfeitures for stock-based awards granted that are not expected to vest. If any of these inputs or assumptions changes significantly,
our stock-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future.  Defined Benefit Pension Plans
 For a discussion of our net periodic benefit cost, plan obligations, plan assets, and how we measure the amount of
these costs, see Note 15 titled “Defined Benefit Pension Plans” to our consolidated financial statements.  Under the
Pension Protection Act funding rules, our U.S. qualified pension plan is approximately 73% funded as of December 31, 2011 compared to 74% funded as of January 1, 2011. The funded status reflects an increase in the benefit obligation due to
a decrease in the discount rate used in the valuation of the liability, and a decrease in the fair value of plan assets as a result of the stock market’s performance during 2011. In June 2010, the U.S. Congress passed legislation that provides
for pension funding relief for companies with defined benefit pension plans by allowing those companies to choose between two alternative funding schedules: amortizing funding shortfalls over 15 years for any two plan years between 2008 and 2011, or
paying interest on a funding shortfall for only two plan years of the employer’s choosing after which a seven-year amortization would apply. In December 2011, we elected the “2+7” alternative amortization schedule for the 2011 plan
year, which will benefit us with improved cash flow starting in 2012 due to expected lower pension contributions; however total cash flow over the course of the next several years will remain the same. We expect to make required cash contributions
of approximately $35 million to the U.S. qualified pension plan in 2012 based on a preliminary calculation by our actuary. We expect pension expense in 2012 of approximately $17 million compared to $11 million in 2011. See Note 15 to our financial
statements for more information on the plan asset components. The funded status of our defined benefit pension plans are recognized on our balance sheet and changes in the funded status are reflected in comprehensive income. We measure the funded
status of our plans as of the date of our fiscal year end. 
  70 


Table of Contents
The net periodic cost of the pension plans is determined using projections and actuarial
assumptions, the most significant of which are the discount rate and the long-term rate of asset return. The net periodic pension income or expense is recognized in the year incurred. Gains and losses, which occur when actual experience differs from
actuarial assumptions, are amortized over the average future expected life of participants.  Our policies regarding the
establishment of pension assumptions are as follows:   


 
•
 
 In determining the discount rate, we utilized the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve (rounded to the nearest 10 basis points) in order to determine
a unique interest rate for each plan and match the expected cash flows for each plan.   


 
•
 
 Salary increase assumptions were based on historical experience and anticipated future management actions. The salary increase assumption only applies
to the Canadian plans and portions of the Hanesbrands nonqualified retirement plans, as benefits under these plans are not frozen. The benefits under the Hanesbrands Inc. Pension Plan were frozen as of December 31, 2005.
  


 
•
 
 In determining the long-term rate of return on plan assets we applied a proportionally weighted blend between assuming the historical long-term
compound growth rate of the plan portfolio would predict the future returns of similar investments, and the utilization of forward looking assumptions. 
 


 
•
 
 Retirement rates were based primarily on actual experience while standard actuarial tables were used to estimate mortality.
 The sensitivity of changes in actuarial assumptions on our annual pension expense and on our plans’
benefit obligations, all other factors being equal, is illustrated by the following:   












 
  
Increase (Decrease) in
 

 (in millions)
  
Pension Expense
 
 
BenefitObligation
 

 1% decrease in discount rate
  
$
—  
  
 
$
155
  

 1% increase in discount rate
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(126
) 

 1% decrease in expected investment return
  
 
6
  
 
 
N/A
  

 1% increase in expected investment return
  
 
(6
) 
 
 
N/A
  
 Trademarks and Other Identifiable Intangibles 
Trademarks, license agreements, customer and distributor relationships and computer software are our primary identifiable intangible
assets. We amortize identifiable intangibles with finite lives, and we do not amortize identifiable intangibles with indefinite lives. We base the estimated useful life of an identifiable intangible asset upon a number of factors, including the
effects of demand, competition, expected changes in distribution channels and the level of maintenance expenditures required to obtain future cash flows. As of December 31, 2011, the net book value of trademarks and other identifiable
intangible assets was $170 million, of which we are amortizing the entire balance. We anticipate that our amortization expense for 2012 will be $15 million.  We evaluate identifiable intangible assets subject to amortization for impairment using a process similar to that used to evaluate asset amortization described below under “— Depreciation
and Impairment of Property, Plant and Equipment.” We assess identifiable intangible assets not subject to amortization for impairment at least annually and more often as triggering events occur. In order to determine the impairment of
identifiable intangible assets not subject to amortization, we compare the fair value of the intangible asset to its carrying amount. We recognize an impairment loss for the amount by which an identifiable intangible asset’s carrying value
exceeds its fair value. 
  71 


Table of Contents
We measure a trademark’s fair value using the royalty saved method. We determine the
royalty saved method by evaluating various factors to discount anticipated future cash flows, including operating results, business plans, and present value techniques. The rates we use to discount cash flows are based on interest rates and the cost
of capital at a point in time. Because there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and our judgment in applying them, the assumptions underlying the impairment analysis may change in such a manner that impairment in value may occur in
the future. Such impairment will be recognized in the period in which it becomes known.  Goodwill 
As of December 31, 2011, we had $433 million of goodwill. We do not amortize goodwill, but we assess for impairment at least annually
and more often as triggering events occur. The timing of our annual goodwill impairment testing is the first day of the third fiscal quarter. The estimated fair values significantly exceeded the carrying values of each of our reporting units as of
the first day of the third fiscal quarter, and no impairment of goodwill was identified as a result of the testing conducted in 2011.  The impairment test we performed in 2011 required us to estimate the fair value of our reporting units, primarily using discounted cash flow methodologies based on projected revenues and cash flows that
will be derived from a reporting unit. Beginning with our goodwill impairment test in 2012, as a result of new accounting rules issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”), we will be permitted to first assess
qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If it is concluded that this is the case, it is necessary to perform the two-step impairment test prescribed
under current accounting rules. Otherwise, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. Intangible assets that are being amortized must be tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value might not
be recoverable.  In evaluating the recoverability of goodwill in 2011, we estimated the fair value of our reporting units. We
relied on a number of factors to determine the fair value of our reporting units and evaluate various factors to discount anticipated future cash flows, including operating results, business plans, and present value techniques. As discussed above
under “Trademarks and Other Identifiable Intangibles,” there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors, and our judgment in applying them and the assumptions underlying the impairment analysis may change in such a manner that
impairment in value may occur in the future. Such impairment will be recognized in the period in which it becomes known. 
Depreciation and Impairment of Property, Plant and Equipment 
We state property, plant and equipment at its historical cost, and we compute depreciation using the straight-line method over the
asset’s life. We estimate an asset’s life based on historical experience, manufacturers’ estimates, engineering or appraisal evaluations, our future business plans and the period over which the asset will economically benefit us,
which may be the same as or shorter than its physical life. Our policies require that we periodically review our assets’ remaining depreciable lives based upon actual experience and expected future utilization. A change in the depreciable life
is treated as a change in accounting estimate and the accelerated depreciation is accounted for in the period of change and future periods. Based upon current levels of depreciation, the average remaining depreciable life of our net property other
than land is five years.  We test an asset for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its
carrying value may not be recoverable. Such events include significant adverse changes in business climate, several periods of operating or cash flow losses, forecasted continuing losses or a current expectation that an asset or asset group will be
disposed of before the end of its useful life. We evaluate an asset’s recoverability by comparing the asset or asset group’s net carrying amount to the future net undiscounted cash flows we expect such asset or asset group will generate.
If we determine that an asset is not recoverable, we recognize an impairment loss in the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its estimated fair value.  When we recognize an impairment loss for an asset held for use, we depreciate the asset’s adjusted carrying amount over its remaining useful life. We do not restore previously recognized impairment
losses if circumstances change. 
  72 


Table of Contents
Insurance Reserves 
We maintain insurance coverage for property, workers’ compensation and other casualty programs. We are responsible for losses up to
certain limits and are required to estimate a liability that represents the ultimate exposure for aggregate losses below those limits. This liability is based on management’s estimates of the ultimate costs to be incurred to settle known claims
and claims not reported as of the balance sheet date. The estimated liability is not discounted and is based on a number of assumptions and factors, including historical trends, actuarial assumptions and economic conditions. If actual trends differ
from the estimates, the financial results could be impacted. Actual trends have not differed materially from the estimates. 
Assets and Liabilities Acquired in Business Combinations 
We account for business acquisitions using the purchase method, which requires us to allocate the cost of an acquired business to the
acquired assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. We recognize the excess of an acquired business’s cost over the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities as goodwill. We use a variety of
information sources to determine the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities. We generally use third party appraisers to determine the fair value and lives of property and identifiable intangibles, consulting actuaries to assist us in
determining the fair value of obligations associated with defined benefit pension plans, and legal counsel to assess obligations associated with legal and environmental claims.  Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  Fair Value Measurements
 In May 2011, the FASB issued new accounting rules related to fair value measurements. The new accounting rules clarify
some existing concepts, eliminate wording differences between accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), and in some limited cases,
change some principles to achieve convergence between GAAP and IFRS. The new accounting rules result in a consistent definition of fair value and common requirements for measurement of and disclosure about fair value between GAAP and IFRS. The new
accounting rules also expand the disclosures for fair value measurements that are estimated using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs. The new accounting rules will be effective for us in the first quarter of 2012. We do not expect the
adoption of the new accounting rules to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
Presentation of Comprehensive Income  In June 2011, the FASB issued new accounting rules that require an entity to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income
either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income, or in two separate but consecutive statements. The new accounting rules eliminate the option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of equity. The
new accounting rules will be effective for us in the first quarter of 2012. We do not expect the adoption of the new accounting rules to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
In December 2011, the FASB issued new accounting rules which deferred certain provisions of the rules issued in June 2011 that required
entities to present reclassification adjustments out of accumulated other comprehensive income by component in both the statement in which net income is presented and the statement in which other comprehensive income is presented. Accordingly, this
requirement is indefinitely deferred.  Goodwill Impairment Testing 
In September 2011, the FASB issued new accounting rules related to testing goodwill for impairment. The new accounting rules permit an
entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If it is concluded that this is the case, it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill
impairment test prescribed under current accounting rules. Otherwise, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. The new accounting rules will be effective for us in first quarter of 2012. We do not expect the adoption of the new
accounting rules to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
  73 


Table of Contents
Disclosures About Offsetting Assets and Liabilities 
In December 2011, the FASB issued new accounting rules related to new disclosure requirements regarding the nature of an entity’s
rights of setoff and related arrangements associated with its financial instruments and derivative instruments. The new rules are effective for us in the first quarter of 2015 with retrospective application required. We do not expect the adoption of
the new accounting rules to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  We are exposed to market risk
from changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. Our risk management control system uses analytical techniques including market value, sensitivity analysis and value at risk estimations. 
Foreign Exchange Risk 
We sell the majority of our products in transactions denominated in U.S. dollars; however, we purchase some raw materials, pay a
portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. Our exposure to foreign exchange rates exists primarily with respect to the Canadian dollar, European euro, Mexican peso and Japanese yen against the
U.S. dollar. We use foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. A sensitivity analysis technique has been used to evaluate the effect that changes in the market value of
foreign exchange currencies will have on our forward and option contracts. At December 31, 2011, the potential change in fair value of foreign currency derivative instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying currency price, was
$9.8 million.  Interest Rates  Our debt under the Revolving Loan Facility, Floating Rate Senior Notes and Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility bears interest at variable rates. As a result, we are exposed to changes in market
interest rates that could impact the cost of servicing our debt. We are required under the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility to hedge a portion of our floating rate debt to reduce interest rate risk caused by floating rate debt issuance. We are in
compliance with this provision as a result of our 8% Senior Notes and 6.375% Senior Notes which bear interest at fixed rates. Approximately 76% of our total debt outstanding at December 31, 2011 is at a fixed rate. After giving effect to these
arrangements, a 25-basis point movement in the annual interest rate charged on the outstanding debt balances as of December 31, 2011 would result in a change in annual interest expense of $1.2 million. We may execute interest rate cash flow
hedges in the form of caps and swaps in the future in order to mitigate our exposure to variability in cash flows for the future interest payments on a designated portion of borrowings.  Commodities  Cotton is the primary raw material used in manufacturing many
of our products. While we have sold our yarn operations, we are still exposed to fluctuations in the cost of cotton. During 2010, cotton prices hit their highest levels in 140 years. Increases in the cost of cotton can result in higher costs in the
price we pay for yarn from our large-scale yarn suppliers, while decreases in cotton prices can result in inventory comprised of products made from higher-cost yarn and in our purchase of cotton at contractually fixed prices that are above the
current market rate. Our costs for cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles vary based upon the fluctuating cost of cotton, which is affected by, among other things, weather, consumer demand, speculation on the commodities market, the relative
valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. We are able to lock in the cost of cotton reflected in the price we pay for yarn from our
primary yarn suppliers in an attempt to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of cotton. Under our agreements with these suppliers, we have the ability to periodically fix the cotton cost component of our yarn purchases. When
we elect to fix the cotton cost component under these agreements, interim fluctuations 
  74 


Table of Contents

in the price of cotton do not impact the price we pay for the specified volume of yarn. The yarn suppliers bear the risk of cotton fluctuations for the yarn volume specified and it is their
responsibility to procure the cotton at the agreed upon pricing through arrangements they make with their cotton suppliers. However, our business can be affected by dramatic movements in cotton prices. Although the cost of cotton used in goods
manufactured by us has historically represented only 6% of our cost of sales, it has risen to around 12% primarily as a result of cost inflation. The cotton prices reflected in our results were $1.09 per pound in 2011 and 69 cents per pound in 2010.
Costs incurred for materials and labor are capitalized into inventory and impact our results as the inventory is sold. For example, we estimate that an increase of $0.01 per pound in cotton prices at current levels of production would affect our
annual cost of sales by $4 million related to finished goods manufactured internally in our manufacturing facilities and $1 million related to finished goods sourced by third parties. The ultimate effect of this change on our earnings cannot be
quantified, as the effect of movements in cotton prices on industry selling prices are uncertain, but any dramatic increase in the price of cotton would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and
cash flows. Additionally, significant decreases in the price of cotton may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production, which could result in lower gross margins, particularly if these decreases result in downward price
pressure.  In addition, fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may influence the prices of other raw materials we use to
manufacture our products, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and foam. We generally purchase raw materials at market prices. We estimate that a change of $10.00 per barrel in the price of oil would affect our freight costs by approximately
$4 million, at current levels of usage.  Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data  Our financial statements required by this item are contained on pages F-1 through F-57 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Item 
15(a)(1) for a listing of financial statements provided.  Item 9. Changes in and
Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  None. 
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 
Disclosure Controls and Procedures  As required by Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b), our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls
and procedures, as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e), as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and
procedures were effective.  Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Exchange
Act Rule 13a-15(f). Management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting and the report of independent registered public accounting firm are incorporated by reference to pages F-2 and F-3 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.  Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
In connection with the evaluation required by Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(d), our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, concluded that no changes in our internal control over financial reporting occurred during the period covered by this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control
over financial reporting. 
  75 


Table of Contents
Item 9B. Other Information 
None.  
PART III  Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
 Information required by this Item 10 regarding our executive officers is included in Item 1C of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K. We will provide other information that is responsive to this Item 10 in our definitive proxy statement or in an amendment to this Annual Report not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by
this Annual Report. That information is incorporated in this Item 10 by reference. 
Item 11. Executive Compensation 
We will provide information that is responsive to this Item 11 in our definitive proxy statement or in an amendment to this Annual
Report on Form 10-K not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. That information is incorporated in this Item 11 by reference. 
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters  We will provide information that is responsive to this Item 12 (other than the Equity Compensation
Plan Information required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K) in our definitive proxy statement or in an amendment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. That information is incorporated in this Item 12 by reference. The Equity Compensation Plan Information required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K is included in Item 5 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated
herein by reference.  Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
Independence  We will provide information that is responsive to this Item 13 in our definitive proxy
statement or in an amendment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. That information is incorporated in this Item 13 by reference. 
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 
We will provide information that is responsive to this Item 14 in our definitive proxy statement or in an amendment to this Annual
Report on Form 10-K not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. That information is incorporated in this Item 14 by reference. 
  76 


Table of Contents
PART IV 
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 
(a)(1)-(2) Financial Statements and Schedules  The financial statements and schedules listed in the accompanying Index to Consolidated Financial Statements on page F-1 are filed as part of this Report. 
(a)(3) Exhibits  See
“Index to Exhibits” beginning on page E-1, which is incorporated by reference herein. The Index to Exhibits lists all exhibits filed with this Report and identifies which of those exhibits are management contracts and compensation
plans. 
  77 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 17th day of February, 2012.   






HANESBRANDS INC.





 
/s/ Richard A. Noll


 
 Richard A. Noll Chief
Executive Officer
 POWER OF ATTORNEY  KNOW BY ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints jointly and severally, Richard A. Noll, Richard D. Moss and Joia M. Johnson, and each one of
them, his or her attorneys-in-fact, each with the power of substitution, for him or her in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and to file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents
in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys-in-fact, or his substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:   








 Signature
  
 Capacity
 
 Date





 /s/ Richard A. Noll
  
Chief Executive Officer and
 
February 17, 2012

 Richard A. Noll
  
 Chairman of the Board of Directors
(principal executive officer)
 






 /s/ Richard D. Moss
  
Chief Financial Officer
 
February 17, 2012

 Richard D. Moss
  
 (principal financial officer and principal
accounting officer)
 






 /s/ Lee A. Chaden
  
Director
 
February 17, 2012

 Lee A. Chaden
  

 

  78 


Table of Contents








 Signature
  
 Capacity
 
 Date





 /s/ Bobby J. Griffin
  
Director
 
February 17, 2012

 Bobby J. Griffin
  

 






 /s/ James C. Johnson
  
Director
 
February 17, 2012

 James C. Johnson
  

 






 /s/ Jessica T. Mathews
  
Director
 
February 17, 2012

 Jessica T. Mathews
  

 






 /s/ J. Patrick Mulcahy
  
Director
 
February 17, 2012

 J. Patrick Mulcahy
  

 






 /s/ Ronald L. Nelson
  
Director
 
February 17, 2012

 Ronald L. Nelson
  

 






 /s/ Andrew J. Schindler
  
Director
 
February 17, 2012

 Andrew J. Schindler
  

 






 /s/ Ann E. Ziegler
  
Director
 
February 17, 2012

 Ann E. Ziegler
  

 


  79 


Table of Contents
INDEX TO EXHIBITS 
References in this Index to Exhibits to the “Registrant” are to Hanesbrands Inc. The Registrant will furnish you, without charge, a copy of any
exhibit, upon written request. Written requests to obtain any exhibit should be sent to Corporate Secretary, Hanesbrands Inc., 1000 East Hanes Mill Road, Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27105. 
 






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description

3.1
  
Articles of Amendment and Restatement of Hanesbrands Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on September 5, 2006).




3.2
  
Articles Supplementary (Junior Participating Preferred Stock, Series A) (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 5, 2006).




3.3
  
Amended and Restated Bylaws of Hanesbrands Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission on December 15, 2008).




3.4
  
Certificate of Formation of BA International, L.L.C. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.4 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission
file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.5
  
Limited Liability Company Agreement of BA International, L.L.C. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.5 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4
(Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.6
  
Certificate of Incorporation of Caribesock, Inc., together with Certificate of Change of Location of Registered Office and Registered Agent (incorporated by reference from
Exhibit 3.6 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.7
  
Bylaws of Caribesock, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.7 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-142371)
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.8
  
Certificate of Incorporation of Caribetex, Inc., together with Certificate of Change of Location of Registered Office and Registered Agent (incorporated by reference from
Exhibit 3.8 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.9
  
Bylaws of Caribetex, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.9 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-142371) filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.10
  
Certificate of Formation of CASA International, LLC (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.10 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission
file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.11
  
Limited Liability Company Agreement of CASA International, LLC (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.11 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4
(Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.12
  
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of CC Products, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.50 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4
(Commission file number 333-171114) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 10, 2010).

  E-1



Table of Contents






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description

3.13
  
Amended and Restated Bylaws of CC Products, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.51 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number
333-171114) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 10, 2010).




3.14
  
Certificate of Incorporation of Ceibena Del, Inc., together with Certificate of Change of Location of Registered Office and Registered Agent (incorporated by reference from
Exhibit 3.12 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.15
  
Bylaws of Ceibena Del, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.13 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-142371)
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.16
  
Articles of Incorporation of Event 1, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.52 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number
333-171114) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 10, 2010).




3.17
  
Amended and Restated Bylaws of Event 1, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.53 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number
333-171114) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 10, 2010).




3.18
  
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of GearCo, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.44 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4
(Commission file number 333-171114) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 10, 2010).




3.19
  
Amended and Restated Bylaws of GearCo, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.45 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number
333-171114) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 10, 2010).




3.20
  
Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of GFSI Holdings, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.46 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form
S-4 (Commission file number 333-171114) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 10, 2010).




3.21
  
Amended and Restated Bylaws of GFSI Holdings, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.47 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number
333-171114) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 10, 2010).




3.22
  
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of GFSI, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.48 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission
file number 333-171114) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 10, 2010).




3.23
  
Amended and Restated Bylaws of GFSI, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.49 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number
333-171114) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 10, 2010).




3.24
  
Certificate of Formation of Hanes Menswear, LLC, together with Certificate of Conversion from a Corporation to a Limited Liability Company Pursuant to Section 18-214 of the
Limited Liability Company Act and Certificate of Change of Location of Registered Office and Registered Agent (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.14 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number
333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.25
  
Limited Liability Company Agreement of Hanes Menswear, LLC (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.15 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4
(Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).

  E-2



Table of Contents






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description

3.26
  
Certificate of Incorporation of HPR, Inc., together with Certificate of Merger of Hanes Puerto Rico, Inc. into HPR, Inc. (now known as Hanes Puerto Rico, Inc.) (incorporated by
reference from Exhibit 3.16 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.27
  
Bylaws of Hanes Puerto Rico, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.17 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number
333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.28
  
Articles of Organization of Sara Lee Direct, LLC, together with Articles of Amendment reflecting the change of the entity’s name to Hanesbrands Direct, LLC (incorporated by
reference from Exhibit 3.18 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.29
  
Limited Liability Company Agreement of Sara Lee Direct, LLC (now known as Hanesbrands Direct, LLC) (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.19 to the Registrant’s
Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.30
  
Certificate of Incorporation of Sara Lee Distribution, Inc., together with Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of Sara Lee Distribution, Inc. reflecting the
change of the entity’s name to Hanesbrands Distribution, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.20 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.31
  
Bylaws of Sara Lee Distribution, Inc. (now known as Hanesbrands Distribution, Inc.)(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.21 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement
on Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.32
  
Certificate of Formation of HBI Branded Apparel Enterprises, LLC (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.22 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4
(Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.33
  
Operating Agreement of HBI Branded Apparel Enterprises, LLC (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.23 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4
(Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.34
  
Certificate of Incorporation of HBI Branded Apparel Limited, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.24 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4
(Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.35
  
Bylaws of HBI Branded Apparel Limited, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.25 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file
number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.36
  
Certificate of Formation of HbI International, LLC (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.26 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission
file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.37
  
Limited Liability Company Agreement of HbI International, LLC (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.27 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4
(Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.38
  
Certificate of Formation of SL Sourcing, LLC, together with Certificate of Amendment to the Certificate of Formation of SL Sourcing, LLC reflecting the change of the entity’s
name to HBI Sourcing, LLC (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.28 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26,
2007).

  E-3



Table of Contents






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description

3.39
  
Limited Liability Company Agreement of SL Sourcing, LLC (now known as HBI Sourcing, LLC) (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.29 to the Registrant’s Registration
Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.40
  
Certificate of Formation of Inner Self LLC (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.30 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number
333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.41
  
Limited Liability Company Agreement of Inner Self LLC (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.31 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission
file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.42
  
Certificate of Formation of Jasper-Costa Rica, L.L.C. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.32 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission
file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.43
  
Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of Jasper-Costa Rica, L.L.C. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.33 to the Registrant’s Registration
Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.44
  
Certificate of Formation of Playtex Dorado, LLC, together with Certificate of Conversion from a Corporation to a Limited Liability Company Pursuant to Section 18-214 of the
Limited Liability Company Act (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.36 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26,
2007).




3.45
  
Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of Playtex Dorado, LLC (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.37 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on
Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.46
  
Certificate of Incorporation of Playtex Industries, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.38 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4
(Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.47
  
Bylaws of Playtex Industries, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.39 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number
333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.48
  
Certificate of Formation of Seamless Textiles, LLC, together with Certificate of Conversion from a Corporation to a Limited Liability Company Pursuant to Section 18-214 of the
Limited Liability Company Act (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.40 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26,
2007).




3.49
  
Limited Liability Company Agreement of Seamless Textiles, LLC (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.41 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4
(Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.50
  
Certificate of Incorporation of UPCR, Inc., together with Certificate of Change of Location of Registered Office and Registered Agent (incorporated by reference from
Exhibit 3.42 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.51
  
Bylaws of UPCR, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.43 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-142371) filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).

  E-4



Table of Contents






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description

3.52
  
Certificate of Incorporation of UPEL, Inc., together with Certificate of Change of Location of Registered Office and Registered Agent (incorporated by reference from
Exhibit 3.44 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-142371) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




3.53
  
Bylaws of UPEL, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.45 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-142371) filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2007).




4.1
  
Rights Agreement between Hanesbrands Inc. and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., Rights Agent. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 5, 2006).




4.2
  
Form of Rights Certificate (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on September 5, 2006).




4.3
  
Placement Agreement dated December 11, 2006 among the Registrant, certain subsidiaries of the Registrant and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner
& Smith Incorporated (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 15, 2006).




4.4
  
Indenture dated as of December 14, 2006 (the “2006 Indenture”), among the Registrant, certain subsidiaries of the Registrant and Branch Banking and Trust Company
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 20, 2006).




4.5
  
First Supplemental Indenture (the 2006 Indenture) dated August 13, 2010 among the Registrant, certain subsidiaries of the Registrant and Branch Banking and Trust Company
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.50 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-171114) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 10, 2010).




4.6
  
Second Supplemental Indenture (the the 2006 Indenture) dated November 1, 2010 among the Registrant, certain subsidiaries of the Registrant and Branch Banking and Trust Company
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.5 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 10, 2010).




4.7
  
Registration Rights Agreement dated as of December 14, 2006 among the Registrant, certain subsidiaries of the Registrant, and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Merrill Lynch,
Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, ABN AMRO Incorporated, Barclays Capital Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., and HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 20, 2006).




4.8
  
Indenture, dated as of August 1, 2008 (the “2008 Indenture”) among the Registrant, certain subsidiaries of the Registrant, and Branch Banking and Trust Company
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.3 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Commission file number 333-152733) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 1, 2008).




4.9
  
Underwriting Agreement dated December 3, 2009 between the Registrant, certain subsidiaries of the Registrant and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit
1.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 11, 2009).




4.10
  
First Supplemental Indenture (to the 2008 Indenture) dated December 10, 2009 among the Registrant, certain subsidiaries of the Registrant and Branch Banking and Trust Company
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 11, 2009).

  E-5



Table of Contents






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description

4.11
  
Second Supplemental Indenture (to the 2008 Indenture) dated August 13, 2010 among the Registrant, certain subsidiaries of the Registrant and Branch Banking and Trust Company
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.49 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-171114) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 10, 2010).




4.12
  
Third Supplemental Indenture (to the 2008 Indenture) dated November 1, 2010 among the Registrant, certain subsidiaries of the Registrant and Branch Banking and Trust Company
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.4 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 10, 2010).




4.13
  
Purchase Agreement dated November 4, 2010 among the Registrant, certain subsidiaries of the Registrant and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Barclays Capital
Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Goldman, Sachs & Co. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 1.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November
10, 2010).




4.14
  
Fourth Supplemental Indenture (to the 2008 Indenture) dated November 9, 2010 among the Registrant, certain subsidiaries of the Registrant and Branch Banking and Trust Company
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 10, 2010).




4.15
  
Registration Rights Agreement dated November 9, 2010 among the Registrant, certain subsidiaries of the Registrant and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated,
Barclays Capital Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Goldman, Sachs & Co. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on November 10, 2010).




10.1
  
Hanesbrands Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006, as amended (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file
number 333-171114) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 10, 2010).*




10.2
  
Form of Stock Option Grant Notice and Agreement under the Hanesbrands Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 5, 2006).*




10.3
  
Form of Calendar Year Grant Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and Agreement under the Hanesbrands Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006.*




10.4
  
Form of Discretionary Grant Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and Agreement under the Hanesbrand Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006.*




10.5
  
Form of Performance Stock and Cash Award – Cash Component Grant Notice and Agreement under the Hanesbrands Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006.*




10.6
  
Form of Performance Stock and Cash Award – Stock Component Grant Notice and Agreement under the Hanesbrands Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006.*




10.7
  
Form of Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and Agreement under the Hanesbrands Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006. *




10.8
  
Form of Non-Employee Director Stock Option Grant Notice and Agreement under the Hanesbrands Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2006 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.5 to
the Registrant’s Transition Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 22, 2007).*

  E-6



Table of Contents






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description

10.9
  
Hanesbrands Inc. Retirement Savings Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.8 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on February 16, 2011).*




10.10
  
Hanesbrands Inc. Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.8 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on February 9, 2010).*




10.11
  
Hanesbrands Inc. Performance-Based Annual Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.7 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on September 5, 2006).*




10.12
  
Hanesbrands Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on October 31, 2008).*




10.13
  
Hanesbrands Inc. Executive Life Insurance Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.10 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2009).*




10.14
  
Hanesbrands Inc. Executive Long-Term Disability Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.11 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2009).*




10.15
  
Hanesbrands Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan of 2006, as amended (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on April 29, 2010).*




10.16
  
Hanesbrands Inc. Non-Employee Director Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.13 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2009).*




10.17
  
Severance/Change in Control Agreement dated December 18, 2008 between the Registrant and Richard A. Noll (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.14 to the
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2009).*




10.18
  
Severance/Change in Control Agreement dated December 18, 2008 between the Registrant and Gerald W. Evans Jr. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.15 to the
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2009).*




10.19
  
Severance/Change in Control Agreement dated December 18, 2008 between the Registrant and E. Lee Wyatt Jr. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.16 to the
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2009).*




10.20
  
Severance/Change in Control Agreement dated December 10, 2008 between the Registrant and Kevin W. Oliver (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.17 to the
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2009).*




10.21
  
Severance/Change in Control Agreement dated December 17, 2008 between the Registrant and Joia M. Johnson (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.18 to the
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2009).*




10.22
  
Severance/Change in Control Agreement dated December 18, 2008 between the Registrant and William J. Nictakis (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.19 to the
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2009).*




10.23
  
Severance/Change in Control Agreement dated November 3, 2011 between the Registrant and Richard D. Moss (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 3, 2011).*

  E-7



Table of Contents






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description

10.24
  
 Retention Plan Award Agreement between the Registrant and Richard D. Moss dated June 28, 2011 (incorporated by reference from
Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 3, 2011).*




10.25
  
Master Separation Agreement dated August 31, 2006 between the Registrant and Sara Lee Corporation (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.21 to the Registrant’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 28, 2006).




10.26
  
Tax Sharing Agreement dated August 31, 2006 between the Registrant and Sara Lee Corporation (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.22 to the Registrant’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 28, 2006).




10.27
  
Employee Matters Agreement dated August 31, 2006 between the Registrant and Sara Lee Corporation (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.23 to the Registrant’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 28, 2006).




10.28
  
Master Transition Services Agreement dated August 31, 2006 between the Registrant and Sara Lee Corporation (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.24 to the
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 28, 2006).




10.29
  
Real Estate Matters Agreement dated August 31, 2006 between the Registrant and Sara Lee Corporation (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.25 to the Registrant’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 28, 2006).




10.30
  
Indemnification and Insurance Matters Agreement dated August 31, 2006 between the Registrant and Sara Lee Corporation (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.26 to the
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 28, 2006).




10.31
  
Intellectual Property Matters Agreement dated August 31, 2006 between the Registrant and Sara Lee Corporation (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.27 to the
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 28, 2006).




10.32
  
First Lien Credit Agreement dated September 5, 2006 (the “2006 Senior Secured Credit Facility”) among the Registrant the various financial institutions and other
persons from time to time party thereto, HSBC Bank USA, National Association, LaSalle Bank National Association, Barclays Bank PLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., Citicorp USA, Inc. and
Citibank, N.A. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.28 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 28, 2006).†




10.33
  
First Amendment dated February 22, 2007 to the 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facility (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 28, 2007).




10.34
  
Second Amendment dated August 21, 2008 to the 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facility (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 27, 2008).




10.35
  
Third Amendment dated March 10, 2009 to the 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facility (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 16, 2009).




10.36
  
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of September 5, 2006, as amended and restated as of December 10, 2009 (the “2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility”), among the
Registrant, the various financial institutions and other persons from time to time party to this Agreement, Barclays Bank PLC and Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., as the co-documentation agents, Bank of America, N.A. and HSBC Securities (USA)
Inc., as the co-syndication agents, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as the administrative agent and the collateral agent, and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and Barclays Capital, the investment
banking division of Barclays Bank PLC, as the joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.32 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February
9, 2010).

  E-8



Table of Contents








 ExhibitNumber
 
  
 Description

 
10.37
  
  
First Amendment dated February 17, 2011 to the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form
8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 18, 2011).




 
10.38
  
  
Second Lien Credit Agreement dated September 5, 2006 (the “Second Lien Credit Agreement”) among HBI Branded Apparel Limited, Inc., the Registrant, the various
financial institutions and other persons from time to time party thereto, HSBC Bank USA, National Association, LaSalle Bank National Association, Barclays Bank PLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Morgan Stanley Senior
Funding, Inc., Citicorp USA, Inc. and Citibank, N.A. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.29 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 28,
2006).†




 
10.39
  
  
First Amendment dated August 21, 2008 to the Second Lien Credit Agreement (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 27, 2008).




 
10.40
  
  
Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of November 27, 2007 (the “Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility”) among HBI Receivables LLC and the Registrant,
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., HSBC Bank USA, National Association, Falcon Asset Securitization Company LLC, Bryant Park Funding LLC, and HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.34 to the Registrant’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 19, 2008).†




 
10.41
  
  
Amendment No. 1 dated as of March 16, 2009 to the Accounts Receivables Securitization Facility (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 16, 2009).†




 
10.42
  
  
Amendment No. 2 dated as of April 13, 2009 to the Accounts Receivables Securitization Facility (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 11, 2009).†




 
10.43
  
  
Amendment No. 3 dated as of August 17, 2009 to the Accounts Receivables Securitization Facility (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 5, 2009).




 
10.44
  
  
Amendment No. 4 dated as of December 10, 2009 to the Accounts Receivables Securitization Facility (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.39 to the Registrant’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 9, 2010).




 
10.45
  
  
Amendment No. 5 dated as of December 21, 2009 to the Accounts Receivables Securitization Facility (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.40 to the Registrant’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 9, 2010).†




 
10.46
  
  
Amendment No. 6 dated as of December 18, 2010 to the Accounts Receivables Securitization Facility (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.42 to the Registrant’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 16, 2011).




 
10.47
  
  
Amendment No. 7 dated as of January 31, 2011 to the Accounts Receivables Securitization Facility (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.43 to the Registrant’s Annual Report
on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 16, 2011).†




 
10.48
  
  
Amendment No. 8 dated as of March 18, 2011 to the Accounts Receivables Securitization Facility (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report
on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 22, 2011).†




 
12.1
  
  
Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.




 
21.1
  
  
Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

  E-9



Table of Contents






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description

23.1
  
Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.




24.1
  
Powers of Attorney (included on the signature pages hereto).




31.1
  
Certification of Richard A. Noll, Chief Executive Officer.




31.2
  
Certification of Richard D. Moss, Chief Financial Officer.




32.1
  
Section 1350 Certification of Richard A. Noll, Chief Executive Officer.




32.2
  
Section 1350 Certification of Richard D. Moss, Chief Financial Officer.
  


*
Agreement relates to executive compensation.   


†
Portions of this exhibit were redacted pursuant to a confidential treatment request filed with the Secretary of the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to
Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 
  E-10



Table of Contents
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
HANESBRANDS INC.   








 Consolidated Financial Statements:
  
 
Page
  

 Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
  
 
F-2
  

 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
F-3
  

 Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2011, January 
1, 2011 and January 2, 2010
  
 
F-4
  

 Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011
  
 
F-5
  

 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31,
 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010
  
 
F-6
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, January 
1, 2011 and January 2, 2010
  
 
F-7
  

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
F-8
  

  F-1



Table of Contents
Hanesbrands Inc.  Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  Management of Hanesbrands Inc. (“Hanesbrands”) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a—15(f) under
the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Hanesbrands’ system of internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of Hanesbrands; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, and that receipts and expenditures of Hanesbrands are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of Hanesbrands; and
(iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of Hanesbrands’ assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
Management has evaluated the effectiveness of Hanesbrands’ internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011,
based upon criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting described in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”).
Based on our evaluation, management determined that Hanesbrands’ internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011.  The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated
in their report which is included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  F-2



Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of  Hanesbrands Inc.  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Hanesbrands Inc. (the “Company”) at December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”). The
Company’s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Greensboro, North Carolina  February 17, 2012

  F-3



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Consolidated Statements of Income 
(in thousands, except per share amounts) 
 
















 
  
Years Ended
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
January 1,
 
  
January 2,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Net sales
  
$
4,637,143
 
  
$
4,326,713
 
  
$
3,891,275
 

 Cost of sales
  
 
3,096,772
 
  
 
2,911,944
 
  
 
2,626,001
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
1,540,371
 
  
 
1,414,769
 
  
 
1,265,274
 

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
1,062,090
 
  
 
1,010,581
 
  
 
940,530
 

 Restructuring
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
53,888
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Operating profit
  
 
478,281
 
  
 
404,188
 
  
 
270,856
 

 Other expenses
  
 
6,377
 
  
 
20,221
 
  
 
49,301
 

 Interest expense, net
  
 
156,297
 
  
 
150,236
 
  
 
163,279
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income before income tax expense
  
 
315,607
 
  
 
233,731
 
  
 
58,276
 

 Income tax expense
  
 
48,919
 
  
 
22,438
 
  
 
6,993
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
266,688
 
  
$
211,293
 
  
$
51,283
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Earnings per share:
  



  



  




 Basic
  
$
2.73
 
  
$
2.19
 
  
$
0.54
 

 Diluted
  
$
2.69
 
  
$
2.16
 
  
$
0.54
 

 Weighted average shares outstanding:
  



  



  




 Basic
  
 
97,710
 
  
 
96,500
 
  
 
95,158
 

 Diluted
  
 
99,251
 
  
 
97,774
 
  
 
95,668
 

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  F-4



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Consolidated Balance Sheets 
(in thousands, except share and per share amounts) 
 












 
  
December 31,
 
 
January 1,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2011
 

 Assets
  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
35,345
 
 
$
43,671
 

 Trade accounts receivable less allowances of $17,418 at December 31, 2011 and $19,192 at January 1,
2011
  
 
470,713
 
 
 
503,243
 

 Inventories
  
 
1,607,555
 
 
 
1,322,719
 

 Deferred tax assets
  
 
154,667
 
 
 
149,431
 

 Other current assets
  
 
62,511
 
 
 
128,607
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
2,330,791
 
 
 
2,147,671
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property, net
  
 
635,406
 
 
 
631,254
 

 Trademarks and other identifiable intangibles, net
  
 
169,675
 
 
 
178,622
 

 Goodwill
  
 
433,396
 
 
 
430,144
 

 Deferred tax assets
  
 
394,220
 
 
 
319,798
 

 Other noncurrent assets
  
 
71,181
 
 
 
82,513
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
4,034,669
 
 
$
3,790,002
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity
  



 




 Accounts payable
  
$
451,525
 
 
$
412,369
 

 Accrued liabilities and other:
  



 




 Payroll and employee benefits
  
 
80,906
 
 
 
89,303
 

 Advertising and promotion
  
 
88,595
 
 
 
87,384
 

 Other
  
 
82,685
 
 
 
99,616
 

 Notes payable
  
 
63,075
 
 
 
50,678
 

 Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility
  
 
166,933
 
 
 
90,000
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
933,719
 
 
 
829,350
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Long-term debt
  
 
1,807,777
 
 
 
1,990,735
 

 Pension and postretirement benefits
  
 
485,688
 
 
 
301,889
 

 Other noncurrent liabilities
  
 
126,424
 
 
 
105,354
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
3,353,608
 
 
 
3,227,328
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Stockholders’ equity:
  



 




 Preferred stock (50,000,000 authorized shares; $.01 par value) Issued and outstanding — None
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Common stock (500,000,000 authorized shares; $.01 par value) Issued and outstanding — 97,517,325 at December 31, 2011
and 96,207,025 at January 1, 2011
  
 
975
 
 
 
962
 

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
266,551
 
 
 
294,829
 

 Retained earnings
  
 
746,786
 
 
 
480,098
 

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
  
 
(333,251
) 
 
 
(213,215
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total stockholders’ equity
  
 
681,061
 
 
 
562,674
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity
  
$
4,034,669
 
 
$
3,790,002
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  F-5



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income 
(in thousands)   





000,000



000,000



000,000



000,000



000,000



000,000


 
  
Common Stock
 
  
 Additional Paid-In
 
 
Retained
 
  
 Accumulated Other Comprehensive
 
 
Total
 

 
  
Shares
 
  
Amount
 
  
Capital
 
 
Earnings
 
  
Loss
 
 

 Balances at January 3, 2009
  
 
93,520
 
  
$
935
 
  
$
248,167
 
 
$
217,522
 
  
$
(281,469
) 
 
$
185,155
 

 Net income
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
51,283
 
  
 
—
  
 
 
51,283
 

 Translation adjustments
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
18,966
 
 
 
18,966
 

 Net unrealized gain on qualifying cash flow hedges, net of tax of $17,639
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
28,580
 
 
 
28,580
 

 Net unrecognized gain from pension and postretirement plans, net of tax of $1,835
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
10,928
 
 
 
10,928
 


  



  



  



 



  



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
  



  



  



 



  



 
 
109,757
 

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
37,391
 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
37,391
 

 Exercise of stock options, vesting of restricted stock units and other
  
 
1,877
 
  
 
19
 
  
 
2,397
 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
2,416
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balances at January 2, 2010
  
 
95,397
 
  
$
954
 
  
$
287,955
 
 
$
268,805
 
  
$
(222,995
) 
 
$
334,719
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
211,293
 
  
 
—
  
 
 
211,293
 

 Translation adjustments
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
3,661
 
 
 
3,661
 

 Net unrealized gain on qualifying cash flow hedges, net of tax of $6,773
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
10,189
 
 
 
10,189
 

 Net unrecognized loss from pension and postretirement plans, net of tax of $2,608
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
(4,070
) 
 
 
(4,070
) 


  



  



  



 



  



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
  



  



  



 



  



 
 
221,073
 

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
19,226
 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
19,226
 

 Exercise of stock options, vesting of restricted stock units and other
  
 
810
 
  
 
8
 
  
 
3,317
 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
3,325
 

 Net transactions related to spin off
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
(15,669
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
(15,669
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balances at January 1, 2011
  
 
96,207
 
  
$
962
 
  
$
294,829
 
 
$
480,098
 
  
$
(213,215
) 
 
$
562,674
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
266,688
 
  
 
—
  
 
 
266,688
 

 Translation adjustments
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
(9,890
) 
 
 
(9,890
) 

 Net unrealized gain on qualifying cash flow hedges, net of tax of $7,495
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
11,301
 
 
 
11,301
 

 Net unrecognized loss from pension and postretirement plans, net of tax of $79,577
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
(121,447
) 
 
 
(121,447
) 


  



  



  



 



  



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
  



  



  



 



  



 
 
146,652
 

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
15,822
 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
15,822
 

 Exercise of stock options, vesting of restricted stock units and other
  
 
1,310
 
  
 
13
 
  
 
15,364
 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
15,377
 

 Net transactions related to spin off
  



  



  
 
(59,464
) 
 



  



 
 
(59,464
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balances at December 31, 2011
  
 
97,517
 
  
$
975
 
  
$
266,551
 
 
$
746,786
 
  
$
(333,251
) 
 
$
681,061
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  F-6



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
(in thousands)   
















 
  
Years Ended
 

 
  
December 31,
 
 
January 1,
 
 
January 2,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Operating activities:
  



 



 




 Net income
  
$
266,688
 
 
$
211,293
 
 
$
51,283
 

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
  



 



 




 Depreciation
  
 
76,174
 
 
 
74,103
 
 
 
84,312
 

 Amortization of intangibles
  
 
14,551
 
 
 
12,509
 
 
 
12,443
 

 Restructuring
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
8,207
 

 Write-off on early extinguishment of debt
  
 
3,297
 
 
 
16,526
 
 
 
2,423
 

 Gain on repurchase of Floating Rate Senior Notes
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(157
) 

 Charges incurred for amendments of credit facilities
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
20,634
 

 Interest rate hedge termination
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
26,029
 

 Amortization of debt issuance costs
  
 
10,367
 
 
 
12,739
 
 
 
10,967
 

 Amortization of loss on interest rate hedge
  
 
11,292
 
 
 
17,774
 
 
 
—
  

 Stock compensation expense
  
 
16,173
 
 
 
19,534
 
 
 
37,697
 

 Deferred taxes
  
 
1,948
 
 
 
15,794
 
 
 
(9,152
) 

 Other
  
 
1,661
 
 
 
(3,432
) 
 
 
(10,252
) 

 Changes in assets and liabilities:
  



 



 




 Accounts receivable
  
 
26,585
 
 
 
(329
) 
 
 
(39,805
) 

 Inventories
  
 
(287,908
) 
 
 
(231,845
) 
 
 
248,820
 

 Other assets
  
 
3,639
 
 
 
11,597
 
 
 
22,210
 

 Accounts payable
  
 
39,706
 
 
 
29,934
 
 
 
3,522
 

 Accrued liabilities and other
  
 
(16,216
) 
 
 
(53,143
) 
 
 
(54,677
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
 
167,957
 
 
 
133,054
 
 
 
414,504
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investing activities:
  



 



 




 Purchases of property, plant and equipment
  
 
(90,099
) 
 
 
(106,240
) 
 
 
(126,825
) 

 Acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired
  
 
(9,154
) 
 
 
(222,878
) 
 
 
—
  

 Proceeds from sales of assets
  
 
13,620
 
 
 
45,642
 
 
 
37,965
 

 Other
  
 
—
  
 
 
(519
) 
 
 
16
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
  
 
(85,633
) 
 
 
(283,995
) 
 
 
(88,844
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Financing activities:
  



 



 




 Borrowings on notes payable
  
 
360,893
 
 
 
1,394,782
 
 
 
1,628,764
 

 Repayments on notes payable
  
 
(348,924
) 
 
 
(1,411,295
) 
 
 
(1,624,139
) 

 Borrowings on Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility
  
 
280,629
 
 
 
207,290
 
 
 
183,451
 

 Repayments on Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility
  
 
(203,696
) 
 
 
(217,290
) 
 
 
(326,068
) 

 Borrowings on Revolving Loan Facility
  
 
2,890,000
 
 
 
2,228,500
 
 
 
2,034,026
 

 Repayments on Revolving Loan Facility
  
 
(2,875,500
) 
 
 
(2,280,000
) 
 
 
(1,982,526
) 

 Repurchase of Floating Rate Senior Notes
  
 
(197,458
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2,788
) 

 Incurrence of debt under the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
750,000
 

 Repayments of debt under 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility
  
 
—
  
 
 
(750,000
) 
 
 
—
  

 Issuance of 6.375% Senior Notes
  
 
—
  
 
 
1,000,000
 
 
 
—
  

 Issuance of 8% Senior Notes
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
500,000
 

 Repayments of debt under 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facility
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,440,250
) 

 Payments to amend and refinance credit facilities
  
 
(3,757
) 
 
 
(23,833
) 
 
 
(74,976
) 

 Proceeds from stock options exercised
  
 
17,104
 
 
 
5,938
 
 
 
1,179
 

 Transactions with Sara Lee Corporation
  
 
(11,403
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Other
  
 
2,593
 
 
 
1,593
 
 
 
(847
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
  
 
(89,519
) 
 
 
155,685
 
 
 
(354,174
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on cash
  
 
(1,131
) 
 
 
(16
) 
 
 
115
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(8,326
) 
 
 
4,728
 
 
 
(28,399
) 

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
  
 
43,671
 
 
 
38,943
 
 
 
67,342
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
  
$
35,345
 
 
$
43,671
 
 
$
38,943
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  F-7



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
(1) Background 
Hanesbrands Inc., a Maryland corporation (the “Company”), is a consumer goods company with a portfolio of
leading apparel brands, including Hanes, Champion, Playtex, Bali, L’eggs, Just My Size, barely there, Wonderbra, Stedman, Outer Banks, Zorba, Rinbros,
Duofold and Gear for Sports. The Company designs, manufactures, sources and sells a broad range of basic apparel such as T-shirts, bras, panties, men’s underwear, kids’ underwear, casualwear, activewear, socks and hosiery.
 The Company’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to December 31. All references to “2011”,
“2010” and “2009” relate to the 52 week fiscal years ended on December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010, respectively. 
(2) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
(a) Consolidation 
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its
wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 
(b) Use of Estimates 
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles (“GAAP”) requires management to make use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities, certain financial statement disclosures at the date of the financial statements, and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may vary from these estimates. 
(c) Foreign Currency Translation 
Foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities are
translated into U.S. dollars at exchange rates existing at the respective balance sheet dates. Translation adjustments resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates are recorded as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive loss
within stockholders’ equity. The Company translates the results of operations of its foreign operations at the average exchange rates during the respective periods. Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are included in
the “Selling, general and administrative expenses” line of the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
(d) Sales Recognition and Incentives 
The Company recognizes revenue when (i) there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, (ii) the sales price is fixed or
determinable, (iii) title and the risks of ownership have been transferred to the customer and (iv) collection of the receivable is reasonably assured, which occurs primarily upon shipment. The Company records a sales reduction for returns
and allowances based upon historical return experience. The Company earns royalty revenues through license agreements with manufacturers of other consumer products that incorporate certain of the Company’s brands. The Company accrues revenue
earned under these contracts based upon reported sales from the licensee. The Company offers a variety of sales incentives to resellers and consumers of its products, and the policies regarding the recognition and display of these incentives within
the Consolidated Statements of Income are as follows: 
  F-8



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
Discounts, Coupons, and Rebates 
The Company recognizes the cost of these incentives at the later of the date at which the related sale is recognized or the date at which
the incentive is offered. The cost of these incentives is estimated using a number of factors, including historical utilization and redemption rates. All cash incentives of this type are included in the determination of net sales. The Company
includes incentives offered in the form of free products in the determination of cost of sales. Volume-Based Incentives
 These incentives typically involve rebates or refunds of cash that are redeemable only if the reseller completes a
specified number of sales transactions. Under these incentive programs, the Company estimates the anticipated rebate to be paid and allocates a portion of the estimated cost of the rebate to each underlying sales transaction with the customer. The
Company includes these amounts in the determination of net sales. Cooperative Advertising 
Under these arrangements, the Company agrees to reimburse the reseller for a portion of the costs incurred by the reseller to advertise
and promote certain of the Company’s products. The Company recognizes the cost of cooperative advertising programs in the period in which the advertising and promotional activity first takes place. 
Fixtures and Racks  Store fixtures and racks are periodically used by resellers to display Company products. The Company expenses the cost of these fixtures and racks in the period in which they are delivered to the
resellers. The Company includes the costs of fixtures and racks incurred by resellers and charged back to the Company in the determination of net sales. Fixtures and racks purchased by the Company and provided to resellers are included in selling,
general and administrative expenses. 
(e) Advertising Expense 
Advertising costs, which include the development and production of
advertising materials and the communication of these materials through various forms of media, are expensed in the period the advertising first takes place. The Company recognized advertising expense in the “Selling, general and administrative
expenses” caption in the Consolidated Statements of Income of $184,225, $185,488 and $166,467 in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 
(f) Shipping and Handling Costs 
Revenue received for shipping and handling costs is included in net sales and was
$19,868, $22,054 and $22,434 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Shipping costs, that comprise payments to third party shippers, and handling costs, which consist of warehousing costs in the Company’s various distribution facilities, were
$256,198, $250,029 and $222,169 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company recognizes shipping, handling and distribution costs in the “Selling, general and administrative expenses” line of the Consolidated Statements of Income.

(g) Catalog Expenses 
The Company incurs expenses for printing catalogs for products to aid in the Company’s
sales efforts. The Company initially records these expenses as a prepaid item and charges it against selling, general and administrative expenses over time as the catalog is used. Expenses are recognized at a rate that approximates historical
experience with regard to the timing and amount of sales attributable to a catalog distribution. 
  F-9



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
(h) Research and Development 
Research and development costs are expensed as incurred and are included in
the “Selling, general and administrative expenses” line of the Consolidated Statements of Income. Research and development expense was $47,056, $47,082 and $46,305 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
(i) Cash and Cash Equivalents 
All highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less at the time of
purchase are considered to be cash equivalents. 
(j) Accounts Receivable Valuation 
Accounts receivable are stated at their net realizable value. The allowance for doubtful accounts
reflects the Company’s best estimate of probable losses inherent in the accounts receivable portfolio determined on the basis of historical experience, aging of trade receivables, specific allowances for known troubled accounts and other
currently available information. 
(k) Inventory Valuation 
Inventories are stated at the estimated lower of cost or market. Cost is determined by the first-in,
first-out, or “FIFO,” method for inventories. Obsolete, damaged, and excess inventory is carried at the net realizable value, which is determined by assessing historical recovery rates, current market conditions and future marketing and
sales plans. Rebates, discounts and other cash consideration received from a vendor related to inventory purchases are reflected as reductions in the cost of the related inventory item, and are therefore reflected in cost of sales when the related
inventory item is sold. 
(l) Property 
Property is stated at historical cost and depreciation expense is computed using
the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Machinery and equipment is depreciated over periods ranging from three to 15 years and buildings and building improvements over periods of up to 40 years. A change in
the depreciable life is treated as a change in accounting estimate and the accelerated depreciation is accounted for in the period of change and future periods. Additions and improvements that substantially extend the useful life of a particular
asset and interest costs incurred during the construction period of major properties are capitalized. Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Upon sale or disposition of an asset, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are
removed from the accounts.  Property is tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
its carrying value may not be recoverable. Such events include significant adverse changes in the business climate, several periods of operating or cash flow losses, forecasted continuing losses or a current expectation that an asset or an asset
group will be disposed of before the end of its useful life. Recoverability of property is evaluated by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset or asset group to future net undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset or
asset group. If these comparisons indicate that an asset is not recoverable, the impairment loss recognized is the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value. When an impairment loss is recognized for assets to
be held and used, the adjusted carrying amount of those assets is depreciated over its remaining useful life. Restoration of a previously recognized impairment loss is not permitted under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

(m) Trademarks and Other Identifiable Intangible Assets 
The primary identifiable intangible assets of the Company are
trademarks, license agreements, customer and distributor relationships and computer software all of which have finite lives that are subject to amortization. The estimated useful life of a finite-lived intangible asset is based upon a number of
factors, including the effects of 
  F-10



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 

demand, competition, expected changes in distribution channels and the level of maintenance expenditures required to obtain future cash flows. Finite-lived trademarks are being amortized over
periods ranging from six to 30 years, license agreements are being amortized over periods ranging from six to 15 years, customer and distributor relationships are being amortized over periods ranging from three to 10 years and computer software
is being amortized over periods ranging from three to seven years. Identifiable intangible assets that are subject to amortization are evaluated for impairment using a process similar to that used in evaluating elements of property. 
The Company capitalizes internal software development costs, which include the actual costs to purchase software from vendors and
generally include personnel and related costs for employees who were directly associated with the enhancement and implementation of purchased computer software. Additions to computer software are included in purchases of property, plant and
equipment in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 
(n) Goodwill 
Goodwill is the amount by which the purchase price exceeds the fair
value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. When a business combination is completed, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are assigned to the reporting unit or units of the Company given responsibility for
managing, controlling and generating returns on these assets and liabilities. In many instances, all of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities are assigned to a single reporting unit and in these cases all of the goodwill is assigned to the
same reporting unit. In those situations in which the acquired assets and liabilities are allocated to more than one reporting unit, the goodwill to be assigned to each reporting unit is determined in a manner similar to how the amount of goodwill
recognized in a business combination is determined.  Goodwill is not amortized; however, it is assessed for impairment at
least annually and as triggering events occur. The Company’s annual measurement date is the first day of the third fiscal quarter. The first step involves comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value. If the carrying value
of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the process involves comparing the implied fair value to the carrying value of the goodwill of that reporting unit. If the carrying value of the goodwill of a reporting unit exceeds
the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to such excess.  In evaluating
the recoverability of goodwill, it is necessary to estimate the fair values of the reporting units. In making this assessment, management relies on a number of factors to discount anticipated future cash flows including operating results, business
plans and present value techniques. Rates used to discount cash flows are dependent upon interest rates and the cost of capital at a point in time. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management’s judgment in applying
them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. 
(o) Stock-Based Compensation 
The Company established the Hanesbrands Inc. Omnibus
Incentive Plan of 2006, (the “Hanesbrands OIP”) to award stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, deferred stock units, performance shares and cash to its employees, non-employee directors and
employees of its subsidiaries to promote the interests of the Company and incent performance and retention of employees. The Company recognizes the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments based upon the grant
date fair value of those awards. 
(p) Income Taxes 
Deferred taxes are recognized for the future tax effects of temporary differences between financial
and income tax reporting using tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. Given continuing losses in certain jurisdictions in which the Company operates on a separate return basis, a valuation allowance has
been established for the deferred tax assets in these specific locations. The Company periodically estimates the probable tax obligations using historical experience in tax jurisdictions and informed judgment. There are inherent uncertainties
related to the interpretation of tax regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Company transacts 
  F-11



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 

business. The judgments and estimates made at a point in time may change based on the outcome of tax audits, as well as changes to, or further interpretations of, regulations. Income tax expense
is adjusted in the period in which these events occur, and these adjustments are included in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income. If such changes take place, there is a risk that the Company’s effective tax rate may increase or
decrease in any period. A company must recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the
position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate resolution. 
(q) Financial Instruments 
The Company uses financial instruments, including forward exchange, option
and swap contracts, to manage its exposures to movements in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices. The use of these financial instruments modifies the exposure to these risks with the intent to reduce the risk or cost to the
Company. The Company does not use derivatives for trading purposes and is not a party to leveraged derivative contracts.  The
Company formally documents its hedge relationships, including identifying the hedging instruments and the hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategies for undertaking the hedge transaction. This process includes linking
derivatives that are designated as hedges of specific assets, liabilities, firm commitments or forecasted transactions. The Company also formally assesses, both at inception and at least quarterly thereafter, whether the derivatives that are used in
hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in either the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. If it is determined that a derivative ceases to be a highly effective hedge, or if the anticipated transaction is no longer
likely to occur, the Company discontinues hedge accounting, and any deferred gains or losses are recorded in the “Selling, general and administrative expenses” line of the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Derivatives are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value in other assets and other liabilities. The fair value is based
upon either market quotes for actively traded instruments or independent bids for nonexchange traded instruments.  On the date
the derivative is entered into, the Company designates the type of derivative as a fair value hedge, cash flow hedge, net investment hedge or a mark to market hedge, and accounts for the derivative in accordance with its designation. 
Mark to Market Hedge  A
derivative used as a hedging instrument whose change in fair value is recognized to act as an economic hedge against changes in the values of the hedged item is designated a mark to market hedge. For derivatives designated as mark to market hedges,
changes in fair value are reported in earnings in the “Selling, general and administrative expenses” line of the Consolidated Statements of Income. Forward exchange contracts are recorded as mark to market hedges when the hedged item is a
recorded asset or liability that is revalued in each accounting period.  Cash Flow Hedge 
A hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability
is designated as a cash flow hedge. The effective portion of the change in the fair value of a derivative that is designated as a cash flow hedge is recorded in the “Accumulated other comprehensive loss” line of the Consolidated Balance
Sheets. When the hedged item affects the income statement, the gain or loss included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) is reported on the same line in the Consolidated Statements of Income as the hedged item. In addition, both the
fair value of changes excluded from the Company’s effectiveness assessments and the ineffective portion of the changes in the fair value of derivatives used as cash flow hedges are reported in the “Selling, general and administrative
expenses” line in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
  F-12



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
(r) Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 
Fair Value Disclosures 
In January 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued
new accounting rules related to the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements. The new accounting rules require new disclosures regarding significant transfers between Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy and the activity within
Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The new accounting rules also clarify existing disclosures regarding the level of disaggregation of assets or liabilities and the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value. The new accounting
rules were effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2010, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the rollforward of activity in Level 3 fair value measurements. Those disclosures were effective for
the Company in the first quarter of 2011. The adoption of these new rules did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows but resulted in certain additional disclosures reflected in Note
14. 
Fair Value Measurements 
In May 2011, the FASB issued new accounting rules related to fair value
measurements. The new accounting rules clarify some existing concepts, eliminate wording differences between GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), and in some limited cases, change some principles to achieve
convergence between GAAP and IFRS. The new accounting rules result in a consistent definition of fair value and common requirements for measurement of and disclosure about fair value between GAAP and IFRS. The new accounting rules also expand the
disclosures for fair value measurements that are estimated using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs. The new accounting rules will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2012. The Company does not expect the adoption of the new
accounting rules to have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
Presentation of Comprehensive Income 
In June 2011, the FASB issued new accounting rules that require an entity to present the
total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income, or in two separate but consecutive statements. The new accounting rules
eliminate the option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of equity. The new accounting rules will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2012. The Company does not expect the adoption of the new
accounting rules to have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  In
December 2011, the FASB issued new accounting rules which deferred certain provisions of the rules issued in June 2011 that required entities to present reclassification adjustments out of accumulated other comprehensive income by component in both
the statement in which net income is presented and the statement in which other comprehensive income is presented. Accordingly, this requirement is indefinitely deferred. 
Goodwill Impairment Testing 
In September 2011, the FASB issued new accounting rules related to testing
goodwill for impairment. The new accounting rules permit an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If it is concluded that this
is the case, it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test prescribed under current accounting rules. Otherwise, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. The new accounting rules will be effective for the
Company in the first quarter of 2012. The Company does not expect the adoption of the new accounting rules to have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
  F-13



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
Disclosures About Offsetting Assets and Liabilities 
In December 2011, the FASB issued new accounting rules related to new disclosure requirements regarding the nature of an entity’s
rights of setoff and related arrangements associated with its financial instruments and derivative instruments. The new rules are effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2015 with retrospective application required. The Company does not
expect the adoption of the new accounting rules to have a material effect on Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
(3) Earnings Per Share 
Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) was computed by dividing net income by the number of weighted average shares
of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS was calculated to give effect to all potentially dilutive shares of common stock using the treasury stock method. The reconciliation of basic to diluted weighted average shares outstanding
for 2011, 2010 and 2009 is as follows:     
















 
  
Years Ended
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
January 1,
 
  
January 2,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Basic weighted average shares outstanding
  
 
97,710
 
  
 
96,500
 
  
 
95,158
 

 Effect of potentially dilutive securities:
  



  



  




 Stock options
  
 
1,163
 
  
 
783
 
  
 
—
  

 Restricted stock units
  
 
376
 
  
 
489
 
  
 
510
 

 Employee stock purchase plan and other
  
 
2
 
  
 
2
 
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted weighted average shares outstanding
  
 
99,251
 
  
 
97,774
 
  
 
95,668
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

Options to purchase 6, 827, and 6,273 shares of common stock and 1, 250, and 234 restricted stock units were excluded
from the diluted earnings per share calculation because their effect would be anti-dilutive for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 
(4) Stock-Based Compensation 
The Company established the Hanesbrands OIP to award stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock,
restricted stock units, deferred stock units, performance shares and cash to its employees, non-employee directors and employees of its subsidiaries to promote the interests of the Company and incent performance and retention of employees.
 Stock Options  The exercise price of each stock option equals the closing market price of Hanesbrands’ stock on the date of grant. Options granted vest ratably over three years and can be exercised over a term of
10 years. The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. There were no options granted during 2011. The following table illustrates the assumptions for the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model used in determining the fair value of options granted during 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  F-14



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
   












 
  
Years Ended
 

 
  
January 1,
 
 
January 2,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Dividend yield
  
 
—
% 
 
 
—
% 

 Risk-free interest rate
  
 
1.64-1.90
% 
 
 
2.49
% 

 Volatility
  
 
50-54
% 
 
 
48
% 

 Expected term (years)
  
 
5.3-6.0
  
 
 
6.0
 

The dividend yield assumption is based on the Company’s current intent not to pay dividends. The Company uses a
combination of the volatility of the Company and the volatility of peer companies for a period of time that is comparable to the expected life of the option to determine volatility assumptions due to the limited trading history of the Company’s
common stock. The Company utilizes the simplified method outlined in SEC accounting rules to estimate expected lives for options granted. The simplified method is used for valuing stock option grants by eligible public companies that do not have
sufficient historical exercise patterns on options granted to employees. 
A summary of the changes in stock options
outstanding to the Company’s employees under the Hanesbrands OIP is presented below:   





$000,000



$000,000



$000,000



$000,000


 
  
Shares
 
 
Weighted-Average
ExercisePrice
 
  
AggregateIntrinsic
Value
 
  
Weighted-Average
RemainingContractualTerm(Years)
 

  
 
  
  

  
 
  
  

  
 
  
  

  
 
  
  

  
 
  
  

 Options outstanding at January 3, 2009
  
 
6,029
 
 
$
21.86
 
  
$
—
  
  
 
5.99
 

 Granted
  
 
466
 
 
 
24.33
 
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
(66
) 
 
 
17.71
 
  



  




 Forfeited
  
 
(142
) 
 
 
21.32
 
  



  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Options outstanding at January 2, 2010
  
 
6,287
 
 
$
22.10
 
  
$
15,770
 
  
 
7.77
 

 Granted
  
 
221
 
 
 
27.16
 
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
(289
) 
 
 
20.51
 
  



  




 Forfeited
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
22.37
 
  



  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Options outstanding at January 1, 2011
  
 
6,218
 
 
$
22.35
 
  
$
19,914
 
  
 
6.90
 

 Exercised
  
 
(772
) 
 
 
22.17
 
  



  




 Forfeited
  
 
(132
) 
 
 
20.50
 
  



  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Options outstanding at December 31, 2011
  
 
5,314
 
 
$
22.42
 
  
$
7,202
 
  
 
5.90
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 







 Options exercisable at December 31, 2011
  
 
5,052
 
 
$
22.25
 
  
$
7,202
 
  
 
5.77
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

There were 3,696, 2,133 and 2,981 options that vested during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The total intrinsic
value of options that were exercised during 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $5,756, $1,923 and $465, respectively. The weighted average fair value of individual options granted during 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $0, $13.32 and $11.80, respectively. 
Cash received from option exercises under all share-based payment arrangements for 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $17,104, $5,938 and $1,179,
respectively. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from option exercise of the share-based payment arrangements totaled $5,756, $1,705 and $465 for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  F-15



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
Stock Unit Awards 
Restricted stock units (RSUs) of Hanesbrands’ stock are granted to certain Company non-employee directors and employees to incent
performance and retention over periods of one to three years, respectively. Upon vesting, the RSUs are converted into shares of the Company’s common stock on a one-for-one basis and issued to the grantees. Some RSUs which have been granted
under the Hanesbrands OIP vest upon continued future service to the Company, while others also have a performance based vesting feature. The cost of these awards is determined using the fair value of the shares on the date of grant, and compensation
expense is recognized over the period during which the grantees provide the requisite service to the Company. A summary of the changes in the restricted stock unit awards outstanding under the Hanesbrands OIP is presented below: 
   





$000,000



$000,000



$000,000



$000,000


 
  
Shares
 
 
Weighted-Average
Grant DateFair Value
 
  
AggregateIntrinsic
Value
 
  
Weighted-Average
RemainingContractualTerm(Years)
 

  
 
  
  

  
 
  
  

  
 
  
  

  
 
  
  

  
 
  
  

 Nonvested share units outstanding at January 3, 2009
  
 
2,402
 
 
$
20.19
 
  
$
31,652
 
  
 
1.89
 

 Granted—non-performanced based
  
 
408
 
 
 
24.29
 
  



  




 Vested
  
 
(1,193
) 
 
 
20.84
 
  



  




 Forfeited
  
 
(91
) 
 
 
19.57
 
  



  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Nonvested share units outstanding at January 2, 2010
  
 
1,526
 
 
$
20.82
 
  
$
36,796
 
  
 
1.76
 

 Granted—non-performanced based
  
 
391
 
 
 
27.02
 
  



  




 Granted—performanced based
  
 
143
 
 
 
27.16
 
  



  




 Vested
  
 
(721
) 
 
 
21.28
 
  



  




 Forfeited
  
 
(9
) 
 
 
19.21
 
  



  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Nonvested share units outstanding at January 1, 2011
  
 
1,330
 
 
$
23.08
 
  
$
33,794
 
  
 
1.73
 

 Granted—non-performanced based
  
 
497
 
 
 
24.47
 
  



  




 Granted—performanced based
  
 
256
 
 
 
24.36
 
  



  




 Vested
  
 
(741
) 
 
 
21.06
 
  



  




 Forfeited
  
 
(117
) 
 
 
22.82
 
  



  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Nonvested share units outstanding at December 31, 2011
  
 
1,225
 
 
$
25.16
 
  
$
26,782
 
  
 
2.37
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

The total fair value of shares vested during 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $15,605, $15,346 and $24,871, respectively.
Certain participants elected to defer receipt of shares earned upon vesting. As of December 31, 2011, a total of 243 shares of common stock are issuable in future years for such deferrals. 
For all share-based payments under the Hanesbrands OIP, during 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company recognized total compensation expense of
$15,822, $19,226 and $37,391 and recognized a deferred tax benefit of $6,164, $7,435 and $14,464, respectively. During 2009, the Company incurred $1,814 related to amending the terms of all outstanding stock options granted under the Hanesbrands OIP
that had an original term of five or seven years to the tenth anniversary of the original grant date.  In 2011 and 2010, in
addition to granting RSUs that vest solely upon continued future service to the Company, the Company also granted 256 and 143 performance-based restricted stock units, respectively, with a performance feature that has a target range of 0% to 200%
based upon meeting certain performance thresholds. These performance stock awards, which are included in the table above, represent unearned awards that are earned based on future performance and service. 
At December 31, 2011, there was $12,191 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock-based compensation
arrangements, of which $7,435, $3,495 and $1,261 is expected to be recognized in 2012, 2013 
  F-16



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 

and 2014, respectively. The Company satisfies the requirement for common shares for share-based payments to employees pursuant to the Hanesbrands OIP by issuing newly authorized shares. The
Hanesbrands OIP authorized 13,105 shares for awards of stock options and restricted stock units, of which 1,687 were available for future grants as of December 31, 2011.  Employee Stock Purchase Plan  The Company established the
Hanesbrands Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan of 2006 (the “ESPP”), which is qualified under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code. An aggregate of up to 2,442 shares of Hanesbrands common stock may be purchased by eligible
employees pursuant to the ESPP. The purchase price for shares under the ESPP is equal to 85% of the stock’s fair market value on the purchase date. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, 82, 79 and 156 shares, respectively, were purchased under the
ESPP by eligible employees. The Company had 1,918 shares of common stock available for issuance under the ESPP as of December 31, 2011. The Company recognized $351, $308 and $306 of stock compensation expense under the ESPP during 2011, 2010
and 2009, respectively. 
(5) Trade Accounts Receivable 
Allowances for Trade Accounts Receivable 
The changes in the Company’s allowance for doubtful accounts and
allowance for chargebacks and other deductions are as follows:   
















 
  
Allowance 
forDoubtfulAccounts
 
 
Allowance 
forChargebacksand
OtherDeductions
 
 
Total
 

  
 
 

  
 
 

  
 
 

  
 
 

 Balance at January 3, 2009
  
$
12,555
 
 
$
9,342
 
 
$
21,897
 

 Charged to expenses
  
 
3,647
 
 
 
5,724
 
 
 
9,371
 

 Deductions and write-offs
  
 
(700
) 
 
 
(4,792
) 
 
 
(5,492
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at January 2, 2010
  
 
15,502
 
 
 
10,274
 
 
 
25,776
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Charged to expenses
  
 
(1,116
) 
 
 
3,715
 
 
 
2,599
 

 Deductions and write-offs
  
 
(3,270
) 
 
 
(5,913
) 
 
 
(9,183
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at January 1, 2011
  
 
11,116
 
 
 
8,076
 
 
 
19,192
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Charged to expenses
  
 
(1,142
) 
 
 
6,393
 
 
 
5,251
 

 Deductions and write-offs
  
 
(1,250
) 
 
 
(5,775
) 
 
 
(7,025
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
8,724
 
 
$
8,694
 
 
$
17,418
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

Charges to the allowance for doubtful accounts are reflected in the “Selling, general and administrative
expenses” line and charges to the allowance for customer chargebacks and other customer deductions are primarily reflected as a reduction in the “Net sales” line of the Consolidated Statements of Income. Deductions and write-offs,
which do not increase or decrease income, represent write-offs of previously reserved accounts receivable and allowed customer chargebacks and deductions against gross accounts receivable. 
Sales of Accounts Receivable  The Company has entered into agreements to sell selected trade accounts receivable to financial institutions. After the sale, the Company does not retain any interests in the receivables and the
applicable financial institution services and collects these accounts receivable directly from the customer. Net proceeds of these accounts receivable sale programs are recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as part of operating
cash flows. The Company recognized funding fees of $3,080, $3,464 and $163 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, for sales of accounts receivable to financial institutions in the “Other expenses” line in the Consolidated Statements of
Income. 
  F-17



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
(6) Inventories 
Inventories consisted of the following: 
 












 
  
December 31,
 
  
January 1,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2011
 

 Raw materials
  
$
231,781
 
  
$
155,744
 

 Work in process
  
 
129,827
 
  
 
109,304
 

 Finished goods
  
 
1,245,947
 
  
 
1,057,671
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
1,607,555
 
  
$
1,322,719
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

(7) Property, Net 
Property is summarized as follows: 
 












 
  
December 31,
 
  
January 1,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2011
 

 Land
  
$
25,378
 
  
$
26,122
 

 Buildings and improvements
  
 
470,555
 
  
 
467,378
 

 Machinery and equipment
  
 
880,139
 
  
 
868,995
 

 Construction in progress
  
 
31,076
 
  
 
31,904
 

 Capital leases
  
 
4,499
 
  
 
6,988
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
1,411,647
 
  
 
1,401,387
 

 Less accumulated depreciation
  
 
776,241
 
  
 
770,133
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Property, net
  
$
635,406
 
  
$
631,254
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

(8) Notes Payable 
The Company had the following short-term revolving facilities at December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011:
  
















 
  
Interest Rate as ofDecember 31, 2011
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

  
 
Principal Amount
 

  
 
December 31,
 
  
January 1,
 

  
 
2011
 
  
2011
 

 China
  
 
8.14
% 
 
$
32,885
 
  
$
12,941
 

 El Salvador
  
 
3.00
% 
 
 
25,000
 
  
 
29,700
 

 India
  
 
12.04
% 
 
 
3,911
 
  
 
1,846
 

 Germany
  
 
3.87
% 
 
 
1,074
 
  
 
—
  

 Philippines
  
 
7.11
% 
 
 
205
 
  
 
—
  

 Vietnam
  



 
 
—
  
  
 
3,371
 

 Japan
  



 
 
—
  
  
 
2,459
 

 Brazil
  



 
 
—
  
  
 
361
 


  



 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  



 
$
63,075
 
  
$
50,678
 


  



 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-18



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
As of December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, the Company had total borrowing
availability of $65,675 and $34,669, respectively, under the international loan facilities. Total interest paid on notes payable was $2,372, $2,267 and $3,974 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company was in compliance with the financial
covenants contained in each of the facilities at December 31, 2011. 
(9) Debt 
The Company had the following debt at December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011:
  


















 
  
Interest Rate as ofDecember 31, 2011
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
Maturity Date

  
 
Principal Amount
 
  

  
 
December 
31,2011
 
  
January 
1,2011
 
  

  
 
  
  

 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility:
  



 



  



  


 Revolving Loan Facility
  
 
5.50
% 
 
 
14,500
 
  
 
—
  
  
December 2015

 6.375% Senior Notes
  
 
6.38
% 
 
 
1,000,000
 
  
 
1,000,000
 
  
December 2020

 8% Senior Notes
  
 
8.00
% 
 
 
500,000
 
  
 
500,000
 
  
December 2016

 Floating Rate Senior Notes
  
 
4.15
% 
 
 
293,277
 
  
 
490,735
 
  
December 2014

 Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility
  
 
1.44
% 
 
 
166,933
 
  
 
90,000
 
  
March 2012


  



 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



  



 
 
1,974,710
 
  
 
2,080,735
 
  


 Less current maturities
  



 
 
166,933
 
  
 
90,000
 
  



  



 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



  



 
$
1,807,777
 
  
$
1,990,735
 
  



  



 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


The Company’s primary financing arrangements are the senior secured credit facility that it entered into in 2006
(the “2006 Senior Secured Credit Facility”) and amended and restated in December 2009 to provide for a new senior secured credit facility (the “2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility”) and further amended in February 2011, $500,000
in aggregate principle amount of floating rate senior notes (the “Floating Rate Senior Notes”) issued in December 2006, $500,000 in aggregate principal amount of 8.000% senior notes (the “8% Senior Notes”) issued in December
2009, $1,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of 6.375% senior notes (the “6.375% Senior Notes”) issued in November 2010 and the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility. The outstanding balances at December 31, 2011 are reported
in the “Long-term debt” and “Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility” lines of the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Total cash paid for interest related to debt in 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $140,083, $116,492 and $161,854, respectively.  2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility The 2009 Senior Secured Credit
Facility initially provided for aggregate borrowings of $1,150,000, consisting of a $750,000 term loan facility (the “Term Loan Facility”) and a $400,000 revolving loan facility (the “Revolving Loan Facility”). The proceeds of
the Term Loan Facility were used to refinance all amounts outstanding under the Term A loan facility (in an initial principal amount of $250,000) and Term B loan facility (in an initial principal amount of $1,400,000) under the 2006 Senior Secured
Credit Facility and to repay all amounts outstanding under the second lien credit facility that the Company entered into in 2006 (the “Second Lien Credit Facility”). Proceeds of the Revolving Loan Facility were used to pay fees and
expenses in connection with these transactions, and are used for general corporate purposes and working capital needs.  A
portion of the Revolving Loan Facility is available for the issuances of letters of credit and the making of swingline loans, and any such issuance of letters of credit or making of a swingline loan will reduce the amount available under the
Revolving Loan Facility. At the Company’s option, it may add one or more term loan facilities 
  F-19



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 

or increase the commitments under the Revolving Loan Facility in an aggregate amount of up to $300,000 so long as certain conditions are satisfied, including, among others, that no default or
event of default is in existence and that the Company is in pro forma compliance with the financial covenants described below. In order to support its working capital needs and fund the acquisition of Gear Co, Inc., known as Gear for Sports, in
September 2010, the Company increased the commitments under the Revolving Loan Facility from $400,000 to $600,000. In November 2010, the Company used proceeds from the issuance of the 6.375% Senior Notes to repay all outstanding borrowings under the
Term Loan Facility and to reduce the outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Loan Facility. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had $14,500 outstanding under the Revolving Loan Facility, $14,264 of standby and trade letters of credit issued
and outstanding under this facility and $571,236 of borrowing availability. At December 31, 2011, the interest rate on the Revolving Loan Facility was 5.50%.  The 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility is guaranteed by substantially all of the Company’s existing and future direct and indirect U.S. subsidiaries, with certain customary or agreed-upon exceptions
for certain subsidiaries. The Company and each of the guarantors under the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility have granted the lenders under the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility a valid and perfected first priority (subject to certain customary
exceptions) lien and security interest in the following:   


 
•
 
 the equity interests of substantially all of the Company’s direct and indirect U.S. subsidiaries and 65% of the voting securities of certain first
tier foreign subsidiaries; and   


 
•
 
 substantially all present and future property and assets, real and personal, tangible and intangible, of the Company and each guarantor, except for
certain enumerated interests, and all proceeds and products of such property and assets.  The Revolving Loan
Facility matures on December 10, 2015. All borrowings under the Revolving Loan Facility must be repaid in full upon maturity. Outstanding borrowings under the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility are prepayable without penalty. 
At the Company’s option, borrowings under the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility may be maintained from time to time as
(a) Base Rate loans, which shall bear interest at the highest of (i) 1/2 of 1% in excess of the federal funds rate, (ii) the rate publicly announced by JPMorgan Chase Bank as its “prime rate” at its principal office in New
York City, in effect from time to time and (iii) the LIBO Rate (as defined in the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility and adjusted for maximum reserves) for LIBOR-based loans with a one-month interest period plus 1.0%, in effect from time to
time, in each case plus the applicable margin, or (b) LIBOR-based loans, which shall bear interest at the higher of (i) LIBO Rate (as defined in the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility and adjusted for maximum reserves), as determined by
reference to the rate for deposits in dollars appearing on the Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page for the respective interest period or other commercially available source designated by the administrative agent, and (ii) 2.00%, plus the applicable
margin in effect from time to time. The applicable margin is determined by reference to a leverage-based pricing grid set forth in the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility. The applicable margin ranges from a maximum of 4.75% in the case of
LIBOR-based loans and 3.75% in the case of Base Rate loans if the Company’s leverage ratio is greater than or equal to 4.00 to 1, and will step down in 0.25% increments to a minimum of 4.00% in the case of LIBOR-based loans and 3.00% in the
case of Base Rate loans if the Company’s leverage ratio is less than 2.50 to 1.  The 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility
requires the Company to comply with customary affirmative, negative and financial covenants. The 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility requires that the Company maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum total debt to EBITDA (earnings
before income taxes, depreciation expense and amortization, as computed pursuant to the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility), or leverage ratio. The interest coverage ratio covenant requires that the ratio of the Company’s EBITDA for the
preceding four fiscal quarters to its consolidated total interest expense for such period shall not be less than a specified ratio for each fiscal quarter beginning with the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009. This ratio was 2.50 to 1 for the fourth
fiscal quarter of 2009 and increases over time until it reaches 3.25 to 1 for the third fiscal quarter of 2011 and thereafter. The leverage ratio 
  F-20



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 

covenant requires that the ratio of the Company’s total debt to EBITDA for the preceding four fiscal quarters will not be more than a specified ratio for each fiscal quarter beginning with
the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009. This ratio was 4.50 to 1 for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009 and declines over time until it reaches 3.75 to 1 for the second fiscal quarter of 2011 and thereafter. The method of calculating all of the components
used in the covenants is included in the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility.  In February 2011, the Company amended the 2009
Senior Secured Credit Facility, which includes the Revolving Loan Facility, to reflect improved debt ratings. This amendment reduced the interest rate, extended the maturity date by two years to December 10, 2015, and increased the flexibility
of debt covenants and the use of excess cash flow. In addition, the commitment fee for the unused portion of revolving loan commitments was reduced from 75 basis points to 50 basis points. Further, the applicable margin pricing grid for
the loans, which varies based on the Company’s Leverage Ratio (as defined below), was reduced by 125 basis points at each applicable Leverage Ratio level.  Pursuant to this amendment, the ratio of total debt to EBITDA (the “Leverage Ratio”) that the Company may not exceed was increased from 4.00 to 1 for each fiscal quarter ending between
October 16, 2010 and April 15, 2011 to 4.50 to 1, and will decline over time to 3.75 to 1. Also, the minimum ratio of EBITDA to consolidated total interest expense that the Company is required to maintain was decreased from 3.25 to 1 for
each fiscal quarter ending between July 16, 2011 and October 15, 2012 to 3.00 to 1 and will increase over time to 3.25 to 1. In addition, the Company will be required to maintain a maximum ratio of senior secured indebtedness to EBITDA,
which for each fiscal quarter ending between October 16, 2010 and October 15, 2012 cannot exceed 2.50 to 1 and will decline over time to 2.00 to 1. The methods of calculating all of the components used in these ratios are included in the
2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility. This amendment also significantly increased the flexibility of the indebtedness, investment and restricted payments baskets and use of excess cash flow under the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility. 
The 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility contains customary events of default, including nonpayment of principal when due; nonpayment of
interest, fees or other amounts after stated grace period; material inaccuracy of representations and warranties; violations of covenants; certain bankruptcies and liquidations; any cross-default to material indebtedness; certain material judgments;
certain events related to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”), actual or asserted invalidity of any guarantee, security document or subordination provision or non-perfection of security interest, and a
change in control (as defined in the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility). As of December 31, 2011, the Company was in compliance with all financial covenants.  6.375% Senior Notes  On November 9, 2010, the Company issued
$1,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 6.375% Senior Notes. The 6.375% Senior Notes are senior unsecured obligations that rank equal in right of payment with all of the Company’s existing and future unsubordinated indebtedness. The 6.375%
Senior Notes bear interest at an annual rate equal to 6.375%. Interest is payable on the 6.375% Senior Notes on June 15 and December 15 of each year. The 6.375% Senior Notes will mature on December 15, 2020. The net proceeds from the
sale of the 6.375% Senior Notes were approximately $979,000. As noted above, these proceeds were used to repay all outstanding borrowings under the Term Loan Facility and reduce the outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Loan Facility and to pay
fees and expenses relating to these transactions. The 6.375% Senior Notes are guaranteed by substantially all of the Company’s domestic subsidiaries.  The Company may redeem some or all of the notes prior to December 15, 2015 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 6.375% Senior Notes redeemed plus an applicable premium.
The Company may redeem some or all of the 6.375% Senior Notes at any time on or after December 15, 2015 at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the 6.375% Senior Notes plus a premium of 3.188% if redeemed during the 12-month
period commencing on December 15, 2015, 2.125% if redeemed during the 12-month period commencing on December 15, 2016, 1.062% if redeemed during the 12-month period commencing on December 15, 2017 and no

  F-21



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 

premium if redeemed after December 15, 2018, as well as any accrued and unpaid interest as of the redemption date. In addition, at any time prior to December 15, 2013, the Company may
redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the 6.375% Senior Notes at a redemption price of 106.375% of the principal amount of the 6.375% Senior Notes redeemed with the net cash proceeds of certain equity offerings. 
The indenture governing the 6.375% Senior Notes contains customary events of default which include (subject in certain cases to customary
grace and cure periods), among others, nonpayment of principal or interest; breach of other agreements in such indenture; failure to pay certain other indebtedness; failure to pay certain final judgments; failure of certain guarantees to be
enforceable; and certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency.  8% Senior Notes 
On December 10, 2009, the Company issued $500,000 aggregate principal amount of the 8% Senior Notes. The 8% Senior Notes are senior
unsecured obligations that rank equal in right of payment with all of the Company’s existing and future unsubordinated indebtedness. The 8% Senior Notes bear interest at an annual rate equal to 8%. Interest is payable on the 8% Senior Notes on
June 15 and December 15 of each year. The 8% Senior Notes will mature on December 15, 2016. The net proceeds from the sale of the 8% Senior Notes were approximately $480,000. As noted above, these proceeds, together with the proceeds
from borrowings under the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility, were used to refinance borrowings under outstanding debt balances under other loan facilities and to pay fees and expenses relating to these transactions. The 8% Senior Notes are
guaranteed by substantially all of the Company’s domestic subsidiaries. The Company may redeem some or all of the notes
prior to December 15, 2013 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of 8% Senior Notes redeemed plus an applicable premium. The Company may redeem some or all of the 8% Senior Notes at any time on or after December 15,
2013 at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the 8% Senior Notes plus a premium of 4% if redeemed during the 12-month period commencing on December 15, 2013, 2% if redeemed during the 12-month period commencing on
December 15, 2014 and no premium if redeemed after December 15, 2015, as well as any accrued and unpaid interest as of the redemption date. In addition, at any time prior to December 15, 2012, the Company may redeem up to 35% of the
aggregate principal amount of the 8% Senior Notes at a redemption price of 108% of the principal amount of the 8% Senior Notes redeemed with the net cash proceeds of certain equity offerings. 
The indenture governing the 8% Senior Notes contains customary events of default which include (subject in certain cases to customary
grace and cure periods), among others, nonpayment of principal or interest; breach of other agreements in such indenture; failure to pay certain other indebtedness; failure to pay certain final judgments; failure of certain guarantees to be
enforceable; and certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency.  Floating Rate Senior Notes 
On December 14, 2006, the Company issued $500,000 aggregate principal amount of the Floating Rate Senior Notes. The Floating Rate
Senior Notes are senior unsecured obligations that rank equal in right of payment with all of the Company’s existing and future unsubordinated indebtedness. The Floating Rate Senior Notes bear interest at an annual rate, reset semi-annually,
equal to the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, plus 3.375%. Interest is payable on the Floating Rate Senior Notes on June 15 and December 15 of each year. The Floating Rate Senior Notes will mature on December 15, 2014. The net
proceeds from the sale of the Floating Rate Senior Notes were approximately $492,000. These proceeds, together with working capital, were used to repay an outstanding debt balance under another loan facility. The Floating Rate Senior Notes are
guaranteed by substantially all of the Company’s domestic subsidiaries.  The Company may redeem some or all of the
Floating Rate Senior Notes at any time on or after December 15, 2008 at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the Floating Rate Senior Notes plus a premium of 2% if redeemed during the 12-month period commencing on
December 15, 2008, 1% if redeemed during the 12-month 
  F-22



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 

period commencing on December 15, 2009 and no premium if redeemed after December 15, 2010, as well as any accrued and unpaid interest as of the redemption date. 
The indenture governing the Floating Rate Senior Notes contains customary events of default which include (subject in certain cases to
customary grace and cure periods), among others, nonpayment of principal or interest; breach of other agreements in such indenture; failure to pay certain other indebtedness; failure to pay certain final judgments; failure of certain guarantees to
be enforceable; and certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency.  On December 28, 2011, the Company repurchased $197,458
of the Floating Rate Senior Notes at 100% of the principal amount thereof. The Company repurchased $2,945 of the Floating Rate Senior Notes for $2,788 resulting in a gain of $157 in 2009. 
Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility The Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility provides for up to $225,000 in funding accounted for as a secured borrowing, limited to the availability of eligible receivables, and is secured by certain
domestic trade receivables. Under the terms of the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries sell, on a revolving basis, certain domestic trade receivables to HBI Receivables LLC (“Receivables
LLC”), a wholly-owned bankruptcy-remote subsidiary that in turn uses the trade receivables to secure the borrowings, which are funded through conduits that issue commercial paper in the short-term market and are not affiliated with the Company
or through committed bank purchasers if the conduits fail to fund. The assets and liabilities of Receivables LLC are fully reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, and the securitization is treated as a secured borrowing for accounting purposes.
The borrowings under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility remain outstanding throughout the term of the agreement subject to the Company maintaining sufficient eligible receivables, by continuing to sell trade receivables to Receivables
LLC, unless an event of default occurs. The Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility will terminate on March 16, 2012; however, the Company plans to extend the term.  Availability of funding under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility depends primarily upon the eligible outstanding receivables balance. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had $166,933
outstanding under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility. The outstanding balance under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility is reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in the line “Accounts receivable securitization
facility.” Unless the conduits fail to fund, the yield on the commercial paper, which is the conduits’ cost to issue the commercial paper plus certain dealer fees, is considered a financing cost and is included in interest expense on the
Consolidated Statement of Income. If the conduits fail to fund, the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility would be funded through committed bank purchasers, and the interest rate payable at the Company’s option at the rate announced from
time to time by HSBC Bank USA, N.A. as its prime rate or at the LIBO Rate (as defined in the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility) plus the applicable margin in effect from time to time. In addition, Receivables LLC is required to make
certain payments to a conduit purchaser, a committed purchaser, or certain entities that provide funding to or are affiliated with them, in the event that assets and liabilities of a conduit purchaser are consolidated for financial and/or regulatory
accounting purposes with certain other entities. The average blended interest rate for the outstanding balance as of December 31, 2011 was 1.44%.  The Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility contains customary events of default and requires the Company to maintain the same interest coverage ratio and leverage ratio contained from time to time in
the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility, provided that any changes to such covenants will only be applicable for purposes of the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility if approved by the Managing Agents or their affiliates. As of
December 31, 2011, the Company was in compliance with all financial covenants.  The total amount of receivables used as
collateral for the credit facility was $293,972 at December 31, 2011 and is reported on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet in trade accounts receivable less allowances.
  F-23



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
Future Principal Payments 
Future principal payments for all of the facilities described above are as follows: $166,933 due in 2012, $0 due in 2013, $293,277 due in
2014, $14,500 due in 2015, $500,000 due in 2016 and $1,000,000 thereafter.  Debt Issuance Costs 
In 2011, the Company incurred $3,757 in capitalized debt issuance costs in connection with the amendments to the 2009 Senior Secured
Credit Facility and the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility. The Company incurred $23,833 in capitalized debt issuance costs in connection with increasing the borrowing availability under the Revolving Loan Facility and issuing the 6.375%
Senior Notes in 2010. In 2009, the Company incurred $54,342 in capitalized debt issuance costs in connection with entering into the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility and the amendments to the 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facility and the Accounts
Receivable Securitization Facility. Debt issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective lives of the debt instruments, which range from one to ten years. As of December 31, 2011, the net carrying value of unamortized debt
issuance costs was $52,703 which is included in “Other Noncurrent Assets” in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company’s debt issuance cost amortization was $10,367, $12,739 and $10,967 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 The Company recognized $983 of a write-off on early extinguishment of debt in 2011 related to the prepayment of $197,458 on
the Floating Rate Senior Notes.  In 2010, the Company recognized charges of $14,186 in the “Other expenses” line of
the Consolidated Statements of Income, which represents certain costs related to the issuance of the 6.375% Senior Notes. The Company recognized $1,654 of a write-off on early extinguishment of debt in 2010 related to the prepayment of $57,188 on
the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility and $686 of write-off on early extinguishment of debt on the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility as a result of the reduction in borrowing capacity. The Company also recognized $231 in additional
charges in 2010 related to the amendments of credit facilities in 2009.  In 2009, the Company recognized charges of $20,634 in
the “Other expenses” line of the Consolidated Statements of Income, which represents certain costs related to entering into the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility and the amendments to the 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facility and the
Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility. The Company recognized $2,423 of losses on early extinguishment of debt in 2009 related to the prepayment of $140,250 on the 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facility. 
(10) Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 
The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss are as follows: 
   





$000,000



$000,000



$000,000



$000,000



$000,000


 
  
CumulativeTranslationAdjustment
 
 
Net UnrealizedIncome (Loss)on Cash FlowHedges
 
 
PensionandPostretirement
 
 
IncomeTaxes
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveLoss
 

 Balance at January 2, 2010
  
$
(1,267
) 
 
$
(35,176
) 
 
$
(332,686
) 
 
$
146,134
 
 
$
(222,995
) 

 Other comprehensive income (loss) activity
  
 
3,661
 
 
 
16,962
 
 
 
(6,678
) 
 
 
(4,165
) 
 
 
9,780
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at January 1, 2011
  
 
2,394
 
 
 
(18,214
) 
 
 
(339,364
) 
 
 
141,969
 
 
 
(213,215
) 

 Other comprehensive income (loss) activity
  
 
(9,890
) 
 
 
18,796
 
 
 
(201,024
) 
 
 
72,082
 
 
 
(120,036
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
(7,496
) 
 
$
582
 
 
$
(540,388
) 
 
$
214,051
 
 
$
(333,251
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-24



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
(11) Commitments and Contingencies 
The Company is a party to various pending legal proceedings, claims and environmental actions by government agencies.
In accordance with the accounting rules for contingencies, the Company records a provision with respect to a claim, suit, investigation, or proceeding when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can reasonably
be estimated. Any provisions are reviewed at least quarterly and are adjusted to reflect the impact and status of settlements, rulings, advice of counsel and other information pertinent to the particular matter. The recorded liabilities for these
items were not material to the consolidated financial statements of the Company in any of the years presented. Although the outcome of such items cannot be determined with certainty, the Company’s legal counsel and management are of the opinion
that the final outcome of these matters will not have a material adverse impact on the consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity.  Operating Leases  The Company leases certain buildings and equipment
under agreements that are classified as operating leases. Rental expense under operating leases was $72,894, $65,575 and $63,759 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases (with initial or remaining lease terms in excess of one year) are as follows: $55,715 in 2012, $43,825 in 2013, $36,082 in 2014, $32,705
in 2015, $29,134 in 2016 and $74,830 thereafter.  During 2011, the Company entered into a sale-leaseback transaction involving
a distribution center. The facility is being leased back over 12 years and is classified as an operating lease. The Company received net proceeds on the sale of $12,031, resulting in a deferred gain of $7,879 which will be amortized over the lease
term.  During 2010, the Company entered into sale-leaseback transactions involving four distribution facilities. The
facilities are being leased back over terms ranging from three years to 12 years and are classified as operating leases. The Company received net proceeds on the sales of $41,282, resulting in deferred gains of $15,441 which will be amortized over
the lease terms.  During 2009, the Company entered into a sale-leaseback transaction involving a manufacturing facility. The
facility was leased back over 22 months and is classified as an operating lease. The Company received net proceeds on the sale of $2,517, resulting in a deferred gain of $348 which was amortized over the lease term. 
License Agreements  The Company is party to several royalty-bearing license agreements for use of third party trademarks in certain of their products. The license agreements typically require a minimum guarantee to be paid
either at the commencement of the agreement, by a designated date during the term of the agreement or by the end of the agreement period. When payments are made in advance of when they are due, the Company records a prepayment and amortizes the
expense in the “Cost of sales” line of the Consolidated Statements of Income uniformly over the guaranteed period. For guarantees required to be paid at the completion of the agreement, royalties are expensed through “Cost of
sales” as the related sales are made. Management has reviewed all license agreements and has concluded that there are no liabilities recorded at inception of the agreements. 
During 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company incurred royalty expense of approximately $34,108, $12,772 and $11,105, respectively. 
Minimum amounts due under the license agreements are approximately $12,518 in 2012, $16,981 in 2013, $9,427 in 2014, $9,734 in 2015 and
$9,969 in 2016. In addition to the minimum guaranteed amounts under license agreements, the Company is a party to a partnership agreement which includes a minimum fee of $5,862 for each year from 2012 through 2017. 
  F-25



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
(12) Intangible Assets and Goodwill 
During 2011, the Company completed the business acquisition of the assets of the TNF Group Unit Trust from TNF Group
Pty Ltd, as trustee, and of Player Sportswear Unit Trust from Player Sportswear Pty Ltd, as trustee. The acquisition resulted in the recognition of $3,335 of goodwill and $1,820 of intangible assets, which consisted primarily of trademarks and
customer relationships.  During 2010, the Company completed the business acquisition of Gear for Sports. The acquisition
resulted in the recognition of $108,142 of goodwill and $52,700 of intangible assets, which consisted primarily of college and pro sports license agreements and customer and distributor relationships. 
None of the preceding business acquisitions were determined by the Company to be material, individually or in the aggregate. As a result,
the disclosures and supplemental pro forma information required by ASC805, “Business Combinations,” are not presented.   


(a)
Intangible Assets 
The primary components of the Company’s intangible
assets and the related accumulated amortization are as follows:   
















 
  
Gross
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
  
Net BookValue
 

 Year ended December 31, 2011:
  



  



  




 Intangible assets subject to amortization:
  



  



  




 Trademarks and brand names
  
$
198,405
 
  
$
91,421
 
  
$
106,984
 

 Licensing agreements
  
 
47,600
 
  
 
4,094
 
  
 
43,506
 

 Customer and distributor relationships
  
 
3,327
 
  
 
695
 
  
 
2,632
 

 Computer software
  
 
58,730
 
  
 
43,907
 
  
 
14,823
 

 Other intangibles
  
 
1,921
 
  
 
191
 
  
 
1,730
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
309,983
 
  
$
140,308
 
  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Net book value of intangible assets
  



  



  
$
169,675
 


  



  



  
  
  
 






 
  
Gross
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
  
Net BookValue
 

 Year ended January 1, 2011:
  



  



  




 Intangible assets subject to amortization:
  



  



  




 Trademarks and brand names
  
$
195,538
 
  
$
85,175
 
  
$
110,363
 

 Licensing agreements
  
 
47,600
 
  
 
585
 
  
 
47,015
 

 Customer and distributor relationships
  
 
3,200
 
  
 
96
 
  
 
3,104
 

 Computer software
  
 
58,494
 
  
 
42,230
 
  
 
16,264
 

 Other intangibles
  
 
1,900
 
  
 
24
 
  
 
1,876
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
306,732
 
  
$
128,110
 
  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Net book value of intangible assets
  



  



  
$
178,622
 


  



  



  
  
  
 

The amortization expense for intangibles subject to amortization was $14,551, $12,509 and $12,443 for 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively. The estimated amortization expense for the next five years, assuming no change in the estimated useful lives of identifiable intangible assets or changes in foreign exchange rates is as follows: $14,697 in 2012, $14,038 in 2013,
$12,492 in 2014, $9,433 in 2015 and $8,841 in 2016. There was no impairment of trademarks in any of the periods presented. 
  F-26



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 


(b)
Goodwill 
Goodwill and the changes in those amounts during the period are as follows: 
 





$000,000



$000,000



$000,000



$000,000



$000,000



$000,000


 
  
Innerwear
 
  
Outerwear
 
 
Hosiery
 
  
Direct toConsumer
 
  
International
 
 
Total
 

 Net book value at January 2, 2010
  
$
219,729
 
  
$
63,814
 
 
$
25,173
 
  
$
255
 
  
$
13,031
 
 
$
322,002
 

 Acquisition of business
  
 
—
  
  
 
108,142
 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
108,142
 

 Other
  
 
603
 
  
 
(603
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net book value at January 1, 2011
  
$
220,332
 
  
$
171,353
 
 
$
25,173
 
  
$
255
 
  
$
13,031
 
 
$
430,144
 

 Acquisition of business
  
 
—
  
  
 
33
 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,335
 
 
 
3,368
 

 Other
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
(116
) 
 
 
(116
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net book value at December 31, 2011
  
$
220,332
 
  
$
171,386
 
 
$
25,173
 
  
$
255
 
  
$
16,250
 
 
$
433,396
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

There has been no impairment of goodwill. 
(13) Financial Instruments and Risk Management 
The Company uses financial instruments to manage its exposures to movements in interest rates, foreign exchange rates
and commodity prices. The use of these financial instruments modifies the Company’s exposure to these risks with the goal of reducing the risk or cost to the Company. The Company does not use derivatives for trading purposes and is not a party
to leveraged derivative contracts.  The Company recognizes all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair
value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The fair value is based upon either market quotes for actively traded instruments or independent bids for nonexchange traded instruments. The Company formally documents its hedge relationships, including
identifying the hedging instruments and the hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategies for undertaking the hedge transaction. This process includes linking derivatives that are designated as hedges of specific assets,
liabilities, firm commitments or forecasted transactions to the hedged risk. On the date the derivative is entered into, the Company designates the derivative as a fair value hedge, cash flow hedge, net investment hedge or a mark to market hedge,
and accounts for the derivative in accordance with its designation. The Company also formally assesses, both at inception and at least quarterly thereafter, whether the derivatives are highly effective in offsetting changes in either the fair value
or cash flows of the hedged item. If it is determined that a derivative ceases to be a highly effective hedge, or if the anticipated transaction is no longer likely to occur, the Company discontinues hedge accounting, and any deferred gains or
losses are recorded in the respective measurement period. The Company currently does not have any fair value or net investment hedge instruments.  The Company may be exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by individual counterparties or the entire group of counterparties to the Company’s derivative contracts. Risk of
nonperformance by counterparties is mitigated by dealing with highly rated counterparties and by diversifying across counterparties.  Mark to Market Hedges  A derivative used as a hedging instrument
whose change in fair value is recognized to act as an economic hedge against changes in the values of the hedged item is designated a mark to market hedge. 
  F-27



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
Mark to Market Hedges – Intercompany Foreign Exchange Transactions
 The Company uses foreign exchange derivative contracts to reduce the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations on
anticipated intercompany purchase and lending transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange derivative contracts are recorded as mark to market hedges when the hedged item is a recorded asset or liability that is revalued in each
accounting period. Mark to market hedge derivatives relating to intercompany foreign exchange contracts are reported in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as cash flow from operating activities. The table below summarizes the U.S.
dollar equivalent of commitments to purchase and sell foreign currencies in the Company’s foreign currency mark to market hedge derivative portfolio using the exchange rate at the reporting date as of December 31, 2011 and January 1,
2011.     












 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
January 1,2011
 

 Foreign currency bought (sold):
  



 




 Canadian dollar
  
$
(2,993
) 
 
$
(8,327
) 

 Canadian dollar
  
 
881
  
 
 
—
  

 Japanese yen
  
 
(732
) 
 
 
(2,167
) 

 Australian dollar
  
 
(8,927
) 
 
 
—
  

 Brazilian real
  
 
(25
) 
 
 
—
  

 Brazilian real
  
 
4,200
  
 
 
—
  

 South African rand
  
 
(406
) 
 
 
—
  

 Mexican peso
  
 
(29,039
) 
 
 
(29,267
) 

 Mexican peso
  
 
2,165
  
 
 
—
  

Cash Flow Hedges  A hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability is designated as a cash flow hedge. The effective portion of the
change in the fair value of a derivative that is designated as a cash flow hedge is recorded in the “Accumulated other comprehensive loss” line of the Consolidated Balance Sheets. When the impact of the hedged item is recognized in the
income statement, the gain or loss included in accumulated other comprehensive loss is reported on the same line in the Consolidated Statements of Income as the hedged item.  Cash Flow Hedges – Interest Rate Derivatives  From time to time, the
Company uses interest rate cash flow hedges in the form of swaps and caps in order to mitigate the Company’s exposure to variability in cash flows for the future interest payments on a designated portion of floating rate debt. The effective
portion of interest rate hedge gains and losses deferred in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss” is reclassified into earnings as the underlying debt interest payments are recognized. Interest rate cash flow hedge derivatives are
reported as a component of interest expense and therefore are reported as cash flow from operating activities similar to the manner in which cash interest payments are reported in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 
Cash Flow Hedges – Foreign Currency Derivatives  The Company uses forward exchange and option contracts to reduce the effect of fluctuating foreign currencies on short-term foreign currency-denominated transactions, foreign currency-denominated
investments, and other known foreign currency exposures. Gains and losses on these contracts are intended to offset losses and gains on the hedged transaction in an effort to reduce the earnings volatility resulting from fluctuating foreign currency
exchange 
  F-28



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 

rates. The effective portion of foreign exchange hedge gains and losses deferred in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss” is reclassified into earnings as the underlying inventory is
sold, using historical inventory turnover rates. The settlement of foreign exchange hedge derivative contracts related to the purchase of inventory or other hedged items are reported in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as cash flow from
operating activities.  Historically, the principal currencies hedged by the Company include the Euro, Mexican peso, Canadian
dollar and Japanese yen. Forward exchange contracts mature on the anticipated cash requirement date of the hedged transaction, generally within one year. The table below summarizes the U.S. dollar equivalent of commitments to purchase and sell
foreign currencies in the Company’s foreign currency cash flow hedge derivative portfolio using the exchange rate at the reporting date as of December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011.
   





$000,000



$000,000


 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
January 1,2011
 

 Foreign currency bought (sold):
  



 




 Canadian dollar
  
$
(7,687
) 
 
$
(43,778
) 

 Japanese yen
  
 
(12,054
) 
 
 
(11,681
) 

 European euro
  
 
(26,863
) 
 
 
(28,180
) 

 Brazilian real
  
 
(5,102
) 
 
 
—
  

 Mexican peso
  
 
(11,473
) 
 
 
(10,147
) 

Cash Flow Hedges – Commodity Derivatives 
Cotton is the primary raw material used to manufacture many of the Company’s products and is purchased at market prices. The Company
is able to lock in the cost of cotton reflected in the price it pays for yarn from its primary yarn suppliers in an attempt to protect the business from the volatility of the market price of cotton. In addition, from time to time, the Company uses
commodity financial instruments to hedge the price of cotton, for which there is a high correlation between the hedged item and the hedge instrument. Gains and losses on these contracts are intended to offset losses and gains on the hedged
transactions in an effort to reduce the earnings volatility resulting from fluctuating commodity prices. The effective portion of commodity hedge gains and losses deferred in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss” is reclassified into
earnings as the underlying inventory is sold, using historical inventory turnover rates. The settlement of commodity hedge derivative contracts related to the purchase of inventory is reported in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as cash
flow from operating activities. There were no amounts outstanding under cotton futures or cotton option contracts at December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011.  Fair Values of Derivative Instruments  The fair values of derivative
financial instruments recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets of the Company were as follows: 
  F-29



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
   














 
  
 
  
Fair Value
 

 
  
Balance Sheet Location
  
December 31,2011
 
 
January 1,2011
 

 Derivative assets—hedges
  

  



 




 Interest rate contracts
  
Other noncurrent assets
  
$
—
  
 
$
3
 

 Foreign exchange contracts
  
Other current assets
  
 
3,205
 
 
 
408
 


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total derivative assets—hedges
  

  
 
3,205
 
 
 
411
 


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Derivative assets—non-hedges
  

  



 




 Foreign exchange contracts
  
Other current assets
  
 
455
 
 
 
—
  


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total derivative assets
  

  
$
3,660
 
 
$
411
 


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Derivative liabilities—hedges
  

  



 




 Foreign exchange contracts
  
Accrued liabilities
  
$
(205
) 
 
$
(874
) 


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total derivative liabilities — hedges
  

  
 
(205
) 
 
 
(874
) 


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Derivative liabilities—non-hedges
  

  



 




 Foreign exchange contracts
  
Accrued liabilities
  
 
(388
) 
 
 
(471
) 


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total derivative liabilities
  

  
$
(593
) 
 
$
(1,345
) 


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Net derivative asset (liability)
  

  
$
3,067
 
 
$
(934
) 


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

Net Derivative Gain or Loss 
The effect of cash flow hedge
derivative instruments on the Consolidated Statements of Income and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss is as follows:   
















 
  
Amount of Gain (Loss) Recognized inAccumulated Other 
Comprehensive Loss(Effective Portion)Year Ended
 

 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
January 1,2011
 
 
January 2,2010
 

 Interest rate contracts
  
$
(3
) 
 
$
(516
) 
 
$
20,559
 

 Foreign exchange contracts
  
 
3,151
 
 
 
(2,180
) 
 
 
(1,560
) 

 Commodity contracts
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
3,148
 
 
$
(2,696
) 
 
$
18,999
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


















 
  
Amount of Gain (Loss) Reclassified fromAccumulated Other Comprehensive Loss intoIncome (Effective Portion)Year Ended
 
 
Location of Gain (Loss)Reclassified fromAccumulated
OtherComprehensive Loss intoIncome (Effective Portion)

 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
January1, 2011
 
 
January2, 2010
 
 

 Interest rate contracts
  
$
(11,621
) 
 
$
(17,964
) 
 
$
(1,820
) 
 
Interest expense, net

 Interest rate contracts
  
 
(2,314
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(26,029
) 
 
Other expenses

 Foreign exchange contracts
  
 
(1,713
) 
 
 
(1,715
) 
 
 
721
 
 
Cost of sales

 Commodity contracts
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(95
) 
 
Cost of sales


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 


 Total
  
$
(15,648
) 
 
$
(19,679
) 
 
$
(27,223
) 
 



  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 


  F-30



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
The Company expects to reclassify into earnings during the next 12 months a net loss
from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss of approximately $6,236.  As disclosed in Note 9, in connection with the amendment
and restatement of the 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facility and repayment of the Second Lien Credit Facility in December 2009, all outstanding interest rate hedging instruments which were hedging these underlying debt instruments along with the
interest rate hedge instrument related to the Floating Rate Senior Notes were settled for $62,256. The amounts deferred in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss associated with the 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facility and Second Lien Credit Facility
were released to earnings as the underlying forecasted interest payments were no longer probable of occurring, which resulted in recognition of losses totaling $26,029 that are included in the “Other Expenses” line of the Consolidated
Statement of Income. The amounts deferred in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss associated with the Floating Rate Senior Notes interest rate hedge were frozen at the termination date and will be amortized over the original remaining term of the
interest rate hedge instrument. In addition, as disclosed in Note 9, the repurchase of $197,458 of the Floating Rate Senior Notes in December 2011 resulted in recognition of losses totaling $2,314 that are included in the “Other Expenses”
line of the Consolidated Statement of Income. The unamortized balance in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss was $3,437 as of December 31, 2011.  The changes in fair value of derivatives excluded from the Company’s effectiveness assessments and the ineffective portion of the changes in the fair value of derivatives used as cash flow hedges are
reported in the “Selling, general and administrative expenses” line in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company recognized gains related to ineffectiveness of hedging relationships in 2011 of $297 related to foreign exchange
contracts. The Company recognized gains related to ineffectiveness of hedging relationships in 2010 of $6 related to interest rate contracts. The Company recognized gains related to ineffectiveness of hedging relationships in 2009 of $161,
consisting of $152 for interest rate contracts and $9 for foreign exchange contracts. 
The effect
of mark to market hedge derivative instruments on the Consolidated Statements of Income is as follows:   




















 
  
 
 
  
Amount of Gain (Loss) Recognized in Income
 

 
  
Location of Gain (Loss)Recognized in Incomeon Derivative
 
  
Year Ended
 

  
  
December 31,2011
 
  
January 1,2011
 
 
January 2,2010
 

 Foreign exchange contracts
  
   
Selling, general and
administrative expenses
     
  
$
1,793
 
  
$
(2,073
) 
 
$
3,846
 


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  



  
$
1,793
 
  
$
(2,073
) 
 
$
3,846
 


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

(14) Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities 
Fair value is an exit price, representing the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a
liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The Company utilizes market data or assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. A three-tier fair value hierarchy, which
prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value, is utilized for disclosing the fair value of the Company’s assets and liabilities. These tiers include: Level 1, defined as observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets;
Level 2, defined as inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3, defined as unobservable inputs about which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity
to develop its own assumptions.  Assets and liabilities measured at fair value are based on one or more of the following three
valuation techniques: 
  F-31



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 


 
•
 
 Market approach — prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or liabilities.
  


 
•
 
 Cost approach — amount that would be required to replace the service capacity of an asset or replacement cost. 
 


 
•
 
 Income approach — techniques to convert future amounts to a single present amount based on market expectations, including present value
techniques, option-pricing and other models.  The Company primarily applies the market approach for
commodity derivatives and for all defined benefit plan investment assets, and the income approach for interest rate and foreign currency derivatives for recurring fair value measurements and attempts to utilize valuation techniques that maximize the
use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The determination of fair values
incorporates various factors that include not only the credit standing of the counterparties involved and the impact of credit enhancements, but also the impact of the Company’s nonperformance risk on its liabilities. The Company’s
assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement requires judgment, and may affect the valuation of fair value assets and liabilities and their placement within the fair value hierarchy levels. 
As of December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, the Company held certain financial assets and liabilities that are required to be
measured at fair value on a recurring basis. These consisted of the Company’s derivative instruments related to interest rates and foreign exchange rates and defined benefit pension plan investment assets. The fair values of interest rate and
foreign exchange rate derivatives are determined based on inputs that are readily available in public markets or can be derived from information available in publicly quoted markets and are categorized as Level 2. The fair values of defined
benefit pension plan investments include: U.S. equity securities, certain foreign equity securities and debt securities that are determined based on quoted prices in public markets categorized as Level 1, certain foreign equity securities, debt
securities and commodity investments that are determined based on inputs readily available in public markets or can be derived from information available in publicly quoted markets categorized as Level 2, and investments in hedge funds of funds
and real estate investments that are based on unobservable inputs about which little or no market data exists that are classified as Level 3. There were no changes during 2011 to the Company’s valuation techniques used to measure asset and
liability fair values on a recurring basis. The hedge fund of funds and real estate investments have varying redemption terms of monthly, quarterly, semi-annually and annually, and have required notification periods ranging from 45 to 90 days.
 As of December 31, 2011, the Company did not have any non-financial assets or liabilities that are required to be
measured at fair value on a recurring basis.  The following tables set forth by level within the fair value hierarchy the
Company’s financial assets and liabilities accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis. 
  F-32



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
   
















 
  
Assets (Liabilities) at Fair Value as of December 31, 
2011
 

 
  
Quoted PricesIn
ActiveMarkets forIdenticalAssets(Level
1)
 
  
SignificantOtherObservableInputs(Level 2)
 
 
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level 3)
 

  
  
 

 Defined benefit pension plan investment assets:
  



  



 




 Hedge fund of funds
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
 
$
242,594
 

 U.S. equity securities
  
 
128,592
 
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Foreign equity securities
  
 
33,183
 
  
 
52,660
 
 
 
—
  

 Debt securities
  
 
6,093
 
  
 
87,303
 
 
 
—
  

 Real estate
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
30,729
 

 Commodities
  
 
—
  
  
 
12,713
 
 
 
—
  

 Cash and other
  
 
6,022
 
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
173,890
 
  
 
152,676
 
 
 
273,323
 






 Derivative contracts:
  



  



 




 Foreign exchange derivative contracts
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,660
 
 
 
—
  

 Foreign exchange derivative contracts
  
 
—
  
  
 
(593
) 
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
—
  
  
 
3,067
 
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
173,890
 
  
$
155,743
 
 
$
273,323
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 




 
  
Assets (Liabilities) at Fair Value as of January 1, 2011
 

 
  
Quoted PricesIn
ActiveMarkets forIdenticalAssets(Level
1)
 
  
SignificantOtherObservableInputs(Level 2)
 
 
SignificantUnobservableInputs (Level 3)
 

 Defined benefit pension plan investment assets:
  



  



 




 Hedge fund of funds
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
 
$
275,650
 

 U.S. equity securities
  
 
157,661
 
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Foreign equity securities
  
 
36,889
 
  
 
27,423
 
 
 
—
  

 Debt securities
  
 
5,433
 
  
 
106,311
 
 
 
—
  

 Real estate
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
23,180
 

 Cash and other
  
 
2,621
 
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
202,604
 
  
 
133,734
 
 
 
298,830
 






 Derivative contracts:
  



  



 




 Interest rate derivative contracts
  
 
—
  
  
 
3
 
 
 
—
  

 Foreign exchange derivative contracts
  
 
—
  
  
 
408
 
 
 
—
  

 Foreign exchange derivative contracts
  
 
—
  
  
 
(1,345
) 
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
—
  
  
 
(934
) 
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
202,604
 
  
$
132,800
 
 
$
298,830
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The table below sets forth a summary of changes in the fair value of the Level 3 investment assets in 2011 and 2010.

  F-33



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
   












 
  
Hedge fund offunds
 
 
Real estate
 

 Balance at January 2, 2010
  
$
255,212
 
 
$
19,990
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Actual return on assets
  
 
20,438
 
 
 
3,190
 

 Sale of assets
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at January 1, 2011
  
$
275,650
 
 
$
23,180
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Actual return on assets
  
 
3,382
 
 
 
3,949
 

 Sale of assets
  
 
(36,438
) 
 
 
—
  

 Purchase of assets
  
 
—
  
 
 
3,600
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
242,594
 
 
$
30,729
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade accounts receivable, notes receivable and accounts payable approximated fair
value as of December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011. The fair value of debt was $2,030,240 and $2,060,828 as of December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011 and had a carrying value of $1,974,710 and $2,080,735, respectively. The fair
values were estimated using quoted market prices as provided in secondary markets which consider the Company’s credit risk and market related conditions. The carrying amounts of the Company’s notes payable approximated fair value as of
December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, primarily due to the short-term nature of these instruments. 
(15) Defined Benefit Pension Plans 
At December 31, 2011, the Company’s pension plans consisted of the Hanesbrands Inc. Pension Plan, various
nonqualified retirement plans and international plans. Benefits under the Hanesbrands Inc. Pension Plan were frozen effective December 31, 2005. 
The components of net
periodic benefit cost and other amounts recognized in other comprehensive loss of the Company’s noncontributory defined benefit pension plans were as follows:   
















 
  
Years Ended
 

 
  
December 31,
 
 
January 1,
 
 
January 2,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Service cost
  
$
1,445
 
 
$
1,225
 
 
$
1,198
 

 Interest cost
  
 
47,833
 
 
 
49,337
 
 
 
50,755
 

 Expected return on assets
  
 
(47,782
) 
 
 
(44,094
) 
 
 
(39,832
) 

 Settlement cost
  
 
—
  
 
 
139
 
 
 
—
  

 Amortization of:
  



 



 




 Prior service cost
  
 
29
 
 
 
26
 
 
 
26
 

 Net actuarial loss
  
 
9,119
 
 
 
8,173
 
 
 
9,146
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net periodic benefit cost
  
$
10,644
 
 
$
14,806
 
 
$
21,293
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Other Changes in Plan Assets and Benefit Obligations Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
  



 



 




 Net loss (gain)
  
$
200,771
 
 
$
6,605
 
 
$
(11,947
) 

 Prior service cost
  
 
(29
) 
 
 
(26
) 
 
 
(26
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recognized in other comprehensive loss (income)
  
 
200,742
 
 
 
6,579
 
 
 
(11,973
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recognized in net periodic benefit cost and other comprehensive loss
  
$
211,386
 
 
$
21,385
 
 
$
9,320
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-34



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
The estimated net loss and prior service credit for the defined benefit pension plans
that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost in 2012 are $15,926 and $31, respectively. 
The funded status of the Company’s defined benefit pension plans at the
respective year ends was as follows:   












 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
January 1,2011
 

 Benefit obligation:
  



 




 Beginning of year
  
$
931,621
 
 
$
899,208
 

 Service cost
  
 
1,445
 
 
 
1,225
 

 Interest cost
  
 
47,833
 
 
 
49,337
 

 Benefits paid
  
 
(50,815
) 
 
 
(56,859
) 

 Impact of exchange rate change
  
 
(271
) 
 
 
1,939
 

 Settlements
  
 
—
  
 
 
(1,284
) 

 Actuarial loss
  
 
150,354
 
 
 
38,055
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 End of year
  
 
1,080,167
 
 
 
931,621
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair value of plan assets:
  



 




 Beginning of year
  
 
635,168
 
 
 
612,590
 

 Actual return on plan assets
  
 
(12,355
) 
 
 
67,624
 

 Employer contributions
  
 
28,331
 
 
 
11,956
 

 Benefits paid
  
 
(50,815
) 
 
 
(56,859
) 

 Settlements
  
 
—
  
 
 
(1,284
) 

 Impact of exchange rate change
  
 
(440
) 
 
 
1,141
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 End of year
  
 
599,889
 
 
 
635,168
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Funded status
  
$
(480,278
) 
 
$
(296,453
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The total benefit obligation
and the benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for the Company’s pension plans with benefit obligations in excess of plan assets are as follows:   












 
  
December 31,2011
 
  
January 1,2011
 

 Benefit obligation
  
$
1,080,167
 
  
$
931,621
 

 Plans with benefit obligation in excess of plan assets
  



  




 Benefit obligation
  
 
1,080,167
 
  
 
931,621
 

 Fair value of plan assets
  
 
599,889
 
  
 
635,168
 

  F-35



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
Amounts recognized in the Company’s Consolidated Balance
Sheets consist of:   












 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
January 1,2011
 

 Current liabilities
  
 
(2,411
) 
 
 
(2,177
) 

 Noncurrent liabilities
  
 
(477,867
) 
 
 
(294,276
) 

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
  
 
(540,588
) 
 
 
(339,846
) 

Amounts recognized in accumulated other
comprehensive loss consist of:   












 
  
December 31,2011
 
  
January 1,2011
 

 Prior service cost
  
$
110
 
  
$
139
 

 Actuarial loss
  
 
540,478
 
  
 
339,707
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
540,588
 
  
$
339,846
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

Accrued benefit costs related to the Company’s defined benefit pension plans are reported in the “Other
noncurrent assets”, “Accrued liabilities — Payroll and employee benefits” and “Pension and postretirement benefits” lines of the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
(a) Measurement Date and Assumptions  A December 31 measurement date is used to value plan assets and obligations for the pension plans. In determining the discount rate, the Company utilizes, as a general benchmark, the single discount
rate equivalent to discounting the expected cash flows from each plan using the yields at each duration from a published yield curve as of the measurement date. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets was based on the Company’s
investment policy target allocation of the asset portfolio between various asset classes and the expected real returns of each asset class over various periods of time. The weighted average actuarial assumptions used in measuring the net periodic
benefit cost and plan obligations for the periods presented were as follows:     
















 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
January 1,2011
 
 
January 2,2010
 

 Net periodic benefit cost:
  



 



 




 Discount rate
  
 
5.27
% 
 
 
5.78
% 
 
 
6.11
% 

 Long-term rate of return on plan assets
  
 
7.77
 
 
 
7.48
 
 
 
7.41
 

 Rate of compensation increase (1)
  
 
3.75
 
 
 
3.70
 
 
 
3.38
 






 Plan obligations:
  



 



 




 Discount rate
  
 
4.20
% 
 
 
5.27
% 
 
 
5.78
% 

 Rate of compensation increase (1)
  
 
3.75
 
 
 
3.75
 
 
 
3.70
 

 


(1)
The compensation increase assumption applies to the international plans and portions of the nonqualified retirement plans, as benefits under these plans were not frozen
at December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010. 
  F-36



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 


(b)
Plan Assets, Expected Benefit Payments, and Funding 
The allocation of pension plan assets as of the respective period end
measurement dates is as follows:   












 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
January 1,2011
 

 Asset category:
  



 




 Hedge fund of funds
  
 
41
% 
 
 
43
% 

 U.S. equity securities
  
 
21
 
 
 
25
 

 Debt securities
  
 
16
 
 
 
18
 

 Foreign equity securities
  
 
14
 
 
 
10
 

 Real estate
  
 
5
 
 
 
4
 

 Commodities
  
 
2
 
 
 
—
  

 Cash and other
  
 
1
 
 
 
—
  

The Company’s asset strategy and primary investment objective are to maximize the principal value of the plan
assets to meet current and future benefit obligations to plan participants and their beneficiaries. To accomplish this goal, the assets of the plan are broadly diversified to protect against large investment losses and to reduce the likelihood of
excessive volatility of returns. Diversification of assets is achieved through strategic allocations to various asset classes, as well as various investment styles within these asset classes, and by retaining multiple, third party investment
management firms with complementary investment styles and philosophies to implement these allocations. The Company has established a target asset allocation based upon analysis of risk/return tradeoffs and correlations of asset mixes given long-term
historical data, prospective capital market returns and forecasted liabilities of the plans. The target asset allocation approximates the actual asset allocation as of December 31, 2011. In addition to volatility protection, diversification
enables the assets of the plan the best opportunity to provide adequate returns in order to meet the Company’s investment return objectives. These objectives include, over a rolling five-year period, to achieve a total return which exceeds the
required actuarial rate of return for the plan and to outperform a passive portfolio, consisting of a similar asset allocation. 
The Company utilizes market data or assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the pension plan assets. Effective
January 2, 2010, the Company adopted new pension disclosure rules. In accordance with these rules, a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value, is utilized for disclosing the fair value of the
Company’s pension plan assets. At December 31, 2011, the Company had $173,890 classified as Level 1 assets, $152,676 classified as Level 2 assets and $273,323 classified as Level 3 assets. At January 1, 2011, the Company had $202,604
classified as Level 1 assets, $133,734 classified as Level 2 assets and $298,830 classified as Level 3 assets. The Level 1 assets consisted primarily of U.S. equity securities, certain debt securities, certain foreign equity securities and cash and
cash equivalents, Level 2 assets consisted primarily of certain debt securities, commodity investments and certain foreign equity securities, and Level 3 assets consisted primarily of hedge fund of funds and real estate investments. Refer to Note 14
for the Company’s complete disclosure of the fair value of pension plan assets.  The Company expects to make
approximately $35,000 contribution to the Company’s pension plans in 2012 based on a preliminary calculation by its actuary. Expected benefit payments are as follows: $51,067 in 2012, $51,606 in 2013, $53,103 in 2014, $53,235 in 2015, $54,355
in 2016 and $287,841 thereafter. 
  F-37



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
(16) Income Taxes 
The provision for income tax
computed by applying the U.S. statutory rate to income before taxes as reconciled to the actual provisions were:   
















 
  
Years Ended
 

 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
January 1,2011
 
 
January 2,2010
 

 Income before income tax expense:
  



 



 




 Domestic
  
 
7.8
% 
 
 
12.1
% 
 
 
(142.8
)% 

 Foreign
  
 
92.2
 
 
 
87.9
 
 
 
242.8
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Tax expense at U.S. statutory rate
  
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 

 State income taxes
  
 
0.8
 
 
 
1.2
 
 
 
(3.4
) 

 Tax on remittance of foreign earnings
  
 
1.7
 
 
 
2.5
 
 
 
33.9
 

 Foreign taxes less than U.S. statutory rate
  
 
(19.4
) 
 
 
(24.5
) 
 
 
(46.4
) 

 Change in state effective tax rate
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(14.1
) 

 Employee benefits
  
 
0.6
 
 
 
1.3
 
 
 
10.6
 

 Change in valuation allowance
  
 
(0.7
) 
 
 
3.0
 
 
 
(9.9
) 

 Release of unrecognized tax benefit reserves
  
 
(0.6
) 
 
 
(8.8
) 
 
 
—
  

 Other, net
  
 
(1.9
) 
 
 
(0.1
) 
 
 
6.3
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Taxes at effective worldwide tax rates
  
 
15.5
% 
 
 
9.6
% 
 
 
12.0
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

In 2009, the Company’s consolidated income before income taxes was lower than historical levels as a result of the
recessionary environment during that period. In addition, charges incurred from refinancing the Company’s debt structure (as described in Note 9) in 2009 also contributed to the Company’s domestic operations incurring a loss before income
taxes. As a result of the lower consolidated income before income tax expense and a loss before income tax expense from domestic operations in 2009, there were fluctuations in percentages in foreign income before income tax expense, taxes on
remittance of foreign earnings and foreign taxes less than U.S. statutory rate in 2009 compared to 2010 and 2011. 
  F-38



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
Current and deferred tax provisions (benefits) were:
  
















 
  
Current
 
 
Deferred
 
 
Total
 

 Year ended December 31, 2011
  



 



 




 Domestic
  
$
12,385
 
 
$
1,802
 
 
$
14,187
 

 Foreign
  
 
31,296
 
 
 
(545
) 
 
 
30,751
 

 State
  
 
3,290
 
 
 
691
 
 
 
3,981
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
46,971
 
 
$
1,948
 
 
$
48,919
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Year ended January 1, 2011
  



 



 




 Domestic
  
$
(14,268
) 
 
$
17,340
 
 
$
3,072
 

 Foreign
  
 
23,157
 
 
 
(8,077
) 
 
 
15,080
 

 State
  
 
(2,245
) 
 
 
6,531
 
 
 
4,286
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
6,644
 
 
$
15,794
 
 
$
22,438
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Year ended January 2, 2010
  



 



 




 Domestic
  
$
—
  
 
$
6,727
 
 
$
6,727
 

 Foreign
  
 
15,783
 
 
 
(9,503
) 
 
 
6,280
 

 State
  
 
362
 
 
 
(6,376
) 
 
 
(6,014
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
16,145
 
 
$
(9,152
) 
 
$
6,993
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

   
















 
  
Years Ended
 

 
  
December 31,2011
 
  
January 1,2011
 
  
January 2,2010
 

 Cash payments for income taxes
  
$
37,665
 
  
$
23,350
 
  
$
15,163
 

Cash payments above represent cash tax payments made by the Company primarily in foreign jurisdictions. 
  F-39



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
The deferred tax assets and liabilities at the respective
year-ends were as follows:   












 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
January 1,2011
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  



 




 Nondeductible reserves
  
$
4,575
 
 
$
5,165
 

 Inventories
  
 
105,653
 
 
 
93,972
 

 Property and equipment
  
 
6,683
 
 
 
—
  

 Intangibles
  
 
138,139
 
 
 
135,438
 

 Bad debt allowance
  
 
9,789
 
 
 
11,404
 

 Accrued expenses
  
 
11,462
 
 
 
13,049
 

 Employee benefits
  
 
241,242
 
 
 
170,247
 

 Tax credits
  
 
13,257
 
 
 
11,064
 

 Net operating loss and other tax carryforwards
  
 
29,068
 
 
 
41,864
 

 Derivatives
  
 
—
  
 
 
7,204
 

 Other
  
 
19,461
 
 
 
16,305
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross deferred tax assets
  
 
579,329
 
 
 
505,712
 

 Less valuation allowances
  
 
(25,067
) 
 
 
(27,064
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax assets
  
 
554,262
  
 
 
478,648
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



 




 Property and equipment
  
 
—
  
 
 
4,204
 

 Derivatives
  
 
291
 
 
 
—
  

 Prepaids
  
 
5,429
  
 
 
5,473
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax liabilities
  
 
5,720
  
 
 
9,677
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax assets
  
$
548,542
 
 
$
468,971
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some
portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible.
Management considers the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. Based upon the level of historical taxable income and projections for future taxable
income over the periods which the deferred tax assets are deductible, management believes it is more likely than not the Company will realize the benefits of these deductible differences, net of the existing valuation allowances. 
The valuation allowance for deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011 was $25,067 and $27,064,
respectively. The net change in the total valuation allowance for 2011 was $1,997 which, including foreign currency fluctuations, related to favorable financial performance in certain foreign jurisdictions partially offset by foreign loss
carryforwards generated. The net change in the total valuation allowance for 2010 was $5,508 which, including foreign currency fluctuations, related to foreign loss carryforwards generated partially offset by favorable financial performance in
certain foreign jurisdictions.  The valuation allowance at December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011 relates to deferred
tax assets established for foreign loss carryforwards of $21,902 and $25,560, respectively.  At December 31, 2011, the
Company has total net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $104,224 for foreign jurisdictions, which will expire as follows: 
  F-40



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
   








Fiscal Year:
  
 
 

 2012
  
$
5,102
 

 2013
  
 
15,795
 

 2014
  
 
5,986
 

 2015
  
 
13,047
 

 2016
  
 
16,721
 

 Thereafter
  
 
47,573
 

At December 31, 2011, the Company had tax credit carryforwards totaling $13,257 which expire beginning after 2020.
 At December 31, 2011, applicable U.S. federal income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on
the accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are expected to be permanently reinvested. If these earnings had not been permanently reinvested, deferred taxes of approximately $372,000 would have been recognized in the Consolidated Financial
Statements.  In 2010, the Company recognized a benefit of $20,504 which resulted from a change in estimate associated with the
remeasurement of unrecognized tax benefit accruals and the determination that certain tax positions had been effectively settled following the finalization of tax reviews and audits for amounts less than originally estimated. Although it is not
reasonably possible to estimate the amount by which unrecognized tax benefits may increase or decrease within the next 12 months due to uncertainties regarding the timing of examinations and the amount of settlements that may be paid, if any, to tax
authorities, the Company currently expects a reduction of approximately $8,000 for unrecognized tax benefits accrued at December 31, 2011 within the next 12 months. 
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is
as follows:   








 Balance at January 2, 2010
  
$
39,929
 

 Additions based on tax positions related to the current year
  
 
10,312
 

 Reductions for tax positions of prior years
  
 
(20,504
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at January 1, 2011
  
$
29,737
 

 Additions based on tax positions related to the current year
  
 
10,097
 

 Additions for tax positions of prior years
  
 
1,803
 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
41,637
 


  
  
  
 

Included in unrecognized tax benefits are $41,637 of tax benefits that, if recognized, would reduce the Company’s
annual effective tax rate. The Company’s policy is to recognize interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. The Company recognized $1,364, $1,386 and $1,010 for interest and penalties classified as income tax
expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. At December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, the Company had a total of $6,051 and $4,687, respectively, of interest and penalties accrued related to
unrecognized tax benefits.  The Company files a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return, as well as separate and combined
income tax returns in numerous state and foreign jurisdictions. The tax years subject to examination vary by jurisdiction. The Company regularly assesses the outcomes of both ongoing and future examinations for the current or prior years to ensure
the Company’s provision for income taxes is sufficient. The Company recognizes liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due and believes its reserves are adequate in relation to any potential assessments. 
  F-41



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
The Company and Sara Lee Corporation (“Sara Lee”) entered into a tax sharing
agreement in connection with the spin off of the Company from Sara Lee on September 5, 2006. As previously disclosed, the Company and Sara Lee have disagreed as to the amount of deferred taxes that should have been attributable to the
Company’s United States and Canadian operations on the Company’s opening balance sheet as of September 6, 2006 following its spin off from Sara Lee. The computation of this amount is governed by a tax sharing agreement entered
into in connection with the spin off. The Company and Sara Lee have had differing interpretations of the tax sharing agreement, and, in accordance with the dispute resolution provisions of the agreement, the Company and Sara Lee submitted that
dispute to arbitration before a three-member tribunal in August 2009. A hearing was held in August 2010. Based on the Company’s computation of the final amount of deferred taxes for the Company’s opening balance sheet as of
September 6, 2006, the amount that the Company expected to collect from Sara Lee based on the Company’s computation of $72,223, which reflects a preliminary cash installment received from Sara Lee of $18,000, was included as a receivable
in “Other current assets.”  On July 1, 2011, the tribunal issued a 2-1 decision in which the majority disagreed
with the Company’s interpretation of the tax sharing agreement and awarded the Company $3,291, plus interest based on the majority’s interpretation of the tax sharing agreement. This amount reflects other payments made or acknowledged to
be owed by the parties under the tax sharing agreement. As a result of the tribunal’s decision, in 2011 the Company recorded a non-cash transaction that reduced “Other current assets” and “Additional paid-in capital” by
$68,523.  Under section 2.12 of the tax sharing agreement, and unrelated to the disagreement, the Company made a payment to
Sara Lee for approximately $15,000 for amounts related to income generated prior to the spin off from Sara Lee which were repatriated in periods since the spin off. 
(17) Stockholders’ Equity 
The Company is authorized to issue up to 500,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, and up to
50,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, and the Company’s Board of Directors may, without stockholder approval, increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class
or series that the Company is authorized to issue. At December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, 97,517 and 96,207 shares, respectively, of common stock were issued and outstanding and no shares of preferred stock were issued or outstanding.
Included within the 50,000 shares of preferred stock, 500 shares are designated Junior Participating Preferred Stock, Series A (the “Series A Preferred Stock”) and reserved for issuance upon the exercise of rights under
the rights agreement described below.  On February 1, 2007, the Company announced that the Board of Directors granted
authority for the repurchase of up to 10,000 shares of the Company’s common stock. Share repurchases are made periodically in open-market transactions, and are subject to market conditions, legal requirements and other factors. Additionally,
management has been granted authority to establish a trading plan under Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act in connection with share repurchases, which will allow the Company to repurchase shares in the open market during periods in which the stock
trading window is otherwise closed for our company and certain of the Company’s officers and employees pursuant to the Company’s insider trading policy. Since inception of the program, the Company has purchased 2,800 shares of common stock
at a cost of $74,747 (average price of $26.33). The primary objective of the share repurchase program is to reduce the impact of dilution caused by the exercise of options and vesting of stock unit awards. 
  F-42



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
Preferred Stock Purchase Rights 
Pursuant to a stockholder rights agreement entered into by the Company prior to the spin off, one preferred stock purchase right will be
distributed with and attached to each share of the Company’s common stock. Each right will entitle its holder, under the circumstances described below, to purchase from the Company one one-thousandth of a share of the Series A Preferred
Stock at an exercise price of $75 per right. Initially, the rights will be associated with the Company’s common stock, and will be transferable with and only with the transfer of the underlying share of common stock. Until a right is exercised,
its holder, as such, will have no rights as a stockholder with respect to such rights, including, without limitation, the right to vote or to receive dividends.  The rights will become exercisable and separately certificated only upon the rights distribution date, which will occur upon the earlier of: (i) 10 days following a public announcement by the Company
that a person or group (an “acquiring person”) has acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of 15% or more of its outstanding shares of common stock (the date of the announcement being the “stock acquisition
date”); or (ii) 10 business days (or later if so determined by our Board of Directors) following the commencement of or public disclosure of an intention to commence a tender offer or exchange offer by a person if, after acquiring the
maximum number of securities sought pursuant to such offer, such person, or any affiliate or associate of such person, would acquire, or obtain the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our outstanding shares of the Company’s
common stock.  Upon the Company’s public announcement that a person or group has become an acquiring person, each holder
of a right (other than any acquiring person and certain related parties, whose rights will have automatically become null and void) will have the right to receive, upon exercise, common stock with a value equal to two times the exercise price of the
right. In the event of certain business combinations, each holder of a right (except rights which previously have been voided as described above) will have the right to receive, upon exercise, common stock of the acquiring company having a value
equal to two times the exercise price of the right.  The Company may redeem the rights in whole, but not in part, at a price of
$0.001 per right (subject to adjustment and payable in cash, common stock or other consideration deemed appropriate by the Board of Directors) at any time prior to the earlier of the stock acquisition date and the rights expiration date. Immediately
upon the action of the Board of Directors authorizing any redemption, the rights will terminate and the holders of rights will only be entitled to receive the redemption price. At any time after a person becomes an acquiring person and prior to the
earlier of (i) the time any person, together with all affiliates and associates, becomes the beneficial owner of 50% or more of the Company’s outstanding common stock and (ii) the occurrence of a business combination, the Board of
Directors may cause the Company to exchange for all or part of the then-outstanding and exercisable rights shares of its common stock at an exchange ratio of one common share per right, adjusted to reflect any stock split, stock dividend or similar
transaction. 
  F-43



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
(18) Business Segment Information 
The Company’s operations are managed and reported in five operating segments, each of which is a reportable
segment for financial reporting purposes: Innerwear, Outerwear, Hosiery, Direct to Consumer and International. These segments are organized principally by product category, geographic location and distribution channel. Each segment has its own
management that is responsible for the operations of the segment’s businesses but the segments share a common supply chain and media and marketing platforms.  The types of products and services from which each reportable segment derives its revenues are as follows:   


 
•
 
 Innerwear sells basic branded products that are replenishment in nature under the product categories of women’s intimate apparel, men’s
underwear, kids’ underwear and socks.   


 
•
 
 Outerwear sells basic branded products that are primarily seasonal in nature under the product categories of casualwear and activewear, as well as
licensed logo apparel in collegiate bookstores and other channels.   


 
•
 
 Hosiery sells products in categories such as pantyhose, knee highs and tights. 
 


 
•
 
 Direct to Consumer includes the Company’s value-based (“outlet”) stores and Internet operations which sell products from the
Company’s portfolio of leading brands. The Company’s Internet operations are supported by its catalogs.   


 
•
 
 International primarily relates to the Latin America, Asia, Canada, Europe and Australia geographic locations which sell products that span across the
Innerwear, Outerwear and Hosiery reportable segments.  The Company evaluates the operating performance of its segments based
upon segment operating profit, which is defined as operating profit before general corporate expenses, amortization of trademarks and other identifiable intangibles and restructuring and related accelerated depreciation charges and inventory
write-offs. The accounting policies of the segments are consistent with those described in Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.” Certain prior year segment operating profit disclosures have been revised to conform to the
current year presentation. These changes were primarily the result of the Company’s decision to cease allocating certain compensation related expenses to the segments. 
   
















 
  
Years Ended
 

  
  
December 31,2011
 
  
January 1,2011
 
  
January 2,2010
 

 Net sales:
  



  



  




 Innerwear
  
$
2,058,017
 
  
$
2,012,922
 
  
$
1,833,616
 

 Outerwear
  
 
1,459,790
 
  
 
1,259,935
 
  
 
1,051,735
 

 Hosiery
  
 
162,960
 
  
 
166,780
 
  
 
185,710
 

 Direct to Consumer
  
 
375,440
 
  
 
377,847
 
  
 
369,739
 

 International
  
 
580,936
 
  
 
509,229
 
  
 
437,804
 

 Other
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
12,671
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total net sales
  
$
4,637,143
 
  
$
4,326,713
 
  
$
3,891,275
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-44



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
   
















 
  
Years Ended
 

 
  
December 31,
 
 
January 1,
 
 
January 2,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Segment operating profit:
  



 



 




 Innerwear
  
$
286,054
 
 
$
271,348
 
 
$
242,853
 

 Outerwear
  
 
133,663
 
 
 
86,564
 
 
 
57,920
 

 Hosiery
  
 
47,702
 
 
 
54,990
 
 
 
61,575
 

 Direct to Consumer
  
 
29,365
 
 
 
26,622
 
 
 
37,090
 

 International
  
 
63,110
 
 
 
59,675
 
 
 
45,341
 

 Other
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2,164
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total segment operating profit
  
 
559,894
 
 
 
499,199
 
 
 
442,615
 

 Items not included in segment operating profit:
  



 



 




 General corporate expenses
  
 
(67,062
) 
 
 
(82,502
) 
 
 
(89,568
) 

 Amortization of trademarks and other identifiable intangibles
  
 
(14,551
) 
 
 
(12,509
) 
 
 
(12,443
) 

 Restructuring
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(53,888
) 

 Inventory write-offs included in cost of sales
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(4,135
) 

 Accelerated depreciation included in cost of sales
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(8,641
) 

 Accelerated depreciation included in selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3,084
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating profit
  
 
478,281
 
 
 
404,188
 
 
 
270,856
 

 Other expenses
  
 
(6,377
) 
 
 
(20,221
) 
 
 
(49,301
) 

 Interest expense, net
  
 
(156,297
) 
 
 
(150,236
) 
 
 
(163,279
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income tax expense
  
$
315,607
 
 
$
233,731
 
 
$
58,276
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

   












 
  
December 31,
 
  
January 1,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2011
 

 Assets:
  



  




 Innerwear
  
$
1,397,536
 
  
$
1,269,839
 

 Outerwear
  
 
919,736
 
  
 
828,142
 

 Hosiery
  
 
70,439
 
  
 
71,496
 

 Direct to Consumer
  
 
87,069
 
  
 
88,623
 

 International
  
 
322,450
 
  
 
278,757
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
2,797,230
 
  
 
2,536,857
 

 Corporate (1)
  
 
1,237,439
 
  
 
1,253,145
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
4,034,669
 
  
$
3,790,002
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

   
















 
  
Years Ended
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
January 1,
 
  
January 2,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Depreciation and amortization expense:
  



  



  




 Innerwear
  
$
38,682
 
  
$
35,095
 
  
$
36,328
 

 Outerwear
  
 
23,285
 
  
 
21,709
 
  
 
21,988
 

 Hosiery
  
 
1,584
 
  
 
2,627
 
  
 
3,831
 

 Direct to Consumer
  
 
7,183
 
  
 
6,116
 
  
 
5,621
 

 International
  
 
2,342
 
  
 
2,096
 
  
 
2,071
 

 Other
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
169
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
73,076
 
  
 
67,643
 
  
 
70,008
 

 Corporate
  
 
17,649
 
  
 
18,969
 
  
 
26,747
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total depreciation and amortization expense
  
$
90,725
 
  
$
86,612
 
  
$
96,755
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-45



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
   
















 
  
Years Ended
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
January 1,
 
  
January 2,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Additions to long-lived assets:
  



  



  




 Innerwear
  
$
37,627
 
  
$
49,319
 
  
$
49,061
 

 Outerwear
  
 
37,028
 
  
 
38,000
 
  
 
59,048
 

 Hosiery
  
 
749
 
  
 
550
 
  
 
711
 

 Direct to Consumer
  
 
6,336
 
  
 
11,679
 
  
 
8,914
 

 International
  
 
4,287
 
  
 
2,543
 
  
 
1,504
 

 Other
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
16
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
86,027
 
  
 
102,091
 
  
 
119,254
 

 Corporate
  
 
4,072
 
  
 
4,149
 
  
 
7,571
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total additions to long-lived assets
  
$
90,099
 
  
$
106,240
 
  
$
126,825
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
    


(1)
Principally cash and equivalents, certain fixed assets, net deferred tax assets, goodwill, trademarks and other identifiable intangibles, and certain other noncurrent
assets. 
Sales to Wal-Mart, Target and Kohl’s were substantially in the Innerwear and Outerwear segments and represented
25%, 16% and 6% of total sales in 2011, respectively.  Worldwide sales by product category for Innerwear, Outerwear and Hosiery
were $2,692,132, $1,721,863 and $223,148, respectively, in 2011. 
(19) Geographic Area Information 
   




























 
  
Years Ended or at
 

 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
January 1, 2011
 
  
January 2, 2010
 

 
  
 
 
  
Long-Lived
 
  
 
 
  
Long-Lived
 
  
 
 
  
Long-Lived
 

 
  
Sales
 
  
Assets
 
  
Sales
 
  
Assets
 
  
Sales
 
  
Assets
 

 United States
  
$
4,057,859
 
  
$
154,035
 
  
$
3,819,296
 
  
$
176,035
 
  
$
3,447,751
 
  
$
185,821
 

 Mexico
  
 
79,696
 
  
 
1,933
 
  
 
77,104
 
  
 
2,004
 
  
 
65,832
 
  
 
1,672
 

 Central America and the Caribbean Basin
  
 
4,335
 
  
 
283,908
 
  
 
3,905
 
  
 
265,625
 
  
 
10,419
 
  
 
260,564
 

 Japan
  
 
118,436
 
  
 
456
 
  
 
96,543
 
  
 
485
 
  
 
94,037
 
  
 
240
 

 Canada
  
 
139,687
 
  
 
1,538
 
  
 
144,154
 
  
 
5,159
 
  
 
124,197
 
  
 
5,084
 

 Europe
  
 
72,769
 
  
 
498
 
  
 
66,543
 
  
 
464
 
  
 
59,679
 
  
 
520
 

 Brazil
  
 
67,954
 
  
 
757
 
  
 
57,078
 
  
 
792
 
  
 
44,957
 
  
 
678
 

 China
  
 
19,397
 
  
 
144,651
 
  
 
15,246
 
  
 
138,254
 
  
 
10,197
 
  
 
114,100
 

 Other
  
 
77,010
 
  
 
47,630
 
  
 
46,844
 
  
 
42,436
 
  
 
34,206
 
  
 
34,147
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
4,637,143
 
  
$
635,406
 
  
$
4,326,713
 
  
$
631,254
 
  
$
3,891,275
 
  
$
602,826
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

The net sales by geographic region is attributed by customer location. 
  F-46



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
(20) Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) 
   
























 
  
First
 
  
Second
 
  
Third
 
  
Fourth
 
  
Total
 

 2011
  



  



  



  



  




 Net sales
  
$
1,036,410
 
  
$
1,225,233
 
  
$
1,230,185
 
  
$
1,145,315
 
  
$
4,637,143
 

 Gross profit
  
 
354,525
 
  
 
427,240
 
  
 
425,443
 
  
 
333,163
 
  
 
1,540,371
 

 Net income
  
 
48,109
 
  
 
86,782
 
  
 
90,832
 
  
 
40,965
 
  
 
266,688
 

 Basic earnings per share
  
 
0.49
 
  
 
0.89
 
  
 
0.93
 
  
 
0.42
 
  
 
2.73
 

 Diluted earnings per share
  
 
0.49
 
  
 
0.87
 
  
 
0.91
 
  
 
0.41
 
  
 
2.69
 








 2010
  



  



  



  



  




 Net sales
  
$
927,840
 
  
$
1,075,852
 
  
$
1,173,362
 
  
$
1,149,659
 
  
$
4,326,713
 

 Gross profit
  
 
327,430
 
  
 
374,806
 
  
 
363,875
 
  
 
348,658
 
  
 
1,414,769
 

 Net income
  
 
36,513
 
  
 
85,412
 
  
 
61,312
 
  
 
28,056
 
  
 
211,293
 

 Basic earnings per share
  
 
0.38
 
  
 
0.89
 
  
 
0.64
 
  
 
0.29
 
  
 
2.19
 

 Diluted earnings per share
  
 
0.37
 
  
 
0.87
 
  
 
0.63
 
  
 
0.29
 
  
 
2.16
 

(21) Consolidating Financial Information 
In accordance with the indenture governing the Company’s $500,000 Floating Rate Senior Notes issued on
December 14, 2006, the indenture governing the Company’s $500,000 8% Senior Notes issued on December 10, 2009 and the indenture governing the Company’s $1,000,000 6.375% Senior Notes issued on November 9, 2010 (together, the
“Indentures”), certain of the Company’s subsidiaries have guaranteed the Company’s obligations under the Floating Rate Senior Notes, the 8% Senior Notes and the 6.375% Senior Notes, respectively. The following presents the
condensed consolidating financial information separately for:  (i) Parent Company, the issuer of the guaranteed
obligations. Parent Company includes Hanesbrands Inc. and its 100% owned operating divisions which are not legal entities, and excludes its subsidiaries which are legal entities; 
(ii) Guarantor subsidiaries, on a combined basis, as specified in the Indentures; 
(iii) Non-guarantor subsidiaries, on a combined basis; 
(iv) Consolidating entries and eliminations representing adjustments to (a) eliminate intercompany transactions
between or among Parent Company, the guarantor subsidiaries and the non-guarantor subsidiaries, (b) eliminate intercompany profit in inventory, (c) eliminate the investments in our subsidiaries and (d) record consolidating
entries; and  (v) Parent Company, on a consolidated basis. 
The Floating Rate Senior Notes, the 8% Senior Notes and the 6.375% Senior Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and
several basis by each guarantor subsidiary, each of which is wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by Hanesbrands Inc. A guarantor subsidiary’s guarantee can be released in certain customary circumstances. Each entity in the consolidating
financial information follows the same accounting policies as described in the consolidated financial statements, except for the use by the Parent Company and guarantor subsidiaries of the equity method of accounting to reflect ownership interests
in subsidiaries which are eliminated upon consolidation. 
  F-47



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
   
























 
  
Consolidating Statement of Income
 

 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

  
  
ParentCompany
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
ConsolidatingEntries andEliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Net sales
  
$
4,037,944
 
 
$
666,270
 
 
$
3,722,998
 
  
$
(3,790,069
) 
 
$
4,637,143
 

 Cost of sales
  
 
3,249,034
 
 
 
321,305
 
 
 
3,259,466
 
  
 
(3,733,033
) 
 
 
3,096,772
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
788,910
 
 
 
344,965
 
 
 
463,532
 
  
 
(57,036
) 
 
 
1,540,371
 

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
779,229
 
 
 
136,336
 
 
 
149,525
 
  
 
(3,000
) 
 
 
1,062,090
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating profit (loss)
  
 
9,681
 
 
 
208,629
 
 
 
314,007
 
  
 
(54,036
) 
 
 
478,281
 

 Equity in earnings (loss) of subsidiaries
  
 
402,850
 
 
 
220,813
 
 
 
—
  
  
 
(623,663
) 
 
 
—
  

 Other expense
  
 
6,377
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
6,377
 

 Interest expense, net
  
 
145,711
 
 
 
(43
) 
 
 
10,622
 
  
 
7
 
 
 
156,297
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit)
  
 
260,443
 
 
 
429,485
 
 
 
303,385
 
  
 
(677,706
) 
 
 
315,607
 

 Income tax expense (benefit)
  
 
(6,245
) 
 
 
28,250
 
 
 
26,914
 
  
 
—
  
 
 
48,919
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
266,688
 
 
$
401,235
 
 
$
276,471
 
  
$
(677,706
) 
 
$
266,688
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-48



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
 
























  
  
Consolidating Statement of Income Year Ended January 1, 2011
 

  
  
ParentCompany
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
ConsolidatingEntries andEliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Net sales
  
$
4,018,341
 
 
$
470,527
 
 
$
3,025,488
 
  
$
(3,187,643
) 
 
$
4,326,713
 

 Cost of sales
  
 
3,268,900
 
 
 
187,657
 
 
 
2,672,497
 
  
 
(3,217,110
) 
 
 
2,911,944
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
749,441
 
 
 
282,870
 
 
 
352,991
 
  
 
29,467
 
 
 
1,414,769
 

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
793,210
 
 
 
99,636
 
 
 
116,713
 
  
 
1,022
 
 
 
1,010,581
 

 Restructuring
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating profit (loss)
  
 
(43,769
) 
 
 
183,234
 
 
 
236,278
 
  
 
28,445
 
 
 
404,188
 

 Equity in earnings (loss) of subsidiaries
  
 
396,080
 
 
 
155,925
 
 
 
—
  
  
 
(552,005
) 
 
 
—
  

 Other expense
  
 
20,221
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
20,221
 

 Interest expense, net
  
 
138,746
 
 
 
(90
) 
 
 
11,584
 
  
 
(4
) 
 
 
150,236
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit)
  
 
193,344
 
 
 
339,249
 
 
 
224,694
 
  
 
(523,556
) 
 
 
233,731
 

 Income tax expense (benefit)
  
 
(17,949
) 
 
 
27,625
 
 
 
12,762
 
  
 
—
  
 
 
22,438
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
211,293
 
 
$
311,624
 
 
$
211,932
 
  
$
(523,556
) 
 
$
211,293
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
























  
  
Consolidating Statement of Income Year Ended January 2, 2010
 

  
  
ParentCompany
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
ConsolidatingEntries andEliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Net sales
  
$
3,911,759
 
 
$
429,717
 
  
$
2,707,159
 
  
$
(3,157,360
) 
 
$
3,891,275
 

 Cost of sales
  
 
3,201,313
 
 
 
157,800
 
  
 
2,402,017
 
  
 
(3,135,129
) 
 
 
2,626,001
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
710,446
 
 
 
271,917
 
  
 
305,142
 
  
 
(22,231
) 
 
 
1,265,274
 

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
743,907
 
 
 
88,993
 
  
 
105,366
 
  
 
2,264
 
 
 
940,530
 

 Restructuring
  
 
48,319
 
 
 
—
  
  
 
5,569
 
  
 
—
  
 
 
53,888
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating profit (loss)
  
 
(81,780
) 
 
 
182,924
 
  
 
194,207
 
  
 
(24,495
) 
 
 
270,856
 

 Equity in earnings (loss) of subsidiaries
  
 
294,200
 
 
 
102,506
 
  
 
—
  
  
 
(396,706
) 
 
 
—
  

 Other expense
  
 
49,301
 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
49,301
 

 Interest expense, net
  
 
123,760
 
 
 
21,284
 
  
 
18,235
 
  
 
—
  
 
 
163,279
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income tax expense
  
 
39,359
 
 
 
264,146
 
  
 
175,972
 
  
 
(421,201
) 
 
 
58,276
 

 Income tax expense
  
 
(11,924
) 
 
 
3,843
 
  
 
15,074
 
  
 
—
  
 
 
6,993
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
51,283
 
 
$
260,303
 
  
$
160,898
 
  
$
(421,201
) 
 
$
51,283
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-49



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
   
























  
  
Condensed Consolidating Balance
SheetDecember 31, 2011
 

  
  
ParentCompany
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
ConsolidatingEntries andEliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Assets
  



 



 



 



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
8,330
 
 
$
2,726
 
 
$
24,289
 
 
$
—
  
 
$
35,345
 

 Trade accounts receivable less allowances
  
 
24,452
 
 
 
32,535
 
 
 
418,052
 
 
 
(4,326
) 
 
 
470,713
 

 Inventories
  
 
1,172,582
 
 
 
112,229
 
 
 
423,829
 
 
 
(101,085
) 
 
 
1,607,555
 

 Deferred tax assets
  
 
168,843
 
 
 
(1,105
) 
 
 
(13,071
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
154,667
 

 Other current assets
  
 
26,626
 
 
 
10,282
 
 
 
25,785
 
 
 
(182
) 
 
 
62,511
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
1,400,833
 
 
 
156,667
 
 
 
878,884
 
 
 
(105,593
) 
 
 
2,330,791
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property, net
  
 
107,482
 
 
 
46,553
 
 
 
481,371
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
635,406
 

 Trademarks and other identifiable intangibles, net
  
 
13,430
 
 
 
134,110
 
 
 
22,135
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
169,675
 

 Goodwill
  
 
232,882
 
 
 
124,247
 
 
 
76,267
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
433,396
 

 Investments in subsidiaries
  
 
1,897,579
 
 
 
1,059,475
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2,957,054
) 
 
 
—
  

 Deferred tax assets
  
 
175,981
 
 
 
177,432
 
 
 
40,807
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
394,220
 

 Other noncurrent assets
  
 
(432,466
) 
 
 
381,951
 
 
 
345,157
 
 
 
(223,461
) 
 
 
71,181
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
3,395,721
 
 
$
2,080,435
 
 
$
1,844,621
 
 
$
(3,286,108
) 
 
$
4,034,669
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity
  



 



 



 



 




 Accounts payable
  
$
236,913
 
 
$
17,036
 
 
$
197,576
 
 
$
—
  
 
$
451,525
 

 Accrued liabilities
  
 
120,807
 
 
 
53,669
 
 
 
77,713
 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
252,186
 

 Notes payable
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
63,075
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
63,075
 

 Accounts receivable securitization facility
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
166,933
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
166,933
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
357,720
 
 
 
70,705
 
 
 
505,297
 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
933,719
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Long-term debt
  
 
1,807,777
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,807,777
 

 Other noncurrent liabilities
  
 
549,163
 
 
 
36,434
 
 
 
26,515
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
612,112
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
2,714,660
 
 
 
107,139
 
 
 
531,812
 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
3,353,608
 

 Stockholders’ equity
  
 
681,061
 
 
 
1,973,296
 
 
 
1,312,809
 
 
 
(3,286,105
) 
 
 
681,061
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity
  
$
3,395,721
 
 
$
2,080,435
 
 
$
1,844,621
 
 
$
(3,286,108
) 
 
$
4,034,669
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-50



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
 
























  
  
Condensed Consolidating Balance
SheetJanuary 1, 2011
 

  
  
ParentCompany
 
  
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
ConsolidatingEntries andEliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Assets
  



  



  



 



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
17,535
 
  
$
2,039
 
  
$
24,097
 
 
$
—
  
 
$
43,671
 

 Trade accounts receivable less allowances
  
 
50,375
 
  
 
35,256
 
  
 
417,612
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
503,243
 

 Inventories
  
 
954,073
 
  
 
100,435
 
  
 
355,908
 
 
 
(87,697
) 
 
 
1,322,719
 

 Deferred tax assets
  
 
160,178
 
  
 
2,005
 
  
 
(12,752
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
149,431
 

 Other current assets
  
 
95,702
 
  
 
11,475
 
  
 
21,646
 
 
 
(216
) 
 
 
128,607
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
1,277,863
 
  
 
151,210
 
  
 
806,511
 
 
 
(87,913
) 
 
 
2,147,671
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property, net
  
 
118,596
 
  
 
47,842
 
  
 
464,816
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
631,254
 

 Trademarks and other identifiable intangibles, net
  
 
16,006
 
  
 
141,635
 
  
 
20,981
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
178,622
 

 Goodwill
  
 
232,882
 
  
 
124,214
 
  
 
73,048
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
430,144
 

 Investments in subsidiaries
  
 
1,542,231
 
  
 
886,349
 
  
 
—
  
 
 
(2,428,580
) 
 
 
—
  

 Deferred tax assets
  
 
107,521
 
  
 
173,804
 
  
 
38,473
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
319,798
 

 Other noncurrent assets
  
 
7,979
 
  
 
177,058
 
  
 
108,386
 
 
 
(210,910
) 
 
 
82,513
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
3,303,078
 
  
$
1,702,112
 
  
$
1,512,215
 
 
$
(2,727,403
) 
 
$
3,790,002
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity
  



  



  



 



 




 Accounts payable
  
$
243,169
 
  
$
17,198
 
  
$
152,002
 
 
$
—
  
 
$
412,369
 

 Accrued liabilities
  
 
150,831
 
  
 
55,502
 
  
 
69,979
 
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
276,303
 

 Notes payable
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
50,678
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
50,678
 

 Accounts receivable securitization facility
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
90,000
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
90,000
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
394,000
 
  
 
72,700
 
  
 
362,659
 
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
829,350
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Long-term debt
  
 
1,990,735
 
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,990,735
 

 Other noncurrent liabilities
  
 
355,669
 
  
 
35,072
 
  
 
16,502
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
407,243
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
2,740,404
 
  
 
107,772
 
  
 
379,161
 
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
3,227,328
 

 Stockholders’ equity
  
 
562,674
 
  
 
1,594,340
 
  
 
1,133,054
 
 
 
(2,727,394
) 
 
 
562,674
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity
  
$
3,303,078
 
  
$
1,702,112
 
  
$
1,512,215
 
 
$
(2,727,403
) 
 
$
3,790,002
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-51



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
   
























 
  
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows
 

 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidating
 
 
 
 

 
  
Parent
 
 
Guarantor
 
 
Non-Guarantor
 
 
Entries and
 
 
 
 

 
  
Company
 
 
Subsidiaries
 
 
Subsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
  
$
 484,585
 
 
$
202,098
 
 
$
128,746
 
 
$
(647,472
) 
 
$
167,957
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investing activities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Purchases of property, plant and equipment
  
 
(16,247
) 
 
 
(10,090
) 
 
 
(63,762
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(90,099
) 

 Acquisition of business, net of cash acquired
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(9,154
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(9,154
) 

 Proceeds from sales of assets
  
 
381
 
 
 
918
 
 
 
12,321
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
13,620
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
  
 
(15,866
) 
 
 
(9,172
) 
 
 
(60,595
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(85,633
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Financing activities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Borrowings on notes payable
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
360,893
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
360,893
 

 Repayments on notes payable
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(348,924
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(348,924
) 

 Borrowings on Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
280,629
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
280,629
 

 Repayments on Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(203,696
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(203,696
) 

 Borrowings on Revolving Loan Facility
  
 
2,890,000
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,890,000
 

 Repayments on Revolving Loan Facility
  
 
(2,875,500
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2,875,500
) 

 Repurchase of Floating Rate Senior Notes
  
 
(197,458
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(197,458
) 

 Payments to amend and refinance credit facilities
  
 
(3,089
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(668
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3,757
) 

 Proceeds from stock options exercised
  
 
17,104
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
17,104
 

 Transactions with Sara Lee Corporation
  
 
(11,403
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(11,403
) 

 Other
  
 
2,648
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(55
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,593
 

 Net transactions with related entities
  
 
(300,226
) 
 
 
(192,239
) 
 
 
(155,007
) 
 
 
647,472
 
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
  
 
(477,924
) 
 
 
(192,239
) 
 
 
(66,828
) 
 
 
647,472
 
 
 
(89,519
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on cash
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,131
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,131
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(9,205
) 
 
 
687
 
 
 
192
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(8,326
) 

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
  
 
17,535
 
 
 
2,039
 
 
 
24,097
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
43,671
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
  
$
 8,330
 
 
$
2,726
 
 
$
24,289
 
 
$
—
  
 
$
35,345
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-52



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
 
























 
  
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows
 

 
  
Year Ended January 1, 2011
 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidating
 
 
 
 

 
  
Parent
 
 
Guarantor
 
 
Non-Guarantor
 
 
Entries and
 
 
 
 

 
  
Company
 
 
Subsidiaries
 
 
Subsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
  
$
 381,450
 
 
$
162,475
 
 
$
139,614
 
 
$
(550,485
) 
 
$
133,054
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investing activities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Purchases of property, plant and equipment
  
 
(25,813
) 
 
 
(11,403
) 
 
 
(69,024
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(106,240
) 

 Acquisition of business, net of cash acquired
  
 
—
  
 
 
(222,878
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(222,878
) 

 Proceeds from sales of assets
  
 
44,269
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,373
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
45,642
 

 Other
  
 
(519
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(519
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
  
 
17,937
 
 
 
(234,281
) 
 
 
(67,651
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(283,995
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Financing activities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Borrowings on notes payable
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,394,782
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,394,782
 

 Repayments on notes payable
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,411,295
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,411,295
) 

 Borrowings on Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
207,290
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
207,290
 

 Repayments on Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(217,290
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(217,290
) 

 Borrowings on Revolving Loan Facility
  
 
2,228,500
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,228,500
 

 Repayments on Revolving Loan Facility
  
 
(2,280,000
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2,280,000
) 

 Repayment of debt under 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility
  
 
(750,000
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(750,000
) 

 Issuance of 6.375% Senior Notes
  
 
1,000,000
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,000,000
 

 Payments to amend and refinance credit facilities
  
 
(23,833
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(23,833
) 

 Proceeds from stock options exercised
  
 
5,938
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,938
 

 Other
  
 
1,639
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(46
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,593
 

 Net transactions with related entities
  
 
(576,901
) 
 
 
72,199
 
 
 
(45,783
) 
 
 
550,485
 
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
  
 
(394,657
) 
 
 
72,199
 
 
 
(72,342
) 
 
 
550,485
 
 
 
155,685
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on cash
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(16
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(16
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
4,730
 
 
 
393
 
 
 
(395
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,728
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
  
 
12,805
 
 
 
1,646
 
 
 
24,492
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
38,943
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
  
$
 17,535
 
 
$
2,039
 
 
$
24,097
 
 
$
—
  
 
$
43,671
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-53



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
 
























 
  
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows
 

 
  
Year Ended January 2, 2010
 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidating
 
 
 
 

 
  
Parent
 
 
Guarantor
 
 
Non-Guarantor
 
 
Entries and
 
 
 
 

 
  
Company
 
 
Subsidiaries
 
 
Subsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
  
$
 170,296
 
 
$
497,035
 
 
$
140,743
 
 
$
(393,570
) 
 
$
414,504
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investing activities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Purchases of property, plant and equipment
  
 
(21,442
) 
 
 
(8,036
) 
 
 
(97,347
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(126,825
) 

 Proceeds from sales of assets
  
 
32,931
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,034
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
37,965
 

 Other
  
 
(148
) 
 
 
16
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
148
 
 
 
16
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
  
 
11,341
 
 
 
(8,020
) 
 
 
(92,313
) 
 
 
148
 
 
 
(88,844
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Financing activities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Borrowings on notes payable
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,628,764
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,628,764
 

 Repayments on notes payable
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,624,139
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,624,139
) 

 Borrowings on Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
183,451
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
183,451
 

 Repayments on Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(326,068
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(326,068
) 

 Borrowings on Revolving Loan Facility
  
 
2,034,026
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,034,026
 

 Repayments on Revolving Loan Facility
  
 
(1,982,526
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,982,526
) 

 Repurchase of Floating Rate Senior Notes
  
 
(2,788
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2,788
) 

 Incurrence of debt under 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility
  
 
750,000
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
750,000
 

 Issuance of 8% Senior Notes
  
 
500,000
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
500,000
 

 Repayments of debt under 2006 Senior Secured Credit Facility
  
 
(990,250
) 
 
 
(450,000
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,440,250
) 

 Payments to amend and refinance credit facilities
  
 
(71,826
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3,150
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(74,976
) 

 Proceeds from stock options exercised
  
 
1,179
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,179
 

 Other
  
 
(815
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(32
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(847
) 

 Net transactions with related entities
  
 
(422,042
) 
 
 
(39,724
) 
 
 
68,344
 
 
 
393,422
 
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
  
 
(185,042
) 
 
 
(489,724
) 
 
 
(72,830
) 
 
 
393,422
 
 
 
(354,174
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on cash
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
115
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
115
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(3,405
) 
 
 
(709
) 
 
 
(24,285
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(28,399
) 

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
  
 
16,210
 
 
 
2,355
 
 
 
48,777
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
67,342
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
  
$
 12,805
 
 
$
1,646
 
 
$
24,492
 
 
$
—
  
 
$
38,943
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-54



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
(22) Restructuring 
The Company restructured its supply chain in the three years following the spin off from the Company’s former
parent to create more efficient production clusters that utilize fewer, larger facilities and to balance production capability between the Western Hemisphere and Asia. With its global supply chain infrastructure in place, the Company is focused
long-term on optimizing its supply chain to further enhance efficiency, improve working capital and asset turns and reduce costs through several initiatives, such as supplier-managed inventory for raw materials and sourced goods ownership
arrangements. The Company consolidated its distribution network by implementing new warehouse management systems and technology and adding new distribution centers and new third party logistics providers to replace parts of its legacy distribution
network, including relocating distribution capacity to its West Coast distribution facility in California in order to expand capacity for goods it sources from Asia.  The reported results for 2011, 2010 and 2009 reflect amounts recognized for restructuring actions, including the impact of certain actions that were completed for amounts more favorable than previously
estimated. The impact of restructuring efforts on income before income tax expense is summarized as follows:   
 
















 
  
Years Ended
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
January 1,
 
  
January 2,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Restructuring programs:
  



  



  




 Year ended January 2, 2010 restructuring actions
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
46,216
 

 Year ended January 3, 2009 restructuring actions
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
17,833
 

 Year ended December 29, 2007 and prior restructuring actions
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
5,699
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
69,748
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

The following table illustrates where the costs associated
with these actions are recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income:   
















 
  
Years Ended
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
January 1,
 
  
January 2,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Cost of sales
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
12,776
 

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,084
 

 Restructuring
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
53,888
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
69,748
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-55



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 
Components of the restructuring actions are as follows: 
 
















 
  
Years Ended
 

  
  
December 31,2011
 
  
January 1,2011
 
  
January 2,2010
 

 Accelerated depreciation
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
11,725
 

 Inventory write-offs
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
4,135
 

 Fixed asset impairments
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
7,503
 

 Employee termination and other benefits
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
23,941
 

 Noncancelable lease and other contractual obligations and other
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
22,444
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
69,748
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

Rollforward of accrued restructuring is as follows: 
 
















 
  
Years Ended
 

 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
January 1,2011
 
 
January 2,2010
 

 Beginning accrual
  
$
6,042
 
 
$
22,399
 
 
$
21,793
 

 Restructuring expenses
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
45,720
 

 Cash payments
  
 
(5,382
) 
 
 
(16,357
) 
 
 
(42,282
) 

 Adjustments to restructuring expenses
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2,832
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending accrual
  
$
 660
 
 
$
6,042
 
 
$
22,399
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The accrual balance as of December 31, 2011 is comprised of $660 in current accrued liabilities which consists of
$653 for employee termination and other benefits and $7 for noncancelable lease and other contractual obligations.  Adjustments
to previous estimates resulted from actual costs to settle obligations being lower than expected. The adjustments were reflected in the “Restructuring” line of the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Year Ended January 2, 2010 Actions  During 2009, the Company approved actions to close eight manufacturing facilities, three distribution centers, a yarn warehouse and a cotton warehouse in the Dominican Republic, the United States, Costa
Rica, Honduras, Puerto Rico and Canada, and eliminate an aggregate of approximately 4,100 positions in those countries and El Salvador. The production capacity represented by the manufacturing facilities has been primarily relocated to lower cost
locations in Asia, Central America and the Caribbean Basin. The distribution capacity has been relocated to the Company’s West Coast distribution center in California in order to expand capacity for goods the Company sources from Asia. In
addition, approximately 300 management and administrative positions were eliminated, with the majority of these positions based in the United States. The Company recorded charges of $46,216 in 2009, related to these actions. The Company recognized
$25,038 for employee termination and other benefits recognized in accordance with benefit plans previously communicated to the affected employee group, $9,204 for accelerated depreciation of buildings and equipment, $6,071 for noncancelable lease
and other contractual obligations related to the closure of certain manufacturing facilities, $3,529 for fixed asset impairments related to the closure of certain manufacturing facilities, $1,635 for write-offs of stranded raw materials and work in
process inventory determined not to be salvageable or cost-effective to relocate related to the closure of certain manufacturing facilities and $739 
  F-56



Table of Contents
HANESBRANDS INC. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 
(amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 

for other exit costs. These charges are reflected in the “Restructuring,” “Cost of sales” and “Selling, general and administrative expenses” lines of the
Consolidated Statements of Income. As of December 31, 2011, the severance obligation remaining in accrued restructuring on the Consolidated Balance Sheet was $164, and there were no noncancelable lease and other contractual obligations
remaining on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  During 2009, the Company ceased making its own yarn and now sources all of its
yarn requirements from large-scale yarn suppliers. The Company entered into an agreement with Parkdale America, LLC (“Parkdale America”) under which the Company agreed to sell or lease assets related to operations at the Company’s
four yarn manufacturing facilities to Parkdale America. The transaction closed in October 2009 and resulted in Parkdale America operating three of the four facilities. As discussed above, the Company approved an action to close the fourth yarn
manufacturing facility, as well as a yarn warehouse and a cotton warehouse. The Company also entered into a yarn purchase agreement with Parkdale America and Parkdale Mills, LLC (together with Parkdale America, “Parkdale”). Under this
agreement, which has an initial term of six years, Parkdale will produce and sell to the Company a substantial amount of the Company’s Western Hemisphere yarn requirements. During the first two years of the term, Parkdale also produced and sold
to the Company a substantial amount of the yarn requirements of the Company’s Nanjing, China textile facility. 
  F-57




