
10-K
1
a2207982z10-k.htm
10-K







Use these links to rapidly review the document
  TABLE OF CONTENTS 
  Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule









 
Table of Contents 

 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington D.C. 20549  
FORM 10-K  











(Mark One)
 
 


ý
 
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011


 Or


o
 
 TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


 For the transition period
from                                    to    
                              





 Commission File Number 001-33287  
Information Services Group, Inc. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 











Delaware
(State of Incorporation)
 
 20-5261587
(I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)




Two Stamford Plaza
281 Tresser Boulevard
Stamford, CT 06901
(Address of principal executive offices and zip code) 
Registrant's
telephone number, including area code: (203) 517-3100
Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 











Title of each class 
 
Name of each exchange on which registered 


Shares of Common Stock, $0.001 par value
 
The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC




Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
          Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act. Yes o    No ý 
          Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. Yes o    No ý 
          Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days. Yes ý    No o 
          Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to
be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that
the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes ý    No o 
          Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not
be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. o 
          Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer", "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 















Large accelerated filer o
 
Accelerated filer ý
 
Non-accelerated filer o (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
 
Smaller reporting company o




          Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act). Yes o    No ý 
          The aggregate market value of the voting common stock, par value $0.001 per share, held by non-affiliates of the registrant computed by reference to
the closing sales price for the registrant's common stock on June 30, 2011, as reported on the NASDAQ Stock Market was approximately $58,011,635. 
          In
determining the market value of the voting stock held by any non-affiliates, shares of common stock of the registrant beneficially owned by directors, officers and other
holders of non-publicly traded shares of common stock of the registrant have been excluded. This determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other
purposes. 
          As
of February 24, 2012, the registrant had outstanding 36,315,638 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share. 
Documents Incorporated by Reference  











Document Description 
 
10-K Part 


Portions of the Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Proxy Statement"), to be filed within 120 days of the end of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, are incorporated by
reference in Part III hereof. Except with respect to information specifically incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, the Proxy Statement is not deemed to be filed as part hereof.
 
III (Items 10, 11, 12, 13, 14)




  

   


 




 









 
 
  TABLE OF CONTENTS     
    SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT     

 














 PART I
 
 
 
 


 Item 1.
 
 Business
 

5


 Item 1A.
 
 Risk Factors
 
10


 Item 1B.
 
 Unresolved Staff Comments
 
17


 Item 2.
 
 Properties
 
18


 Item 3.
 
 Legal Proceedings
 
18


 Item 4.
 
 Mine Safety Disclosures
 
18


 PART II
 
 
 
 


 Item 5.
 
 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 

19


 Item 6.
 
 Selected Financial Data
 
23


 Item 7.
 
 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
25


 Item 7A.
 
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
 
41


 Item 8.
 
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
 
42


 Item 9.
 
 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
 
42


 Item 9A.
 
 Controls and Procedures
 
42


 Item 9B.
 
 Other Information
 
43


 PART III
 
 
 
 


 Item 10.
 
 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
 

44


 Item 11.
 
 Executive Compensation
 
44


 Item 12.
 
 Security Ownership and Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
 
44


 Item 13.
 
 Certain Relationships, Related Transactions and Director Independence
 
44


 Item 14.
 
 Principal Accountant Fees and Services
 
44


 PART IV
 
 
 
 


 Item 15.
 
 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule
 

45



 SIGNATURES PAGE
 

 





2




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT     
        Information Services Group ("ISG") believes that some of the information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
constitutes forward-looking statements. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as "may," "expect," "anticipate," "contemplate," "believe," "estimate," "intends" and "continue"
or similar words. You should read statements that contain these words carefully because they:


•discuss future expectations; 
•contain projections of future results of operations or financial condition;
or
•state other "forward-looking" information. 

        These
forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to:


•ability to retain existing clients and contracts; 
•ability to win new clients and engagements; 
•ability to implement cost reductions and productivity improvements; 
•beliefs about future trends in the sourcing industry; 
•expected spending on sourcing services by clients; 
•foreign currency exchange rates; 
•effective tax rate; and
•competition in the sourcing industry. 

        ISG
believes it is important to communicate its expectations to its stockholders. However, there may be events in the future that ISG is not able to predict accurately or over which it
has no control. The risk factors and cautionary language discussed in this Annual Report provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause actual results to differ materially from the
expectations in such forward-looking statements, including among other things:


•the amount of cash on hand; 
•business strategy; 
•cost reductions and productivity improvements may not be fully realized or realized within the expected time frame;  
•continued compliance with government regulations; 
•legislation or regulatory environments, requirements or changes adversely affecting the business in which ISG is engaged;  
•fluctuations in client demand; 
•management of growth; 
•ability to grow the business and effectively manage growth and international operations while maintaining effective
internal controls; 
•ISG's relative dependence on clients which operate in the financial services, manufacturing, automotive and public
services sectors; 
•ability to hire and retain enough qualified employees to support operations;  
•increases in wages in locations in which ISG has operations; 

3



 
Table of Contents


•ability to retain senior management; 
•fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies;  
•ability to attract and retain clients and the ability to develop and maintain client relationships based on attractive
terms; 
•legislation in the United States or elsewhere that adversely affects the performance of sourcing services offshore;  
•increased competition; 
•telecommunications or technology disruptions or breaches, or natural or other disasters;  
•ability to protect ISG intellectual property and the intellectual property of others;  
•the international nature of ISG's business; 
•political or economic instability in countries where ISG has operations;  
•worldwide political, economic and business conditions; and
•ability to successfully consummate or integrate strategic acquisitions. 

        You
are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report. 
        All
forward-looking statements included herein attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or
referred to in this section. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements attributed to estimates of the growth of our markets. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in
the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Except to the extent required by applicable laws and regulations, we
undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. 
        You
should, however, review the risks and uncertainties we describe in the reports we will file from time to time with the SEC after the date of this Annual Report. 
4



 
Table of Contents
 
 PART I  
         
 
    Item 1.    Business     
        As used herein, unless the context otherwise requires, ISG, the registrant, is referred to in this Form 10-K annual
report ("Form 10-K") as the "Company," "we," "us" and "our." 
 Our Company  
        Information Services Group, Inc. (ISG) (NASDAQ: III) is a leading technology insights, market intelligence and advisory
services company serving more than 500 clients around the world to help them achieve operational excellence. ISG supports private and public sector organizations to transform and optimize their
operational environments through research, benchmarking, consulting and managed services with a focus on information technology, business process transformation, program management services and
enterprise resource planning. Clients look to ISG for unique insights and innovative solutions for leveraging technology, our deep data source, and more than five decades of experience of global
leadership in information and advisory services. Based in Stamford, Connecticut, the company has approximately 700 employees and operates in 21 countries. 
        Our
company was founded in 2006 with the strategic vision to become a high-growth, leading provider of information-based advisory services. In 2007, ISG consummated
its initial public offering and completed the acquisition of TPI Advisory Services Americas, Inc. ("TPI"). 
        On
January 4, 2011, we acquired Compass, a premier independent global provider of business and information technology benchmarking, performance improvement, data and analytics
services. It was founded in 1980 and headquartered in the United Kingdom and had approximately 180 employees in 16 countries serving nearly 250 clients. 
        On
February 10, 2011, we acquired Austin, Texas-based STA Consulting, a premier independent information technology advisor serving the public sector. STA Consulting advises
clients on information technology strategic planning and the acquisition and implementation of new Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) and other enterprise administration and management systems. STA
Consulting was founded in 1997 and had approximately 40 professionals. 
        We
continue to believe that our vision will be realized through the acquisition, integration, and successful operation of market-leading brands within the data, analytics and advisory
industry. Including our most recent acquisitions, we operate in 21 countries and employ approximately 700 professionals globally, delivering advisory, benchmarking and analytical insight to
large, multinational corporations and governments in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific. 
        There
are important cyclical and secular challenges faced by our private and public sector clients which will continue to fuel demand for the professional services we provide. In the
private sector, for example, we believe that companies will continue to face significant challenges associated with globalization, including the need to decrease operating costs, increase efficiencies
and deal with increasing numbers of emerging and transformational technologies such as cloud computing. Similarly, public sector organizations at the national, regional and local levels increasingly
must deal with the complex and converging issues of outdated technology systems, significantly impaired revenue sources and an aging workforce. 
        Overall,
we believe that the environmental dynamics at work in both the private and public sectors mitigate decisively in favor of the professional services, analytics and advice ISG can
provide. In this dynamic environment, the strength of our client relationships greatly depends on the quality of our advice and insight, the independence of our thought leadership and the
effectiveness of our people in assisting our clients to implement strategies that successfully address their most pressing operational challenges. 
5



 
Table of Contents
        We
are organized as a corporation under the laws of the State of Delaware. The current mailing address of the Company's principal executive office is: 
        Information
Services Group, Inc. 
        Two
Stamford Plaza, 281 Tresser Boulevard, Stamford, CT 06901, and our telephone number is (203) 517-3100. 
 Our Services  
        During periods of expansion or contraction, for enterprises large or small, public or private, in North America or Europe and Asia
Pacific, our services have helped organizations address their most complex operational issues. The functional domain experience of our experts and deep empirical data help clients better understand
their strategic options. We provide four key lines of service: 


•Research.  We utilize our extensive experience and
proprietary data assets to provide subscription and custom research services to both buyers and service providers active in the outsourcing and managed services industries. Our views into the buying
behaviors, needs and objectives of global corporations examining transformation of their operations provide unique insight for industry participants.   
•Benchmarking and Analytics.  Our combined data sources,
compiled over 30 years of servicing global corporations provide a rich source of benchmark data into the comparative cost and quality of operational alternatives. We use these data sources to
provide clients with in-depth analysis into the implications of different service strategies allowing them to compare and contrast and make informed decision regarding strategic change.  
•Strategic Consulting.  We assist clients with envisioning,
designing and implementing change in their operational environments. We evaluate existing practices and operating costs of public and private enterprises, identifying potential improvement
opportunities to enhance service delivery, optimize operations or reduce costs. Solutions are customized by client situation and may include internal transformation, the adoption of external
strategies, or some combination of both. In all cases, we assist with the selection, implementation and ongoing support for these strategic initiatives.  
•Managed Services.  Our managed service offerings provide
best in class operational governance services and bring these to our clients as a seamless end-to-end service. This offering assists clients with monitoring and managing their
supplier relationships, providing them with real-time accurate market intelligence and insights into all aspects of provider performance and cost, allowing them to focus on the more
strategic aspects of supplier management. 

 Recent Developments  
        On January 10, 2012, we announced the merging of our individual corporate brands into one globally integrated
go-to-market business under the ISG brand. TPI, the world's leading independent sourcing data and advisory firm; Compass, a premier independent provider of business and IT
benchmarking; and STA Consulting, a premier independent technology advisory serving the North America public sector, have combined under the ISG brand. This merger offers clients one source of support
to drive operational excellence in their organizations. The legacy brands of TPI and Compass will remain as product and service descriptors, such as "TPI Sourcing" and "Compass Benchmarks". 
6



 
Table of Contents
 Our Competitive Advantages  
        We believe that the following strengths differentiate us from our competition: 


•Independence and objectivity.  We are not a service
provider. We are an independent, fact-based data, analytics and advisory firm with no material conflicting financial or other interests. This enables us to maintain a trusted advisor
relationship with our clients through our unbiased focus and ability to align our interests with those of our clients.   
•Domain expertise.  Averaging over 20 years of
experience, our strategic consulting teams bring a wealth of industry and domain-specific knowledge and expertise to address our clients' most complex transformational needs. 
•Strong brand recognition.—We are transitioning to the ISG
brand with TPI, Compass and STA Consulting positioned as product and service descriptors which have legally registered trademarks in certain appropriate jurisdictions. ISG now offers a complete
product and service offering for our clients via the acquisitions of TPI, Compass and STA Consulting. We have retained our legacy brands to identify specific products and services we are known for
including "The TPI Index", "TPI Sourcing" and "Compass benchmarks".   
•Proprietary data assets and market intelligence.  We have
assembled a comprehensive and unique set of data, analytics and market intelligence built through thirty years of data collection and analysis, providing insight into the comparative cost and quality
of a variety of operational alternatives.  
•Global reach.  We possess practical experience in global
business operations, and we understand the significance of interconnected economies and companies. Our resources in the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, China and India make us a truly global advisory
firm able to consistently serve the strategic and implementation needs of our clients. 

        We
believe that the strengths disclosed above are central to our ability to deal successfully with the challenges that we face. 
 Our Strategy  
        We intend to use our competitive strengths to develop new services and products, sustain our growth and strengthen our existing market
position by pursuing the following strategies: 


•Preserve and expand our leading market share positions.  We
expect the trend toward globalization and greater operating efficiency and technological innovation to play an increasing role in the growth of demand for our services. We plan to leverage our
combined operating platform to serve the growing number of private and public enterprises utilizing outside advisors when undertaking transformational projects. In addition, we will seek to continue
to expand our products and services and the geographic markets we serve opportunistically as global competition spurs demand for cost savings and value creation.   
•Strengthen our Industry expertise.  We have strengthened
our market facing organization to drive increased revenue around five key areas—BFSI (Banking, Financial Services and Insurance); Manufacturing/Auto; Energy, Life Sciences and Healthcare;
Technology, Retail and Enterprise Businesses; and Public Sector/Government.   
•Expand geographically.  Historically, we generated the
majority of our revenues in North America. Over the past several years, we have made significant investments in Europe and Asia Pacific to capitalize on emerging demand for advisory, benchmarking and
analytical insight in these geographic regions. We intend to continue to expand in Europe and Asia Pacific and maintain our revenue growth and market leading positions in those markets. The
acquisition of Compass 

7



 
Table of Contents


expanded
our geographic reach, particularly in Europe, and increased the amount of our revenues we generated internationally versus in North America.  


•Aggressively expand our Market focus.  We are seeking to
drive our service portfolio and relationships with clients further into white spaces—Business Advisory Services, Cloud Solutions, Project Management Services, Strategy, Transition and
Organization & Operations are all areas where we are investing additional focus to drive increased revenues and expanded relationships with clients.   
•Expand "annuity-like" products and
services.  As companies begin to recognize the importance of managing the post-sourcing-transaction period, managed services
has emerged as a potential revenue driver for us where our offerings are delivered through multi-year managed services contracts. We believe that our experience with outsourcing
transactions and software implementation initiatives make us uniquely equipped to provide research insights and direct support to help our clients manage their transformational projects or act as a
third-party administrator. We will continue to pursue opportunities to leverage our experience to make research and managed services an even greater revenue generator for
us.  
•Consider acquisition and other growth opportunities.  The
business services, information and advisory market is highly fragmented. We believe we are well-positioned to leverage our leading market positions and strong brand recognition to expand
through acquisitions. Acquiring firms with complementary services and products will allow us to further develop and broaden our service offerings and domain expertise. We will consider and may pursue
opportunities to enter into joint ventures and to buy or combine with other businesses. 

 Our Proprietary Data Assets and Market Intelligence  
        One of our core assets is the information, data, analytics, methodologies and other intellectual capital the Company possesses. This
intellectual property underpins the independent nature of our operational assessments, strategy development, deal-structuring, negotiation and other consulting services we provide our
clients. 
        With
each engagement we conduct, we enhance both the quantity and quality of the intellectual property we can employ on behalf of our clients, thus providing a continuous, evolving and
unique source of information, data and analytics. 
        This
intellectual property is proprietary and we rely on multiple legal and contractual provisions and devices to protect our intellectual property rights. We recognize the value of our
intellectual property and vigorously defend it. As a result, the Company maintains strict policies and procedures regarding ownership, use and protection with all parties, including our employees. 
 Clients  
        We operate in 21 countries and across numerous industries. Our private sector clients operate in the financial services,
telecommunications, healthcare and pharmaceuticals, manufacturing, transportation and travel and energy and utilities industries. Our private sector clients are primarily large businesses and ranked
in the Forbes Global 2000 companies annually. Our public sector clients are primarily state and local governments (cities and counties) and authorities (airport and transit) in the United
States and national and provincial government units in the United Kingdom, Canada and Australia. 
 Competition  
        Competition in the sourcing, data, information and advisory market is primarily driven by independence and objectivity, expertise,
possession of relevant benchmarking data, breadth of service 
8



 
Table of Contents
capabilities,
reputation and price. We compete with other sourcing advisors, research firms, strategy consultants and sourcing service providers. A significant number of independent sourcing
and advisory firms offer similar services. In our view, however, these firms generally lack the benchmarking data, scale and diversity of expertise that we possess. In addition, most research firms do
not possess the data repository of recent, comparable transactions and benchmarking data. Strategy consultants bring strategy services capabilities to the sourcing and advisory market. However, since
they do not focus exclusively on the sourcing market, they lack the depth of experience that sourcing, data and advisory firms such as ISG possess. In addition, strategy consultants do not possess the
sourcing and technology implementation expertise or the benchmarking data capabilities that are critical to implementing and managing successful transformational projects for businesses and
governments. Other service providers often lack the depth of experience, competitive benchmarking data and independence critical to playing the role of "trusted advisor" to clients. 
 Employees  
        As of December 31, 2011, we employed 699 people worldwide. 
        Our
employee base includes executive management, service leads, partners, directors, advisors, analysts, technical specialists and functional support staff. 
        We
recruit advisors from service providers, consulting firms and clients with direct operational experience. These advisors leverage extensive practical expertise derived from
experiences in corporate leadership, consulting, research, financial analysis, contract negotiations and operational service delivery. 
        All
employees are required to execute confidentiality, conflict of interest and intellectual property agreements as a condition of employment. There are no collective bargaining
agreements covering any of our employees. 
        Our
voluntary advisor turnover rate ranged between 9% and 17% over the last three years. 
 Available Information  
        Our Internet address is www.isg-one.com. The content on our website is
available for information purposes only. It should not be relied upon for investment purposes, nor is it incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. We make available through our
Internet website under the heading "Investor Relations," our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on
Form 8-K after we electronically file any such materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Copies of our key corporate governance documents, including our Code of Ethics
for Directors, Officers and Employees and charters for our Audit Committee, our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and our Compensation Committee are also on our website. Stockholders may
request free copies of these documents including our Annual Report to Stockholders by writing to Information Services Group, Inc., Two Stamford Plaza, 281 Tresser Boulevard, Stamford CT 06901,
Attention: David E. Berger, or by calling (203) 517-3100. 
        Our
annual and quarterly reports and other information statements are available to the public through the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. In
addition, the Notice of Annual Meeting of Stockholders, Proxy Statement and 2011 Annual Report to Stockholders are available free of charge at  www.isg-one.com. 
9




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
    Item 1A.    Risk Factors     
        
The loss of key executives could adversely affect our business.  
        The success of our business is dependent upon the continued service of a relatively small group of key executives, including
Mr. Connors, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mr. Berger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer; Mr. Somerdyk, Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources
and Communications Officer, and Mr. Whitmore, Vice Chairman and President, ISG Americas, among others. 
        Although
we currently intend to retain our existing management, we cannot assure you that such individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. The unexpected
loss of the services of one or more of these executives could adversely affect our business. 
        
We have outstanding a substantial amount of debt, which may limit our ability to fund general corporate requirements and obtain additional financing, limit our flexibility
in responding to business opportunities and competitive developments and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions.  
        We incurred a substantial amount of indebtedness to finance the acquisition of TPI, including transaction costs and deferred
underwriting fees. On November 16, 2007, our wholly-owned subsidiary International Consulting Acquisition Corp. ("ICAC") entered into a senior secured credit facility comprised of a
$95.0 million term loan facility and a $10.0 million revolving credit facility. On November 16, 2007, ICAC borrowed $95.0 million under the term loan facility to finance
the purchase price for our acquisition of TPI and to pay transaction costs. As a result of the substantial fixed costs associated with the debt obligations, we expect
that:


•a decrease in revenues will result in a disproportionately greater percentage decrease in earnings;  
•we may not have sufficient liquidity to fund all of these fixed costs if our revenues decline or costs increase;  
•we may have to use our working capital to fund these fixed costs instead of funding general corporate requirements,
including capital expenditures; 
•we may not have sufficient liquidity to respond to business opportunities, competitive developments and adverse economic
conditions; and 
•our results of operations will be adversely affected if interest rates increase because, based on our current outstanding
term loan borrowings in the amount of $63.8 million, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a pre-tax impact on earnings of approximately $0.6 million per year. 

        These
debt obligations may also impair our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, and our flexibility in the conduct of our business. Our indebtedness under the senior
secured revolving credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets, leaving us with limited collateral for additional financing. Moreover, the terms of our indebtedness under the senior
secured revolving credit facility restrict our ability to take certain actions, including the incurrence of additional indebtedness, mergers and acquisitions, investments and asset sales. Our ability
to pay the fixed costs associated with our debt obligations will depend on our operating performance and cash flow, which in turn depend on general economic conditions and the advisory services
market. A failure to pay interest or indebtedness when due could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of our indebtedness. In such a situation, it is unlikely that
we would be able to fulfill our obligations under or repay the accelerated indebtedness or otherwise cover our fixed costs. As of December 31, 2011, the total principal outstanding under the
term loan facility was $63.8 million. There were no borrowings under the revolving credit facility during fiscal 2011. 
10



 
Table of Contents
        
Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could adversely affect our business and the market price of our Common Stock.  
        Pursuant to rules adopted by the SEC implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to assess the
effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and provide a management report on our internal controls over financial reporting in all annual reports. This report contains, among
other matters, a statement as to whether or not our internal controls over financial reporting are effective and the disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial
reporting identified by management. 
        The
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) provides a framework for companies to assess and improve their internal control systems. Auditing Standard
No. 5 provides the professional standards and related performance guidance for auditors to attest to, and report on, management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting under Section 404. Management's assessment of internal controls over financial reporting requires management to make subjective judgments and, some of the judgments will be
in areas that may be open to interpretation. Therefore, our management's report on our internal controls over financial
reporting may be difficult to prepare, and our auditors may not agree with our management's assessment. 
        While
we currently believe our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, we are required to comply with Section 404 on an annual basis. If, in the future, we
identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting during this continuous evaluation process, our management will be unable to assert such internal controls are
effective. Although we currently anticipate being able to continue to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 in a timely fashion, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion for our
future evaluation, testing and any required remediation due in large part to the fact that there are limited precedents available by which to measure compliance with these requirements. Therefore, if
we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective in the future, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal
controls, our investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our business and the market price of our Common Stock. 
        
Our operating results have been, and may in the future be, adversely impacted by the worldwide economic crisis and credit tightening.  
        Our results of operations are affected by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by the level of
economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. A decline in the level of business activity of our clients could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profit margin. In
particular, our exposure to certain industries currently experiencing financial difficulties, including the transportation and financial services industries, could have an adverse effect on our
results of operations. Future economic conditions could cause some clients to reduce or defer their expenditures for consulting services. We have implemented and will continue to implement
cost-savings initiatives to manage our expenses as a percentage of revenue. However, current and future cost-management initiatives may not be sufficient to maintain our
margins if the economic environment should weaken for a prolonged period. 
        
The rate of growth in the broadly defined business information services & advisory sector and/or the use of technology in business may fall significantly below the
levels that we currently anticipate.  
        Our business is dependent upon continued growth in sourcing activity, the use of technology in business by our clients and prospective
clients and the continued trend towards sourcing of complex information technology and business process tasks by large and small organizations. If sourcing 
11



 
Table of Contents
diminishes
as a management and operational tool, the growth in the use of technology slows down or the cost of sourcing alternatives rises, our business could suffer. Companies that have already
invested substantial resources in developing in-house information technology and business process functions may be particularly reluctant or slow to move to a sourcing solution that may
make some of their existing personnel and infrastructure obsolete. 
        
Our engagements may be terminated, delayed or reduced in scope by clients at any time.  
        Our clients may decide at any time to abandon, postpone and/or to reduce our involvement in an engagement. Our engagements can
therefore terminate, or the scope of our responsibilities may diminish, with limited advance notice. If an engagement is terminated, delayed or reduced unexpectedly, the professionals working on the
engagement could be underutilized until we assign them to other projects. Accordingly, the termination or significant reduction in the scope of a single large engagement, or multiple smaller
engagements, could harm our business results. 
        
Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period as a result of factors outside of our control.  
        We expect our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from accounting period to accounting period due to factors
including:


•fluctuations in revenues earned on contracts; 
•commencement, completion or termination of contracts during any particular period;  
•additions and departures of key advisors; 
•transitioning of advisors from completed projects to new engagements; 
•seasonal trends; 
•the introduction of new services by us or our competitors; 
•changes in fees, pricing policies or compensation arrangements by us or our competitors;  
•strategic decisions by us, our clients or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs,
joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; 
•global economic and political conditions and related risks, including acts of terrorism; and  
•conditions in the travel industry that could prevent our advisors from traveling to client sites. 

        
We depend on project-based advisory engagements, and our failure to secure new engagements could lead to a decrease in our revenues.  
        Advisory engagements typically are project-based. Our ability to attract advisory engagements is subject to numerous factors, including
the following:


•delivering consistent, high-quality advisory services to our clients;  
•tailoring our advisory services to the changing needs of our clients; 
•matching the skills and competencies of our advisory staff to the skills required for the fulfillment of existing or
potential advisory engagements; and 
•maintaining a global business operation. 

        Any
material decline in our ability to secure new advisory arrangements could have an adverse impact on our revenues and financial condition. 
12



 
Table of Contents
        
We may not be able to maintain our existing services and products.  
        We operate in a rapidly evolving market, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver high quality advice and analysis to our
clients. Any failure to continue to provide credible and reliable information and advice that is useful to our clients could have a significant adverse effect on future business and operating results.
Further, if our advice proves to be materially incorrect and the quality of service is diminished, our reputation may suffer and demand for our services and products may decline. In addition, we must
continue to improve our methods for delivering our products and services in a cost-effective manner. 
        
We may not have the ability to develop and offer the new services and products that we need to remain competitive.  
        Our future success will depend in part on our ability to offer new services and products. To maintain our competitive position, we must
continue to enhance and improve our services and products, develop or acquire new services and products in a timely manner, and appropriately position and price new services and products relative to
the marketplace and our costs of producing them. These new services and products must successfully gain market acceptance by addressing specific industry and business sectors and by anticipating and
identifying changes in client requirements. The process of researching, developing, launching and gaining client acceptance of a new service or product, or assimilating and marketing an acquired
service or product is risky and costly. We may not be able to introduce new, or assimilate acquired, services and products successfully. Any failure to achieve successful client acceptance of new
services and products could have an adverse effect on our business results. 
        
We may fail to anticipate and respond to market trends.  
        Our success depends in part upon our ability to anticipate rapidly changing technologies and market trends and to adapt our advice,
services and products to meet the changing sourcing advisory needs of our clients. Our clients regularly undergo frequent and often dramatic changes. That environment of rapid and continuous change
presents significant challenges to our ability to provide our clients with current and timely analysis, strategies and advice on issues of importance to them. Meeting these challenges requires the
commitment of substantial resources. Any failure to continue to respond to developments, technologies, and trends in a manner that meets market needs could have an adverse effect on our business
results. 
        
We may be unable to protect important intellectual property rights.  
        We rely on copyright and trademark laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality arrangements, to protect our proprietary rights
in our methods of performing our services and our tools for analyzing financial and other information. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property
rights will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our rights or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take timely and effective steps to enforce our rights. If substantial and
material unauthorized uses of our proprietary methodologies and analytical tools were to occur, we may be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation to enforce our rights.
There can be no assurance that we would prevail in such litigation. If others were able to use our intellectual property or were to independently develop our methodologies or analytical tools, our
ability to compete effectively and to charge appropriate fees for our services may be adversely affected. 
13



 
Table of Contents
        
We face competition and our failure to compete successfully could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  
        The business information services and advisory sector is competitive, highly fragmented and subject to rapid change. We face
competition from many other providers ranging from large organizations to small firms and independent contractors that provide specialized services. Our competitors include any firm that provides
sourcing or benchmarking advisory services, IT strategy or business process consulting, which may include a variety of consulting firms, service providers, niche advisors and, potentially, advisors
currently or formerly employed by us. Some of our competitors have significantly more financial and marketing resources, larger professional staffs, closer client relationships, broader geographic
presence or more widespread recognition than us. 
        In
addition, limited barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. As a result, additional new competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide
additional or complementary services. Additionally, technological advances may provide increased competition from a variety of sources. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully
compete against current and future competitors and our failure to do so could result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing and increased marketing
expenditures. Furthermore, we may not be successful if we cannot compete effectively on quality of advice and analysis, timely delivery of information, client service or the ability to offer services
and products to meet changing market needs for information, analysis or price. 
        
We rely heavily on key members of our management team.  
        We are dependent on our management team. We have entered into subscription and non-competition agreements with a number of
these key management personnel. If any of the covenants contained in the subscription and non-competition agreements are violated, the key management personnel will forfeit their shares
(or the after-tax proceeds if the shares have been sold). We issued restricted stock units ("RSUs") and stock appreciation rights ("SARs") to key employees. Vesting rights in the RSUs and
SARs are subject to compliance with restrictive covenant agreements. Vested and unvested RSUs and SARs will be forfeited upon any violation of the restrictive covenant agreements. Despite the
non-competition and restrictive covenant agreements, we may not be able to retain these managers and may not be able to enforce the non-competition and restrictive covenants.
If we were to lose a number of key members of our management team and were unable to replace
these people quickly, we could have difficulty maintaining our growth and certain key relationships with large clients. 
        
We depend upon our ability to attract, retain and train skilled advisors and other professionals.  
        Our business involves the delivery of advisory and consulting services. Therefore, our continued success depends in large part upon our
ability to attract, develop, motivate, retain and train skilled advisors and other professionals who have advanced information technology and business processing domain expertise, financial analysis
skills, project management experience and other similar abilities. We do not have non-competition agreements with many non-executive advisors. Consequently, these advisors
could resign and join one of our competitors or provide sourcing advisory services to our clients through their own ventures. 
        We
must also recruit staff globally to support our services and products. We face competition for the limited pool of these qualified professionals from, among others, technology
companies, market research firms, consulting firms, financial services companies and electronic and print media companies, some of which have a greater ability to attract and compensate these
professionals. Some of the personnel that we attempt to hire may be subject to non-compete agreements that could impede our short-term recruitment efforts. Any failure to
retain key personnel or hire and train additional qualified 
14



 
Table of Contents
personnel
as required supporting the evolving needs of clients or growth in our business could adversely affect the quality of our products and services, and our future business and operating results. 
        
We may have agreements with certain clients that limit the ability of particular advisors to work on some engagements for a period of time.  
        We provide services primarily in connection with significant or complex sourcing transactions and other matters that provide potential
competitive advantage and/or involve sensitive client information. Our engagement by a client occasionally precludes us from staffing certain advisors on new engagements because the advisors have
received confidential information from a client who is a competitor of the new client. Furthermore, it is possible that our engagement by a client could
preclude us from accepting engagements with such client's competitors because of confidentiality concerns. 
        
In many industries in which we provide advisory services, there has been a trend toward business consolidations and strategic alliances that could limit the pool of
potential clients.  
        Consolidations and alliances reduce the number of potential clients for our services and products and may increase the chances that we
will be unable to continue some of our ongoing engagements or secure new engagements. 
        
We derive a significant portion of our revenues from our largest clients and could materially and adversely be affected if we lose one or more of our large clients.  
        Our 20 largest clients accounted for approximately 33% of revenue in 2011 and 45% in 2010. If one or more of our large clients
terminate or significantly reduce their engagements or fail to remain a viable business, then our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, sizable receivable balances could be
jeopardized if large clients fail to remain viable. 
        
Our international operations expose us to a variety of risks which could negatively impact our future revenue and growth.  
        Approximately 53% and 42% of our revenues for 2011 and 2010 were derived from sales outside of the Americas, respectively. Our
operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including:


•tariffs and trade barriers; 
•regulations related to customs and import/export matters; 
•restrictions on entry visas required for our advisors to travel and provide services;  
•tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States;  
•cultural and language differences; 
•an inadequate banking system; 
•foreign exchange controls; 
•restrictions on the repatriation of profits or payment of dividends; 
•crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; 
•nationalization or expropriation of property; 
•law enforcement authorities and courts that are inexperienced in commercial matters; and  
•deterioration of political relations with the United States. 

15



 
Table of Contents
        Air
travel, telecommunications and entry through international borders are all vital components of our business. If a terrorist attack similar to 9/11 were to occur, our
business could be disproportionately impacted because of the disruption a terrorist attack causes on these vital components. 
        We
intend to continue to expand our global footprint in order to meet our clients' needs. This may involve expanding into countries beyond those in which we currently operate. We may
involve expanding into less developed countries, which may have less political, social or economic stability and less developed infrastructure and legal systems. As we expand our business into new
countries, regulatory, personnel, technological and other difficulties may increase our expenses or delay our ability to start up operations or become profitable in such countries. This may affect our
relationships with our clients and could have an adverse effect on our business. 
        
We operate in a number of international areas which exposes us to significant foreign currency exchange rate risk.  
        We have significant international revenue, which is generally collected in local currency. We currently hold or issue forward exchange
contracts for hedging purposes. We do enter into forward contracts for hedging of specific transactions. All are settled prior to quarter end. The percentage of total revenues generated outside the
Americas increased from 45% in 2008 to 53% in 2011. It is expected that our international revenues will continue to grow as European and Asian markets adopt sourcing solutions and through the
acquisition of Compass. The translation of our revenues into U.S. dollars, as well as our costs of operating internationally, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial
condition. 
        
We may be subject to claims for substantial damages by our clients arising out of disruptions to their businesses or inadequate service and our insurance coverage may be
inadequate.  
        Most of our service contracts with clients contain service level and performance requirements, including requirements relating to the
quality of our services. Failure to consistently meet service requirements of a client or errors made by our employees in the course of delivering services to our clients could disrupt the client's
business and result in a reduction in revenues or a claim for damages against us. Additionally, we could incur liability if a process we manage for a
client were to result in internal control failures or impair our client's ability to comply with our own internal control requirements. 
        Under
our service agreements with our clients, our liability for breach of our obligations is generally limited to actual damages suffered by the client and is typically capped at the
greater of an agreed amount or the fees paid or payable to us under the relevant agreement. These limitations and caps on liability may be unenforceable or otherwise may not protect us from liability
for damages. In addition, certain liabilities, such as claims of third parties for which we may be required to indemnify our clients or liability for breaches of confidentiality, are generally not
limited under those agreements. Although we have commercial general liability insurance coverage, the coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover
one or more large claims. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage or changes in our insurance policies (including premium increases or
the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements) could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
        
We could be liable to our clients for damages and subject to liability and our reputation could be damaged if our client data is compromised.  
        We may be liable to our clients for damages caused by disclosure of confidential information. We are often required to collect and
store sensitive or confidential client data in order to perform the services we provide under our contracts. Many of our contracts do not limit our potential liability for 
16



 
Table of Contents
breaches
of confidentiality. If any person, including any of our current or former employees, penetrates our network security or misappropriates sensitive data or if we do not adapt to changes in data
protection legislation, we could be subject to significant liabilities to our clients or to our clients' customers for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws. Unauthorized
disclosure of sensitive or confidential client data, whether through breach of our processes, systems or otherwise, could also damage our reputation and cause us to lose existing and potential
clients. We may also be subject to civil actions and criminal prosecution by government or government agencies for breaches relating to such data. Our insurance coverage for breaches or mismanagement
of such data may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims against us. 
        
Client restrictions on the use of client data could adversely affect our activities.  
        The majority of the data we use to populate our databases comes from our client engagements. The insight sought by clients from us
relates to the contractual data and terms, including pricing and costs, to which we have access in the course of assisting our clients in the negotiation of our sourcing agreements. Data is obtained
through the course of our engagements with clients who agree to contractual provisions permitting us to consolidate and utilize on an aggregate basis such information. If we were unable to utilize key
data from previous client engagements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 
        
We may not be able to maintain the equity in our brand name.  
        We are transitioning to the ISG brand with TPI, Compass and STA Consulting positioned as product and service descriptors which have
legally registered trademarks in certain appropriate jurisdictions. There may be other entities providing similar services that use these names for their business. There can be no assurance that the
resulting confusion and lack of brand-recognition in the marketplace created by this transition will not adversely affect our business. 
        We
believe that the ISG brand and the related subsidiary brands including "TPI", "Compass" and "STA Consulting" remain critical to our efforts to attract and retain clients and staff and
that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition increases. We may expand our marketing activities to promote and strengthen our brands and may need to increase our marketing
budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel, expend additional sums to protect the brands and otherwise increase expenditures to create and maintain client brand loyalty. If we
fail to effectively promote and maintain the brands or incur excessive expenses in doing so, our future business and operating results could be adversely impacted. 
        
Our outstanding warrants may be exercised in the future, which would increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and would result in
dilution to our stockholders. This might have an adverse effect on the market price of the common stock.  
        As part of the purchase consideration paid to MCP-TPI Holdings, LLC, a Texas limited liability company
("MCP-TPI"), ISG issued warrants exercisable beginning on November 16, 2008 into 5 million shares of ISG common stock at an exercise price of $9.18 per share. To the extent
these warrants are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to our stockholders and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the
public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our shares.  
 
    Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments     
        None.  
17



 
Table of Contents

 
    Item 2.    Properties     
        We maintain our executive offices in Stamford, Connecticut. The majority of our business activities are performed on client sites. We
do not own offices or properties. We have leased offices in the United States, Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, Sweden and the United
Kingdom.  
 
    Item 3.    Legal Proceedings     
        We are not aware of any asserted or unasserted legal proceedings or claims that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  
 
    Item 4.    Mine Safety Disclosures     
        Not applicable. 
18




 










Table of Contents 
 
 PART II  
         
 
    Item 5.    Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     
        On February 1, 2007, our units began trading on the American Stock Exchange under the symbol "III.U". Each of our units
consisted of one share of common stock and one warrant. On February 12, 2007, the common stock and warrants underlying our units began to trade separately on the American Stock Exchange under
the symbols "III" and "III.WS", respectively. Our securities were traded on the American Stock Exchange until January 31, 2008. 
        On
February 1, 2008, our common stock, warrants and units began trading on The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC under the symbols "III", "IIIW" and "IIIIU", respectively. On
January 31, 2011, our warrants and units expired pursuant to their terms and are no longer traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market. The following sets forth the high and low closing sales price of
our common stock, warrants and units, as reported on The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC for the periods shown: 




























 
 
Common Stock 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
High 
 
Low 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 March 31, 2011
 
$
2.40
 
$
1.90
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 June 30, 2011
 
 
2.37
 
 
1.68
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 September 30, 2011
 
 
1.77
 
 
0.95
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 December 31, 2011
 
 
1.32
 
 
0.95
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 




























 
 
Common Stock 
 
Warrants 
 
Units 
 


 
 
High 
 
Low 
 
High 
 
Low 
 
High 
 
Low 
 


 March 31, 2010
 
$
3.72
 
$
2.97
 
$
0.08
 
$
0.04
 
$
3.00
 
$
2.61
 


 June 30, 2010
 
 
3.55
 
 
2.00
 
 
0.07
 
 
0.00
 
 
3.00
 
 
3.00
 


 September 30, 2010
 
 
2.19
 
 
1.34
 
 
0.02
 
 
0.00
 
 
3.00
 
 
1.38
 


 December 31, 2010
 
 
2.25
 
 
1.75
 
 
0.02
 
 
0.00
 
 
8.73
 
 
1.38
 




        On
February 24, 2012, the last reported sale price for our common stock on The Nasdaq Stock Market was $1.21 per share. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, there were 378 holders of record of ISG common stock. 
 Dividend Policy  
        We have not paid any dividends on our common stock to date. It is the current intention of our Board of Directors to retain all
earnings, if any, for use in our business operations and, accordingly, our board does not anticipate declaring any dividends in the foreseeable future. Moreover, our Credit Agreement restricts our
ability to pay dividends. The payment of dividends in the future will be within the discretion of our then Board of Directors and will be contingent upon our revenues and earnings, if any, capital
requirements and general financial condition. 
19



 
Table of Contents
 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
        The following table details the repurchases that were made during the three months ended December 31, 2011. 






















Period



 
Total Number of
Securities
Purchased
(In thousands) 
 
Average
Price per
Securities 
 
Total Numbers of
Securities
Purchased
as Part of Publicly
Announced Plan
(In thousands) 
 
Approximate Dollar
Value of Securities
That May Yet Be
Purchased Under
The Plan
(In thousands) 
 


 October 1 – October 31
 
 
—
 
$
—
 
 
—
 
$
9,508
 


 November 1 – November 30
 
 
214 shares
 
$
1.26
 
 
214
 
$
9,237
 


 December 1 – December 31
 
 
294 shares
 
$
1.08
 
 
294
 
$
8,921
 




        The
Company's Board Of Directors has approved common share repurchase authorizations under which repurchases may be made from time to time in the open market, pursuant to
pre-set trading plans meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1 under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in private transactions or otherwise. The authorizations do not have a stated expiration date. The timing and actual number of shares to be repurchased in the future
will depend on a variety of factors, including the Company's financial position, earnings, capital requirements of the Company's operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints,
share price, catastrophe losses, funding of the Company's qualified pension plan, other investment opportunities (including mergers and acquisitions), market conditions and other factors. 
 Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plan  
        At the special meeting of stockholders held on November 13, 2007, the 2007 Equity Incentive Plan was approved by our
stockholders. On May 11, 2010, our stockholders approved an amendment for an additional 4.5 million shares authorized for issuance under the 2007 Equity Incentive Plan, except that each
share of our common stock issued under a "full value" award (awards other than stock options or stock appreciation rights) will reduce the number of shares available for issuance by 1.44 shares. The
following table lists information regarding outstanding options and shares reserved for future issuance under our Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan as of December 31, 2011. We
have not issued any shares of our common stock to employees as compensation under a plan that has not been approved by our stockholders. 



















Plan Category



 
Number of Shares of
Common Stock to
be Issued upon
Exercise of
Outstanding
Options, Warrants
and Rights 
 
Weighted
Average
Exercise Price
of Outstanding
Options,
Warrants and
Rights(1) 
 
Number of Shares of
Common Stock
Remaining Available
for Future Issuance
under our Stock Option
Plans (Excluding
Shares Reflected in
Column 1)(2) 
 


 Approved by Stockholders
 
 
3,053,906
 
$
5.04
 
 
4,099,872
 


 Not Approved by Stockholders
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 
3,053,906
 
$
5.04
 
 
4,099,872
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 







(1)The
weighted-average exercise price does not take into account the shares issuable upon vesting of outstanding stock awards which have no exercise price.
(2)Includes
606,417 shares available for future issuance under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. 
20




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  STOCK PERFORMANCE GRAPH     
        The following graph compares the cumulative 4 years total stockholder return on our Common Stock from February 12, 2007
(the day our common stock began publicly trading) through December 31, 2011, with the cumulative total return for the same period of (i) the NASDAQ Composite Index, (ii) the
Russell 2000 Index and (iii) the Peer Group described below. The comparison assumes for the same period the investment of $100 on February 12, 2007 in our Common Stock and in each of the
indices and, in each case, assumes reinvestment of all dividends. 
 
 
  COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* Among Information Services Group Inc, the NASDAQ Composite Index,  the Russell 2000 Index, and a Peer Group    






*$100
invested on 2/12/07 in stock or 1/31/07 in index, including reinvestment of dividends.
Fiscal year ending December 31. 






















Measurement Periods



 
ISG 
 
NASDAQ 
 
Russell 2000 
 
Peer Group(a) 
 


 February 2007
 
$
100.14
 
$
97.76
 
$
99.21
 
$
106.47
 


 March 2007
 
$
101.08
 
$
97.93
 
$
100.27
 
$
111.41
 


 April 2007
 
$
103.39
 
$
102.30
 
$
102.07
 
$
114.87
 


 May 2007
 
$
104.34
 
$
105.39
 
$
106.25
 
$
122.77
 


 June 2007
 
$
103.66
 
$
105.88
 
$
104.70
 
$
119.11
 


 July 2007
 
$
103.39
 
$
103.26
 
$
97.54
 
$
111.59
 


 August 2007
 
$
102.71
 
$
105.49
 
$
99.75
 
$
122.04
 


 September 2007
 
$
103.66
 
$
110.33
 
$
101.46
 
$
125.75
 


 October 2007
 
$
102.17
 
$
116.53
 
$
104.37
 
$
124.57
 


 November 2007
 
$
91.19
 
$
108.26
 
$
96.87
 
$
122.83
 


 December 2007
 
$
92.82
 
$
107.83
 
$
96.81
 
$
127.68
 


 January 2008
 
$
78.46
 
$
97.00
 
$
90.21
 
$
111.89
 


 February 2008
 
$
72.49
 
$
92.33
 
$
86.87
 
$
119.81
 


 March 2008
 
$
69.92
 
$
92.52
 
$
87.23
 
$
121.92
 


 April 2008
 
$
70.19
 
$
98.11
 
$
90.88
 
$
123.47
 


 May 2008
 
$
65.99
 
$
102.58
 
$
95.06
 
$
123.57
 




21



 
Table of Contents






















Measurement Periods



 
ISG 
 
NASDAQ 
 
Russell 2000 
 
Peer Group(a) 
 


 June 2008
 
$
65.04
 
$
93.08
 
$
87.74
 
$
127.07
 


 July 2008
 
$
57.72
 
$
93.27
 
$
90.99
 
$
139.08
 


 August 2008
 
$
66.80
 
$
94.81
 
$
94.28
 
$
148.90
 


 September 2008
 
$
66.40
 
$
83.37
 
$
86.76
 
$
134.73
 


 October 2008
 
$
37.26
 
$
69.15
 
$
68.71
 
$
113.30
 


 November 2008
 
$
41.73
 
$
62.21
 
$
60.59
 
$
103.36
 


 December 2008
 
$
46.07
 
$
64.20
 
$
64.10
 
$
102.07
 


 January 2009
 
$
43.36
 
$
60.10
 
$
56.97
 
$
86.89
 


 February 2009
 
$
43.09
 
$
56.37
 
$
50.05
 
$
72.92
 


 March 2009
 
$
41.60
 
$
62.20
 
$
54.52
 
$
85.47
 


 April 2009
 
$
40.24
 
$
69.66
 
$
62.95
 
$
98.52
 


 May 2009
 
$
37.26
 
$
72.10
 
$
64.84
 
$
96.47
 


 June 2009
 
$
40.79
 
$
74.76
 
$
65.80
 
$
97.64
 


 July 2009
 
$
47.29
 
$
80.67
 
$
72.13
 
$
102.48
 


 August 2009
 
$
53.93
 
$
82.27
 
$
74.20
 
$
84.01
 


 September 2009
 
$
54.07
 
$
86.72
 
$
78.48
 
$
89.36
 


 October 2009
 
$
48.78
 
$
83.96
 
$
73.15
 
$
86.67
 


 November 2009
 
$
43.63
 
$
88.17
 
$
75.45
 
$
91.20
 


 December 2009
 
$
42.95
 
$
93.10
 
$
81.52
 
$
91.39
 


 January 2010
 
$
49.19
 
$
88.02
 
$
78.52
 
$
92.10
 


 February 2010
 
$
40.24
 
$
91.78
 
$
82.06
 
$
93.22
 


 March 2010
 
$
46.21
 
$
98.47
 
$
88.74
 
$
91.22
 


 April 2010
 
$
46.61
 
$
100.85
 
$
93.76
 
$
97.56
 


 May 2010
 
$
34.69
 
$
92.48
 
$
86.65
 
$
99.83
 


 June 2010
 
$
27.10
 
$
86.97
 
$
79.93
 
$
95.18
 


 July 2010
 
$
29.13
 
$
93.01
 
$
85.42
 
$
93.28
 


 August 2010
 
$
20.33
 
$
87.42
 
$
79.10
 
$
95.48
 


 September 2010
 
$
24.25
 
$
97.89
 
$
88.96
 
$
100.91
 


 October 2010
 
$
25.07
 
$
103.76
 
$
92.60
 
$
104.28
 


 November 2010
 
$
29.95
 
$
103.09
 
$
95.81
 
$
107.17
 


 December 2010
 
$
28.05
 
$
109.63
 
$
103.41
 
$
113.20
 


 January 2011
 
$
25.88
 
$
111.78
 
$
103.15
 
$
116.12
 


 February 2011
 
$
30.35
 
$
115.21
 
$
108.80
 
$
118.53
 


 March 2011
 
$
29.67
 
$
115.18
 
$
111.62
 
$
130.58
 


 April 2011
 
$
31.57
 
$
119.15
 
$
114.57
 
$
134.98
 


 May 2011
 
$
27.24
 
$
117.46
 
$
112.42
 
$
127.60
 


 June 2011
 
$
23.98
 
$
115.01
 
$
109.83
 
$
127.47
 


 July 2011
 
$
22.09
 
$
114.28
 
$
105.86
 
$
120.39
 


 August 2011
 
$
17.62
 
$
106.98
 
$
96.65
 
$
117.88
 


 September 2011
 
$
14.36
 
$
100.09
 
$
85.82
 
$
115.51
 


 October 2011
 
$
14.23
 
$
111.13
 
$
98.81
 
$
126.79
 


 November 2011
 
$
16.94
 
$
108.83
 
$
98.45
 
$
126.25
 


 December 2011
 
$
13.96
 
$
108.37
 
$
99.10
 
$
122.92
 








(a)The
Peer Group consists of the following companies: CRA International Inc., Forrester Research Inc., FTI Consulting Inc., Gartner
Group, Inc., Huron Consulting Group, Inc. and The Hackett Group, Inc. The Peer Group is weighted by market capitalization. 

22



 
Table of Contents
 
 
    Item 6.    Selected Financial Data     
        The following historical information was derived from our audited consolidated financial statements for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Our information for the year ended December 31, 2007 includes operations for TPI from November 17, 2007 through December 31,
2007. The information is only a summary and should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and related notes. The historical results included below are not
indicative of our future performance. 

























 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
2008 
 
2007 
 


 
 
(dollars in thousands, except per share data)
 


 Statement of Operations Data:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Revenues
 
$
184,426
 
$
132,013
 
$
132,744
 
$
174,795
 
$
18,901
 


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
11,034
 
 
9,846
 
 
9,562
 
 
10,000
 
 
910
 


 Operating (loss) income
 
 
(60,842
)(1)
 
(51,741
)(2)
 
814
(3)
 
(57,642
)(4)
 
(1,664
)


 Interest expense
 
 
(3,458
)
 
(3,241
)
 
(4,550
)
 
(6,928
)
 
(1,174
)


 Interest income
 
 
75
 
 
159
 
 
262
 
 
1,300
 
 
10,453
 


 Foreign currency transaction (loss) gain
 
 
(38
)
 
(268
)
 
(140
)
 
578
 
 
84
 


 Income tax (benefit) provision
 
 
(8,326
)
 
(1,926
)
 
(778
)
 
(4,783
)
 
3,226
 


 Net (loss) income
 
 
(55,937
)
 
(53,165
)
 
(2,836
)
 
(57,909
)
 
4,473
 


 Basic weighted average common shares
 
 
36,258
 
 
32,050
 
 
31,491
 
 
31,282
 
 
36,465
 


 Net (loss) income per common share—basic
 
 
(1.54
)
 
(1.66
)
 
(0.09
)
 
(1.85
)
 
0.12
 


 Diluted weighted average common shares
 
 
36,258
 
 
32,050
 
 
31,491
 
 
31,282
 
 
38,376
 


 Net (loss) income per common share—diluted
 
 
(1.54
)
 
(1.66
)
 
(0.09
)
 
(1.85
)
 
0.12
 


 Cash Flow Data:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash provided by (used in):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating activities
 
$
871
 
$
5,747
 
$
4,056
 
$
20,481
 
$
5,921
 


 Investing activities
 
$
(9,655
)
$
(6,707
)
$
(1,239
)
$
(1,634
)
$
(203,630
)


 Financing activities
 
$
(6,903
)
$
(1,698
)
$
(22,080
)
$
(3,939
)
$
244,367
 


 Balance Sheet Data (at period end)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
$
146,479
 
$
184,564
 
$
241,973
 
$
279,588
 
$
357,290
 


 Debt
 
$
70,063
 
$
69,813
 
$
71,813
 
$
94,050
 
$
95,000
 


 Shareholders' equity
 
$
35,884
 
$
81,817
 
$
131,625
 
$
130,581
 
$
190,788
 








(1)As
a result of our goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments, we recorded an impairment charge of $34.3 million during the fourth quarter
of 2011 associated with goodwill and $27.4 million related to intangible assets.
(2)As
a result of our goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments, we recorded an impairment charge of $46.6 million during the third quarter
of 2010 associated with goodwill and $5.9 million related to intangible assets.
(3)As
a result of our intangible asset impairment assessments, we recorded an impairment charge of $6.8 million during the third quarter of 2009
associated with intangible assets.
(4)As
a result of our goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments, we recorded an impairment charge of $49.4 million during the fourth quarter
of 2008 associated with goodwill and $24.8 million related to intangible assets. 

23



 
Table of Contents
        The
following historical information was derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of TPI and its subsidiaries for the period from January 1, 2007
through November 16, 2007. The historical results included below are not indicative of the future performance of TPI. 













 
 
Period From
January 1,
2007 to
November 16,
2007 
 


 Statement of Operations Data:
 
 
 
 


 Revenues
 
$
153,751
 


 Operating expenses:
 
 
 
 


 Direct costs and expenses for advisors
 
 
91,368
 


 Selling, general, and administrative
 
 
45,287
 


 Profit shares program compensation(1)
 
 
58,175
 


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
1,969
 


 Operating (loss) income
 
 
(43,048
)


 Interest income
 
 
204
 


 Interest expense
 
 
(3,200
)


 Loss on extinguishment of debt
 
 
—
 


 Foreign currency transaction gain (loss)
 
 
335
 


 Income (loss) before taxes
 
 
(45,709
)


 Income tax provision
 
 
(4,948
)


 Net (loss) income
 
 
(50,657
)


 Cash Flow Data:
 
 
 
 


 Cash provided by (used in):
 
 
 
 


 Operating activities
 
$
3,248
 


 Investing activities
 
$
(1,157
)


 Financing activities
 
$
(613
)


 Balance Sheet Data: (end of period)
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
 
 
 


 Total stockholders' equity (deficit)
 
 
 
 








(1)Concurrent
with the ISG's acquisition of TPI on November 16, 2007, TPI recorded $58.2 million in non-cash compensation charges
related to their Management Share Unit and A2 Profit Participation Share programs. 

24




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
    Item 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     
        You should read the following discussion together with Item 6 "Selected Financial Data" and our audited consolidated financial
statements and the related notes included in Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data". In addition to historical consolidated financial information, this discussion contains
forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Statements, other than those based on
historical facts, which address activities, events or developments that we expect or anticipate may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are and will be,
as the case may be, subject to many risks, uncertainties and factors relating to our operations and business environment that may cause actual results to be materially different from any future
results, express or implied, by such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements must be understood in the context of numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to,
those described previously in section 1A "Risk Factors." 
 BUSINESS OVERVIEW  
        Information Services Group, Inc. (ISG) (NASDAQ: III) is a leading technology insights, market intelligence and advisory
services company serving more than 500 clients around the world to help them achieve operational excellence. ISG supports private and public sector organizations to transform and optimize their
operational environments through research, benchmarking, consulting and managed services with a focus on information technology, business process transformation, program management services and
enterprise resource planning. Clients look to ISG for unique insights and innovative solutions for leveraging technology, our deep data source, and more than five decades of experience of global
leadership in information and advisory services. Based in Stamford, Connecticut, the company has approximately 700 employees and operates in 21 countries. 
        Our
strategy is to strengthen our existing market position and develop new services and products to support future growth plans. As a result, we are focused on growing our existing
service model, expanding geographically, developing new industry sectors, productizing market data assets, expanding our managed services offering and growing via acquisition. Although we do not
expect any adverse conditions that will impact our ability to execute against our strategy over the next twelve months, the more significant factors that could limit our ability to grow in these areas
include global macro-economic conditions and the impact on the overall sourcing market, competition, our ability to retain advisors and reductions in discretionary spending with our top strategic
accounts or other significant client events. Other areas that could impact the business would also include natural disasters, legislative and regulatory changes and capital market disruptions. 
        We
derive our revenues from fees and reimbursable expenses for professional services. A majority of our revenues are generated under hourly or daily rates billed on a time and expense
basis. Clients are typically invoiced on a monthly basis, with revenue recognized as the services are provided. There are also client engagements in which we are paid a fixed amount for our services,
often referred to as fixed fee billings. This may be one single amount covering the whole engagement or several amounts for various phases or functions. From time to time, we earn incremental
revenues, in addition to hourly or fixed fee billings, which are contingent on the attainment of certain contractual milestones or objectives. Such revenues may cause unusual variations in quarterly
revenues and operating results. 
        Our
results are impacted principally by our full-time consultants' utilization rate, the number of business days in each quarter and the number of our revenue-generating
professionals who are available to work. Our utilization rate can be negatively affected by increased hiring because there is generally a transition period for new professionals that result in a
temporary drop in our utilization rate. Our utilization rate can also be affected by seasonal variations in the demand for our services from our clients. The number of business work days is also
affected by the number of vacation days 
25



 
Table of Contents
taken
by our consultants and holidays in each quarter. We typically have fewer business work days available in the fourth quarter of the year, which can impact revenues during that period.
Time-and-expense engagements do not provide us with a high degree of predictability as to performance in future periods. Unexpected changes in the demand for our services can
result in significant variations in utilization and revenues and present a challenge to optimal hiring and staffing. The volume of work performed for any particular client can vary widely from period
to period. 
 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  
        In 2011, we generated strong business momentum as we emerged from the recessionary conditions of the previous three years. We
significantly increased the number of our blue-chip clients we are serving in 2011. We served more than 500 clients globally. 
        2011
was a year of progress for us as we enhanced and expanded our operations and built a strong platform upon which to create increased value for all of our stakeholders. We began 2011
with the acquisitions of Compass, a premier independent global provider of business and information technology benchmarking, performance improvement, data and analytics services, and STA Consulting, a
premier independent information technology advisor serving the public sector. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we decided to merge our individual brands into one entity, ISG. 
        Around
the globe, all ISG brands are now guided by the same vision, mission and values. Our strategy has been embraced by the marketplace, our clients are increasingly demanding our
products and services, and our employees have never been better equipped to serve them. We call this "The Power of One," and it is the driving force behind ISG in 2012 and beyond. 
        We
gained synergies in 2011 through the launch of a global shared services organization, which we call the ISG One Platform. Uniting our operations in IT, Finance, Legal, Marketing,
Communications Human Resources and Information Services has enabled us to better serve our clients and positioned us to improve our value to shareholders and increase the opportunities available to
our employees. And during 2011 we continued to build upon our three decades of leadership and innovation in IT and business consulting to meet client demand and market opportunities and further
distance ourselves from competitors, including:


•We expanded recurring revenue from Governance Services, our post-contract managed services offering, and
launched GS Essentials, specifically designed for clients with smaller outsourcing portfolios, which we have implemented with Southwest Airlines, Origin Energy and others.  
•Our India operations, which provide client services and support globally, surpassed a major milestone by crossing the
100-employee mark and moving into new facilities in Bangalore. 

        Since
the end of 2008, the United States and global economies have been experiencing a period of substantial economic uncertainty with wide-ranging effects, including
contraction of overall economic activity in various parts of the world. Our outlook is subject to significant risks and uncertainties in this environment, including possible declines in demand for our
services, pricing pressure, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, risks relating to the financial condition of our clients and local legislative changes. 
        For
2012, we see continued demand for our services, and estimate that we are in the second year of a multiple year recovery. Overall, our focus will be on profit improvement and cash
generation. Against the backdrop of our new go-to-market approach, organization and strategy, we have identified five strategic initiatives that we plan to
execute:


•Preserve and expand our leading market share positions and legacy services
that we are known for—Compass Benchmarking and TPI Sourcing Transaction Services. 

26



 
Table of Contents


•Strengthen our Industry expertise and expand revenue around five key
industries: BFSI (Banking, Financial Services & Insurance); Manufacturing/Auto; Energy, Life Sciences and Healthcare; Technology, Retail and Enterprise Businesses; and Public Sector/Government.  
•Expand "annuity-like" products and service offerings to create
a larger percentage of firm-wide revenues that are recurring revenue streams, including Managed Services and Research. 
•Aggressively expand our Market focus further into white spaces, including
Business Advisory Services, Cloud Solutions, Project Management Services, Strategy, Transition and Organization & Operations. 
•Re-tool our resourcing model for better "value for money,"
including increased leverage, improved assessments on matching people skills with evolving market needs, and furthering our talent development to meet growth aspirations. 

        These
initiatives will drive growth in 2012 and beyond and continue to support our clients around the world. 
 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND DECEMBER 31, 2010  
        The results for the year ended December 31, 2011 discussed below include the operations of Compass from January 4, 2011
to December 31, 2011 and STA Consulting from February 10, 2011 to December 31, 2011. 
 Revenues  
        Revenues are generally derived from engagements priced on a time and materials basis and are recorded based on actual time worked as
the services are performed. Revenues related to materials (mainly out-of-pocket expenses such as airfare, lodging and meals) required during an engagement generally do not
include a profit mark-up and can be charged and reimbursed discretely or as part of the overall fee arrangement. Invoices are issued to clients monthly, semimonthly or in accordance with
the specific contractual terms of each project. 
        We
operate in one segment, fact-based sourcing advisory services. We operate principally in the Americas, Europe, and Asia Pacific. Our foreign operations are subject to
local government regulations and to the uncertainties of the economic and political conditions of those areas. 
        Geographical
information for the segment is as follows: 






















 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 


Geographic Area



 
2011 
 
2010 
 
Change 
 
Percent
Change 
 


 
 
(in thousands)
 


 Americas
 
$
86,735
 
$
76,123
 
$
10,612
 
 
13.9
%


 Europe
 
 
74,383
 
 
39,400
 
 
34,983
 
 
88.8
%


 Asia Pacific
 
 
23,308
 
 
16,490
 
 
6,818
 
 
41.3
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenues
 
$
184,426
 
$
132,013
 
$
52,413
 
 
39.7
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
net increase in revenues of $52.4 million or 40% in 2011 was attributable principally to an 89% increase in Europe revenues to $74.4 million and a 41% increase in Asia
Pacific revenues to $23.3 million. The increase in revenues is primarily due to the acquisitions of Compass and STA
Consulting and higher levels of sourcing activity in the Asia Pacific and Americas regions, attributable to increases in post contract governance services. The translation of foreign currency revenues
into US 
27



 
Table of Contents
dollars
also favorably impacted performance compared to the prior year. Billable staff at December 31, 2011 totaled 516, as compared to 323 at December 31, 2010. 
 Operating Expenses  
        The following table presents a breakdown of our operating expenses by functional category: 






















 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 


Operating Expenses



 
2011 
 
2010 
 
Change 
 
Percent
Change 
 


 
 
(in thousands)
 


 Direct costs and expenses for advisors
 
$
104,823
 
$
71,528
 
$
33,295
 
 
46.5
%


 Selling, general and administrative
 
 
67,717
 
 
49,889
 
 
17,828
 
 
35.7
%


 Goodwill impairment charge
 
 
34,314
 
 
46,591
 
 
(12,277
)
 
 (26.4
)%


 Intangible asset impairment charge
 
 
27,380
 
 
5,900
 
 
21,480
 
 
364.1
%


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
11,034
 
 
9,846
 
 
1,188
 
 
12.1
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total operating expenses
 
$
245,268
 
$
183,754
 
$
61,514
 
 
33.5
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Total
operating expenses increased by $61.5 million in 2011 with increases in direct expenses (47%) and selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses (36%) due primarily
to the acquisitions of Compass and STA Consulting, higher compensation, contract labor, restructuring costs, conferences, bad debt and travel expenses. These cost increases were only partially offset
by lower deal-related costs, professional fees, marketing and computer expenses. The impact of foreign currency translation into US dollars drove costs higher compared to the same prior
2010 period. 
        During
2011, we recorded restructuring costs of $2.7 million associated with a program focused on implementing selected cost savings and productivity improvements. The workforce
reduction is focused on integration-related cost synergies including selling, general and administrative support, elimination of unnecessary sales and advisory positions and real estate
consolidations. Restructuring costs primarily related to employee severance and benefit costs. The $2.7 million of restructuring costs was recorded in selling, general and administrative
expenses. We expect that the remaining actions in our workforce reduction will be completed over the next three months. We also recorded $1.1 million of restructuring costs during 2010. 
        Compensation
costs consist of a mix of fixed and variable salaries, annual bonuses, benefits and pension plan contributions. Bonus compensation is determined based on achievement against
our financial and individual targets, and is accrued monthly throughout the year based on management estimates of target achievement. Statutory and elective pension plans are offered to employees as
appropriate. Direct costs also include employee taxes, health insurance, workers compensation and disability insurance. 
        A
portion of compensation expenses for certain billable employees are allocated between direct costs and selling, general and administrative costs based on relative time spent between
billable and non-billable activities. 
        Selling
costs consist principally of compensation expense related to business development, proposal preparation and delivery, and negotiation of new client contracts. Costs also include
travel expenses relating to the pursuit of sales opportunities, expenses for hosting periodic client conferences, public relations activities, participation in industry conferences, industry
relations, website maintenance and business intelligence activities. Additionally, we maintain a dedicated global marketing function responsible for developing and managing sales campaigns, brand
promotion, the TPI Index and assembling proposals. 
28



 
Table of Contents
        We
maintain a comprehensive program for training and professional development. Related expenses include product training, updates on new service offerings or methodologies and
development of client project management skills. Also included in training and professional development are expenses associated with the development, enhancement and maintenance of our proprietary
methodologies and tools and the systems that support them. 
        General
and administrative expenses consist principally of executive management compensation, allocations of billable employee compensation related to general management activities, IT
infrastructure, and costs for the finance, accounting, information technology and human resource functions. General and administrative costs also reflect continued investment associated with
implementing and operating client and employee management systems. Because our billable personnel operate primarily on client premises, all occupancy expenses are recorded as general and
administrative. 
 Depreciation and Amortization Expense  
        The increase of $1.2 million in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to a $1.1 million increase in
amortization as a result of the acquisitions of Compass and STA Consulting. Our fixed assets consist of furniture, fixtures, equipment (mainly personal computers) and leasehold improvements.
Depreciation expense is generally computed by applying the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of assets. We also capitalize some costs associated with the purchase and
development of internal-use software, system conversions and website development costs. These costs are amortized over the estimated useful life of the software or system. 
        We
amortize our intangible assets (e.g. client relationships and databases) over their estimated useful lives. Goodwill, trademark and trade names related to acquisitions are not
amortized but are subject to annual impairment testing. As of November 1, 2011, trademark and trade names acquired in our acquisitions were reclassified to definite lived assets and will be
amortized over their estimated useful lives. 
 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets  
        Due to a decline in our stock price for a prolonged period of time, and the timing of our annual impairment test in the fourth quarter
of 2011, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $34.3 million associated with goodwill and $27.4 million associated with indefinite lived intangible assets. The goodwill
impairment is attributable to historical revenues, projected revenue run rate, actual and projected revenue generated per billable hour, driven by a global recession which has impacted and reduced
sourcing industry activity. The impairment to our indefinite lived intangible assets relates to the Company's fourth quarter 2011 decision to phase out the use of the Compass, STA Consulting and TPI
trade names and migrate to the ISG brand name. As a result of this decision, the Company reduced the amount of revenue projected to be attributable to these specific brand names and the related
royalty rate resulting in a reduced fair value of such acquired trademark and trade names. Additionally, these trademark and trade names were reclassified to definite lived assets and will be
amortized over their estimated useful lives of seven years. During the third quarter of 2010, we also recorded non-cash impairment charges of $46.6 million associated with goodwill
and $5.9 million associated with indefinite-lived intangible assets as a result of our impairment testing. 
29




 










Table of Contents 
 Other (Expense), Net  
        The following table presents a breakdown of other (expense), net: 






















 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
Change 
 
Percent
Change 
 


 
 
(in thousands)
 


 Interest income
 
$
75
 
$
159
 
$
(84
)
 
 (52.8
)%


 Interest expense
 
 
(3,458
)
 
(3,241
)
 
(217
)
 
 (6.7
)%


 Foreign currency loss
 
 
(38
)
 
(268
)
 
230
 
 
85.8
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total other (expense), net
 
$
(3,421
)
$
(3,350
)
$
(71
)
 
 (2.1
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
increase was primarily the result of higher interest expense as a result of the convertible notes issued in connection with the acquisition of Compass, the time value of money
related to the contingent consideration related to the acquisition of STA Consulting and lower interest income that was partially offset by a reduction in foreign currency related losses. 
 Income Tax Expense  
        Our effective tax rate varies from period to period based on the mix of earnings among the various state and foreign tax jurisdictions
in which business is conducted and the level of non-deductible expenses incurred in any given period. We recorded an income tax benefit for 2011 of $8.3 million as compared to
$1.9 million for 2010. Our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2011 was 13.0% compared to 3.5% for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in the effective
tax rate was primarily due to impairment charges recorded on goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets and due to valuation allowance booked against the Company's foreign tax credits. 
 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010 AND DECEMBER 31, 2009  
 Revenues  
        Geographical information for the segment is as follows: 






















 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 


Geographic Area



 
2010 
 
2009 
 
Change 
 
Percent
Change 
 


 
 
(in thousands)
 


 Americas
 
$
76,123
 
$
77,007
 
$
(884
)
 
 (1.1
)%


 Europe
 
 
39,400
 
 
44,696
 
 
(5,296
)
 
 (11.8
)%


 Asia Pacific
 
 
16,490
 
 
11,041
 
 
5,449
 
 
49.4
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenues
 
$
132,013
 
$
132,744
 
$
(731
)
 
 (0.6
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
net decrease in revenues of $0.7 million or 1% in 2010 was attributable principally to a 12% decrease in Europe revenues to $39.4 million and a 1% decrease in Americas
revenues to $76.1 million. The decrease in revenues is primarily due to lower levels of sourcing activity, particularly in Europe, attributable to lower volumes in information technology
related sourcing activity. This decrease was partially offset by a 49% increase in revenues from Asia Pacific primarily due to increase in business process outsourcing and information technology
related sourcing activity. The translation of foreign currency revenues into US dollars also favorably impacted performance compared to the prior year. Billable staff at December 31, 2010
totaled 323, as compared to 328 at December 31, 2009. 
30



 
Table of Contents
 Operating Expenses  
        The following table presents a breakdown of our operating expenses by functional category: 






















 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 


Operating Expenses



 
2010 
 
2009 
 
Change 
 
Percent
Change 
 


 
 
(in thousands)
 


 Direct costs and expenses for advisors
 
$
71,528
 
$
67,674
 
$
3,854
 
 
5.7
%


 Selling, general and administrative
 
 
49,889
 
 
47,894
 
 
1,995
 
 
4.2
%


 Goodwill impairment charge
 
 
46,591
 
 
—
 
 
46,591
 
 
100.0
%


 Intangible asset impairment charge
 
 
5,900
 
 
6,800
 
 
(900
)
 
 (13.2
)%


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
9,846
 
 
9,562
 
 
284
 
 
3.0
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total operating expenses
 
$
183,754
 
$
131,930
 
$
51,824
 
 
39.3
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
increase in direct costs of $3.9 million or 6% was principally attributable to the greater use of outside contractors to meet skill set and language requirements of various
engagements and higher compensation levels. Foreign currency translation also increased costs in 2010 compared with the same 2009 period. 
        The
increase of $2.0 million or 4% in selling and general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses was principally attributable to an increase of $3.0 million related to
spending for outside professional services including $2.4 million for acquisition related deal costs, $1.8 million related to client related events and travel expenses, and
$0.3 million in share-based compensation. This increase was partially offset by decrease of $2.2 million reduction related to the greater allocation of advisor time to billable
activities, $0.6 million in bad debt reserves and $0.3 million related to insurance and occupancy expenses. 
 Depreciation and Amortization Expense  
        The increase of $0.3 million was primarily due to higher amortization expense for amortizable intangible assets as a result of
an assessment of future revenue attributable to customer relationships as part of our intangible assets impairment testing conducted in 2010. 
 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets  
        As a result of declining revenue, driven by a global recession which has impacted and reduced sourcing industry activity, we determined
a triggering event had occurred requiring a goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles impairment test be performed in the third quarter of 2010. We recorded a non-cash impairment charge of
$46.6 million associated with goodwill and $5.9 million associated with indefinite-lived intangible assets. During the third quarter of 2009, we also recorded non-cash
impairment charges of $6.8 million associated with intangible assets as a result of its impairment testing. 
31



 
Table of Contents
 Other Income (Expense), Net  
        The following table presents a breakdown of other (expense), net: 






















 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
Change 
 
Percent
Change 
 


 
 
(in thousands)
 


 Interest income
 
$
159
 
$
262
 
$
(103
)
 
 (39.3
)%


 Interest expense
 
 
(3,241
)
 
(4,550
)
 
1,309
 
 
28.8
%


 Foreign currency loss
 
 
(268
)
 
(140
)
 
(128
)
 
 (91.4
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total other (expense), net
 
$
(3,350
)
$
(4,428
)
$
1,078
 
 
24.3
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
decrease of $1.1 million was primarily the result of lower interest expense due to reduced debt levels partially offset by foreign currency related losses and lower interest
income. 
 Income Tax Expense  
        Our effective tax rate varies from period to period based on the mix of earnings among the various state and foreign tax jurisdictions
in which business is conducted and the level of non-deductible expenses incurred in any given period. We recorded an income tax benefit for 2010 of $1.9 million as compared to
$0.8 million for 2009. Our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 was 3.5% compared to 21.5% for the year ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in the effective
rate was primarily due to the impact of the goodwill impairment recorded in 2010 and the write down of a deferred tax asset previously recorded on stock awards and booking of valuation allowance on
foreign net operating losses in 2009. 
 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  
 Liquidity  
        Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations and existing cash and cash equivalents. Operating assets and
liabilities consist primarily of receivables from billed and unbilled services, accounts payable, accrued expenses, and accrued payroll and related benefits. The volume of billings and timing of
collections and payments affect these account balances. 
        The
following table summarizes our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009: 



















 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in thousands)
 


 Net cash provided by (used in):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating activities
 
$
871
 
$
5,747
 
$
4,056
 


 Investing activities, including acquisitions
 
 
(9,655
)
 
(6,707
)
 
(1,239
)


 Financing activities
 
 
(6,903
)
 
(1,698
)
 
(22,080
)


 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash
 
 
(145
)
 
173
 
 
903
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents
 
$
(15,832
)
$
(2,485
)
$
(18,360
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




32



 
Table of Contents
        As
of December 31, 2011, our liquidity and capital resources included cash and cash equivalents of $24.5 million compared to $40.3 million as of December 31,
2010, a net decrease of $15.8 million, which was primarily attributable to the following:


•Our operating activities provided net cash of $0.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Net cash
provided from operations is primarily attributable to a net loss, adjusted for non-cash charges totaling approximately $9.9 million that were offset by $9.0 million of
changes in working capital primarily attributable to $6.2 million changes in accounts receivables and $4.5 million changes in accrued expenses primarily attributable to acquisition
related costs; 
•acquisitions, net of cash acquired of $13.7 million; 
•capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment of $1.7 million;  
•equity securities repurchased of $1.2 million; and 
•payment of principal on the our term loan debt of $6.0 million. 

 Capital Resources  
        We have outstanding a substantial amount of debt, which may limit our ability to fund general corporate requirements and obtain
additional financing, limit our flexibility in responding to business opportunities and competitive developments and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. 
        We
incurred a substantial amount of indebtedness to finance the acquisition of TPI, including transaction costs and deferred underwriting fees. On November 16, 2007, our
wholly-owned subsidiary International Consulting Acquisition Corp. ("ICAC") entered into a senior secured credit facility comprised of a $95.0 million term loan facility and a
$10.0 million revolving credit facility. On November 16, 2007, ICAC borrowed $95.0 million under the term loan facility to finance the purchase price for our acquisition of TPI
and to pay transaction costs. As a result of the substantial fixed costs associated with the debt obligations, we expect that:


•a decrease in revenues will result in a disproportionately greater percentage decrease in earnings;  
•we may not have sufficient liquidity to fund all of these fixed costs if our revenues decline or costs increase;  
•we may have to use our working capital to fund these fixed costs instead of funding general corporate requirements,
including capital expenditures; 
•we may not have sufficient liquidity to respond to business opportunities, competitive developments and adverse economic
conditions; and 
•our results of operations will be adversely affected if interest rates increase because, based on our current outstanding
term loan borrowings in the amount of $63.8 million, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a pre-tax impact on earnings of approximately $0.6 million per year. 

        These
debt obligations may also impair our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, and our flexibility in the conduct of our business. Our indebtedness under the senior
secured revolving credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets, leaving us with limited collateral for additional financing. Moreover, the terms of our indebtedness under the senior
secured revolving credit facility restrict our ability to take certain actions, including the incurrence of additional indebtedness, mergers and acquisitions, investments and asset sales. Our ability
to pay the fixed costs associated with our debt obligations will depend on our operating performance and cash flow, which in turn depend on general 
33



 
Table of Contents
economic
conditions and the advisory services market. A failure to pay interest or indebtedness when due could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of our
indebtedness. In such a situation, it is unlikely that we would be able to fulfill our obligations under or repay the accelerated indebtedness or otherwise cover our fixed costs. As of
December 31, 2011, the total principal outstanding under the term loan facility was $63.8 million. There were no borrowings under the revolving credit facility during fiscal 2011. 
        The
material terms of the 2007 Credit Agreement are as follows:


•The 2007 Credit Agreement has a maturity date of November 14, 2014.  
•The 2007 Credit Agreement is secured by all of the equity interests owned by the newly formed holding company of the
Borrower, International Advisory Holdings Corp. ("Holdings") and its direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries and, subject to agreed exceptions, its direct and indirect "first-tier"
foreign subsidiaries and a perfected first priority security interest in all of Holdings' and its direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries' tangible and intangible assets.  
•Holdings and the Borrower's existing direct and indirect subsidiaries and future wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries serve
as guarantors to the Borrower's obligations under the 2007 Credit Agreement. 
•At the Borrower's option, the 2007 Credit Agreement bears interest at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the
"Base Rate" (which is the higher of (a) the rate publicly announced from time to time by the administrative agent as its "prime rate" and (b) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% per annum),
plus the applicable margin (as defined below) or (ii) Eurodollar Rate (adjusted for maximum reserves) as determined by the Administrative Agent, plus the applicable margin. The applicable
margin shall be a percentage per annum equal to 2.5% for the term loans and the revolving loans maintained as Base Rate loans or 3.5% for the term loans and revolving loans maintained as Eurodollar
loans. 
•Mandatory repayments of term loans shall be required from (subject to agreed exceptions) (i) 100% of the proceeds
from asset sales by Holdings and its subsidiaries, (ii) 100% of the net proceeds from issuances of debt by Holdings and its subsidiaries, (iii) so long as the total leverage ratio is 3.0
to 1.0 or higher, 50% of annual excess cash flow of Holdings and its subsidiaries and (iv) 100% of the net proceeds from insurance recovery and condemnation events of Holdings and its
subsidiaries. 
•The 2007 Credit Agreement contains a number of covenants that, among other things, place restrictions on matters
customarily restricted in senior secured credit facilities, including restrictions on indebtedness (including guarantee obligations), liens, fundamental changes, sales or disposition of property or
assets, investments (including loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions), transaction with affiliates, dividends and other payments in respect of capital stock, optional payments and modifications
of other material debt instruments, negative pledges and agreements restricting subsidiary distributions and changes in line of business. In addition, the Borrower is required to comply with a total
leverage ratio as defined in the 2007 Credit Agreement. The total leverage ratio is defined as the ratio of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and
Amortization ("EBITDA").
•The 2007 Credit Agreement contains customary events of default, including cross-default to other material agreements,
judgment default and change of control. 

        On
June 29, 2009, we made a voluntary principal prepayment of $12.0 million against its outstanding term loan balance of $93.8 million. In conjunction with this
prepayment, our lenders consented to the following conditions: (1) agreement to execute our UK tax planning strategy to reduce future potential cash taxes, (2) exclusion of the impact in
the calculation of EBITDA of up to 
34



 
Table of Contents
$5.0 million
of restructuring charges relating to the Borrower's previously announced 2009 restructuring plan through December 31, 2009 and (3) exclusion of the impact in the
calculation of EBITDA of establishing, if necessary, a reserve in respect of certain accounts receivable and work in progress due from General Motors Corporation for worked performed on or before
June 1, 2009. 
        On
September 11, 2009, our lenders agreed to amend the total leverage ratio (as defined in the 2007 Credit Agreement) for the remaining life of the 2007 Credit Agreement to
provide us with greater
financing flexibility in return for additional debt repayments. In accordance with the terms of the amended 2007 Credit Agreement, we made $5.0 million of principal repayments on
September 30, 2009 and December 31, 2009 to reduce the outstanding term loan balance to $71.8 million. The principal repayments were made from excess cash balances generated
through our normal business operations. In accordance with the terms of the 2007 Credit Agreement, we made a $2.0 million principal repayment on March 31, 2010 to reduce the outstanding
term loan balance to $69.8 million. 
        On
September 27, 2010, our lenders agreed to amend the total leverage ratio (as defined in the 2007 Credit Agreement) from September 30, 2010 to December 30, 2010
and to restore the exclusion of the impact in the calculation of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization EBITDA of up to $5.0 million of restructuring charges through
December 31, 2011 in order to provide us with greater financing flexibility. We also received approval to complete the acquisition of STA Consulting subject to certain conditions. 
        On
December 23, 2010, our lenders agreed to amend the total leverage ratio (as defined in the 2007 Credit Agreement) from December 31, 2010 to March 30, 2011 in
order to provide us with greater financing flexibility. Our lenders also agreed to allow us to extend the date to complete the acquisition of STA Consulting to March 31, 2011. On
February 10, 2011 the acquisition of STA Consulting was completed. 
        On
March 16, 2011, our lenders agreed to amend the total leverage ratio (as defined in the 2007 Credit Agreement) for the remaining life of the 2007 Credit Agreement to provide us
with greater financing flexibility in return for additional quarterly term loan principal repayments. In accordance with the terms of the amended 2007 Credit Agreement, we made mandatory principal
repayments of $3.0 million on March 31, 2011 and $1.0 million on June 30, 2011, September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2011, respectively, to reduce the
outstanding term loan balance to $63.8 million. The principal repayments will be made from cash generated through our normal business operations. 
        On
March 13, 2012, our lenders agreed to allow International Consulting Acquisition Corp., a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of ISG (the "Borrower"), to include the results of
operations of Compass in the calculation of our leverage ratio. The Borrower also received approval to increase the annual cash dividend payable to ISG to $2.0 million. 
        Additional
mandatory principal repayments totaling $7.0 million and $10.0 million will be due in 2012 and 2013 respectively with the remaining principal repayments due in
2014. The final mandatory term loan principal repayment will be due on November 16, 2014, which is the maturity date for the term loan. 
        As
of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the total principal outstanding under the term loan facility was $63.8 million and $69.8 million, respectively. There were no
borrowings under the revolving credit facility during 2011 or 2010. The carrying amount of long-term debt owed to banks
approximates fair value based on interest rates that are currently available to us for issuance of debt with similar terms and maturities. 
        On
January 4, 2011, as part of the consideration for the Share Purchase, we issued an aggregate of $6.3 million in convertible notes to Compass (the "Notes"). The Notes
mature on January 4, 2018 and interest is payable on the outstanding principal amount, computed daily, at the rate of 3.875% per annum on January 31 of each calendar year and on the
seventh anniversary of the date of the Notes. 
35



 
Table of Contents
The
Notes are subject to transfer restrictions until January 31, 2013. If the price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market exceeds $4 per share for 60 consecutive trading days (the
"Trigger Event"), the holder of the Notes may convert all (but not less than all) of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes into shares of our common stock at the rate of 1 share for every $4
in principal amount outstanding. After the Trigger Event, we may prepay all or any portion of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes by giving the holder 30 days written notice. 
        The
2007 Credit Agreement includes quarterly financial covenants that require us to maintain a maximum total leverage ratio (as defined in the 2007 Credit Agreement). As of
December 31, 2011, our maximum total leverage ratio was 3.50 to 1.00 and we were in compliance with all covenants contained in the 2007 Credit Agreement. The maximum total leverage ratio for
2012 is 3.25 for the quarter ending March 31, 2012 and 3.0 through the period ending December 31, 2012 and will continue to decline thereafter. We currently expect to be in compliance
with the covenants contained within the 2007 Credit Agreement. In the event we are unable to remain in compliance with the debt covenants associated with the 2007 Credit Agreement we have alternative
options available to us including, but not limited to, the ability to make a prepayment on our debt without penalty to bring the actual leverage ratio into compliance. In addition, should our revenues
not meet our forecast, we have the ability to reduce various expenditures to minimize the impact to the leverage ratio. Such actions may include reductions to headcount, variable compensation,
marketing expenses, conferences and non-billable travel. Should we be required to make additional cash payment, our available cash balances and liquidity will be negatively impacted. During 2012, we
intend to use our surplus operating cash flows to make required principal payments on our outstanding debt. If, in future filings, it becomes reasonably likely that we may not comply with any material
covenant, we intend to disclose additional information describing the impact on our financial condition. 
        We
anticipate that our current cash and the ongoing cash flows from our operations will be adequate to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next twelve
months. The anticipated cash needs of our business could change significantly if we pursue and complete additional business acquisitions, if our business plans change, if economic conditions change
from those currently prevailing or from those now anticipated, or if other unexpected circumstances arise that may have a material effect on the cash flow or profitability of our business. If we
require additional capital resources to grow our business, either internally or through acquisition, we may seek to sell additional
equity securities or to secure debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities or certain forms of debt financing could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. We may not be able
to obtain financing arrangements in amounts or on terms acceptable to us in the future. 
 Contractual Obligations  
        The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2011, and the timing and effect that such
obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and capital requirements in future periods. 
 
 
  Payments Due by Period     

























Contractual Obligations




 
Total 
 
Less than
1 Year 
 
1 – 3 Years 
 
3 – 5 Years 
 
More Than
5 Years 
 


 
 
(In Thousands)
 


 Debt obligations, principal and interest
 
$
78,323
 
$
9,778
 
$
61,586
 
$
485
 
$
6,474
 


 Operating lease obligations
 
 
6,977
 
 
2,017
 
 
2,675
 
 
1,324
 
 
961
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
85,300
 
$
11,795
 
$
64,261
 
$
1,809
 
$
7,435
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




36



 
Table of Contents
        We
believe that cash flows generated from operations, existing cash and cash equivalents and borrowing capacity under our senior secured credit facility are sufficient to finance the
requirements of our business during future periods. 
 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  
        We do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements or liabilities, guarantee contracts, retained or contingent
interests in transferred assets or any obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. 
 Employee Retirement Plans  
        We maintain a qualified defined contribution profit-sharing plan (the "Plan") for U.S.-based employees. Prior to January 1,
2008, contributions to the Plan were made by us up to a maximum per eligible employee of 12.75% of total cash compensation or $25,500, whichever was less. Post January 1, 2008, the annual
contribution was adjusted to be 3% of total cash compensation or $7,350, whichever is less. Employees are generally eligible to participate in the Plan after six months of service, and are 100% vested
upon entering the Plan. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we contributed $1.3 million, $1.2 million and $1.6 million, respectively, to the Plan.
These amounts were invested by the participants in a variety of investment options under an arrangement with a third party asset manager. All current and future financial risks associated with the
gains and losses on investments are borne by Plan participants. 
 Seasonality and Quarterly Results  
        The negotiation of sourcing transactions and, as a result, our revenue and earnings are subject to seasonal fluctuations. As a result
of year-end holidays, macro-economic factors and client budget and spending patterns, our revenues have historically been
weighted toward the second half of each year. Our earnings track this revenue seasonality and are also impacted by the timing of the adoption of annual price increases and certain costs and, as a
result, have historically been higher in the second half of each year. Due to the seasonality of our business, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be
achieved for a full fiscal year. 
 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  
        The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the
appropriate application of certain accounting policies, many of which require management to make estimates and assumptions about future events and their impact on amounts reported in our consolidated
financial statements and related notes. Since future events and their impact cannot be determined with certainty, the actual results may differ from estimates. Such differences may be material to the
consolidated financial statements. 
        We
believe the application of accounting policies, and the estimates inherently required therein, are reasonable. These accounting policies and estimates are periodically reevaluated,
and adjustments are made when facts and circumstances dictate a change. Historically, we have found the application of accounting policies to be appropriate, and actual results have not differed
materially from those determined using necessary estimates. 
37



 
Table of Contents
        Our
accounting policies are more fully described in Note 2 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements." We have identified
the following critical accounting policies: 
 Revenue Recognition  
        We recognize our revenues for the sale of services and products when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, services have been
rendered or delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable and the collectability of the related revenue is reasonably assured. 
        We
principally derive revenues from fees for services generated on a project-by-project basis. Prior to the commencement of a project, we reach agreement with the
client on rates for services based upon the scope of the project, staffing requirements and the level of client involvement. It is our policy to obtain written agreements from new clients prior to
performing services. In these agreements, the clients acknowledge that they will pay based upon the amount of time spent on the project or an agreed upon fee structure. Revenues for services rendered
are recognized on a time and materials basis or on a fixed-fee or capped-fee basis in accordance with accounting and disclosure requirements for revenue recognition. 
        Fees
for services that have been performed, but for which we have not invoiced the customers are recorded as unbilled receivables in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
Invoices issued before the related services have been performed are recorded as deferred revenue in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. 
        Revenues
for time and materials contracts are recognized based on the number of hours worked by our advisors at an agreed upon rate per hour and are recognized in the period in which
services are performed. Revenues for time and materials contracts are billed monthly, semimonthly or in accordance with the specific contractual terms of each project. 
        Revenues
related to fixed-fee or capped-fee contracts are recognized into revenue as value is delivered to the customer. The pattern of revenue recognition for
these contracts varies depending on the terms of the individual contracts, and may be recognized proportionally over the term of the contract or deferred until the end of the contract term and
recognized when our obligations have been fulfilled with the customer. In instances where substantive acceptance provisions are specified in customer contracts, revenues are deferred until all
acceptance criteria have been met. The pattern of revenue recognition for contracts where revenues are recognized proportionally over the term of the contact is based on the proportional performance
method of accounting using the ratio of labor hours incurred to estimated total labor hours, which we consider to be the best available indicator of the pattern and timing in which contract
obligations are fulfilled. This percentage is multiplied by the contracted dollar amount of the project to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in an accounting period. The contracted amount
used in this calculation typically excludes the amount the client pays for reimbursable expenses. There are situations where the number of hours to complete projects may exceed our original estimate
as a result of an increase in project scope or unforeseen events. On a regular basis, we review the hours incurred and estimated total labor hours to complete. The results of any revisions in these
estimates are reflected in the period in which they become known. We believe we have demonstrated a history of successfully estimating the total labor hours to complete a project. 
        The
agreements entered into in connection with a project, whether on a time and materials basis or fixed-fee or capped-fee basis, typically allow our clients to
terminate early due to breach or for convenience with 30 days' notice. In the event of termination, the client is contractually required to pay for all time, materials and expenses incurred by
us through the effective date of the termination. In addition, from time to time, we enter into agreements with clients that limit
our right to enter into business relationships with specific competitors of that client for a specific time period. These 
38



 
Table of Contents
provisions
typically prohibit us from performing a defined range of services that it might otherwise be willing to perform for potential clients. These provisions are generally limited to six to
twelve months and usually apply only to specific employees or the specific project team. 
 Accounts and Unbilled Receivables and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts  
        Our trade receivables primarily consist of amounts due for services already performed via fixed fee or time and materials arrangements.
We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of clients to pay fees or for disputes that affect its ability to fully collect billed accounts
receivable. The allowance for these risks is prepared by reviewing the status of all accounts and recording reserves on a specific identification method based on previous experiences and historical
bad debts. However, our actual experience may vary significantly from these estimates. If the financial condition of our clients were to deteriorate, resulting in their inability or unwillingness to
pay their invoices, we may need to record additional allowances or write-offs in future periods. To the extent the provision relates to a client's inability or unwillingness to make
required payments, the provision is recorded as bad debt expense, which is classified within selling, general and administrative expense in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. 
        The
provision for unbilled services is recorded as a reduction to revenues to the extent the provision relates to fee adjustments and other discretionary pricing adjustments. 
 Income Taxes  
        We use the asset and liability method to account for income taxes, including recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the
anticipated future tax consequences attributable to differences between financial statement amounts and their respective tax basis. We review our deferred tax assets for recovery. A valuation
allowance is established when we believe that it
is more likely than not that some portion of its deferred tax assets will not be realized. Changes in the valuation allowance from period to period are included in our tax provision in the period of
change. 
        For
uncertain tax positions, we use a prescribed model for assessing the financial recognition and measurement of all tax positions taken or expected to be taken in its tax returns. This
guidance provides clarification on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosures and transition. Our provision for income taxes also includes the
impact of provisions established for uncertain income tax positions, as well as the related interest. 
 Goodwill and Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets  
        Our goodwill represents the excess of the cost of businesses acquired over the fair value of the net assets acquired at the date of
acquisition. The primary other identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives are trademarks of the business acquired. These assets are not amortized but rather tested for impairment at least
annually by applying a fair-value based test in accordance with accounting and disclosure requirements for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. This test is performed by
us during our fourth fiscal quarter or more frequently if we believe impairment indicators are present. At October 31, 2011, our annual impairment testing date, we maintain a single operating
segment and reporting unit. 
        Our
indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment tests involve estimates and management's judgment. The fair value of trademarks and trade name assets were determined using the relief
from royalty method by discounting the cash flows that represent a savings over having to pay a royalty fee for use of the trademarks and trade names. The discounted cash flow valuation uses the same
projections used under the income approach described below. The cash flow projections used were primarily attributable to revenue and royalty rates associated with the legacy brands which are
projected to decline as value shifts to the ISG brand. 
39



 
Table of Contents
        In
the fourth quarter of 2011, we reclassified our acquired trademarks and trade names to definite lived assets which will be amortized over a remaining useful of approximately seven
years. We decided to merge our individual corporate brands into one global integrate go-to-market business under the ISG brand. As a result of this transition, during our annual impairment test, we
concluded that the indefinite lived trademarks and trade names were impaired by $27.4 million which is included in the loss from operations in the accompanying consolidated statement of
operations for 2011. This impairment charge was measured as the excess of the carrying value over the fair value of the asset. 
        We
perform a two-step impairment test on goodwill. In the first step, we compare the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the
carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then we must perform the second step of the impairment test whereby the carrying value of the reporting unit's
goodwill is compared to its implied fair value. If the carrying value of the goodwill exceeds the implied fair value, an impairment loss equal to the difference is recorded. 
        In
performing the first step of the impairment test on goodwill, we determined the fair value of the reporting unit using both a market and income approach. The income approach utilizes
a discounted cash flow model and is based on projections of future operations of the reporting unit as of the valuation date. The market approach is based on our stock price and provides a direct
indication of fair value. Under the market approach, we determined the fair value of the reporting unit utilizing a relevant average of our common stock price for the October 31 measurement
period, as quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market plus a 35% control premium based upon recent transactions of comparable companies. The discounted cash flow model assumed revenue growth rates of
approximately 3% per year. We employed a rate of 13% to discount future excess cash flows. The goodwill impairment is attributable to historical revenues, projected revenue run rate, actual and
projected revenue generated per billable hour, driven by a global recession which has impacted and reduced sourcing industry activity. 
        We
failed the first step and proceeded to the second step in which we determined the implied fair value of goodwill by allocating the fair value of our reporting unit to the reporting
unit's assets and liabilities using purchase price allocation guidance in order to determine the implied value of goodwill. Our assets in this valuation included the trade names for the ISG brand as
well as declining values in the old legacy trade names. We concluded that the implied fair value is $34.7 million, resulting in an impairment of $34.3 million, which is included in loss
from operations in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for 2011. 
        We
will continue to monitor our market capitalization for evidence of further impairment. Future downturn in our business, continued deterioration of economic conditions, or continued
further decline in our market capitalization may result in an additional impairment charge or charges in future periods, which could adversely affect our results of operations for those periods. 
        The
goodwill and intangible assets impairment charge is non-cash in nature and does not affect our liquidity, cash flows from operations and debt covenants. 
 Long-Lived Assets  
        Long-lived assets, excluding goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles, to be held and used by the Company are reviewed to
determine whether any significant change in the long-lived asset's physical condition, a change in industry conditions or a reduction in cash flows associated with the use of the
long-lived asset. If these or other factors indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable, the Company determines whether impairment has occurred through the use of an
undiscounted cash flow analysis of the asset at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows exist. If impairment has occurred, the Company recognizes a loss for the difference between the
carrying amount and the fair value of the asset. The fair value of the asset is measured using market prices or, 
40



 
Table of Contents
in
the absence of market prices, an estimate of discounted cash flows. Cash flows are generally discounted at an interest rate commensurate with our weighted average cost of capital for a similar
asset. Assets are classified as held for sale when the Company has a plan for disposal of certain assets and those assets meet the held for sale criteria of accounting and disclosure requirement for
the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets. 
        Due
to a decline in our stock price for a prolonged period of time and the timing of our annual impairment test, we determined that it was necessary to review our long-lived assets for
impairment. We have performed the impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2011 using the undiscounted cash flow analysis and did not record an impairment based upon such analysis. 
 Stock-Based Compensation  
        Stock Appreciation Rights ("SARs") for a fixed number of shares are granted to certain employees with an exercise price based on the
closing trading price of our common stock on the grant date. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of each option award on the date of grant. Prior to
December 31, 2009, the volatility calculation was based on the most recent trading day average volatility of a representative sample of seven companies with market capitalizations of
approximately $197 million to $3.7 billion that management believed to be engaged in the business of information services (the "Sample Companies"). We referred to the average volatility
of the Sample Companies because management believes that the average volatility of such companies is a reasonable benchmark to use in estimating the expected volatility of our common stock
as we had a limited history as a public company. The risk-free interest rate is determined based upon the interest rate on a U.S. Treasury Bill with a term equal to the expected life of
the option at the time the option was granted. An expected life of five years was taken into account for purposes of assigning a fair value to the option. The expected life represents the period of
time the awards granted are expected to be outstanding. There were no grants of SARs during the years ended December 31, 2011 or 2010. 
        We
also grant restricted stock with a fair value that is determined based on the closing price of our common stock on the date of grant. SARs and restricted stock generally vest over a
four-year period. Stock-based compensation expense is recognized ratably over the applicable service period. 
        We
follow the provisions of accounting and disclosures requirement for share-based payments, requiring the measurement and recognition of all share-based compensation under the fair
value method. 
 Recent Accounting Pronouncements  
        See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report.
 
 
    Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk     
        We are exposed to financial market risks primarily related to changes in interest rates and manage these risks by employing a variety
of debt instruments. A 100 basis point change in interest rates would result in an annual change in the results of operations of $0.6 million pre-tax. Although we do not believe a
change in interest rates will materially affect our financial position or results of financial operations, it has purchased an interest rate cap to limit our exposure for forty percent of the total
term loan value to an increase in LIBOR rates beyond seven percent. The expense related to this interest rate cap was nominal. This agreement expired in January 2011 and is not required going forward. 
        We
operate in a number of international areas which exposes us to significant foreign currency exchange rate risk. We have significant international revenue, which is generally collected
in local currency. As of December 31, 2011, we have no outstanding forward exchange contracts or other 
41



 
Table of Contents
derivative
instruments for hedging or speculative purposes. The percentage of total revenues generated outside the Americas increased from 45% in 2008 to 53% in 2011. It is expected that our
international revenues will continue to grow as European, Asian and other markets adopt sourcing solutions and as a result of our acquisition of Compass. We recorded a foreign exchange transaction
loss of $0.04 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. The translation of our revenues into U.S. dollars, as well as our costs of operating internationally, may adversely affect our
business, results of operations and financial condition. 
        We
have not invested in foreign operations in highly inflationary economies; however, we may do so in future periods. 
        Concentrations
of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. All cash and cash equivalents are on deposit in fully liquid form in high quality
financial institutions. We extend credit to our clients based on an evaluation of each client's financial condition. 
        Our
20 largest clients accounted for approximately 33% of revenue in 2011 and 45% in 2010. If one or more of our large clients terminate or significantly reduce their engagements or fail
to remain a viable business, then our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our large clients generally maintain sizable receivable balances at any given time and our
ability to collect such receivables could be jeopardized if such client fails to remain a viable business.  
 
    Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.     
        Reference is made to our financial statements beginning on page F-2 of this report.
 
 
    Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure     
        None  
 
    Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures     
 Disclosure Controls and Procedures  
        Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or
submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended (the "Exchange Act") is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the
Securities and Exchange Commission, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to
allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure
controls and procedures as of December 31, 2011, as required by the Rule 13a-15(b) under the Exchange Act. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2011. 
 Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  
        Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is
defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with US generally accepted accounting
principles. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may 
42



 
Table of Contents
become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
        Under
the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of
our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, as required by Rule 13a-15(c) under the Exchange Act. In making this assessment, we used the criteria
set forth in the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on its evaluation under the
framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011. 
        The
effectiveness of the our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears herein. 
 Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  
        There have not been any changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the quarter ended December 31, 2011 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  
 
    Item 9B.    Other Information     
        None. 
43




 










Table of Contents 
 
 PART III  
         
 
    Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance     

(a)Identification
of Director's and Executive Officers. 
        The
information required hereunder is incorporated by reference from the sections of our Proxy Statement filed in connection with our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the
caption "Management."  

(b)Compliance
with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act. 
        The
information required hereunder is incorporated by reference from the sections of our Proxy Statement filed in connection with our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the
caption "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance."  

(c)Code
of Ethics. 
        The
information required hereunder is incorporated by reference from the sections of our Proxy Statement filed in connection with our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the
caption "Corporate Governance."  

(d)Nominating
Committee, Audit Committee, Audit Committee Financial Expert. 
        The
information required hereunder is incorporated by reference from the sections of our Proxy Statement filed in connection with our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the
caption "Corporate Governance."  
 
    Item 11.    Executive Compensation     
        The information required hereunder is incorporated by reference from the sections of our Proxy Statement filed in connection with our
2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders
under the caption "Compensation of Officers and Directors."  
 
    Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters     
        The information required hereunder is incorporated by reference from the sections of our Proxy Statement filed in connection with our
2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners."  
 
    Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence     
        The information required hereunder is incorporated by reference from the sections in our Proxy Statement filed in connection with our
2012 Annual Meeting of the Stockholders under the caption "Corporate Governance."  
 
    Item 14.    Principal Accounting Fees and Services     
        The information required hereunder is incorporated by reference from the sections in our Proxy Statement filed in connection with our
2012 Annual Meeting of the Stockholders under the caption "Proposal No. 2 Ratification of Engagement of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm." 
44




 










Table of Contents 
 
 PART IV  
         
    Item 15.    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule     
(a)(1)    Documents filed as a part of this report:

 












 Financial Statements of Information Services Group,
 Inc.:
 
 


 Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 

F-1


 Consolidated Balance Sheets
 

F-2


 Consolidated Statement of Operations
 

F-3


 Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity
 

F-4


 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
 

F-5


 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 

F-6





 (a)(2)    Financial Statement Schedule  
        Schedule II—Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 
 (a)(3)    Exhibits:  
        We hereby file as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K the Exhibits listed in the attached Exhibit Index. 
45




 







 
Table of Contents 
 
 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
To
the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Information Services Group, Inc: 
        In
our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Information Services Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial
statement schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 15 (a)(2) presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, the Company
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal
Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company's management is responsible for
these financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial
statements, on the financial statement schedule and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards
of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
        A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
        Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
/s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Houston,
Texas
March 15, 2012 
F-1




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
    INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC.         CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS         (in thousands, except par value)     
















 
 
December 31,
2011 
 
December 31,
2010 
 


 ASSETS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Current assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
24,469
 
$
40,301
 


 Accounts and unbilled receivables, net of allowance of $549 and $195, respectively
 
 
42,851
 
 
26,603
 


 Deferred tax asset
 
 
3,330
 
 
2,852
 


 Prepaid expense and other current assets
 
 
2,118
 
 
1,281
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total current assets
 
 
72,768
 
 
71,037
 


 Restricted cash
 
 
51
 
 
5,750
 


 Furniture, fixtures and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation of $4,730 and $3,950, respectively
 
 

2,954
 
 

2,113
 


 Goodwill
 
 
34,691
 
 
48,474
 


 Intangible assets, net
 
 
35,070
 
 
55,746
 


 Other assets
 
 
945
 
 
1,444
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
$
146,479
 
$
184,564
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Current liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Accounts payable
 
$
4,089
 
$
1,656
 


 Current maturities of long-term debt
 
 
7,000
 
 
—
 


 Deferred revenue
 
 
4,604
 
 
1,175
 


 Accrued expenses
 
 
16,748
 
 
10,701
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total current liabilities
 
 
32,441
 
 
13,532
 


 Long-term debt, net of current maturities
 
 

63,063
 
 

69,813
 


 Deferred tax liability
 
 
10,305
 
 
19,336
 


 Other liabilities
 
 
4,786
 
 
66
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities
 
 
110,595
 
 
102,747
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commitments and contingencies (Note 14)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Stockholders' equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Preferred stock, $.001 par value; 10,000 shares authorized; none issued
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Common stock, $.001 par value, 100,000 shares authorized; 36,675 shares issued and 36,276 outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 32,617 shares issued
and 32,601 outstanding at December 31, 2010
 
 
37
 
 
33
 


 Additional paid-in capital
 
 
204,076
 
 
192,989
 


 Treasury stock (399 and 16 common shares, respectively, at cost)
 
 
(450
)
 
(57
)


 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
 
 
(2,247
)
 
(1,553
)


 Accumulated deficit
 
 
(165,532
)
 
(109,595
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total stockholders' equity
 
 
35,884
 
 
81,817
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities and shareholders' equity
 
$
146,479
 
$
184,564
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




  

   
  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
F-2




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
    INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC.         CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS         (in thousands, except per share data)     



















 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Revenues
 
$
184,426
 
$
132,013
 
$
132,744
 


 Operating expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Direct costs and expenses for advisors
 
 
104,823
 
 
71,528
 
 
67,674
 


 Selling, general and administrative
 
 
67,717
 
 
49,889
 
 
47,894
 


 Goodwill impairment charge
 
 
34,314
 
 
46,591
 
 
—
 


 Intangible assets impairment charge
 
 
27,380
 
 
5,900
 
 
6,800
 


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
11,034
 
 
9,846
 
 
9,562
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating (loss) income
 
 
(60,842
)
 
(51,741
)
 
814
 


 Interest income
 
 

75
 
 

159
 
 

262
 


 Interest expense
 
 
(3,458
)
 
(3,241
)
 
(4,550
)


 Foreign currency transaction loss
 
 
(38
)
 
(268
)
 
(140
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loss before taxes
 
 
(64,263
)
 
(55,091
)
 
(3,614
)


 Income tax benefit
 
 
(8,326
)
 
(1,926
)
 
(778
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net loss
 
$
(55,937
)
$
(53,165
)
$
(2,836
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Weighted average shares outstanding:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic
 
 
36,258
 
 
32,050
 
 
31,491
 


 Diluted
 
 
36,258
 
 
32,050
 
 
31,491
 


 Loss per share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic
 
$
(1.54
)
$
(1.66
)
$
(0.09
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Diluted
 
$
(1.54
)
$
(1.66
)
$
(0.09
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Comprehensive loss:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net loss
 
$
(55,937
)
$
(53,165
)
$
(2,836
)


 Foreign currency translation
 
 
(694
)
 
(32
)
 
891
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Comprehensive loss
 
$
(56,631
)
$
(53,197
)
$
(1,945
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




  

   
  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
F-3




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
    INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC.         CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY         (in thousands)     































 
 
Common Stock 
 
 
 
 
 
Accumulated
Other
Comprehensive
Loss 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Additional
Paid-in-
Capital 
 
Treasury
Stock 
 
Retained
(Accumulated
Deficit) 
 
Total
Stockholders'
Equity 
 


 
 
Shares 
 
Amount 
 


 Balance, December 31, 2008
 
 
31,358
 
 
31
 
 
186,716
 
 
(249
)
 
(2,412
)
 
(53,505
)
 
130,581
 


 Net loss
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(2,836
)
 
(2,836
)


 Other comprehensive income
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
891
 
 
—
 
 
891
 


 Issuance of common stock
 
 
458
 
 
1
 
 
81
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
82
 


 Equity securities repurchased
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(86
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(86
)


 Issuance of treasury shares
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(27
)
 
278
 
 
—
 
 
(89
)
 
162
 


 Stock based compensation
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
2,831
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
2,831
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance December 31, 2009
 
 
31,816
 
 
32
 
 
189,601
 
 
(57
)
 
(1,521
)
 
(56,430
)
 
131,625
 


 Net loss
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(53,165
)
 
(53,165
)


 Other comprehensive loss
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(32
)
 
—
 
 
(32
)


 Issuance of common stock
 
 
801
 
 
1
 
 
301
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
302
 


 Stock based compensation
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
3,087
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
3,087
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance December 31, 2010
 
 
32,617
 
 
33
 
 
192,989
 
 
(57
)
 
(1,553
)
 
(109,595
)
 
81,817
 


 Net loss
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(55,937
)
 
(55,937
)


 Other comprehensive loss
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(694
)
 
—
 
 
(694
)


 Equity securities repurchased
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(1,225
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(1,225
)


 Issuance of common stock
 
 
558
 
 
—
 
 
322
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
322
 


 Issuance of treasury shares
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(832
)
 
832
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Issuance of common stock for acquisition
 
 
3,500
 
 
4
 
 
8,454
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
8,458
 


 Stock based compensation
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
3,143
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
3,143
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance December 31, 2011
 
 
36,675
 
$
37
 
$
204,076
 
$
(450
)
$
(2,247
)
$
(165,532
)
$
35,884
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




  

   
  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
F-4




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
    INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC.         CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS         (in thousands)     



















 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Cash flows from operating activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net loss
 
$
(55,937
)
$
(53,165
)
$
(2,836
)


 Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash provided by operating activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Depreciation expense
 
 
1,483
 
 
1,420
 
 
1,419
 


 Goodwill impairment charge
 
 
34,314
 
 
46,591
 
 
—
 


 Intangible assets impairment charge
 
 
27,380
 
 
5,900
 
 
6,800
 


 Amortization of intangible assets
 
 
9,551
 
 
8,426
 
 
8,143
 


 Amortization of deferred financing costs
 
 
360
 
 
359
 
 
784
 


 Stock-based compensation
 
 
3,143
 
 
3,087
 
 
2,831
 


 Bad debt expense
 
 
588
 
 
(51
)
 
510
 


 Deferred tax benefit
 
 
(11,003
)
 
(6,763
)
 
(5,653
)


 Loss on disposal of fixed assets
 
 
3
 
 
11
 
 
5
 


 Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Accounts receivable
 
 
(6,238
)
 
(675
)
 
2,856
 


 Prepaid expense and other current assets
 
 
1,401
 
 
(31
)
 
(112
)


 Accounts payable
 
 
(236
)
 
(202
)
 
(776
)


 Deferred revenue
 
 
593
 
 
(497
)
 
200
 


 Accrued expenses
 
 
(4,531
)
 
1,337
 
 
(10,115
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by operating activities
 
 
871
 
 
5,747
 
 
4,056
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash flows from investing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Acquisitions, net of cash acquired
 
 
(13,684
)
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Restricted cash
 
 
5,699
 
 
(5,750
)
 
—
 


 Proceeds from sale of furniture, fixtures and equipment
 
 
20
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Purchase of furniture, fixtures and equipment
 
 
(1,690
)
 
(957
)
 
(1,239
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash used in investing activities
 
 
(9,655
)
 
(6,707
)
 
(1,239
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash flows from financing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Principal payments on borrowings
 
 
(6,000
)
 
(2,000
)
 
(22,238
)


 Proceeds from issuance of ESPP shares
 
 
322
 
 
302
 
 
82
 


 Issuance of treasury stock
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
162
 


 Equity securities repurchased
 
 
(1,225
)
 
—
 
 
(86
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash used in financing activities
 
 
(6,903
)
 
(1,698
)
 
(22,080
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash
 
 
(145
)
 
173
 
 
903
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
(15,832
)
 
(2,485
)
 
(18,360
)


 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period
 
 
40,301
 
 
42,786
 
 
61,146
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period
 
$
24,469
 
$
40,301
 
$
42,786
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash paid for:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest
 
$
2,914
 
$
2,910
 
$
4,157
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Taxes
 
$
3,904
 
$
7,712
 
$
5,205
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Noncash investing and financing activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Issuance of common stock for acquisition
 
$
7,980
 
$
—
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Issuance of convertible debt for acquisition
 
$
6,250
 
$
—
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Purchase price adjustments
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
240
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Issuance of treasury stock for ESPP and vested restricted stock awards
 
$
832
 
$
—
 
$
117
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




  

   
  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
F-5




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
    INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC.         NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS         (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data)    

 NOTE 1—DESCRIPTION OF ORGANIZATION AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS  

        Information Services Group, Inc. (the "Company") was incorporated in Delaware on July 20, 2006. The Company was formed to acquire, through a merger, capital stock exchange,
asset or stock acquisition or other similar business combination one or more domestic or international operating businesses. 
        The
registration statement for the Company's initial public offering (the "Offering") was declared effective on January 31, 2007. The Company consummated the Offering on
February 6, 2007. The Company's management had broad discretion with respect to the specific application of the net proceeds of the Offering, although substantially all of the net proceeds of
the Offering were to be applied toward consummating a business combination with (or acquisition of) an operating business in the information services industry. This operating company was subsequently
identified as TPI Advisory Services Americas, Inc., a Texas corporation ("TPI"). 
        On
November 16, 2007 (the "TPI Acquisition Date"), we consummated the acquisition of TPI, pursuant to a Purchase Agreement dated April 24, 2007, as amended on
September 30, 2007, by and between MCP-TPI Holdings, LLC, a Texas limited liability company ("MCP-TPI"), and the Company. For accounting purposes, the TPI
acquisition has been treated as a business combination. The results of TPI are included in the consolidated financial statements subsequent to the TPI Acquisition Date. During the periods prior to the
TPI Acquisition Date, the Company was in the development stage. 
        On
January 4, 2011, the Company completed the acquisition of Compass. Compass is a premier independent global provider of business and information technology benchmarking,
performance improvement, data and analytics services. It was founded in 1980 and headquartered in the United Kingdom and has 180 employees in 16 countries serving nearly 250 clients worldwide. The
company pioneered the aggregation and application of sophisticated metrics to understand root causes of organizational performance issues. In addition, their Fact-Based Consulting unit
generates tangible improvements in client businesses through sourcing advisory programs, recommendations in operational excellence and support in implementing transformational change in business
operations. Compass uses benchmarking to support fact-based decision making, analysis to optimize cost reduction, and tools and techniques to manage business performance. For accounting
purposes, the acquisition of Compass has been treated as a business combination. 
        On
February 10, 2011 the Company completed the acquisition of STA Consulting (Salvaggio, Teal & Associates) a premier independent information technology advisor serving the
public sector. STA Consulting advises clients on information technology strategic planning and the acquisition and implementation of new Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) and other enterprise
administration and management systems. STA Consulting was founded in 1997 and is based in Austin, Texas with approximately 40 professionals experienced in information systems consulting in public
sector areas such as government operations, IT and project management, contract negotiations, financial management, procurement, human resources and payroll. STA Consulting works with such states as
Alaska, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi and West Virginia. STA Consulting and TPI have worked together in the past on engagements for such states as Georgia and Texas. For accounting
purposes, the acquisition of STA Consulting has been treated as a business combination. 
        During
the fourth quarter of 2011, we decided to merge our individual corporate brands into one globally integrated business under the ISG brand. TPI, the world's leading sourcing data
and advisory 
F-6



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 1—DESCRIPTION OF ORGANIZATION AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS (Continued) 
firm;
Compass, a premier independent provider of business and IT benchmarking; and STA Consulting, a premier independent technology advisory serving the North America public sector, will be marketed
together under the ISG brand. The merger is designed to offer clients one source to drive operational excellence in their organizations. We have retained our legacy brands to identify specific
products and services we are known for including "The TPI Index", "TPI Sourcing" and "Compass Benchmarks". 
 NOTE 2—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
 Basis of Presentation and Principles of Consolidation  
        The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts
and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Unless the context requires otherwise, references to the Company include ISG and its consolidated subsidiaries. 
 Use of Estimates  
        The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and revenues and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results may differ from those estimates. The complexity of the estimation process and issues related to the assumptions, risks
and uncertainties inherent in the application of the proportional performance method of accounting affect the amounts of revenues, expenses, unbilled receivables and deferred revenue. Numerous
internal and external factors can affect estimates. Estimates are also used for but not limited to: allowance for doubtful accounts, useful lives of furniture, fixtures and equipment, depreciation
expense, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill and intangible asset impairments, income taxes and deferred tax asset valuation, and the valuation of stock based compensation. 
 Business Combinations  
        We have acquired businesses critical to the Company's long-term growth strategy. Results of operations for acquisitions are
included in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations from the date of acquisition. Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and the purchase price is
allocated to the net assets acquired based upon their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the net assets was recorded as goodwill. Final valuations
of assets and liabilities are obtained and recorded within one year from the date of the acquisition. 
 Cash and Cash Equivalents  
        The Company considers all highly liquid instruments with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents, including
certain money market accounts. The Company principally maintains its cash in money market and bank deposit accounts in the United States of America which typically exceed applicable insurance limits.
The Company believes it is not exposed to any significant credit risk on cash and cash equivalents. 
F-7



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 2—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
 Restricted Cash  
        Restricted cash consists of cash and cash equivalents which the Company has pledged to fulfill certain obligations and are not
available for general corporate purposes. 
        In
December 2010, the Company funded the escrow for the closing of the acquisition of Compass in the amount of $5.8 million. The $5.8 million was classified as restricted
cash at December 31, 2010. This amount was paid in January 2011 and no longer held in escrow. 
 Accounts and Unbilled Receivables and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts  
        Our trade receivables primarily consist of amounts due for services already performed via fixed fee or time and materials arrangements.
The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of clients to pay fees or for disputes that affect its ability to fully collect billed
accounts receivable. The allowance for these risks is prepared by reviewing the status of all accounts and recording reserves on a specific identification method based on previous experiences and
historical bad debts. However, our actual experience may vary significantly from these estimates. If the financial condition of our clients were to deteriorate, resulting in their inability or
unwillingness to pay their invoices, we may need to record additional allowances or write-offs in future periods. To the extent the provision relates to a client's inability or
unwillingness to make required payments, the provision is recorded as bad debt expense, which is classified within selling, general and administrative expense in the accompanying consolidated
statement of operations. 
        The
provision for unbilled services is recorded as a reduction to revenues to the extent the provision relates to fee adjustments and other discretionary pricing adjustments. 
 Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets  
        Prepaid expenses and other assets consist primarily of prepaid expenses for insurance, conferences as well as deposits for facilities,
programs and promotion items. 
 Furniture, Fixtures and Equipment, net  
        Furniture, fixtures and equipment is recorded at cost. Depreciation is computed by applying the straight-line method over
the estimated useful life of the assets, which ranges from three to five years. Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the lesser of the useful life of the underlying asset or the lease term,
which generally range from three to five years. Expenditures for renewals and betterments are capitalized. Repairs and maintenance are charged to expense as incurred. The cost and accumulated
depreciation of assets sold or otherwise disposed of are removed from the accounts and any associated gain or loss thereon is reflected in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. 
 Internal-Use Software and Website Development Costs  
        The Company capitalizes internal-use software and website development costs and records these amounts within furniture,
fixtures and equipment. Accounting standards require that certain costs related to the development or purchase of internal-use software and systems as well as the costs 
F-8



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 2—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
incurred
in the application development stage related to its website be capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the software or system. They also require that costs related to the
preliminary project stage, data conversion and post implementation/operation stage of an internal-use software development project be expensed as incurred. 
        During
each of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company capitalized $0.5 million of costs associated with the system conversion and website development. 
 Goodwill and Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets  
        Our goodwill represents the excess of the cost of businesses acquired over the fair value of the net assets acquired at the date of
acquisition. The primary other identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives are trademarks of the acquired businesses. These assets are not amortized but rather tested for impairment at least
annually by applying a fair-value based test in accordance with accounting and disclosure requirements for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. This test is performed by
us during our fourth fiscal quarter or more frequently if we believe impairment indicators are present. At October 31, 2011, our annual impairment testing date, we maintain a single operating
segment and reporting unit. 
        Our
indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment tests involve estimates and management's judgment. The fair value of trademarks and trade name assets were determined using the relief
from royalty method by discounting the cash flows that represent a savings over having to pay a royalty fee for use of the trademarks and trade names. The discounted cash flow valuation uses the same
projections used under the income approach described below. The cash flow projections used were primarily attributable
to revenue and royalty rates associated with the legacy brands which are projected to decline as value shifts to the ISG brand. 
        In
the fourth quarter of 2011, we reclassified our acquired trademarks and trade names to definite lived assets which will be amortized over a remaining useful life of approximately
seven years. We decided to merge our individual corporate brands into one global integrate go-to-market business under the ISG brand. As a result of this transition, during our
annual impairment test, we concluded that the indefinite lived trademarks and trade names were impaired by $27.4 million which is included in the loss from operations in the accompanying
consolidated statement of operations for 2011. This impairment charge was measured as the excess of the carrying value over the fair value of the asset. 
        We
perform a two-step impairment test on goodwill. In the first step, we compare the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the
carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then we must perform the second step of the impairment test whereby the carrying value of the reporting unit's
goodwill is compared to its implied fair value. If the carrying value of the goodwill exceeds the implied fair value, an impairment loss equal to the difference is recorded. 
        In
performing the first step of the impairment test on goodwill, we determined the fair value of the reporting unit using both a market and income approach. The income approach utilizes
a discounted cash flow model and is based on projections of future operations of the reporting unit as of the valuation date. The market approach is based on our stock price and provides a direct
indication of fair value. Under the market approach, we determined the fair value of the reporting unit utilizing a 
F-9



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 2—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
relevant
average of our common stock price for the October 31 measurement period, as quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market plus a 35% control premium based upon recent transactions of comparable
companies. The discounted cash flow model assumed revenue growth rates of approximately 3% per year. We employed a rate of 13% to discount future excess cash flows. The goodwill impairment is
attributable to historical revenues, projected revenue run rate, actual and projected revenue generated per billable hour, driven by a global recession which has impacted and reduced sourcing industry
activity. 
        We
failed the first step and proceeded to the second step in which we determined the implied fair value of goodwill by allocating the fair value of our reporting unit to the reporting
unit's assets and liabilities using purchase price allocation guidance in order to determine the implied value of goodwill. Our assets in this valuation included the trade names for the ISG brand as
well as declining values in the old legacy trade names. We concluded that the implied fair value is $34.7 million, resulting in an
impairment of $34.3 million, which is included in loss from operations in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for 2011. 
        We
will continue to monitor our market capitalization for evidence of further impairment. Future downturn in our business, continued deterioration of economic conditions, or continued
further decline in our market capitalization may result in an additional impairment charge or charges in future periods, which could adversely affect our results of operations for those periods. 
        The
goodwill and intangible assets impairment charge is non-cash in nature and does not affect our liquidity, cash flows from operations and debt covenants. 
 Long-Lived Assets  
        Long-lived assets, excluding goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles, to be held and used by the Company are reviewed to
determine whether any significant change in the long-lived asset's physical condition, a change in industry conditions or a reduction in cash flows associated with the use of the
long-lived asset. If these or other factors indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable, the Company determines whether impairment has occurred through the use of an
undiscounted cash flow analysis of the asset at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows exist. If impairment has occurred, the Company recognizes a loss for the difference between the
carrying amount and the fair value of the asset. The fair value of the asset is measured using market prices or, in the absence of market prices, an estimate of discounted cash flows. Cash flows are
generally discounted at an interest rate commensurate with our weighted average cost of capital for a similar asset. Assets are classified as held for sale when the Company has a plan for disposal of
certain assets and those assets meet the held for sale criteria of accounting and disclosure requirement for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets. 
        Due
to a decline in our stock price for a prolonged period of time and the timing of our annual impairment test, we determined that it was necessary to review our long-lived
assets for impairment. We have performed the impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2011 using the undiscounted cash flow analysis and did not record an impairment based upon such analysis. 
F-10



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 2—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
 Debt Issuance Costs  
        Costs directly incurred in obtaining long-term financing, typically bank and attorney fees, are deferred and are amortized
over the life of the related loan using the effective interest method. Deferred issuance costs are classified as other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. Amortization of debt
issuance costs is included in interest expense and totaled $0.4 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
 Revenue Recognition  
        We recognize our revenues for the sale of services and products when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, services have been
rendered or delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable and the collectability of the related revenue is reasonably assured. 
        We
principally derive revenues from fees for services generated on a project-by-project basis. Prior to the commencement of a project, we reach agreement with the
client on rates for services based upon the scope of the project, staffing requirements and the level of client involvement. It is our policy to obtain written agreements from new clients prior to
performing services. In these agreements, the clients acknowledge that they will pay based upon the amount of time spent on the project or an agreed upon fee structure. Revenues for services rendered
are recognized on a time and materials basis or on a fixed-fee or capped-fee basis in accordance with accounting and disclosure requirements for revenue recognition. 
        Fees
for services that have been performed, but for which we have not invoiced the customers are recorded as unbilled receivables in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
Invoices issued before the related services have been performed are recorded as deferred revenue in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. 
        Revenues
for time and materials contracts are recognized based on the number of hours worked by our advisors at an agreed upon rate per hour and are recognized in the period in which
services are performed. Revenues for time and materials contracts are billed monthly, semimonthly or in accordance with the specific contractual terms of each project. 
        Revenues
related to fixed-fee or capped-fee contracts are recognized into revenue as value is delivered to the customer. The pattern of revenue recognition for
these contracts
varies depending on the terms of the individual contracts, and may be recognized proportionally over the term of the contract or deferred until the end of the contract term and recognized when our
obligations have been fulfilled with the customer. In instances where substantive acceptance provisions are specified in customer contracts, revenues are deferred until all acceptance criteria have
been met. The pattern of revenue recognition for contracts where revenues are recognized proportionally over the term of the contact is based on the proportional performance method of accounting using
the ratio of labor hours incurred to estimated total labor hours, which we consider to be the best available indicator of the pattern and timing in which contract obligations are fulfilled. This
percentage is multiplied by the contracted dollar amount of the project to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in an accounting period. The contracted amount used in this calculation
typically excludes the amount the client pays for reimbursable expenses. There are situations where the number of hours to complete projects may exceed our original estimate as a result of an increase
in project scope or unforeseen 
F-11



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 2—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
events.
On a regular basis, we review the hours incurred and estimated total labor hours to complete. The results of any revisions in these estimates are reflected in the period in which they become
known. We believe we have demonstrated a history of successfully estimating the total labor hours to complete a project. 
        The
agreements entered into in connection with a project, whether on a time and materials basis or fixed-fee or capped-fee basis, typically allow our clients to
terminate early due to breach or for convenience with 30 days' notice. In the event of termination, the client is contractually required to pay for all time, materials and expenses incurred by
us through the effective date of the termination. In addition, from time to time, we enter into agreements with clients that limit our right to enter into business relationships with specific
competitors of that client for a specific time period. These provisions typically prohibit us from performing a defined range of services that it might otherwise be willing to perform for potential
clients. These provisions are generally limited to six to twelve months and usually apply only to specific employees or the specific project team. 
 Reimbursable Expenditures  
        Amounts billed to customers for reimbursable expenditures are included in revenues and the associated costs incurred by the Company are
included in direct costs and expenses for advisors in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. Non-reimbursable amounts are expensed as incurred. Reimbursable expenditures
totaled $9.5 million and $9.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
 Direct Costs and Expenses for Advisors  
        Direct costs and expenses for advisors include payroll expenses and advisory fees directly associated with the generation of revenues
and other program expenses. Direct costs and expenses for advisors are expensed as incurred. 
        Direct
costs and expenses for advisors also include expense accruals for discretionary bonus payments. Bonus accrual levels are adjusted throughout the year based on actual and projected
individual and Company performance. 
 Stock-Based Compensation  
        Stock Appreciation Rights ("SARs") for a fixed number of shares are granted to certain employees with an exercise price based on the
closing trading price of our common stock on the grant date. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of each option award on the date of grant. Prior to
December 31, 2009, the volatility calculation was based on the most recent trading day average volatility of a representative sample of seven companies with market capitalizations of
approximately $197 million to $3.7 billion that management believed to be engaged in the business of information services (the "Sample Companies"). We referred to the average volatility
of the Sample Companies because management believes that the average volatility of such companies is a reasonable benchmark to use in estimating the expected volatility of our common stock as we had a
limited history as a public company. The risk-free interest rate is determined based upon the interest rate on a U.S. Treasury Bill with a term equal to the expected life of the option at
the time the option was granted. 
F-12



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 2—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
An
expected life of five years was taken into account for purposes of assigning a fair value to the option. The expected life represents the period of time the awards granted are expected to be
outstanding. There were no grants of SARS during the years ended December 31, 2011 or 2010. 
        We
also grant restricted stock with a fair value that is determined based on the closing price of our common stock on the date of grant. SARs and restricted stock generally vest over a
four-year period. Stock-based compensation expense is recognized ratably over the applicable service period. 
        We
follow the provisions of accounting and disclosures requirement for share-based payments, requiring the measurement and recognition of all share-based compensation under the fair
value method. 
 Concentration of Credit Risk  
        Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to significant concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and
accounts receivable. The Company places its cash investments with high quality financial institutions. The Company extends credit to its customers based upon an evaluation of the customer's financial
condition and credit history and generally does not require collateral. 
 Treasury Stock  
        The Company makes treasury stock purchases in the open market pursuant to the share repurchase program, which was approved by the Board
of Directors on November 14, 2007. 
        Treasury
stock is recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at cost as a reduction of stockholders' equity. Shares are released from Treasury at original cost on a first-in,
first-out basis, with any gain on the sale reflected as an adjustment to additional paid-in capital. Losses are reflected as an adjustment to additional paid-in
capital to the extent of gains previously recognized, otherwise as an adjustment to retained earnings. 
 Foreign Currency Translation  
        The assets and liabilities of the Company's foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at the
end of the reporting period. Revenue and expense items are translated at average exchange rates for the reporting period. Resulting translation
adjustments are included in the accompanying statement of stockholders' equity as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss. 
        The
functional currency of the Company and its subsidiaries is the respective local currency. The Company has contracts denominated in foreign currencies and therefore, a portion of the
Company's revenues are subject to foreign currency risks. Transactional currency gains and losses that arise from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of our
operations are recorded in Foreign Currency Transaction (Loss) Gain in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. 
 Fair Value of Financial Instruments  
        The carrying value of the Company's cash and cash equivalents, receivables, accounts payable, long-term debt, other current
liabilities, and accrued interest approximate fair value. 
F-13




 







 
Table of Contents 

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC.  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data)  
 NOTE 2—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)  

        Fair value is the price that would be received upon a sale of an asset or paid upon a transfer of a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement
date (exit price). Market participants can use market data or assumptions in pricing the asset or liability, including assumptions about risk and the risks inherent in the inputs to the valuation
technique. These inputs can be readily observable, market-corroborated, or generally unobservable. The use of unobservable inputs is intended to allow for fair value determinations in situations where
there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at the measurement date. Under the fair-value hierarchy 


•Level 1 measurements include unadjusted quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active
market; 
•Level 2 measurements include quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market that have
been adjusted for items such as effects of restrictions for transferability and those that are not quoted but are observable through corroboration with observable market data, including quoted market
prices for similar assets; and 
•Level 3 measurements include those that are unobservable and of a highly subjective measure. 

 Income Taxes  
        We use the asset and liability method to account for income taxes, including recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the
anticipated future tax consequences attributable to differences between financial statement amounts and their respective tax basis. We review our deferred tax assets for recovery. A valuation
allowance is established when we believe that it is more likely than not that some portion of its deferred tax assets will not be realized. Changes in the valuation allowance from period to period are
included in our tax provision in the period of change. 
        For
uncertain tax positions, we use a prescribed model for assessing the financial recognition and measurement of all tax positions taken or expected to be taken in its tax returns. The
guidance provides clarification on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosures and transition. Our provision for income taxes also includes the
impact of provisions established for uncertain income tax positions, as well as the related interest. 
 Loss Per Share  
        Basic earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) available to common stockholders by the weighted average
number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or
converted into common stock or resulted in the issuance of common stock that would share in the net income of the Company. As of December 31, 2011, 30.6 million warrants and
1.4 million Units (each Unit comprising one common share and one warrant) have expired. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the effect of 1.6 million shares related to the
Company's convertible debt, 5.0 million warrants, 0.4 million stock appreciation rights ("SARs") and 2.7 million restricted shares have not been considered in the diluted earnings
per share calculation for the year ended December 31, 2011, as the effect would be anti-dilutive. In addition, 250,000 contingent restricted shares related to the acquisition of STA
were excluded from basic and diluted earnings per share as the contingency was not met as of the reporting period. For the year ended December 31, 
F-14



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 2—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
2010,
the effect of 35.6 million warrants, 0.4 million SARs and 1.4 million Units associated with the Company's IPO underwriters purchase option have not been considered in the
diluted earnings per
share calculation, since the market price of the Company's common stock was less than the exercise price during the period in the computation. Also, 2.0 million restricted shares have not been
considered in the diluted earnings per share calculation for the year ended December 31, 2010, as the effect would be anti-dilutive. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the
effect of 35.6 million warrants, 0.3 million SARs and 1.4 million Units associated with the Company's IPO underwriters purchase option have not been considered in the diluted
earnings per share calculation, since the market price of the Company's common stock was less than the exercise price during the period in the computation. Also, 0.8 million restricted shares
have not been considered in the diluted earnings per share calculation for the year ended December 31, 2009, as the effect would be anti-dilutive. 
        The
following tables set forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share: 



















 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Numerator:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net loss
 
$
(55,937
)
$
(53,165
)
$
(2,836
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Denominator:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic weighted average common shares outstanding
 
 
36,258
 
 
32,050
 
 
31,491
 


 Diluted effects of SARs, restricted shares, Employee Stock Purchase Plan shares and warrants
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
36,258
 
 
32,050
 
 
31,491
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loss per share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic
 
$
(1.54
)
$
(1.66
)
$
(0.09
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Diluted
 
$
(1.54
)
$
(1.66
)
$
(0.09
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  
        In April 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued accounting guidance that clarifies which debt restructurings
are considered troubled debt restructurings. Debt, which includes receivables, restructured in a troubled debt restructuring is classified as impaired for calculation of the allowance for doubtful
accounts and is subject to additional disclosures detailing the modifications of the debt. The guidance is effective for interim or annual periods beginning on or after June 15, 2011. The
adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. 
        In
June 2011, the FASB issued accounting guidance related to the presentation of comprehensive income. This guidance presents an entity with the option to present the total of
comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive
statements. In both 
F-15



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 2—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
choices,
an entity is required to present each component of other comprehensive income along with a total for other comprehensive income, and a total amount for comprehensive income. This update
eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders' equity. The amendments in this update do not change the items that
must be reported in other comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income. This guidance relates only to the presentation of comprehensive income.
The provisions of this new guidance are effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2011 and are applied retrospectively for all periods presented. The adoption
of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. 
        In
September 2011, the FASB amended the guidance on the annual testing of goodwill for impairment. The amended guidance will allow companies to assess qualitative factors to determine if
it is more-likely-than-not that goodwill might be impaired and whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test required under
current accounting standards. This guidance will be effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption is
permitted, including for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed as of a date before September 15, 2011, if an entity's financial statements for the most recent annual or interim
period have
not yet been issued. We do not anticipate the adoption of this guidance will materially impact the Company's consolidated financial statements 
 NOTE 3—ACQUISITIONS  
 Compass Acquisition  
        On January 4, 2011 (the "Compass Acquisition Date"), the Company executed an Agreement for the Sale and Purchase of the Entire
Issued Share Capital of CCGH Limited (the "Agreement") and consummated the acquisition of the entire issued share capital CCGH Limited, an English corporation ("Compass"). 
        Under
the terms of the Agreement, each of the holders of the issued share capital of Compass (the "Compass Sellers") agreed to sell and transfer, and the Company agreed to buy, the
entire share capital of Compass (the "Share Purchase"). The Share Purchase was consummated on January 4, 2011. 
        The
final allocable purchase price consists of the following: 













 Cash
 
$
5,750
 


 Common Stock*
 
 
7,980
 


 Convertible Notes**
 
 
6,250
 


 Stamp Tax
 
 
98
 


 
 
 
 


 Total allocable purchase price
 
$
20,078
 


 
 
 
 








*3,500,000
shares issued at $2.28 per share as part of the acquisition.
**The
Convertible Notes (the "Notes") mature on January 4, 2018 and interest is payable on the outstanding principal amount, computed daily, at the rate
of 3.875% per annum on January 31 of each calendar year and on the seventh anniversary of the date of the 

F-16



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 3—ACQUISITIONS (Continued) 


Notes.
The Notes are subject to transfer restrictions until January 31, 2013. If the price of the Company's common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market exceeds $4 per share for 60 consecutive
trading days (the "Trigger Event"), the holder of the Notes may convert all (but not less than all) of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes into shares of the Company's common stock at the
rate of 1 share for every $4 in principal amount outstanding. After the Trigger Event, the Company may prepay all or any portion of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes by giving the holder
30 days written notice. 



        The
purchase price has been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values as of the Compass Acquisition Date. The purchase price
allocation was based upon a valuation completed by third-party valuation specialists using an income approach and estimates and assumptions provided by management. The excess of the purchase price
over the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets was recorded as goodwill. Goodwill of $16.3 million acquired in the acquisition is not deductible for tax purposes. 
        The
following table summarizes the final allocation of the aggregate purchase price to the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the Compass Acquisition Date: 














 Allocation of Purchase Price:
 
 
 
 


 Cash
 
$
1,091
 


 Accounts receivable
 
 
9,449
 


 Prepaid expenses and other assets
 
 
2,042
 


 Furniture, fixtures and equipment
 
 
685
 


 Goodwill
 
 
16,295
 


 Intangible assets
 
 
5,045
 


 Accounts payable
 
 
(1,603
)


 Accrued expenses and other(1)
 
 
(11,009
)


 Deferred income tax liability
 
 
(1,917
)


 
 
 
 


 Net assets acquired
 
$
20,078
 


 
 
 
 








(1)The
fair value of contingent liabilities related to uncertain tax positions recognized at the acquisition date is $1.5 million. 

        The
intangible assets acquired include database, trademark and trade name, customer relationships, covenant not-to-compete and goodwill. Some of these assets,
such as goodwill and the trademark and trade name are not subject to amortization but rather an annual test for possible impairment; other intangible assets that are amortized over their useful lives
are reviewed when events or changes or circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. 
        Under
the purchase method of accounting, the total purchase price of approximately $20.1 million was allocated to Compass's net tangible and intangible assets based on their
estimated fair values as of the Compass Acquisition Date. Intangible assets are amortized utilizing the estimated pattern of the consumption of the economic benefit over their estimated lives, ranging
from one to ten weighted 
F-17



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 3—ACQUISITIONS (Continued) 
average
years. Based on the valuation and other factors as described above, the purchase price assigned to intangible assets and the amortization period were as follows: 














 
 
Purchase Price
Allocation 
 
Asset Life 


 Amortizable intangible assets:
 
 
 
 
 


 Customer relationships
 
$
1,150
 
10 years


 Covenants not-to-compete
 
 
15
 
2 years


 Databases—Financial Data Repository
 
 
1,840
 
7 years


 Non-amortizable intangible assets:
 
 
 
 
 


 Trademark and trade name
 
 
2,040
 
Indefinite


 
 
 
 
 


 Total intangible assets
 
$
5,045
 
 


 
 
 
 
 




 STA Acquisition  
        On February 10, 2011 (the "STA Acquisition Date"), the Company executed an Asset Purchase Agreement (the "STA Agreement") with
Salvaggio & Teal Ltd. (d/b/a Salvaggio, Teal & Associates, "STA Consulting"), Salvaggio & Teal II, LLC, Mitt Salvaggio, Kirk Teal, Nathan Frey and International
Consulting Acquisition Corp., a wholly-owned subsidiary of ISG, and consummated the acquisition of substantially all of the assets and assumption of certain specified liabilities of STA (collectively,
the "Asset Purchase"). 
        Under
the terms of the STA Agreement, ISG acquired the specified assets for cash consideration of $9.0 million subject to certain adjustments. In addition, the sellers under the
Agreement (the "STA Sellers") are eligible to receive a minimum of $0 and a maximum up to $7.75 million of
earn-out payments for fiscal years 2011 – 2015 if certain revenue and earnings targets are met. Finally, the STA Sellers were granted 250,000 ISG Restricted
Shares that will vest if the target commercial enterprise resource planning revenue of ISG and its affiliates is met. 
        As
of the STA Acquisition Date, we have recorded a liability of $6.6 million representing the present fair value of the contingent consideration. This amount was estimated through
a valuation model that incorporated industry-based, probability-weighted assumptions related to the achievement of these milestones and thus the likelihood of us making payments. These cash outflow
projections have been discounted using a rate of 2.3%, which is the cost of debt financing for market participants. 
        The
final allocable purchase price consists of the following: 













 Cash
 
$
8,927
 


 Contingent consideration*
 
 
7,107
 


 
 
 
 


 Total allocable purchase price
 
$
16,034
 


 
 
 
 








*Included
cash earn-out of $6.6 million and 250,000 shares of equity contingent consideration at $1.91 per share, the closing stock price of
the Company on February 10, 2011. Changes in the contingent liability as a result of operations will be recorded in selling, general and administrative expense whereas changes due to the time
value of money will be recorded as interest expense. 

F-18



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 3—ACQUISITIONS (Continued) 
        The
following table summarizes the final allocation of the aggregate purchase price to the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the STA
Acquisition Date: 













 Allocation of Purchase Price:
 
 
 
 


 Accounts receivable
 
$
2,093
 


 Other assets
 
 
57
 


 Goodwill(1)
 
 
4,236
 


 Intangible assets
 
 
11,210
 


 Accounts payable
 
 
(1,067
)


 Accrued expenses and other
 
 
(495
)


 
 
 
 


 Net assets acquired
 
$
16,034
 


 
 
 
 








(1)Goodwill
of $4.2 million acquired in the acquisition is deductible for tax purposes. 

        The
acquisition of STA Consulting is being treated as a business combination for accounting purposes while it is legally an asset purchase. Based on the valuation and other factors as
described above, the purchase price assigned to intangible assets and the amortization period were as follows: 














 
 
Purchase Price
Allocation 
 
Asset Life 


 Amortizable intangible assets:
 
 
 
 
 


 Customer relationships
 
$
8,490
 
10 years


 Backlog
 
 
1,880
 
2 years


 Covenants not-to-compete
 
 
150
 
5 years


 Non-amortizable intangible assets:
 
 
 
 
 


 Trademark and trade name
 
 
690
 
Indefinite


 
 
 
 
 


 Total intangible assets
 
$
11,210
 
 


 
 
 
 
 




        In
the fourth quarter of 2011, we reclassified our acquired trademarks and trade names to definite lived assets which will be amortized over a remaining useful of approximately seven
years. We decided to merge our individual corporate brands into one global integrate go-to-market business under the ISG brand. 
        Compass'
results of operations have been included in the Company's financial statement for periods subsequent to the effective date of the acquisition. Compass contributed revenues of
$37.4 million and net income of $0.6 million for the period from January 4, 2011 through December 31, 2011. STA Consulting's results of operations have been included in the
Company's financial statements for periods subsequent to the effective date of the acquisition. STA Consulting contributed revenues of $12.2 million and net loss of $1.1 million for the
period from February 10, 2011 through December 31, 2011. 
        The
following unaudited pro forma financial information for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, assumes that the acquisitions of Compass and STA Consulting occurred at the
beginning of the period presented. The unaudited proforma financial information is presented for information purposes only. Such information is based upon the stand alone historical results of each
company and 
F-19



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 3—ACQUISITIONS (Continued) 
does
not reflect the actual results that would have been reported had the acquisitions been completed when assumed, nor is it indicative of the future results of operations for the combined
enterprise. 
















 
 
Years Ended
December 31, 
 


Proforma



 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(unaudited)
 


 Revenues
 
$
185,948
 
$
186,754
 


 Direct costs and expenses for advisors
 
 
106,256
 
 
108,079
 


 Selling, general and administrative
 
 
67,762
 
 
63,821
 


 Impairment of intangible assets
 
 
61,694
 
 
52,491
 


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
11,186
 
 
12,385
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating loss
 
 
(60,950
)
 
(50,022
)


 Other expense, net
 
 
(3,420
)
 
(5,508
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net loss before taxes
 
 
(64,370
)
 
(55,530
)


 Income tax benefit
 
 
8,397
 
 
1,208
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net loss
 
$
(55,973
)
$
(54,322
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic loss per share
 
$
(1.54
)
$
(1.53
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Diluted loss per share
 
$
(1.54
)
$
(1.53
)


 
 
 
 
 
 




 NOTE 4—ACCOUNTS AND UNBILLED RECEIVABLES  

        Accounts and unbilled receivables consisted of the following: 
















 
 
December 31,
2011 
 
December 31,
2010 
 


 Accounts receivable
 
$
32,242
 
$
16,372
 


 Unbilled revenue
 
 
10,563
 
 
10,179
 


 Receivables from related parties
 
 
46
 
 
52
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
42,851
 
$
26,603
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




 NOTE 5—PREPAID EXPENSE AND OTHER CURRENT ASSETS  

        Prepaid expense and other current assets consisted of the following: 
















 
 
December 31,
2011 
 
December 31,
2010 
 


 Prepaid rent
 
$
290
 
$
39
 


 Prepaid insurance
 
 
285
 
 
171
 


 Security deposits
 
 
506
 
 
181
 


 Deferred costs
 
 
286
 
 
200
 


 Other
 
 
751
 
 
690
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
2,118
 
$
1,281
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




F-20




 







 
Table of Contents 

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC.  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data)  
 NOTE 6—FURNITURE, FIXTURES AND EQUIPMENT  

        Furniture, fixtures and equipment consisted of the following: 


















 
 
Estimated
Useful Lives 
 
December 31,
2011 
 
December 31,
2010 
 


 Computer hardware, software and other office equipment
 
2 to 5 years
 
$
3,797
 
$
3,158
 


 Furniture, fixtures and leasehold improvements
 
2 to 5 years
 
 
1,161
 
 
660
 


 Internal-use software and development costs
 
3 to 5 years
 
 
2,726
 
 
2,245
 


 Accumulated depreciation
 
 
 
 
(4,730
)
 
(3,950
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
$
2,954
 
$
2,113
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Depreciation
expense was $1.5 million, $1.4 million and $1.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
 NOTE 7—GOODWILL  

        The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows: 
















 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Balance as of January 1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Goodwill
 
$
144,428
 
$
144,428
 


 Accumulated impairment losses
 
 
(95,954
)
 
(49,363
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
48,474
 
 
95,065
 


 Acquisitions
 
 

20,531
 
 

—
 


 Impairment losses
 
 
(34,314
)
 
(46,591
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
(13,783
)
 
(46,591
)


 Balance as of December 31
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Goodwill
 
 
164,959
 
 
144,428
 


 Accumulated impairment losses
 
 
(130,268
)
 
(95,954
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
34,691
 
$
48,474
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        As
a result of the Company's annual impairment test performed during the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company recorded pre-tax non-cash impairment
charge of $34.3 million associated with goodwill. During the third quarter of 2010, the Company also recorded a pre-tax non-cash impairment charge of
$46.6 million associated with goodwill. 
F-21



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 8—INTANGIBLE ASSETS  

        The carrying amount of intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization and impairment charges, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 consisted of the following: 

























 
 
2011 
 


 
 
Gross
Carrying
Amount 
 
Acquisitions 
 
Accumulated
Amortization 
 
Impairment
Losses(1) 
 
Net Book
Value 
 


 Amortizable intangibles:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Customer relationships
 
$
42,500
 
$
9,640
 
$
(21,056
)
$
—
 
$
31,084
 


 Noncompete agreements
 
 
5,500
 
 
165
 
 
(5,535
)
 
—
 
 
130
 


 Software
 
 
1,500
 
 
—
 
 
(1,500
)
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Backlog
 
 
3,000
 
 
1,880
 
 
(3,862
)
 
—
 
 
1,018
 


 Databases(1)
 
 
9,500
 
 
1,840
 
 
(3,331
)
 
(6,391
)
 
1,618
 


 Trademark and trade names(2)
 
 
57,000
 
 
2,730
 
 
(30
)
 
(58,480
)
 
1,220
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Intangibles
 
$
119,000
 
$
16,255
 
$
(35,314
)
$
(64,871
)
$
35,070
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Included
impairment of $6.4 million recorded during the fourth quarter of 2008.
(2)Included
impairment of $27.4 million recorded during the fourth quarter of 2011. 























 
 
2010 
 


 
 
Gross
Carrying
Amount 
 
Accumulated
Amortization 
 
Impairment
Losses 
 
Net Book
Value 
 


 Amortizable intangibles:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Customer relationships
 
$
42,500
 
$
(14,842
)
$
—
 
$
27,658
 


 Noncompete agreements
 
 
5,500
 
 
(4,297
)
 
—
 
 
1,203
 


 Software
 
 
1,500
 
 
(1,172
)
 
—
 
 
328
 


 Backlog
 
 
3,000
 
 
(3,000
)
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Databases(1)
 
 
9,500
 
 
(2,452
)
 
(6,391
)
 
657
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
62,000
 
 
(25,763
)
 
(6,391
)
 
29,846
 


 Indefinite-lived:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Trademark and trade names
 
 
57,000
 
 
—
 
 
(31,100
)
 
25,900
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Intangibles
 
$
119,000
 
$
(25,763
)
$
(37,491
)
$
55,746
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Included
impairment of $6.4 million recorded during the fourth quarter of 2008. 

        Amortization
expense was $9.5 million, $8.4 million and $8.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The
estimated future amortization expense subsequent to December 31, 2011, is as follows: 













 2012
 
$
7,150
 


 2013
 
 
5,827
 


 2014
 
 
5,191
 


 2015
 
 
4,988
 


 2016
 
 
4,673
 


 Thereafter
 
 
7,241
 


 
 
 
 


 
 
$
35,070
 


 
 
 
 




F-22



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 8—INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Continued) 
        In
the fourth quarter of 2011, we reclassified our acquired trademarks and trade names to definite lived assets which will be amortized over a remaining useful of
approximately seven years. We decided to merge our individual corporate brands into one global integrate go-to-market business under the ISG brand. As a result of this transition, during our annual
impairment test, we concluded that the indefinite lived trademarks and trade names were impaired by $27.4 million. 
        During
the third quarter of 2010, the Company also recorded pre-tax non-cash impairment charges of $5.9 million associated with intangible assets. 
 NOTE 9—ACCRUED LIABILITIES  

        The components of accrued liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows: 
















 
 
December 31,
2011 
 
December 31,
2010 
 


 Accrued payroll and vacation
 
$
5,170
 
$
2,587
 


 Accrued corporate and payroll related taxes
 
 
5,513
 
 
2,241
 


 Accrued acquisition costs
 
 
—
 
 
2,135
 


 Contingent consideration—current
 
 
2,000
 
 
—
 


 Other
 
 
4,065
 
 
3,738
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
16,748
 
$
10,701
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




 NOTE 10—RESTRUCTURING ACCRUAL  

        Concurrent with the closing of the Compass acquisition, the Company initiated a workforce reduction focused on implementing selected cost savings and productivity improvements. The
workforce reduction is focused on integration-related cost synergies including selling, general and administrative support, elimination of unnecessary sales and advisory positions and real estate
consolidations. 
        A
summary of the activity affecting the Company's accrued contractual termination benefit liability for the year ended December 31, 2011 is as follows: 













 
 
Workforce
Reductions 
 


 Balance at December 31, 2010
 
$
—
 


 Amounts accrued
 
 
2,683
 


 Amounts paid/incurred
 
 
(2,071
)


 
 
 
 


 Balance at December 31, 2011
 
$
612
 


 
 
 
 




        The
$2.7 million of net restructuring charges was primarily related to contractual termination benefits, and was recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses. We
expect that the remaining actions of our workforce reduction will be completed over the next three months. 
F-23



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 11—OTHER LIABILITIES  

        The components of other liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows: 
















 
 
December 31,
2011 
 
December 31,
2010 
 


 Contingent consideration—noncurrent
 
$
4,786
 
$
—
 


 Other
 
 
—
 
 
66
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
4,786
 
$
66
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




 NOTE 12—SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAM  

        Under a stock repurchase plan approved by the Board of Directors on October 16, 2007, the Company repurchased 12.1 million shares of common stock since that date. This
program includes the repurchase of common shares, units and/or warrants. On November 14, 2007, the Board of Directors authorized an additional repurchase program of up to $15.0 million.
As of December 31, 2011, there was $8.9 million available under this repurchase program. 
 NOTE 13—FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS AND LONG-TERM DEBT  

        Long-term debt consists of the following: 
















 
 
December 31,
2011 
 
December 31,
2010 
 


 Senior secured credit facility
 
$
63,813
 
$
69,813
 


 Compass convertible notes
 
 
6,250
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
70,063
 
 
69,813
 


 Less current installments on long term debt
 
 
7,000
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Long-term debt
 
$
63,063
 
$
69,813
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        Aggregate
annual maturities of debt obligations by calendar year, are as follows: 













 
 
Debt 
 


 2012
 
$
7,000
 


 2013
 
 
10,000
 


 2014
 
 
46,813
 


 2015
 
 
—
 


 2016
 
 
—
 


 Thereafter
 
 
6,250
 


 
 
 
 


 
 
$
70,063
 


 
 
 
 




F-24



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 13—FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS AND LONG-TERM DEBT (Continued) 
        We
have outstanding a substantial amount of debt, which may limit our ability to fund general corporate requirements and obtain additional financing, limit our flexibility in responding
to business opportunities and competitive developments and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. 
        We
incurred a substantial amount of indebtedness to finance the acquisition of TPI, including transaction costs and deferred underwriting fees. On November 16, 2007, our
wholly-owned subsidiary International Consulting Acquisition Corp. ("ICAC") entered into a senior secured credit facility comprised of a $95.0 million term loan facility and a
$10.0 million revolving credit facility. On November 16, 2007, ICAC borrowed $95.0 million under the term loan facility to finance the purchase
price for our acquisition of TPI and to pay transaction costs. As a result of the substantial fixed costs associated with the debt obligations, we expect
that:


•a decrease in revenues will result in a disproportionately greater percentage decrease in earnings;  
•we may not have sufficient liquidity to fund all of these fixed costs if our revenues decline or costs increase;  
•we may have to use our working capital to fund these fixed costs instead of funding general corporate requirements,
including capital expenditures; 
•we may not have sufficient liquidity to respond to business opportunities, competitive developments and adverse economic
conditions; and 
•our results of operations will be adversely affected if interest rates increase because, based on our current outstanding
term loan borrowings in the amount of $63.8 million, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a pre-tax impact on earnings of approximately $0.6 million per year. 

        These
debt obligations may also impair our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, and our flexibility in the conduct of our business. Our indebtedness under the senior
secured revolving credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets, leaving us with limited collateral for additional financing. Moreover, the terms of our indebtedness under the senior
secured revolving credit facility restrict our ability to take certain actions, including the incurrence of additional indebtedness, mergers and acquisitions, investments and asset sales. Our ability
to pay the fixed costs associated with our debt obligations will depend on our operating performance and cash flow, which in turn depend on general economic conditions and the advisory services
market. A failure to pay interest or indebtedness when due could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of our indebtedness. In such a situation, it is unlikely that
we would be able to fulfill our obligations under or repay the accelerated indebtedness or otherwise cover our fixed costs. As of December 31, 2011, the total principal outstanding under the
term loan facility was $63.8 million. There were no borrowings under the revolving credit facility during fiscal 2011. 
        The
material terms of the 2007 Credit Agreement are as follows: 


•The 2007 Credit Agreement has a maturity date of November 14, 2014.  
•The 2007 Credit Agreement is secured by all of the equity interests owned by the newly formed holding company of the
Borrower, International Advisory Holdings Corp. ("Holdings") and its 

F-25



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 13—FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS AND LONG-TERM DEBT (Continued) 


direct
and indirect domestic subsidiaries and, subject to agreed exceptions, its direct and indirect "first-tier" foreign subsidiaries and a perfected first priority security interest in
all of Holdings' and its direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries' tangible and intangible assets. 


•Holdings and the Borrower's existing direct and indirect subsidiaries and future wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries serve
as guarantors to the Borrower's obligations under the 2007 Credit Agreement. 
•At the Borrower's option, the 2007 Credit Agreement bears interest at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the
"Base Rate" (which is the higher of (a) the rate publicly announced from time to time by the administrative agent as its "prime rate" and (b) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% per annum),
plus the applicable margin (as defined below) or (ii) Eurodollar Rate (adjusted for maximum reserves) as determined by the Administrative Agent, plus the applicable margin. The applicable
margin shall be a percentage per annum equal to 2.5% for the term loans and the revolving loans maintained as Base Rate loans or 3.5% for the term loans and revolving loans maintained as Eurodollar
loans. 
•Mandatory repayments of term loans shall be required from (subject to agreed exceptions) (i) 100% of the proceeds
from asset sales by Holdings and its subsidiaries, (ii) 100% of the net proceeds from issuances of debt by Holdings and its subsidiaries, (iii) so long as the total leverage ratio is 3.0
to 1.0 or higher, 50% of annual excess cash flow of Holdings and its subsidiaries and (iv) 100% of the net proceeds from insurance recovery and condemnation events of Holdings and its
subsidiaries. 
•The 2007 Credit Agreement contains a number of covenants that, among other things, place restrictions on matters
customarily restricted in senior secured credit facilities, including restrictions on indebtedness (including guarantee obligations), liens, fundamental changes, sales or disposition of property or
assets, investments (including loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions), transaction with affiliates, dividends and other payments in respect of capital stock, optional payments and modifications
of other material debt instruments, negative pledges and agreements restricting subsidiary distributions and changes in line of business. In addition, the Borrower is required to comply with a total
leverage ratio as defined in the 2007 Credit Agreement. The total leverage ratio is defined as the ratio of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and
Amortization ("EBITDA".) 
•The 2007 Credit Agreement contains customary events of default, including cross-default to other material agreements,
judgment default and change of control. 

        On
June 29, 2009, the Company made a voluntary principal prepayment of $12.0 million against its outstanding term loan balance of $93.8 million. In conjunction with
this prepayment, our lenders consented to the following conditions: (1) agreement to execute the Company's UK tax planning strategy to reduce future potential cash taxes, (2) exclusion
of the impact in the calculation of EBITDA of up to $5.0 million of restructuring charges relating to the Borrower's previously announced 2009 restructuring plan through December 31,
2009 and (3) exclusion of the impact in the calculation of EBITDA of establishing, if necessary, a reserve in respect of certain accounts receivable and work in progress due from General Motors
Corporation for worked performed on or before June 1, 2009. 
F-26



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 13—FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS AND LONG-TERM DEBT (Continued) 
        On
September 11, 2009, our lenders agreed to amend the total leverage ratio (as defined in the 2007 Credit Agreement) for the remaining life of the 2007 Credit Agreement to
provide the Company with greater financing flexibility in return for additional debt repayments. In accordance with the terms of the amended 2007 Credit Agreement, the Company made $5.0 million
of principal repayments on September 30, 2009 and December 31, 2009 to reduce the outstanding term loan balance to $71.8 million. The principal repayments were made from excess
cash balances generated through the Company's
normal business operations. In accordance with the terms of the 2007 Credit Agreement, the Company made a $2.0 million principal repayment on March 31, 2010 to reduce the outstanding
term loan balance to $69.8 million. 
        On
September 27, 2010, our lenders agreed to amend the total leverage ratio (as defined in the 2007 Credit Agreement) from September 30, 2010 to December 30, 2010
and to restore the exclusion of the impact in the calculation of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization EBITDA of up to $5.0 million of restructuring charges through
December 31, 2011 in order to provide the Company with greater financing flexibility. The Company also received approval to complete the acquisition of STA Consulting subject to certain
conditions. 
        On
December 23, 2010, our lenders agreed to amend the total leverage ratio (as defined in the 2007 Credit Agreement) from December 31, 2010 to March 30, 2011 in
order to provide the Company with greater financing flexibility. Our lenders also agreed to allow the Company to extend the date to complete the acquisition of STA Consulting to March 31, 2011.
On February 10, 2011, the acquisition of STA Consulting was completed. 
        On
March 16, 2011, our lenders agreed to amend the total leverage ratio (as defined in the 2007 Credit Agreement) for the remaining life of the 2007 Credit Agreement to provide us
with greater financing flexibility in return for additional quarterly term loan principal repayments. In accordance with the terms of the amended 2007 Credit Agreement, we made mandatory principal
repayments of $3.0 million on March 31, 2011 and $1.0 million on June 30, 2011, September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2011, respectively, to reduce the
outstanding term loan balance to $63.8 million. The principal repayments will be made from cash generated through our normal business operations. 
        On
March 13, 2012, our lenders agreed to allow International Consulting Acquisition Corp., a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of ISG (the "Borrower"), to include the results of
operations of Compass in the calculation of our leverage ratio. The Borrower also received approval to increase the annual cash dividend payable to ISG to $2.0 million. 
        Additional
mandatory principal repayments totaling $7.0 million and $10.0 million will be due in 2012 and 2013 respectively with the remaining principal repayments due in
2014. The final mandatory term loan principal repayment will be due on November 16, 2014, which is the maturity date for the term loan. 
        As
of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the total principal outstanding under the term loan facility was $63.8 million and $69.8 million, respectively. There were no
borrowings under the revolving credit facility during 2011 or 2010. The carrying amount of long-term debt owed to banks approximates fair value based on interest rates that are currently
available to us for issuance of debt with similar terms and maturities. The 2007 Credit Agreement includes quarterly financial covenants that require us to maintain a maximum total leverage ratio (as
defined in the 2007 Credit Agreement).
As of December 31, 2011, our maximum total leverage ratio was 3.50 to 1.00 and we were in compliance with 
F-27



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 13—FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS AND LONG-TERM DEBT (Continued) 
all
covenants contained in the 2007 Credit Agreement. The maximum total leverage ratio will continue to decline over the life of the 2007 Credit Agreement. The maximum total leverage ratio for 2012 is
3.25 for the quarter ending March 31, 2012 and 3.0 through the period ending December 31, 2012 and will continue to decline thereafter. We currently expect to be in compliance with the
covenants contained within the 2007 Credit Agreement. In the event we are unable to remain in compliance with the debt covenants associated with the 2007 Credit Agreement we have alternative options
available to us including, but not limited to, the ability to make a prepayment on our debt without penalty to bring the actual leverage ratio into compliance. In addition, should the Company's
revenues not meet our forecast, the Company has the ability to reduce various expenditures to minimize the impact to the leverage ratio. Such actions may include reductions to headcount, variable
compensation, marketing expenses, conferences and non-billable travel. Our available cash balances and liquidity will be negative impacted should such prepayment be necessary. 
        We
anticipate that our current cash and the ongoing cash flows from our operations will be adequate to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next twelve
months. The anticipated cash needs of our business could change significantly if we pursue and complete additional business acquisitions, if our business plans change, if economic conditions change
from those currently prevailing or from those now anticipated, or if other unexpected circumstances arise that may have a material effect on the cash flow or profitability of our business. If we
require additional capital resources to grow our business, either internally or through acquisition, we may seek to sell additional equity securities or to secure debt financing. The sale of
additional equity securities or certain forms of debt financing could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. We may not be able to obtain financing arrangements in amounts or on terms
acceptable to us in the future. 
 Compass Convertible Notes  
        On January 4, 2011, as part of the consideration for the Share Purchase, we issued an aggregate of $6.3 million in
convertible notes to Compass. The Notes mature on January 4, 2018 and interest is payable on the outstanding principal amount, computed daily, at the rate of 3.875% per annum on
January 31 of each calendar year and on the seventh anniversary of the date of the Notes. The Notes are subject to transfer restrictions until January 31, 2013. If the price of our
common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market exceeds $4 per share for 60 consecutive trading days (the "Trigger Event"), the holder of the Notes may convert all (but not less than all) of the outstanding
principal amount of the Notes into shares of our common stock at the rate of 1 share for every $4 in
principal amount outstanding. After the Trigger Event, we may prepay all or any portion of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes by giving the holder 30 days written notice. 
 NOTE 14—COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES  
 Employee Retirement Plans  
        The Company's TPI subsidiary maintains a qualified profit-sharing plan (the "Plan"). Prior to January 1, 2008, the provisions of
the Plan provide for a maximum employer contribution per eligible employee of the lesser of 12.75% of compensation or $25,500. Effective January 1, 2008, the contribution was adjusted to 3% of
total cash compensation or $7,350, whichever is less. Employees are generally eligible to participate in the Plan after six months of service and are 100% vested upon entering the Plan. For the years
ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, $1.3 million, $1.2 million and $1.6 million were contributed to the Plan by the Company, respectively. 
F-28




 







 
Table of Contents 

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC.  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data)  
 NOTE 14—COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)  
 Leases  
        The Company leases its office space under long-term operating lease agreements which expire at various dates through
December 2021. Under the operating leases, the Company pays certain operating expenses relating to the leased property and monthly base rent. 
        Aggregate
future minimum payments under noncancelable leases with initial or remaining terms of one year or more consist of the following at December 31, 2011: 













 
 
Operating
Leases 
 


 2012
 
$
2,017
 


 2013
 
 
1,436
 


 2014
 
 
1,239
 


 2015
 
 
903
 


 2016
 
 
421
 


 Thereafter
 
 
961
 


 
 
 
 


 Total minimum lease payments
 
$
6,977
 


 
 
 
 




        The
Company's rental expense for operating leases was $3.9 million, $1.4 million and $1.5 million, in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
 STA Consulting Contingent Consideration  
        As of December 31, 2011, we have recorded a liability of $6.8 million representing the estimated fair value of contingent
consideration related to the acquisition of STA Consulting, of which $2.0 million is classified as current and is expected to be paid in the first quarter of 2012 and $4.8 million is
classified as noncurrent. 
 NOTE 15—RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS  

        From time to time, the Company may have receivables and payables with employees and shareholders. All related party transactions have been conducted in the normal course of business as
if the parties were unrelated. As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the Company had outstanding receivables from related parties, including shareholders, totaling $46,419 and
$52,270, respectively, and no outstanding payables. 
 NOTE 16—INCOME TAXES  

        The components of income (loss) before income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 consists of the following: 



















 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Domestic
 
$
(69,932
)
$
(56,919
)
$
(8,290
)


 Foreign
 
 
5,669
 
 
1,828
 
 
4,676
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total loss before income taxes
 
$
(64,263
)
$
(55,091
)
$
(3,614
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




F-29



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 16—INCOME TAXES (Continued) 
        The
components of the 2011, 2010 and 2009 income tax (benefit) provision are as follows: 



















 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Current:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Federal
 
$
1,195
 
$
3,191
 
$
2,715
 


 State
 
 
291
 
 
722
 
 
566
 


 Foreign
 
 
1,191
 
 
924
 
 
1,594
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total current provision
 
 
2,677
 
 
4,837
 
 
4,875
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Deferred:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Federal
 
 
(9,307
)
 
(6,000
)
 
(5,360
)


 State
 
 
(1,091
)
 
(337
)
 
(233
)


 Foreign
 
 
(605
)
 
(426
)
 
(60
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total deferred benefit
 
 
(11,003
)
 
(6,763
)
 
(5,653
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
(8,326
)
$
(1,926
)
$
(778
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
differences between the effective tax rates reflected in the total provision for income taxes and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% for the year ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: 



















 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Tax benefit computed at 35%
 
$
(22,492
)
$
(19,281
)
$
(1,265
)


 Nondeductible goodwill impairment
 
 
12,010
 
 
16,307
 
 
—
 


 Nondeductible expenses
 
 
193
 
 
743
 
 
107
 


 State income taxes, net of federal benefit
 
 
(899
)
 
148
 
 
151
 


 Derecognition of stock compensation deferred tax asset
 
 
1,255
 
 
68
 
 
117
 


 Valuation allowance
 
 
1,607
 
 
85
 
 
118
 


 Other
 
 
—
 
 
4
 
 
(6
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income tax benefit
 
$
(8,326
)
$
(1,926
)
$
(778
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Effective income tax rates
 
 
13.0
%
 
3.5
%
 
21.5
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




F-30



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 16—INCOME TAXES (Continued) 
        The
tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of the deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows: 
















 
 
December 31,
2011 
 
December 31,
2010 
 


 Current deferred tax asset
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Compensation related expenses
 
$
923
 
$
1,418
 


 Foreign currency translation
 
 
1,445
 
 
952
 


 Other
 
 
1,376
 
 
806
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total current deferred tax asset
 
 
3,744
 
 
3,176
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Current deferred tax liability
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Prepaids
 
 
(414
)
 
(324
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total current deferred tax liability
 
 
(414
)
 
(324
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net current deferred tax asset
 
$
3,330
 
$
2,852
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Noncurrent deferred tax asset
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Compensation related expenses
 
$
573
 
$
980
 


 Foreign tax credit carryovers
 
 
922
 
 
869
 


 Foreign net operating loss carryovers
 
 
3,641
 
 
880
 


 U.S. net operating loss carryovers of non-consolidated entity
 
 
5,465
 
 
—
 


 Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets
 
 
(9,026
)
 
(203
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total noncurrent deferred tax asset
 
 
1,575
 
 
2,526
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Noncurrent deferred tax liability
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Depreciable assets
 
 
(329
)
 
(217
)


 Intangible assets
 
 
(10,119
)
 
(20,951
)


 Investment in foreign subsidiaries
 
 
(1,432
)
 
(694
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total noncurrent deferred tax liability
 
 
(11,880
)
 
(21,862
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net noncurrent deferred tax liability
 
 
(10,305
)
 
(19,336
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net deferred tax liability
 
$
(6,975
)
$
(16,484
)


 
 
 
 
 
 




        A
valuation allowance was established at December 31, 2011 and 2010 due to estimates of future utilization of net operating loss carryovers in the U.S. and certain foreign
jurisdictions, derived primarily from the acquisitions and recorded through purchase accounting. The valuation allowance at December 31, 2011 also includes a full valuation for the Company's
foreign tax credit carryovers and foreign taxes on its controlled foreign corporation unremitted earnings. 
        Benefits
from tax positions should be recognized in the financial statements only when it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination by the
appropriate taxing authority that would have full knowledge of all relevant information. A tax position that meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold is
measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Tax positions that previously failed 
F-31



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 16—INCOME TAXES (Continued) 
to
meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold should be recognized in the first subsequent financial reporting period in which that threshold is met.
Previously recognized tax positions that no longer meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold should be derecognized in the first subsequent financial
reporting period in which that threshold is no longer met. It is the Company's policy to accrue for interest and penalties related to its uncertain tax positions within income tax expense. 
        For
the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company updated its assessment of its tax positions in the taxing jurisdictions where it has operations and determined
that additional accruals were required for the year ended December 31, 2011. 
        A
tabular reconciliation of the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits at the beginning and end of the period is as follows: 



















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Balance, beginning of year
 
$
665
 
$
323
 
$
282
 


 Additions as a result of tax positions taken during the current period
 
 
4
 
 
292
 
 
2
 


 Additions as a result of acquisitions
 
 
1,537
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Reductions relating to tax settlements with taxing authorities
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(36
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total unrecognized tax benefit
 
 
2,206
 
 
615
 
 
248
 


 Interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions
 
 
80
 
 
50
 
 
75
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance, end of year
 
$
2,286
 
$
665
 
$
323
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
amount of unrecognized tax benefit, if recognized, that would affect the effective tax rate is $0.4 million. With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to U.S.
federal, state, local, or non-U.S. income tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 2004. 
 NOTE 17—STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS  

        At the special meeting of stockholders held on November 13, 2007, the 2007 Equity Incentive Plan ("Incentive Plan") and 2007 Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP") were approved by
the Company's stockholders. The Incentive Plan authorizes the grant of awards to participants with respect to a maximum of 4.0 million shares of the Company's common stock, subject to
adjustment to avoid dilution or enlargement of intended benefits in the event of certain significant corporate events, which awards may be made in the form of (i) nonqualified stock options;
(ii) stock options intended to qualify as incentive stock options under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code (stock options described in clause (i) and (ii), "options");
(iii) stock appreciation rights ("SARs"); (iv) restricted stock and/or restricted stock units; (v) performance awards; and (vi) other stock based awards; provided that the
maximum number of shares with respect to which stock options and stock appreciation rights may be granted in the equity incentive plan to any one participant in any given calendar year may not exceed
$0.8 million, and the maximum amount payable to a participant in the equity plan in connection with the settlement of any of any award(s) designated as a "performance compensation awards" in
respect of a single performance period shall be: (x) with respect to performance compensation awards that are 
F-32



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 17—STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS (Continued) 
paid
in shares, 500,000 shares and (y) with respect to performance compensation awards that are paid in cash, $5.0 million. The issuance of shares or the payment of cash upon the
exercise of an award or in consideration of the cancellation or termination of an award shall reduce the total number of shares available under the equity incentive plan, as applicable. The provisions
of each award will vary based on the type of award granted and will be specified by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Those awards which are based on a specific contractual term
will be granted with a term not to exceed ten years. The SARs granted under the Incentive Plan are granted with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the Common Shares at the time the
SARs are granted. 
        On
May 11, 2010, the ISG stockholders approved an amendment for an additional 4.5 million shares authorized for issuance under the 2007 Equity Incentive Plan, except that
each share of the Company's common stock issued under a "full value" award (awards other than stock options or stock appreciation rights) will reduce the number of shares available for issuance by
1.44 shares. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, there were 3,493,455 and 606,417 shares available for grant under the amended and restated Incentive Plan and ESPP, respectively. 
        The
Company recognized $3.1 million, $3.1 million and $2.8 million in employee stock-based compensation expense during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009, respectively. This expense was recorded in selling, general and administrative in the consolidated statement of operations. 
 Stock Appreciation Rights  
        The Compensation Committee may grant (i) a stock appreciation right independent of an option or (ii) a stock appreciation
right in connection with an option, or a portion thereof. A stock appreciation right granted pursuant to clause (ii) of the preceding sentence (A) may be granted at the time the related
option is granted or at any time prior to the exercise or cancellation of the related option, (B) shall cover the same number of shares covered by an option (or such lesser number of shares as
the Compensation Committee may determine) and (C) shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as such option except for such additional limitations as are contemplated above (or such
additional limitations as may be included in an award agreement). 
        SARs
granted pursuant to the Incentive Plan are granted with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the Common Shares at the time the SARs are granted. Pursuant to the
applicable award agreements, the SARs vest and become exercisable with respect to 25% of the shares subject to
the SARs on the first four anniversaries of the grant date, so long as the employee remains employed with the Company on each such date. If the employee's employment with the Company is terminated as
a result of the employee's death or disability, all unvested SARs will be fully vested. If the employee retires, the SARs will continue to vest on the same schedule as if the employee had remained
employed with the Company. Any vested SARs will expire upon the earliest to occur of the following: (i) the tenth anniversary of the grant date; (ii) one year following the date of the
employee's termination of services as a result of death or permanent disability; (iii) 90 days following the fourth anniversary of the grant date, following the participant's retirement;
(iv) 30 days following the date of the participant's termination of employment for any reason (other than as a result of death, disability or retirement); and (v) immediately upon
a termination for cause. SARs will be settled in the form of shares of the Company's common stock upon exercise. 
F-33




 







 
Table of Contents 

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC.  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data)  
 NOTE 17—STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS (Continued)  
        A
summary of the status of the Company's SARs issued under its Incentive Plan is presented below: 






















 
 
SARs 
 
Weighted-Average
Exercise
Price 
 
Weighted-Average
Remaining
Contractual
Life 
 
Aggregate
Intrinsic
Value 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
(in years)
 
 
 


 Outstanding at December 31, 2008
 
 
641
 
$
5.19
 
 
6.4
 
$
70
 


 Granted
 
 
12
 
$
3.15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Exercised
 
 
—
 
$
—
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Forfeited
 
 
(59
)
$
5.51
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding at December 31, 2009
 
 
594
 
$
5.12
 
 
8.4
 
$
—
 


 Granted
 
 
—
 
$
—
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Exercised
 
 
—
 
$
—
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Forfeited
 
 
(105
)
$
4.94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding at December 31, 2010
 
 
489
 
$
5.16
 
 
7.2
 
$
—
 


 Granted
 
 
—
 
$
—
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Exercised
 
 
—
 
$
—
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Forfeited
 
 
(93
)
$
5.64
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
 
 
396
 
$
5.04
 
 
6.5
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Vested and expected to vest at December 31, 2011
 
 
396
 
$
5.04
 
 
6.5
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Exercisable at December 31, 2011
 
 
340
 
$
5.35
 
 
6.4
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
weighted-average grant date fair value for SARs granted during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $0, $0 and $1.90, respectively. The total fair value of the
SARs vested during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $0.2 million, $0.3 million and $0.4, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, there was
$0.1 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to the Company's unvested SARs and that cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 0.95 years. 
        The
Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of each SAR award on the date of grant. The estimated fair value of the SARs is amortized to expense
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. The Company did not grant any SAR during the years end December 31, 2011. The specific assumptions used in determining the fair
values for the SARs granted during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are discussed in more detail below and are noted in the following table. 
        Prior
to December 31, 2009, the volatility calculation was based on the most recent trading day average volatility of a representative sample of seven companies with market
capitalizations of approximately $197 million to $3.7 billion that management believes to be engaged in the business of information services (the "Sample Companies"). The Company
referred to the average volatility of the Sample Companies because management believed that the average volatility of such companies is a reasonable benchmark to use in estimating the expected
volatility of the Company's common stock 
F-34



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 17—STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS (Continued) 
post-business
combination and as a public company. The risk-free interest rate is determined based upon the interest rate on a U.S. Treasury Bill with a term equal to the
expected life of the SARs at the time the SARs was granted. An expected life of five years was taken into account for purposes of assigning a fair value to the SARs. The expected life represents the
period of time the awards granted are expected to be outstanding. There were no SARs issued during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. 



















 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Expected stock volatility
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
73.2
%


 Risk-free interest rate
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1.7
%


 Expected term (in years)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
5.0
 


 Dividend yield
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
0.0
%




        The
Company has not issued any stock options from the offering date through December 31, 2011. 
 Restricted Share Awards/Units  
        The Incentive Plan provides for the granting of restricted share awards ("RSA") or restricted share units ("RSU"), the vesting of which
is subject to conditions and limitations established at the time of the grant. Upon the grant of an RSA, the participant has the rights of a shareholder, including but not limited to the right to vote
such shares and the right to receive any
dividends paid on such shares. Recipients of RSU awards will not have the rights of a shareholder of the Company until such date as the Common Shares are issued or transferred to the recipient. The
Company granted 175,932 RSAs valued at $3,500 for each employee worldwide employed as of November 16, 2007 and otherwise receiving RSU under existing programs. Subject to the employee's
continued employment, the restricted shares vested with respect to 25% of the shares on each of the first four anniversaries of the grant date. If the employee retires (at the normal retirement age
stated in the applicable retirement plan or applicable law, if there is a mandatory retirement age), the restricted shares will continue to vest on the same schedule as if the employee remained
employed with the Company. Upon a change in control, or upon a termination of employment due to employee's death or permanent disability, the restricted shares become 100% vested. Dividends accrue and
will be paid if and when the restricted shares vest. 
        The
Company also granted RSUs to specific employees which have the following characteristics: 


•Performance-Based RSU Vesting:  The RSUs have been
forfeited as the 2010 EBITDA target was not achieved.   
•Time-Based RSU Vesting:  So long as the
employee continues to be employed through the fourth anniversary of the grant date, the RSUs will become 100% vested on such date. 

        If
the employee's employment is terminated (i) at any time during the vesting period due to the employee's death, disability or retirement prior to the applicable vesting date or
(ii) without cause by the Company after 50% of the relevant period has elapsed, then the RSUs will vest prorata based on the period of time worked relative to such period. However, no shares
will be distributed until the applicable pro rata vesting date (and, in the case of the Performance-Based RSUs, only if and to the 
F-35



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 17—STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS (Continued) 
extent
that the EBITDA target is achieved). In all other terminations occurring prior to the applicable vesting date, the RSUs will expire. All RSUs will be payable in shares of the Company's common
stock immediately upon vesting. No dividend equivalents will be paid with respect to any RSUs. 
        The
fair value of RSAs and RSUs is determined based on the closing price of the Company's shares on the grant date. The total fair value is amortized to expense on a
straight-line basis over the vesting period. 
        A
summary of the status of the Company's RSAs and RSUs issued under its Incentive Plan as of December 31, 2011 and changes during the year then ended, is presented below: 






















 
 
RSA 
 
Weighted-
Average
Grant Date
Fair Value 
 
RSU 
 
Weighted-
Average
Grant Date
Fair Value 
 


 Non-vested at December 31, 2008
 
 
103
 
$
7.20
 
 
1,996
 
$
4.20
 


 Granted
 
 
—
 
$
—
 
 
1,165
 
$
3.13
 


 Vested
 
 
(30
)
$
7.20
 
 
(406
)
$
4.29
 


 Forfeited
 
 
(14
)
$
7.20
 
 
(210
)
$
4.36
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Non-vested at December 31, 2009
 
 
59
 
$
7.20
 
 
2,545
 
$
4.21
 


 Granted
 
 
—
 
$
—
 
 
350
 
$
2.07
 


 Vested
 
 
(26
)
$
7.20
 
 
(637
)
$
3.64
 


 Forfeited
 
 
(8
)
$
7.20
 
 
(260
)
$
4.53
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Non-vested at December 31, 2010
 
 
25
 
$
7.20
 
 
1,998
 
$
3.96
 


 Granted
 
 
—
 
$
—
 
 
1,986
 
$
1.98
 


 Vested
 
 
(22
)
$
7.20
 
 
(931
)
$
4.29
 


 Forfeited
 
 
(3
)
$
7.20
 
 
(395
)
$
4.68
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Non-vested at December 31, 2011
 
 
—
 
$
—
 
 
2,658
 
$
2.26
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
total fair value of RSAs and RSUs vested during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $4.1 million, $2.4 million and $2.0 million,
respectively. As of December 31, 2011, there was $0 million and $4.6 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to RSAs and RSUs, which is expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of 0 years and 2.3 years, respectively. 
 Employee Stock Purchase Plan  
        The ESPP provides that a total of 1.2 million shares of Common Stock are reserved for issuance under the plan. The ESPP, which
is intended to qualify as an "employee stock purchase plan" under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code, is implemented utilizing three-month offerings with purchases occurring at
three-month intervals. The ESPP administration is overseen by the Company's Compensation Committee. Employees are eligible to participate if they are employed by the Company for at least
20 hours per week and more than five months in a calendar year. The ESPP permits eligible employees to purchase Common Stock through payroll deductions, ranging from one to ten percent of their
eligible earnings subject to IRS regulated cap of $25,000. The price of Common Stock purchased under the ESPP is 90% of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the applicable 
F-36



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 17—STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS (Continued) 
purchase
date. Employees may end their participation in an offering at any time during the offering period, and participation ends automatically upon termination of employment. The Compensation
Committee may at any time amend or terminate the ESPP, except that no such amendment or termination may adversely affect shares previously granted under the ESPP. The Company may issue new shares for
ESPP using treasury shares or newly issued shares. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company issued 276,902 shares for ESPP. There were 606,417 shares available for purchase at
December 31, 2011 under the ESPP. 
 NOTE 18—WARRANTS  

        The Company issued 28,125,000 units at a price of $8.00 per unit and the underwriters for the Company's initial public offering exercised their over-allotment option and
purchased an additional 4,218,750 units. Each unit included one share of common stock and a warrant to purchase one share of common stock at an exercise price of $6.00. 
        On
February 6, 2007, Oenoke Partners, LLC purchased, in a Private Placement, 6,500,000 warrants at $1 per warrant. The warrants were exercisable on a cashless basis and had
terms and provisions that were identical to those of the warrants sold in the Offering, except that these warrants would not be subject to redemption. Oenoke Partners, LLC also agreed that it
would not sell or otherwise transfer the warrants until one year after the Company consummated a business combination, which occurred on November 16, 2007. Oenoke LLC was dissolved on
December 17, 2008 and the shares and warrants were transferred to ISG's Executive Officers. The 30,647,000 warrants described above expired on January 31, 2011. 
        The
Company also sold to the underwriters, for $100, a four-year option to purchase up to a total of 1,406,250 units at a per-unit price of $9.60. The units
issuable upon exercise of this option were also identical to those offered in the Offering except that warrants included in the option have an exercise price of $7.50. The option expired on
February 6, 2011. 
        In
connection with the acquisition of TPI, the Company issued 5,000,000 warrants valued at $13.6 million ($2.72 per warrant) at an exercise price of $9.18 per share (the
"MCP-TPI Warrants"). The MCP-TPI Warrants are currently exercisable and expire on November 16, 2012. 
        A
summary of the warrant activity as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and changes during the years then ended, is presented below: 
















 
 
Number of
Warrants 
 
Weighted-
Average Exercise
Price 
 


 Warrants outstanding as of December 31, 2008
 
 
37,053
 
$
6.49
 


 Warrants repurchased
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Warrants outstanding as of December 31, 2009
 
 
37,053
 
$
6.49
 


 Warrants repurchased
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Warrants outstanding as of December 31, 2010
 
 
37,053
 
$
6.49
 


 Warrants expired
 
 
(32,053
)
 
6.07
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Warrants outstanding as of December 31, 2011
 
 
5,000
 
$
9.18
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




F-37



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 19—SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION  

        The Company operates in one segment, fact-based sourcing advisory services. The Company operates principally in the Americas, Europe, and Asia Pacific. The Company's foreign
operations are subject to local government regulations and to the economic and political uncertainties of those areas. 
        Geographical
information for the segment is as follows: 



















 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Revenues
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Americas(1)
 
$
86,735
 
$
76,123
 
$
77,007
 


 Europe(2)
 
 
74,383
 
 
39,400
 
 
44,696
 


 Asia Pacific
 
 
23,308
 
 
16,490
 
 
11,041
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
184,426
 
$
132,013
 
$
132,744
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Identifiable long-lived assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Americas
 
$
1,989
 
$
1,919
 
$
2,359
 


 Europe
 
 
770
 
 
111
 
 
118
 


 Asia Pacific
 
 
195
 
 
83
 
 
109
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
2,954
 
$
2,113
 
$
2,586
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Substantially
all relates to operations in the United States.
(2)Includes
revenues from operations in Germany of $31.5 million, $20.1 million and $16.3 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
Includes revenues from operations in the United Kingdom of $19.5 million, $9.3 million and $16.3 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 

        The
segregation of revenues by geographic region is based upon the location of the legal entity performing the services. The Company does not measure or monitor gross
profit or operating income by geography or any other measure or metric, other than consolidated, for the purposes of making operating decisions or allocating resources. 
F-38



 
Table of Contents

INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
 NOTE 20—UNAUDITED QUARTERLY INFORMATION  






















 
 
Quarters Ended 
 


 
 
March 31,
2011 
 
June 30,
2011 
 
September 30,
2011 
 
December 31,
2011 
 


 Fiscal 2011:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net sales
 
$
40,658
 
$
50,253
 
$
48,901
 
$
44,614
 


 Gross profit
 
$
16,428
 
$
22,535
 
$
20,896
 
$
19,744
 


 Operating (loss) income(1)
 
$
(5,187
)
$
2,513
 
$
1,777
 
$
(59,945
)


 Other expense, net
 
$
(815
)
$
(625
)
$
(980
)
$
(1,001
)


 (Loss) income from operations
 
$
(6,002
)
$
1,888
 
$
797
 
$
(60,946
)


 Net (loss) income
 
$
(2,045
)
$
687
 
$
(2,593
)
$
(51,986
)


 Basic (loss) earnings per share
 
$

(0.06
)
$

0.02
 
$

(0.07
)
$

(1.44
)


 Diluted earnings (loss) per share
 
$
(0.06
)
$
0.02
 
$
(0.07
)
$
(1.44
)


 Basic weighted average common shares
 
 
36,104
 
 
36,376
 
 
36,337
 
 
36,213
 


 Diluted weighted average common shares
 
 
36,104
 
 
38,379
 
 
36,337
 
 
36,213
 




 






















 
 
Quarters Ended 
 


 
 
March 31,
2010 
 
June 30,
2010 
 
September 30,
2010 
 
December 31,
2010 
 


 Fiscal 2010:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net sales
 
$
34,844
 
$
33,372
 
$
32,190
 
$
31,607
 


 Gross profit
 
$
16,363
 
$
15,593
 
$
13,548
 
$
14,981
 


 Operating income (loss)(2)
 
$
1,666
 
$
1,027
 
$
(51,915
)
$
(2,519
)


 Other income, net
 
$
(864
)
$
(710
)
$
(891
)
$
(885
)


 Income (loss) from operations
 
$
802
 
$
317
 
$
(52,806
)
$
(3,404
)


 Net income (loss)
 
$
460
 
$
186
 
$
(51,747
)
$
(2,064
)


 Basic earnings (loss) per share
 
$

0.01
 
$

0.01
 
$

(1.61
)
$

(0.06
)


 Diluted earnings (loss) per share
 
$
0.01
 
$
0.01
 
$
(1.61
)
$
(0.06
)


 Basic weighted average common shares
 
 
31,922
 
 
31,981
 
 
32,044
 
 
32,255
 


 Diluted weighted average common shares
 
 
32,134
 
 
32,219
 
 
32,044
 
 
32,255
 








(1)As
a result of its goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments, ISG recorded an impairment charge of $34.3 million during the fourth quarter
of 2011 associated with goodwill and $27.4 million related to intangible assets.
(2)As
a result of its goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments, ISG recorded an impairment charge of $46.6 million during the third quarter
of 2010 associated with goodwill and $5.9 million related to intangible assets. 

F-39















Table of Contents 
 
 
  EXHIBIT INDEX     












Exhibit
Number 
 
Description 


 
2.0
 
Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 24, 2007, as amended, by and between Registrant and MCP-TPI Holdings, LLC (previously filed as Annex A to the Registrant's Definitive Proxy Statement filed with the SEC
on October 17, 2007 (Commission File Number: 001-33287), and incorporated herein by reference).


 
2.1
 
Agreement for the Sale and Purchase of the Entire Issued Share Capital of CCGH Limited, dated as of January 4, 2011, between Registrant and the persons named therein (previously filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the
Registrant's Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 4, 2011 (Commission File Number: 001-33287), and incorporated herein by reference).


 
2.2
 
Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 10, 2011, among Registrant (for specific section only), and Salvaggio & Teal Ltd. (d/b/a Salvaggio, Teal & Associates), Salvaggio &
Teal II, LLC, Mitt Salvaggio, Kirk Teal, Nathan Frey, International Consulting Acquisition Corp., (previously filed as Exhibit 2.1to the Registrant's Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 11, 2011 (Commission File Number:
001-33287), and incorporated herein by reference).


 
3.1
 
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (previously filed as Exhibit 3.1 to Amendment No. 5 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on
January 29, 2007 (Commission File Number: 333-136536), and incorporated herein by reference).


 
3.2
 
Amended and Restated By-Laws, dated as of December 10, 2008 (previously filed as Exhibit 3.2 to the Registrant's Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 10, 2008 (Commission File Number: 001-33287),
 and incorporated herein by reference).


 
4.1
 
Specimen Common Stock Certificate (previously filed as Exhibit 4.2 to Amendment No. 3 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on December 22, 2006 (Commission File
Number: 333-136536), and incorporated herein by reference).


 
4.2
 
Common Stock Purchase Warrant, dated as of November 16, 2007, issued to MCP-TPI Holdings, LLC (previously filed as Exhibit 4.8 to the Registrant's Form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 27,
2007 (Commission File Number: 001-33287), and incorporated herein by reference).


 
4.3
 
Form of Subordinated Convertible Note, dated as of January 4, 2011, between Registrant and the persons named therein (previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's Form 8-K filed with the SEC on
January 4, 2011 (Commission File Number: 001-33287), and incorporated herein by reference).


 
10.1
 
Registration Rights Agreement between the Registrant and the existing Stockholders dated as of February 6, 2007 (previously filed as Exhibit 10.9 to Amendment No. 3 to the Registrant's Registration
Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on December 22, 2006 (Commission File Number: 333-136536), and incorporated herein by reference).


 
10.2
#
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (previously filed as Annex A to the Registrant's Definitive Proxy Statement filed with the SEC on April 7, 2010 (Commission File Number: 001-33287), and
incorporated herein by reference).


 
10.3
#
2007 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (previously filed as Annex C to the Registrant's Definitive Proxy Statement filed with the SEC on October 17, 2007 (Commission File Number: 001-33287), and incorporated
herein by reference).







Table of Contents












Exhibit
Number 
 
Description 


 
10.4
 
Credit Agreement, dated as of November 16, 2007, among International Advisory Holdings Corp., International Consulting Acquisition Corp., various lenders and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Administrative
Agent (previously filed as Exhibit 10.30 to the Registrant's Form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 27, 2007 (Commission File Number: 001-33287), and incorporated herein by reference).


 
10.5
 
First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated September 11, 2009 (previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on November 6, 2009 (Commission File Number:
001-33287), and incorporated herein by reference).


 
10.6
 
Second Amendment to Credit Agreement dated October 29, 2010 (previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on November 9, 2010 (Commission File Number:
001-33287), and incorporated herein by reference).


 
10.7
 
Third Amendment to Credit Agreement dated December 23, 2010 (previously filed as Exhibit 10.8 to the Registrant's Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 16, 2011 (Commission File Number: 001-33287),
and incorporated herein by reference).


 
10.8
 
Fourth Amendment to Credit Agreement dated March 16, 2011 (previously filed as Exhibit 10.9 to the Registrant's Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 16, 2011 (Commission File Number: 001-33287),
and incorporated herein by reference).


 
10.9
*
Fifth Amendment to Credit Agreement dated March 13, 2012.


 
10.10
#
Employment Letter dated as of September 24, 2009, between the Company and David E. Berger (previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Form 8-K filed with the SEC on September 29, 2009
(Commission File Number: 001-33287), and incorporated herein by reference).


 
10.11
#
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (Time-Based), (previously filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant's Form 8-K filed with the SEC on September 29, 2009 (Commission File Number: 001-33287),
and incorporated herein by reference).


 
10.12
#
Form of Restricted Covenant Agreement, (previously filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant's Form 8-K filed with the SEC on September 29, 2009 (Commission File Number: 001-33287), and incorporated
herein by reference).


 
10.13
#
Severance Agreement dated as of October 5, 2009, between the Company and David E. Berger (previously filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant's Form 8-K filed with the SEC on September 29, 2009
(Commission File Number: 001-33287), and incorporated herein by reference).


 
10.14
#
Change in Control Agreement dated as of January 7, 2011, between the Company and Michael P. Connors (previously filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant's Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 7,
2011 (Commission File Number: 001-33287), and incorporated herein by reference).


 
10.15
*#
Form of Change in Control Agreement for officers.


 
10.16
#
Employment Letter dated as of January 4, 2011 between the Company and David Whitmore (previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 7, 2011 (Commission
File Number: 001-33287), and incorporated herein by reference).


 
10.16.1
#
Employment Letter for David Whitmore, dated December 16, 2011 (previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 21, 2011 (Commission File Number:
001-33287), and incorporated herein by reference).


 
10.17
*#
Employment Letter for Harold K. Somerdyk, dated June 21, 2010.







Table of Contents












Exhibit
Number 
 
Description 


 
10.18
#
Employment Agreement for Michael P. Connors, dated December 16, 2011 (previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 21, 2011 (Commission File Number:
001-33287), and incorporated herein by reference).


 
11.0
*
Computation of Earnings Per Share (included in Consolidated Statement of Operations to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II—Item 8 herein).


 
14.0
 
Code of Ethics (previously filed as Exhibit 14.0 to the Registrant's Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 27, 2008 (Commission File Number: 001-33287), and incorporated herein by
reference).


 
21.1
 
Subsidiaries of the Company (previously filed as Exhibit 21.1 to the Registrant's Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 16, 2011 (Commission File Number: 001-33287), and incorporated herein by
reference).


 
23.1
*
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.


 
24.1
*
Power of Attorney.


 
31.1
*
Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to SEC Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a).


 
31.2
*
Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to SEC Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a).


 
32.1
*
Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §1350.


 
32.2
*
Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §1350.


 
101
*
The following financial statements from ISG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, filed on March 15, 2012, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language); (i) Consolidated
Balance Sheet, (ii) Consolidated Statements of Operations, (iii) Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and (v) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In accordance with Rule 406T of
Regulation S-T, the XBRL related information in Exhibit 101 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be
part of any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.







*Filed
herewith.
#Indicates
Item 15(a)(3) exhibit (management contract or compensation plan or arrangement). 












 
Table of Contents 
 
 SIGNATURES  
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the city of Stamford, in the State of Connecticut on March 15, 2012. 














 
 
INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC.



 
 
 By:
 
/s/ MICHAEL P. CONNORS  


 
 
 
 


  Michael P. Connors Chairman and Chief Executive Officer




        Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated. 















Name



 
Position




 
Date





 
 

 
 

 
 

 


/s/ MICHAEL P. CONNORS

  Michael P. Connors
 
Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer (Principal Executive Officer)
 
March 15, 2012



/s/ DAVID E. BERGER

  David E. Berger
 
Executive Vice President, Chief
Financial Officer (Principal
Financial Officer and Principal
Accounting Officer)
 
March 15, 2012


 *NEIL G. BUDNICK

  Neil G. Budnick
 
Director
 
March 15, 2012


 *GERALD S. HOBBS

  Gerald S. Hobbs
 
Director
 
March 15, 2012


 *KALPANA RAINA

  Kalpana Raina
 
Director
 
March 15, 2012


 *DONALD C. WAITE III

  Donald C. Waite III
 
Director
 
March 15, 2012


 *ROBERT E. WEISSMAN

  Robert E. Weissman
 
Director
 
March 15, 2012


*By:
 
/s/ MICHAEL P. CONNORS

  Michael P. Connors**
 

 
 

 








**By
authority of the power of attorney filed as Exhibit 24.1 hereto 
















Table of Contents 
 
 
  INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP, INC.     SCHEDULE II—VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS  (in thousands)     

























Description



 
Balance at
Beginning
of Period 
 
Balance
Assumed in
Acquisitions 
 
Charges to
Costs and
Expenses 
 
Deductions 
 
Balance at
End of
Period 
 


 Year ended December 31, 2011:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Allowance for doubtful accounts
 
$
195
 
 
327
 
 
588
 
 
(561
)
$
549
 


 Allowance for tax valuation
 
$
203
 
 
8,159
 
 
1,103
 
 
(439
)
$
9,026
 


 Year ended December 31, 2010:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Allowance for doubtful accounts
 
$
206
 
 
—
 
 
40
 
 
(51
)
$
195
 


 Allowance for tax valuation
 
$
118
 
 
—
 
 
85
 
 
—
 
$
203
 


 Year ended December 31, 2009:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Allowance for doubtful accounts
 
$
132
 
 
—
 
 
510
 
 
(436
)
$
206
 


 Allowance for tax valuation
 
$
—
 
 
—
 
 
118
 
 
—
 
$
118
 














