
10-K
1
d384838d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549   
  Form 10-K
  


    
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended May 31, 2012 
Commission File No. 001-34751 
   
National American University Holdings, Inc.  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   






Delaware
 
83-0479936

 (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
 
 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)




5301 S. Highway 16, Rapid City, SD
 
57701

(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(Zip Code)
 (605) 721-5200  (Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)  Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   






 Common Stock, $.0001 par Value
 
 The NASDAQ Stock Market

Title of each class
 
Name of each exchange on which registered
 Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Act: 
None 
(Title of class)   
  Indicate by
check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes  ¨    No  x  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant
to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes  ¨    No  x 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.    Yes  x    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes  x    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.405 of this chapter) is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. ¨  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definition of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
  










Large accelerated filer
 
¨
  
Accelerated filer
 
x






Non-accelerated filer
 
¨  (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
  
Smaller reporting company
 
¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).    Yes  ¨    No  x 
As of July 31, 2012, there were 25,574,124 shares of Common Stock, $0.0001 par value per share outstanding. 
The aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock held by non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the
common equity was last sold as of November 30, 2011, the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, was approximately $85.9 million. 
   
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  Certain portions of the Registrant’s Definitive Proxy Statement for its 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (which is expected to be filed with the Commission within 120 days after the end of the
Registrant’s 2012 fiscal year) are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Report.   
   


Table of Contents
NATIONAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY HOLDINGS, INC AND SUBSIDIARIES 
FORM 10-K  
INDEX   








  
  
Page
 

PART I 
  




 Item 1. Business
  
 
4
  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors
  
 
41
  

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
63
  

 Item 2. Properties
  
 
63
  

 Item 3. Legal Proceedings
  
 
63
  

 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
  
 
63
  

 PART II
  




 Item 
5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
  
 
63
  

 Item 6. Selected Financial Data
  
 
68
  

 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
  
 
70
  

 Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
  
 
83
  

 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
84
  

 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure
  
 
114
  

 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
  
 
114
  

 Item 9B. Other information
  
 
115
  

 PART III
  




 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance
  
 
115
  

 Item 11. Executive Compensation
  
 
115
  

 Item 
12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
  
 
115
  

 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
Independence
  
 
115
  

 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services
  
 
115
  

 PART IV
  




 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
  
 
116
  

  -2-



Table of Contents
PART I 
SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  This document and the documents incorporated by reference herein contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act,
and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We may, in some cases, use words such as “project,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “expect,”
“estimate,” “intend,” “should,” “would,” “could,” “potentially,” “will” or “may,” or other words that convey uncertainty of future events, future financial performance,
expectations, regulation or outcomes to identify these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding proposed new programs, statements concerning projections, predictions,
expectations, estimates or forecasts as to our business, financial and operational results and future economic performance, and statements of management’s goals and objectives and other similar expressions concerning matters that are not
historical facts.  Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results and will not
necessarily be accurate indications that such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking statements are based on information available at the time those statements are made or management’s good faith belief as of that time with
respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in or suggested by the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause such
differences include:   


 
•
 
 our ability to comply with the extensive and changing regulatory framework applicable to our industry, including Title IV, state laws and
regulatory requirements and accrediting agency requirements;   


 
•
 
 the ability of our students to obtain Title IV funds, state financial aid, and private financing; 
 


 
•
 
 the pace of growth of our enrollment;   


 
•
 
 our conversion of prospective students to enrolled students and our retention of active students; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to update and expand the content of existing programs and the development of new programs in a cost-effective manner or on a timely basis;
  


 
•
 
 the competitive environment in which we operate;   


 
•
 
 our cash needs and expectations regarding cash flow from operations; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to manage and grow our business and execution of our business and growth strategies; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to maintain and expand existing commercial relationships with various corporations and U.S. Armed Forces and develop new commercial
relationships;   


 
•
 
 our ability to adjust to the changing economic conditions; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to use advances in technology that could enhance the online experience for our students; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to sell the condominium units we own, and the general condition of the real estate market, in Rapid City, South Dakota;
  


 
•
 
 our estimated future financial results or performance; 
 


 
•
 
 our actual financial performance generally; and   


 
•
 
 other factors discussed in this annual report under the captions “Risk Factors,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations,” “Business,” and “Regulatory Matters.” 
  -3-



Table of Contents
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements are made. You should not
put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements after the date of this annual report to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors
affecting forward-looking information, except to the extent required by applicable laws. If we do update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect to those or other
forward-looking statements.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “we”, “us”, “our”
and the “Company” used throughout this document refer to National American University Holdings, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiary, Dlorah, Inc., which owns and operates National American University, sometimes referred to as
“NAU” or the “university”.  Item 1. Business. 
Overview  We are a
provider of postsecondary education primarily focused on the needs of working adults and other non-traditional students. We own and operate National American University, a regionally accredited, proprietary, multi-campus institution of higher
learning founded in 1941. Since 1998, we have been offering academic and degree programs online. Using both campus-based and online instruction, we provide associate, bachelor’s and master’s degree and diploma programs in business-related
disciplines, such as accounting, applied management, business administration, information technology and healthcare-related disciplines, such as nursing and healthcare management. Our mission is to prepare students of diverse interests, cultures and
abilities for careers in our core fields in a caring and supportive environment.  We currently have 35 educational sites (two
of which are pending regulatory approvals – Indianapolis, Indiana and Tigard, Oregon) in the states of Colorado, Indiana, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota and Texas, distance learning service
centers in Indiana, Missouri, New Jersey and Texas and distance learning operations and central administration offices in Rapid City, South Dakota. Several of our educational sites are hybrid learning centers, which utilize small physical facilities
in strategic geographic areas, allowing our students to meet face-to-face with staff for assistance with their educational choices and related services while completing the majority of their coursework online. Working adults and other
non-traditional students are attracted to the flexibility of our online programs and the convenience of our hybrid learning centers.  In addition to our university operations, we operate a real estate business known as Fairway Hills Developments, or Fairway Hills. Our real estate business rents apartment units and develops and sells
condominium units in the Fairway Hills Planned Residential Development area of Rapid City, South Dakota.  Our enrollment
increased from approximately 8,800 students as of May 31, 2010 to approximately 10,000 students as of May 31, 2011, and then to approximately 11,220 students as of May 31, 2012, representing annual growth rates of approximately 13.6%
from 2010 to 2011 and 12.0% from 2011 to 2012. During the same periods, our revenue grew from $89.8 million for the fiscal year ended 2010, to $106.8 million for fiscal year ended 2011, and then to $118.9 million for the fiscal year ended
May 31, 2012, representing annual increases of 18.9% and 11.3%. Income before income taxes for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2010 was $16.5 million, compared to $16.7 million for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2011 and $8.8 million for
the fiscal year ended May 31, 2012. Revenue for the NAU segment grew from $87.9 million in 2010 to $105.4 million in 2011 and then to $117.8 million in 2012 representing an increase of 19.8% between 2010 and 2011 and 11.8% from 2011 to 2012.
Income before income taxes for the NAU segment was $17.3 million in 2010 and $17.3 million in 2011decreasing to $9.1 million in 2012. Total assets for the NAU segment grew from $33.1 million in 2010 to $60.2 million in 2011 and $70.4 million in
2012. Revenue for the other segment, consisting of our real estate business, decreased from $1.9 million in 2010 to $1.4 million in 2011 and to $1.1 million in 2012 representing a decrease of 22.2% between 2010 and 2011 and a decrease of 25.7% from
2011 to 2012. Loss before taxes for the other segment decreased from $0.7 million in 2010 to $0.6 million in 2011 and then was further reduced to $0.3 million in 2012. Total assets for the other segment grew from $14.2 million in 2010 to $17.7
million in 2011 and decreased to $12.7 million in 2012. We believe our recent growth in student enrollment and revenue is the result of our marketing efforts and attractive educational programs with flexible scheduling alternatives as well as a
general increase in the demand for postsecondary education. The recent decrease in income before income taxes was largely due to increase in the development, building and staffing of new campuses and the associated start-up costs. We believe we have
an opportunity to continue increasing revenue while controlling costs by further leveraging our online offerings and hybrid learning centers. 
  -4-



Table of Contents
University History 
Originally founded in 1941, NAU, then operating under the name National School of Business, offered specialized business training to
college students. During the late 1960s and early 1970s, the university progressed from a two-year business school to a four-year college of business and embarked on a recruitment of qualified graduates of one- and two-year programs from accredited
business schools in the eastern United States. Such programs allowed students to continue their education and receive appropriate transfer credit for their previous academic achievements. In 1974, the university, then known as National College,
added its first branch educational site in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, followed later that year by educational sites in Denver and Colorado Springs, Colorado, and Minneapolis and St. Paul, Minnesota. The university offered conveniently scheduled
courses that would lead to a degree appealing to working adults and other non-traditional students.  Since 1974, we have
continued to expand educational sites, add online education and develop graduate degree programs. We have also developed professional programs in nursing and allied health that allow students to pursue degrees in these areas in a flexible learning
environment. In addition, we have leveraged our online expertise into affiliations with other educational institutions that lack such online capabilities. Through these affiliations, which have resulted in increased revenue with little additional
cost, we provide other institutions our curricula, faculty, consulting and technology services to enable them to deliver academic programs online. We have also created our “Best of Both Worlds—Instructional Delivery Platform™”
program that, often in affiliation with foreign educational institutions, distributes our courses over the Internet to students overseas. 
Corporate Information 
National American University Holdings, Inc., formerly known as Camden Learning Corporation, was organized under the laws of the State of
Delaware on April 10, 2007, as a blank check company to acquire one or more domestic or international assets of an operating business in the education industry. On November 23, 2009, as a result of the merger transaction with Dlorah, Inc.,
a South Dakota corporation, which owns and operates NAU, Dlorah became our wholly owned subsidiary. For accounting purposes, Dlorah was the acquirer and accounted for the transaction as a recapitalization. Accordingly, the consolidated financial
statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K reflect the results of Dlorah. We conduct substantially all of our business and generate substantially all of our revenue through Dlorah. Our primary business is the operations of National
American University, which generated 99.1% of our revenue in fiscal year 2012. We also have multi-family residential real estate operations in Rapid City, South Dakota, which generated 0.9% of our revenue in fiscal year 2012. We maintain a website
at www.national.edu. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available on our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form
8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission. 
  -5-



Table of Contents
Our Core Values  Since our inception, we have been guided by the following core values, which we believe have contributed to our success in obtaining and retaining students and faculty: 
 


 
•
 
 provide a caring and supportive learning environment; 
 


 
•
 
 offer high quality instructional programs and services; and 
 


 
•
 
 offer technical and professional career programs.  These core values have remained our foundation as we expanded from a single education site offering specialized business training to a multi-state diversified educational institution. We promote
understanding and support of our mission and core values through participation of students, faculty, staff administrators and the board of governors in the governance and administrative structures of the university. We have adopted and implemented
policies and procedures within these structures to ensure that we adhere to our core values and operate with integrity as we fulfill our mission.  Our commitment to these core values is evidenced in the daily interactions among our students, faculty, staff and administrators. The last biennial comprehensive institutional student survey conducted in
2011 found that the four characteristics receiving the highest student satisfaction rating cumulatively across the university were:   


 
•
 
 the overall ease of the registration process;   


 
•
 
 the ability to learn on your own;   


 
•
 
 the caring and supportive attitude by faculty toward students; and 
 


 
•
 
 the opportunity to develop knowledge of subjects in the program’s emphasized areas. 
Approach to Academic Quality  We have identified a number of key elements to promote a high level of academic quality, and they include:  Performance based, career-oriented curricula. We create performance-based curricula designed to enable all students to gain the foundational knowledge, professional competencies and
demonstrable skills, including technical and technological skills, required to be successful in their chosen fields. We design our curricula to address specific career-oriented objectives we believe working adult and other non-traditional students
are seeking. We have invested significant human and financial resources in the implementation of this curricula development to support faculty and students in achieving prescribed student learning outcomes. Our performance-based curricula is
designed and delivered by our faculty members who are committed to delivering a high quality, rigorous education to prepare our students for their careers.  Qualified faculty. We seek to hire and retain qualified faculty members with relevant practical experience and the necessary skills to provide a high-quality education for our students. A
significant percentage of our current faculty members hold graduate degrees. We often seek faculty members who are able to integrate relevant, practical experiences from their professional careers into the courses they teach. We also invest in the
professional development of our faculty members by providing training in campus and online teaching techniques, hosting events and discussion forums that foster sharing of best practices and continually assessing teaching effectiveness through
administrative reviews and student evaluations.  Standardized course design. We employ a standardized curriculum
development process to promote consistent active learning experiences in our courses. We continue to review our programs in an effort to ensure they remain consistent, up-to-date and effective in producing the desired student learning outcomes. We
also regularly review student survey data to identify opportunities for course modifications and enhancements. 
Effective student services. We establish teams of academic and administrative personnel who act as the primary support for
our students, beginning at the application stage and continuing through graduation. In recent years, we have also concentrated on improving the technology used to support student learning, including enhancing our online learning platform and student
services. As a result, many of our support services, including academic, administrative, library and career services are accessible online, generally allowing users to access these services at a time and in a manner convenient to them. 
  -6-



Table of Contents
Continual academic oversight. The academic oversight and assessment functions
for all of our programs are conducted through the provost’s office and other academic offices, which periodically evaluate the content, delivery method, faculty performance and desired student learning outcomes for our academic programs. We
continually assess outcomes data to determine whether our students graduate with the knowledge, competencies and skills necessary to succeed in the workplace. Our provost also initiates and manages periodic examinations of our curricula to evaluate
and verify academic program quality and workplace applicability. Based on these processes and student feedback, we determine whether to modify or discontinue programs that do not meet our standards or market needs, or to create new programs.
 Board of Governors. We maintain a separate board of governors to oversee the academic mission of the
university. Among other things, the board of governors is responsible for determining the mission and purposes of the university, approving educational programs and ensuring the well-being of students, faculty and staff. A majority of the members of
the board of governors are independent, and most of the current members have been members of our board of governors for a number of years. The oversight and guidance of our board of governors has been critical to our growth and the maintenance of
our academic standards.  Industry and Outlook  In a March 2009 report by the U.S. Department of Education’s National Center for Education Statistics, the number of students enrolled in postsecondary institutions was 18.2 million in 2007 and
is projected to grow to 20.1 million by 2017. We believe a significant element causing the growth of the postsecondary education market is the growth of online education. The advent of the Internet and the ability to provide quality instruction
to students via the Internet has made education available to persons who otherwise might not have time to obtain such education. This is especially true for working adults who often have limited time and resources to devote to education. According
to Eduventures Inc., a leading information services company for the education market, online enrollment is projected to grow to 4.0 million students by 2014.  We compete with both for-profit and non-profit career-oriented schools, two-year junior colleges and community colleges. Competition is generally based on location, program offerings, modality, the
quality of instruction, placement rates, selectivity of admissions, recruiting and tuition rates. We seek to compete against community colleges by offering more frequent start dates, more flexible hours, better instructional resources, more hands on
training, shorter program length and greater assistance with job placement. We also seek to compete against other career schools by focusing on offering high demand, career-oriented programs, providing individual attention to students and focusing
on flexible degrees for working adults and other non-traditional students. We believe we are able to compete effectively in our respective local markets because of the diversity of our program offerings, quality of instruction, the strength of our
brand, our reputation and our success in placing students with employers.  We also compete with other institutions that are
eligible to receive Title IV program funding. These include four-year, non-profit colleges and universities, community colleges and for-profit institutions, whether they offer programs that are four years, two years or less. Our competition differs
in each market depending on the curriculum offered. Also, because schools can often add new programs in a relatively short period of time, typically within six to 12 months, new competitors within an academic program area can emerge quickly.
 Certain institutions have competitive advantages over us. Non-profit and public institutions receive substantial government
subsidies, government and foundation grants and tax-deductible contributions and have other financial resources generally not available to for-profit schools. In addition, some of our for-profit competitors have a more extended or dense network of
schools and campuses, which may enable them to recruit students more efficiently from a wider geographic area. Furthermore, some of our competitors, including both traditional colleges and universities and other for-profit schools, have
substantially greater financial and other resources and name recognition than we have, which may enable them to compete more effectively for potential students. We also expect to face increased competition as a result of new entrants to the online
education market, including established colleges and universities that have not previously offered online education programs. 
  -7-



Table of Contents
Competitive Strengths  We believe the following strengths enable us to compete effectively in the postsecondary education market:  Our hybrid learning centers allow for greater leverage of assets. Our hybrid learning centers provide students with the convenience of face-to-face interaction with local staff for
assistance with their education planning. In addition, these centers provide an opportunity for students to take certain courses at our educational sites while taking the majority of their classes online. This provides students with a more flexible
class experience and us with an opportunity to further leverage our fixed assets.  Our nursing and allied health
programs. We have developed well-recognized nursing and allied health programs that provide students with an opportunity to obtain a professional degree. We continue to expand these programs and are in the final stages of approval for
a new baccalaureate nursing program in New Mexico. Our current nursing programs include an Associate of Science Nursing, generic Bachelor of Science in Nursing, practical nurse to Bachelor of Science in Nursing, online Registered Nurse to Bachelor
of Science Nursing program and Master of Science Nursing.   Our multiple accreditations and regulatory
approvals. We are regionally accredited through the Higher Learning Commission and are a member of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools. In addition, many of our programs maintain specialized or programmatic accreditation,
including accreditation from the National League of Nursing Accrediting Commission and the International Assembly for Collegiate Business Education and approval by the American Bar Association of our paralegal studies program offered at the Rapid
City and Sioux Falls, South Dakota campuses.  Our affiliations with other educational institutions. We began
offering online academic programs in 1998, and since then we have developed significant expertise in curricula and technology related to online education. We have leveraged this knowledge by establishing a number of affiliations with other
educational institutions. Through these relationships, we provide the curricula, faculty consulting and technology services to these other institutions. We believe these affiliations offer significant opportunities for revenue diversification, asset
leverage and revenue growth.  Our commitment to high demand, career-oriented programs. We are committed to
offering quality, performance-based educational programs to meet the needs of employers. Our programs are designed to help our students achieve their career objectives in a competitive job market. Our programs are taught by qualified faculty
members, who often have practical experience in their respective fields, offering students their “real-world experience” perspectives. We periodically review and assess our programs and faculty to ensure that our programs are current and
meet the changing demands of employers.  Our focus on individual attention to students. We believe in providing
individual attention to our students to ensure an excellent educational experience. We provide a number of student support services, including administrative, financial aid, library, career and technology support, to help maximize the success of our
students. We also provide personal guidance to our students from the admissions and financing stages to the career placement and advising stages.  Our focus on flexible coursework, degrees and diplomas. We have designed our program offerings and our online delivery platform with flexible scheduling to meet the needs of working adults
and other non-traditional students. We offer on-site day, evening and weekend classes, as well as online degree and diploma programs. For even greater scheduling flexibility, our hybrid learning centers offer a blended model of learning that
incorporates on-site classes with online classes. We believe working adults and other non-traditional students are attracted to the convenience and flexibility of our programs because they can study and interact with faculty and classmates during
times and at places that suit their needs. 
  -8-



Table of Contents
Our experienced executive management team with strong operating history. Our
executive management team possesses extensive experience in the management and operation of postsecondary education institutions. Our president, Dr. Jerry Gallentine, has worked in the education industry for over 45 years. Throughout his
career, Dr. Gallentine has taught various courses as a professor and also served as a president of various higher learning institutions before guiding our growth and development since 1993. Dr. Ronald Shape, our chief executive officer,
began his career in higher education with us in 1991. He began teaching courses in accounting, auditing and finance in 1995. Dr. Shape became our chief fiscal officer in 2002 and our chief executive officer in April 2009. Dr. Samuel Kerr
is our provost, secretary and general counsel. Dr. Kerr began his career in the education industry in 1983 as a high school English/Journalism instructor. He also taught education courses for a local college. After graduating from law school,
he started his legal practice in 1992, serving in the capacities of special assistant attorney general for South Dakota State University, special assistant attorney general for South Dakota Department of Transportation, and our outside legal
counsel. Dr. Kerr is also a faculty member in our graduate school. Venessa D. Green is our chief financial officer of NAU and began her career with NAU in December 2004. Ms. Green has also served as an adjunct faculty member of NAU since
December 2006 teaching in both the undergraduate and graduate disciplines. Ms. Green is a licensed certified public accountant in the State of South Dakota and has been a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the
South Dakota Certified Public Accountant Society since 2007. Michaelle J. Holland is the president of campus operations for NAU. Ms. Holland began her career at NAU in 1991, left NAU to work for Lincoln School of Commerce as its campus
president from 1999 to 2002, and then returned to NAU in June 2002. Dr. Robert A. Paxton was appointed to the president of NAU – Distance Learning in January 2009. From January 1995 to August 2008, Dr. Paxton served as president
of Iowa Central Community College. Dr. Paxton served as vice president of instruction of Cowley County Community College and Area Vocational-Technical School, Arkansas City, Kansas, from June 1990 to December 1994 and as dean of student
services from July 1988 to June 1990. Scott E. Toothman was appointed as vice president of institutional support and military services for NAU in February 2010. From February 2004 to February 2010, Mr. Toothman was the campus director for
NAU’s Ellsworth Air Force Base campus. From September 2002 to February 2004, he served as an instructor for NAU. Michael Buckingham was appointed president of our real estate operations in November, 2009. Mr. Buckingham oversees the
maintenance of all the campuses in the NAU system, as well as properties being developed by our real estate operations. Mr. Buckingham served as corporate vice president of Dlorah from 1992, and the president of Dlorah’s real estate
operations from 1988 until the closing of the Dlorah merger.  Business Development and Expansion 
Our expansion of academic program offerings has contributed to our growth. In response to workforce and student demand, we have expanded
our undergraduate healthcare-related programming and our graduate programs in business and management. We continue to focus on offering a variety of in-demand degree programs in multiple locations and delivery formats. On all levels, we consider
changes in student demographics, demand for degree programs and employment outlook in our business development decision-making processes. Our planning process includes long-range planning, feasibility studies, market research and a variety of other
research projects involving changing job markets. In that regard, we continue to focus on addressing current societal and economic trends and engaging in appropriate analysis and planning for the programs and markets we seek to develop. 
Since opening our first branch campus in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, in 1974, a central part of our growth strategy has been developing
and opening educational sites in vibrant and growing communities with expanding workforces. In 2009, we opened our first hybrid learning center in Minnetonka, Minnesota, that offers blended online and on-campus degree programs. Since then, we have
opened several new hybrid learning centers. Although smaller than our traditional educational sites, these hybrid learning centers, in collaboration with our online operations, offer complete programs and services to our students. We believe our
significant experience and success in expanding and supporting new educational sites and hybrid learning centers positions us well for continued expansion to meet market demand. 
We began offering academic degree and diploma programs online in 1998, through what we refer to as our distance learning campus. We were
one of the first regionally accredited universities to be approved by the Higher Learning Commission to offer full degree programs under an Internet-based delivery methodology. We have invested heavily in the creation and evolution of a
sophisticated and reliable online delivery system. We have successfully served online students in each of the 50 states and the District of Columbia, as well as internationally. The distance learning campus has grown as an organizational structure,
providing a scope of service consistent with the university’s other campuses. Careful consideration was afforded to preserving the student-centered philosophy of the university while capitalizing on the technological advancements in online
delivery. The organization of the distance learning campus continues to evolve in response to increasing enrollment and the expanding sphere of quality services available to our students. 
  -9-



Table of Contents
Recognizing the current and future impact of globalization on higher education, we have
worked actively to enroll international students. During the late 1990s, we started developing international affiliations with foreign colleges and universities. Such affiliations provide students from other countries the opportunity to study at
universities in the United States to complete their studies. Many academically capable and motivated students from foreign countries desire to take coursework at American colleges or universities but are not able to do so for various reasons,
including inadequate financial resources, family and work obligations in their home countries and immigration restrictions. To meet the needs of these students, we have developed relationships with foreign colleges and universities to offer their
students an option to combine the curricula of their home country institution with our curricula offered through our online distance learning program so that those students can remain in their home country and attend a local college or university
while taking courses offered by an accredited American university, without having to travel to the United States. We currently have affiliations with educational institutions in Chile, Bolivia, Paraguay, Ghana, United Arab Emirates and Greece.
 Growth Strategies  Expand academic program offerings. We will continue developing and offering new physical and online programs that have attractive characteristics. Our new program offerings typically build
on existing programs and incorporate additional specialized courses, which offer students the opportunity to pursue programs that address their specific educational objectives while allowing us to expand our program offerings with modest incremental
investment. Since 2008, we have launched the following new academic programs:   






Healthcare Coding
  
Diploma

MCITP Network Management
  
Diploma

Network and Server Administration
  
Diploma




Applied Information Technology
  
AAS

Business Logistics
  
AAS

Clinical Laboratory Technician
  
AAS

Computer Security
  
AAS

Criminal Justice
  
AAS

Electronic Health Records Support Specialist
  
AAS

Health Information Technology
  
AAS

Health and Beauty Management
  
AAS

Small Business Management
  
AAS




Business Administration Emphasis Entrepreneurship
  
BS

Business Administration Emphasis Supply Chain Management
  
BS

Business Administration Emphasis Tourism and Hospitality Management
  
BS

Criminal Justice
  
BS

Information Technology Emphasis Computer Security and Forensics
  
BS

Nursing
  





MBA-International Business
  
Masters

MM-Criminal Justice Management
  
Masters

MM-Proprietary Higher Education
  
Masters

Masters of Science in Nursing
  
Masters

  -10-



Table of Contents
Increase our online academic program offering. We will continue leveraging our
physical assets by offering additional academic programs online and encouraging existing and new students to use online services.  Expand hybrid learning centers. We will continue expanding the number of hybrid learning centers to better meet the needs of existing students as well as to reach new student populations in
strategic geographic locations.  Increase enrollment in existing academic programs. We will continue focusing on
increasing enrollment in our core academic programs by continuing to refine our marketing and recruiting efforts to identify, enroll and retain students seeking careers in the academic programs we offer. We also will continue focusing on retaining
students and helping them to complete the coursework necessary to accomplish their educational goals. We believe that the depth and quality of our existing core programs will provide ample opportunity for additional growth. 
Continue to expand our physical presence. We will continue expanding the number of educational sites and increasing the
overall size of our educational sites, as needed and in response to market demand, to support growing academic programs, such as nursing.  Further enhance brand recognition. We will seek to increase our name and brand recognition by continuing to use online and other marketing campaigns, establishing strategic brand
relationships with recognized industry leaders and developing complementary resources in our core programs. In our marketing efforts, we plan to emphasize the performance-based curricula philosophy and career orientation of our academic programs. We
will seek to promote our brand by establishing relationships with industry leaders who have recognizable identities with potential students and further validate the quality and relevance of our program offerings. 
Expand relationships with private sector and government employers. We will seek additional relationships with healthcare
systems, businesses and other employers, including governmental and military employers, through which we can market our program offerings to their respective employees. In that effort, we have established a national account with CuNet, a company
consisting of professionals with significant sales and marketing experience, that seeks to develop strategic relationships on a regional, national and international basis. These relationships provide enrollment opportunities for the
university’s programs, build recognition among employers in our core disciplines and enable us to identify new degree and diploma programs that are in demand by students and employers. 
Leverage infrastructure. We intend to continue making significant investments in our people, processes and technology
infrastructure. We believe these investments have prepared us to deliver our academic programs to a larger student population with only modest incremental investment. Our current infrastructure is capable of supporting a larger number of admissions
representatives, and we intend to expand this group to further support our continued enrollment growth. Further, we are continuing to expand our learning management system to better serve the demands of our growing student population and have also
expanded our student and technology support capabilities to support a larger student base. We have also invested in administrative and management personnel and systems to prepare for our anticipated growth. We intend to leverage these investments as
we seek to grow enrollment, which we believe will allow us to increase our operating margins over time.  Continue to
expand our affiliations with other educational institutions. We will continue expanding the number of affiliations we have with other educational institutions in which we provide online program services. These programs meet a substantial
need of those other institutions while providing us with additional sources of revenue. 
  -11-



Table of Contents
Pursue strategic acquisitions. We will consider acquisitions of educational
institutions with the potential for program replication, new areas of study, new markets with attractive growth opportunities, further expansion of our online delivery capability and advanced degree programs. 
Accreditation and Program Approvals  We believe the quality of our academic programs is evidenced by the university and program-specific accreditations and approvals we have obtained. We obtained our initial accreditation from the Higher
Learning Commission in 1985 for our then-existing bachelor’s degrees. Since then, we have continued to grow and expand by obtaining accrediting commission approval for new geographic sites and graduate degree programs, and by expanding program
delivery in international locations in cooperation with in-country institutions of higher learning.  In addition to
institution-wide accreditation, there are numerous specialized accrediting commissions that accredit specific programs or schools within their jurisdiction, particularly in healthcare and professional fields. Accreditation of specific programs by
one of these specialized accrediting commissions signifies that those programs have met the additional standards of those agencies. In addition to being accredited by the Higher Learning Commission, we also have a number of specialized
accreditations, including the National League of Nursing Accrediting Commission and the International Assembly for Collegiate Business Education. Also, our paralegal studies program offered at the Rapid City and Sioux Falls, South Dakota campuses,
is approved by the American Bar Association. For a list of our institutional and specialized or programmatic accreditation we have obtained and the name of the respective accrediting bodies, see “Regulatory Matters — Accreditation.”
 We are approved for veteran’s training and for administering various educational programs sponsored by federal and state
agencies, such as the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Social Security Administration and various state rehabilitation services. We believe our regional accreditation with the Higher Learning Commission and our specialized accreditations and approvals
of core programs reflect the quality of and standards we set for our programs.  Programs and Areas of Study 
We offer Master of Business Administration, Master of Management, Master of Science in Nursing, Bachelor of Science, Associate of Applied
Science and Associate of Science degrees, with a variety of program options leading to each of these degrees. Many of the degree programs offer the opportunity to focus on one or more emphasis areas. We also offer diploma programs consisting of a
series of courses focused on a particular area of study for students seeking to enhance their skills and knowledge.  Under the
overall leadership of our senior academic affairs personnel and academic deans, as of May 31, 2012, we offered the following academic degree and diploma programs:   






 Graduate Degrees
  
Associate Degrees

 Master of Business Administration
  
 Accounting

 Master of Management
  
 Applied Information Technology

 Master of Science in Nursing
  
 Applied Management

   Bachelor’s Degrees
Accounting Applied Management Applied Information
Technology Business Administration with:
• Emphasis in Accounting
• Emphasis in Entrepreneurship
• Emphasis in Financial Management
• Emphasis in Human Resource Management
• Emphasis in Information Systems
• Emphasis in International Business
• Emphasis in Management
• Emphasis in Marketing
• Emphasis in Pre-Law
• Emphasis in Supply Chain Management
• Emphasis in Tourism and Hospitality Management
Criminal Justice Health Care Management Information Technology
with: • Emphasis in Computer Security and Forensics
• Emphasis in Internet Systems Development
• Emphasis in Management Information Systems
• Emphasis in Network Administration/Microsoft
• Emphasis in Network Management/Microsoft
Bachelor of Science in Nursing
Registered Nurse to Bachelor of Science in Nursing
Organizational Leadership
  
 Business Administration Business Logistics Clinical Laboratory Technician
Computer Security

  
 Criminal Justice

  
 Electronic Health Record Support Specialist

  
 Health and Beauty Management

  
 Health Information Technology

  
 Information Technology

  
 Medical Administrative Assistant

  
 Medical Assisting

  
 Medical Staff Services Management Associate of Science Nursing Mobility Program Paralegal Studies
Pharmacy Technician Small Business Management Therapeutic Massage
Veterinary Technology  
Diplomas Computer
Support Specialist Healthcare Coding MCITP Network Management Network and Server Administrator
Paralegal Studies Therapeutic Massage Veterinary Assisting

  -12-



Table of Contents
As an extension of our mission and historical foundation of offering business and business
related programming, we began offering our first site-based Master of Business Administration, or MBA, program at the Rapid City educational site in 2000. We expanded the MBA program through online delivery upon Higher Learning Commission approval
in 2001. In 2004, we received Higher Learning Commission approval to offer the MBA program through our Best of Both Worlds-Instructional Delivery Platform™ program format in Bolivia, United Arab Emirates, and Chile. In 2006, NAU received Higher
Learning Commission approval to offer the Master of Management degree. In 2009, we received Higher Learning Commission approval to offer a Master of Science in Nursing degree program. This growth is expected to continue through measured expansion of
graduate programming. Our objective is to seek Higher Learning Commission approval to broaden our Master’s degree programs and to begin a Doctor of Management degree program. 
We are seeking to expand our programming in healthcare-related fields. Our undergraduate healthcare management program and Master of
Management degree with emphasis in healthcare administration were developed to meet the healthcare industry’s need for healthcare professionals with strong business and management skills. Since 2009, we developed a degree program in Bachelor of
Science in Nursing at our Wichita West, Kansas Sioux Falls and Rapid City, South Dakota, educational sites to respond to the growing nationwide shortage of qualified nurses. We also added the online RN to BSN degree program in Texas. We plan to
offer additional Bachelor of Science in Nursing degrees at the Austin, Texas and Albuquerque, New Mexico campuses over the next several years. We have also developed an Associate of Applied Science in Clinical Laboratory Technician at our Zona Rosa,
Missouri site to meet the growing demand of clinical laboratory technicians performing tests to aid physicians in diagnosing and treating patients. Additional allied health programs at the Associate degree level are offered throughout the university
based on local demand and workforce needs. With the expansion of undergraduate enrollment in healthcare-related programs and the emerging demand observed from our alumni and other constituencies, we plan to expand our healthcare-related graduate
programs. The burgeoning national need for Master’s qualified nursing administrators and nursing faculty, along with our experience in developing and delivering nursing programs at the Associate and Bachelor’s degree levels, led us to
develop a Master of Science in Nursing degree, which was approved by the Higher Learning Commission in 2009.  Affiliate Services
 Collaborative Relationships  We work with local businesses and corporations in the geographic areas where our educational sites are located to offer a variety of courses and schedule formats to assist busy professionals. For certain
programs, we offer customized courses and schedules and on-site classes. For example, for the nursing programs, we offer clinical experiences on-site at hospitals and other healthcare centers with which we have relationships to allow students to
complete their clinical work on-site. 
  -13-



Table of Contents
We also collaborate with a number of local and national entities to provide educational
programs that they desire. Examples of these collaborations include military memoranda of understanding and governmental and educational alliances. We currently have separate memoranda of understanding with Ellsworth Air Force Base, South Dakota,
and Kirtland Air Force Base, New Mexico, pursuant to which we teach classes at these military facilities that are open to military members, civilian and contract employees and military family members. These arrangements also include our affiliation
with the Serviceman’s Opportunity College, which was developed in response to the special needs of adult continuing education for people in the armed forces. We have also collaborated with a number of governmental organizations, including
several Colorado regional law enforcement organizations.  Affiliations 
We have utilized our significant expertise in curricula and online education technology to develop affiliations with a number of higher
education institutions in the United States to develop and deliver online courses and programming for their students. We provide courseware development, technical support and online class hosting services to various colleges, technical schools and
training institutions in the United States and Canada who do not have the capacity to develop and operate their own in-house online curriculum for their students. We do not share revenues with these institutions, but rather charge a fee for our
services, enabling us to generate additional revenue by leveraging our current online program infrastructure. In addition, we have used our online education experience to create Our Best of Both Worlds—Instructional Delivery Platform™ that
provides students from certain foreign educational institutions an option to combine the curricula of their home country institution with our curricula. Under this blended instructional option, the host university facilitators work closely with our
online faculty and staff providing students with additional resources. Currently, we have affiliations with institutions in Chile, Bolivia, Paraguay, Ghana, United Arab Emirates and Greece. Through these affiliations, students are able to remain in
their home country and attend a local college or university while studying to earn a degree from an accredited American university. 
Associate to Bachelor’s Degree Completion Program  Our Associate to Bachelor’s degree completion program, also called the 2 + 2 degree completion program in our applied programs, is based on strategic affiliations with various higher education
institutions in the United States. This program allows students with an Associate degree to transfer into an applied Bachelor’s degree program and into the next phase of their educational goals. With our online delivery format, students are
able to set their class schedule so daily activities will be uninterrupted while students complete their Bachelor’s degree program. 
Educational Sites  As of
May 31, 2012, our main educational site and central administration building were located in Rapid City, South Dakota, at 321 Kansas City Street and 5301 S. Hwy 16, respectively. We own our main educational site and lease the central
administration building and the remainder of our education sites from third parties. 
  -14-



Table of Contents
The locations of our leased educational sites as of May 31, 2012, were as follows: 
 








State
  
Address
  
Approximate Size

Colorado:
  
8242 S. University Blvd., Suite 100
  
4,600 sq. ft.


  
Centennial, CO 80122-3178
  







  
1079 Space Center Dr.
  
5,500 sq. ft


  
Colorado Springs, CO 80915-3612
  







  
1915 Jamboree Dr., Suite 185
  
9,300 sq. ft.


  
Colorado Springs, CO 80920-5378
  







  
1325 S. Colorado Blvd. Suite 100
  
17,900 sq. ft.


  
Denver, CO 80222-3308
  






Indiana:
  
 3600 Woodview Trace *
Indianapolis, IN 46268-3167
  
16,375 sq. ft.





Kansas:
  
10310 Mastin St.
  
25,500 sq. ft.


  
Overland Park, KS 66212-5451
  







  
7309 E. 21st St., Suite G-40
  
10,100 sq. ft.


  
Wichita, KS 67206-1179
  







  
8428 W. 13th St. N., Suite 120
  
6,600 sq. ft.


  
Wichita, KS 67212-2980
  






Minnesota:
  
7801 Metro Parkway, Suite 200
  
20,400 sq. ft.


  
Bloomington, MN 55425-1536
  







  
6200 Shingle Creek Parkway, Suite 130
  
14,300 sq. ft.


  
Brooklyn Center, MN 55430-2131
  







  
1550 Highway 36 W
  
14,800 sq. ft.


  
 Roseville, MN 55113-4035  
3906 E Frontage Hwy 52 Rd. NW  Rochester, MN
55901-0108
  
   7,163 sq. ft.






  
10901 Red Circle Dr., Suite 150
  
5,200 sq. ft.


  
Minnetonka, MN 55343-4545
  







  
513 W. Travelers Trail
  
6,000 sq. ft.


  
Burnsville, MN 55337-2548





Missouri:
  
3620 Arrowhead Ave.
  
18,300 sq. ft.


  
Independence, MO 64057-1791
  







  
7490 NW 87th St.
  
16,700 sq. ft.


  
Kansas City, MO 64153-1934
  







  
401 N. Murray Rd.
  
7,000 sq. ft.


  
Lee’s Summit, MO 64081-1425
  







  
1030 Wolfrum Rd.
  
8,000 sq. ft.


  
Weldon Spring, MO 63304-7795
  






Nebraska:
  
3604 Summit Plaza Dr.
  
9,500 sq. ft.


  
Bellevue, NE 68123-1065
  






New Jersey:
  
 400 Plaza Dr., Suite 109 **
Secaucus, NJ 07094-3605
  
2,916 sq. ft.





New Mexico:
  
4775 Indian School Rd. NE, Suite 200
  
24,400 sq. ft.


  
Albuquerque, NM 87110-3976
  







  
10131 Coors Blvd., NW STE I-01
  
6,200 sq. ft.


  
Albuquerque, NM 87114-4045
  






Oklahoma:
  
8040 S. Sheridan Rd.
  
8,600 sq. ft.


  
Tulsa, OK 74133-8945
  


  -15-



Table of Contents








Oregon:
  
 13333 SW
68th Parkway *
Tigard, OR 97223-8304
  
14,399 sq. ft.





South Dakota:
  
1000 Ellsworth St., Suite 2400
  
6,700 sq. ft.


  
Ellsworth AFB, SD 57706-4943
  







  
5801 S. Corporate Place
  
22,400q. ft.


  
Sioux Falls, SD 57108-5027
  







  
925 29th St. SE
  
2,500 sq. ft.


  
Watertown, SD 57201-9123
  






Texas:
  
13801 Burnet Rd., Suite 300
  
20,400 sq. ft.


  
Austin, TX 78727-1281
  







  
1101 Central Expressway S., Suite 100 **
  
4,400 sq. ft.


  
 Allen, TX 75013-8062  
1015 West University Ave. Suite 700  Georgetown,
TX 78628-5355
  
     7,170 sq. ft.






  
 300 N. Coit Road, Suite 225
Richardson, TX 75080-5400
  
4,719 sq. ft.






  
475 State Highway 121 By-pass, Suite 150
  
5,500 sq. ft.


  
Lewisville, TX 75067-8193
  







  
18600 LBJ Freeway
  
16,816 sq. ft.


  
Mesquite, TX 75150-5628
  







  
6800 Westgate Blvd., Suite 102
  
6,300 sq. ft.


  
 Austin, TX 78745-4868  
11757 Katy Freeway, Suite 230 ** Houston, TX
77079-1744
  
     3,007 sq. ft.
  


*
—locations that are pending regulatory approval 


**
—online learning call centers  We believe our on-site programs not only offer students, faculty and staff an opportunity to participate in a more traditional college experience, but also provide online students, faculty and staff with
a sense of connection to the university. Additionally, on-site faculty play an important role in integrating online faculty into the academic programs and ensuring the overall consistency and quality of the student learning experience. We believe
the mix of a growing online program, anchored by on-site programs with a nearly 70-year history and heritage, differentiates the university from most other for-profit postsecondary education institutions. 
Faculty and Other Employees  Our faculty includes full-time faculty members, some of whom teach under a nine-month teaching contract, as well as adjunct campus-based and online faculty members who teach on a course-by-course basis
for a specified fee. As of May 31, 2012, the university employed approximately 19 full-time and 515 part-time faculty members. Approximately 70% of our current faculty members hold a master’s degree in their respective field and
approximately 22% of our faculty members hold a doctoral degree.  We follow a specific process for faculty hiring which we
have developed over the years. Campus academic deans initiate the recruitment process for full-time faculty. The faculty position description, which includes education, experience requirements and faculty duties, details the knowledge and skills
required in successful candidates. Our published standards for faculty members are based on state regulations and regional and specialized accrediting standards, such as those published by state boards of nursing, the Higher Learning
Commission, the International Assembly of Collegiate Business Education and the American Bar Association. 
  -16-



Table of Contents
We recruit qualified faculty through postings on the university’s web site, as well as
placement of advertisements in local media and publications. We review official transcripts to validate academic qualifications and faculty vitae to verify academic preparation consistent with the university’s qualification guidelines, as well
as engagement in relevant professional activities.  As we are a multi-campus institution, we recognize that most efforts to
train, evaluate and recognize faculty members must originate at the individual campus level. The campus academic deans are responsible for local orientation and in-service programs for faculty, schedules for faculty appraisal, promotions and merit
increase recommendations, as well as formal and informal efforts to retain faculty members. The system academics office and the campus academic deans establish and uphold the university’s policies and practices for faculty appraisal. We provide
ongoing and meaningful feedback on individual performance to our faculty members for their professional growth and for the continued advancement of the university.  Retention of quality associate faculty is a priority for us. To promote continuity within this vital teaching core, we have undertaken a number of initiatives to retain associate faculty. First, we have
made strides in improving associate faculty compensation over the last several years, and we recognize that additional improvements may be required to attract and retain a qualified faculty. Second, a pilot program is currently underway within
distance learning to address the university’s goal of establishing a competitive associate faculty compensation plan that is also tied to performance metrics. This associate faculty evaluation model was developed specifically for the unique
demands, expectations and requirements of online faculty members and was designed to integrate multiple aspects of appraisal to create a comprehensive analysis of faculty and staff performance. 
Faculty and staff are encouraged to actively participate in a variety of academic and non-academic organizations. Faculty members
participate in a wide variety of professional associations and activities at the local, state and regional level. We encourage our faculty to stay current on changes and trends within higher education, as well as their respective industries.
Participation in professional organizations by faculty and staff bring current information relevant to the university’s mission and programming to students and the workplace. 
In addition to our faculty, as of May 31, 2012, we employed 1,182 staff and administrative personnel in university services,
academic advising and support, enrollment services, university administration, financial aid, information technology, human resources, corporate accounting, finance and other administrative functions. None of our employees is a party to any
collective bargaining or similar agreement with the university.  Marketing, Recruitment and Retention 
Marketing. We engage in a range of activities designed to generate awareness among prospective students. Such activities
include building strong brand recognition, differentiating us from other educational institutions and stimulating student and alumni referrals. Our online marketing targets working adults focused on program quality, convenience and career
advancement goals. Our on-campus marketing targets traditional college students, working adults seeking a high quality education in a traditional college setting and working adults seeking to take classes on-site at their employer’s facility.
In marketing our programs to prospective students, we emphasize the value of the educational experience and the academic rigor and career orientation of our programs.  Recruitment. Once a prospective student has indicated an interest in enrolling in one of our programs, the university’s lead management system identifies and directs an admissions
representative to initiate prompt communication. The admissions representative serves as the primary, direct contact for the prospective student, and the representative’s goal is to help the student gain sufficient knowledge and understanding
of the university’s programs so the prospective student can assess whether the university’s offerings satisfy his or her goals. 
  -17-



Table of Contents
Retention. We utilize a learner services team to support students in advancing
from matriculation through attainment of educational goals. The team members monitor various risk factors, such as the failure to buy books for a registered course, lack of attendance or failure to participate in online orientation exercises. Upon
identifying an at-risk student, the university can interact with the student to assist him or her in continuing his or her program of study. 
Student Support Services 
Encouraging students to complete their degree programs is critical to our success. We invest great effort in developing and providing
resources that simplify the student enrollment process, acclimate students to our programs and online environment and support the student educational experience. Many of our support services, including academic, administrative and library services,
are accessible online, allowing users to access these services at a time and in a manner convenient for them.  The student
support services we provide include:  Academic services. We provide students with a variety of services designed
to support their academic studies. We offer students entrance orientation, academic advising, technical support, research services, writing services and tutoring.  Administrative services. We provide students access to a variety of administrative services in person as well as telephonically and via the Internet. For example, students can review class
schedules, apply for financial aid, pay tuition and access their unofficial transcripts online. The university’s financial service representatives provide personalized online and telephonic support to the students. 
Library services. We provide a mix of online and on-campus library resources, services and instruction to support the
educational and research endeavors of our students, faculty and staff, including physical and online libraries and online library resources available 24/7.  Career services. For those students seeking to change careers or explore new career opportunities, we offer career services support, including resume review and evaluation, career planning
workshops and access to career services information for advice and support.  Technology support services. We
provide online technical support to help students remedy technology-related issues. We also provide online tutorials and “Frequently Asked Questions” for students who are new to online coursework. 
Admissions  Prospective
students are required to complete an application to enroll in our programs. Upon the prospective student’s submission of an application, the admissions representative and student services personnel assist the applicant through the admissions
process, arranging financial aid by financial services representatives, if needed, and registering for courses and preparing for matriculation. Prospective students also are required to complete placement tests, which enable the university to best
serve the student by enrolling him/her in classes to build any missing skills, thereby increasing his/her chances of success. 
Applicants to the university’s graduate programs must generally have an undergraduate degree from an accredited institution of
higher learning in the United States or from an international institution of higher learning recognized by the ministry of education or other appropriate government agency, and 
 


 
•
 
 a minimum grade point average of 2.75 achieved for all undergraduate work; 
 


 
•
 
 a minimum grade point average of 2.9 achieved for the last one-half of the credits earned toward a Bachelor’s degree; or
  


 
•
 
 a minimum grade point average of 3.0 in two or more graduate level courses taken at a regionally accredited institution of higher learning or
recognized foreign equivalent. 
  -18-



Table of Contents
Undergraduate applicants generally must have graduated from a recognized high school (or the
Department of Education accepted equivalent) or submit an official transcript from an accredited higher education institution in the United States indicating completion of a postsecondary education program of at least two years that is acceptable
for full credit toward a Bachelor’s degree, with a minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.0.  Enrollment 
We have increased our enrollment from approximately 10,000 students as of May 31, 2011, to approximately 11,220 students as of
May 31, 2012, representing an annual growth rate of approximately 12.2%. As of May 31, 2012, we had 6,230 students enrolled in our online programs, 3,029 students enrolled on-campus, and 1,962 students enrolled through our hybrid learning
centers. The average age of our students is approximately 34 years.  The following is a summary of our student enrollment at
May 31, 2012, and May 31, 2011, by degree type and by instructional delivery method:   




















 
  
May 31, 2012
 
 
May 31, 2011
 

 
  
No. ofStudents
 
  
% ofTotal
 
 
No. ofStudents
 
  
% ofTotal
 

 Graduate
  
 
392
  
  
 
3.5
% 
 
 
385
  
  
 
3.8
% 

 Undergraduate and Diploma
  
 
10,829
  
  
 
96.5
% 
 
 
9,630
  
  
 
96.2
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
11,221
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
 
10,015
  
  
 
100.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




















 
  
May 31, 2012
 
 
May 31, 2011
 

 
  
No. ofStudents
 
  
% ofTotal
 
 
No. ofStudents
 
  
% ofTotal
 

 Online
  
 
6,230
  
  
 
55.5
% 
 
 
4,624
  
  
 
46.2
% 

 On-Campus
  
 
3,029
  
  
 
27.0
% 
 
 
3,751
  
  
 
37.4
% 

 Hybrid
  
 
1,962
  
  
 
17.5
% 
 
 
1,640
  
  
 
16.4
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
11,221
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
 
10,015
  
  
 
100.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Tuition and Fees  Our tuition rates vary by educational site. Total tuition varies based upon several factors, including the number of credit hours for each program, the degree level of the program, and geographic
location.  Our students finance their education through a variety of sources, including government sponsored financial aid,
private and NAU provided scholarships, employer provided tuition assistance, veteran’s benefits, private loans and cash payments. A substantial portion of our students rely on funds received under various government sponsored student financial
aid programs, predominately Title IV programs. In the fiscal years ended May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, approximately 85%, 79%, and 76%, respectively, of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) were attributable to funds derived from Title IV
programs.  We have a refund policy for tuition and fees based upon quarter start dates. If a student drops or withdraws from a
course during the first week of classes, 100% of the charges for tuition and fees are refunded, while beyond the first week but during the first 60% of scheduled classes the percentage of tuition charges refunded is based on a daily proration based
on a percent of the term completed. If the last day of attendance is beyond 60% of the scheduled classes, tuition and fees are not refunded. Fees charged include specialty and program fees ranging from $45 to $100, depending on the program. A $75
administrative fee is assessed against each prorated refund. A refund minus a $75 administrative fee is made within 45 days of the day the student’s withdrawal is determined. If the student was a financial aid recipient, federal regulations
establish a methodology for determining the amount of Title IV funds that must be returned to the financial aid programs for students not completing 60% of the enrollment period. 
  -19-



Table of Contents
Technology Systems  We remain focused on leveraging the use of technology to increase efficiencies in our academic programs and our general administrative operations. This commitment requires not only institutional budget
expenditures, but also orientation and training in the use of this technology.  To service our online
teaching we utilize Desire 2 LearnTM, or D2L, an
Internet-based learning management system. The features of this product include content display and organization, synchronous and asynchronous chat, private messaging, quizzing, student surveys and assignment submission and student tracking and
grading. The system is used to present online courses to both domestic and international students. During fiscal year 2011, we transitioned to the D2L system from a Blackboard Learning System CE TM.
We have also developed and deployed an Internet-based application called TEAMS to meet the growing needs of our online course delivery.
TEAMS closely integrates with the D2L learning management system to allows for automated loading of students into D2L courses and provides a single point to determine student and staff participation in the online courses. This application is
designed to utilize the storage capability of a relational database to provide historical and real time information. 
Recognizing the need to manage content used in the D2L learning management system, we implemented the Desire2Learn Learning Object
Repository™ application to input, organize, manage and display course materials. This application provides an Internet-based, content entry and editing interface that allows content experts to create and edit course content. Additionally, it
organizes text, images, documents and multimedia resources in a relational database, allowing the university to more easily identify and re-task existing content for new projects and courses through the use of Meta data. Finally, the application is
integrated with the learning management system and is used to display and deliver content seamlessly through D2L to students.  Intellectual
Property  We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, domain names and agreements
with third parties to protect our proprietary rights. Through our extensive development of electronic instructional materials, on-campus and online courseware and related processes, we continue to accumulate copyrighted material and know how that
has provided the basis for improving quality of instruction, programs and services to our students. Our strategic plan calls for continued and extensive investment in maintaining and expanding these assets. 
We rely on trademark and service mark protections in the United States and other countries for our name and
distinctive logos, along with various other trademarks and service marks related to specific offerings. We own federal registrations for our principal trademarks, National American University® and NAU® in the United
States. These marks are important symbols for us and are used on our educational services and educational materials and a range of other items, including clothing and other memorabilia. These brands appear in our advertising and are seen by members
of the general public as well as our direct constituents. We also own domain name rights to “national.edu” and other derivatives of that name, as well as a number of “nau” related domain names. 
We publish intellectual property policies in our faculty handbook and our employee handbook that outline the ownership of creative works
and inventions produced by employees within the scope of their employment, compliance with copyright law and the use of our copyrighted materials. When we hire content experts to develop curriculum, they receive a copy of our Copyright Fundamentals
for Online Course Developers for review prior to project initiation. We also require them to execute our standard agreement to confirm that all materials created under the scope of the work become our exclusive intellectual property. These
agreements also require the curriculum developer to comply with all laws or regulations related to copyright and the use of copyrighted materials. 
  -20-



Table of Contents
Real Estate Operations  Our real estate business conducts business through various projects and associations, including Fairway Hills I and II, Park West, Vista Park, Fairway Hills Park and Recreational Association, the Vista
Park Homeowners’ Association and the Park West Homeowners’ Association. Fairway Hills I and Fairway Hills II are apartment buildings consisting of a total of 52 rental apartments of which 100% were leased as of May 31, 2012. Park West
consists of 48 apartment units and is owned by a partnership that is 50% owned by us and 50% owned by members of the Buckingham family (including Robert Buckingham, chairman of our board of directors, and his siblings and the spouses and
estates of his siblings). Park West apartment units are being converted to, and sold as, condominiums. While the conversion of the Park West building is not yet complete, as of May 31, 2012, six of the 48 available units in Park West have been
sold. Currently, prices for Park West condominium units start at $139,000.  In addition, in 2008, we began construction of a
condominium development called Vista Park. Fairway Hills completed construction of a 24-unit condominium complex known as Vista Park Phase I by May 31, 2010 and has sold nine of the available units. Prices for Vista Park condominium units start
at $149,000. We currently have plans to build three additional condominium complexes (Phases II, III and IV) in Vista Park, but construction of these additional phases is not expected to begin until after the sale of a substantial number of the
currently available condominiums in Vista Park Phase I. In total, and upon completion of all four phases of development, the Vista Park condominium complexes would consist of 96 condominium units. 
In connection with the development of Vista Park and the conversion of Park West apartments, Fairway Hills has created two
homeowners’ associations, the Vista Park Homeowner’s Association and the Park West Homeowner’s Association, each of which is a non-profit corporation, to manage and sell the condominiums. In addition, the Fairway Hills Park and
Recreational Association, which is also a non-profit corporation, was created to operate as a homeowner’s association covering substantially all of the Fairway Hills development.  Environmental  Our facilities and operations are subject to a variety of
environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous substances and waste, and the clean-up of contamination at our facilities or off-site locations to which we send or have sent
waste for disposal. We are also required to obtain permits for air emissions, and to meet operational and maintenance requirements. If we do not maintain compliance with any of these laws and regulations, or are responsible for a spill or release of
hazardous materials, we could incur significant costs for clean-up, damages, and fines or penalties.  Compliance with Applicable Laws
 We seek to comply with applicable local, state and federal laws and regulations under the oversight of our general counsel
and the efforts of administrative staff members who implement compliance policies and procedures.  In that regard, we maintain
a comprehensive institutional compliance program that integrates and coordinates all significant requirements with which the university must comply by law, regulation or other binding rule or agreement. Under the program, we have: 
 


 
•
 
 Designated a university compliance officer;   


 
•
 
 Created a university compliance committee made up of representatives of major internal departments and headed by the university compliance officer;
  


 
•
 
 Implemented a program to monitor compliance and, when gaps or violations occur, to develop responses to correct deficiencies in a timely manner;
  


 
•
 
 Established and communicated institutional principles designed to deter wrongdoing and to promote honest and ethical conduct;
  


 
•
 
 Developed communication policies and procedures; and   


 
•
 
 Ensured the appropriate university department/governing body has identified appropriate disciplinary sanctions and has applied those sanctions when
infractions occur. 
  -21-



Table of Contents
Further, audits are periodically conducted to ensure compliance with applicable laws,
including the following:   


 
•
 
 Federal Title IV student financial assistance program compliance attestation examinations are conducted annually to determine compliance and to
identify any deficiencies requiring correction;   


 
•
 
 An audit of 401(k) retirement plans is conducted annually for compliance with applicable laws and fiduciary duties; and 
 


 
•
 
 Annual financial statements and our internal controls over financial reporting are audited by an independent auditor. 
Finally, the institution is developing a quality assurance program to assist with compliance matters and affirm the programs and services
provided at all locations.  REGULATORY MATTERS  We are subject to extensive regulation by state education agencies, accrediting commissions and the United States federal government through the U.S. Department of Education (the “Department of
Education”) under the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, (the “Higher Education Act”). The regulations, standards and policies of these agencies cover substantially all of our operations, including the educational programs,
facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting, finances, results of operations and financial condition.  As an institution of higher education that grants degrees and diplomas, we are required to be authorized by appropriate state education authorities. In addition, to participate in the federal programs of
student financial assistance for our students, we are required to be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by the Department of Education. Accreditation is a non-governmental process through which an institution submits to qualitative
review by an organization of peer institutions, based on the standards of the accrediting commission and the stated aims and purposes of the institution. The Higher Education Act requires accrediting commissions recognized by the Department of
Education to review and monitor many aspects of an institution’s operations and to take appropriate action if the institution fails to meet the accrediting commission’s standards. 
Our operations are also subject to regulation by the Department of Education due to our participation in Title IV programs. Prior to
July 1, 2010, Title IV programs included educational loans provided directly by the federal government, grant programs for students with demonstrated financial need, and educational loans issued by private banks with below-market interest rates
that are guaranteed by the federal government in the event of a student’s default on repaying the loan. As of July 1, 2010, all educational loans under Title IV are provided directly by the federal government. To participate in Title IV
programs, a school must receive and maintain authorization by the appropriate state education agency or agencies, be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by the Department of Education and be certified as an eligible institution by the
Department of Education.  We plan and implement our business activities to comply with the standards of these regulatory
agencies. Our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, and general counsel also provide oversight designed to ensure that we meet the requirements of this regulatory environment.  State Education Licensure and Regulation  We are subject to extensive
regulations by the states in which we are authorized or licensed to operate. State laws and regulations typically establish standards in areas such as instruction, qualifications of faculty, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting,
financial operations and other operational matters, which can be different than and conflict with the requirements of the Department of Education and other applicable regulatory bodies. State laws and regulations may limit our ability to offer
educational programs and offer certain degrees. Some states may also prescribe financial regulations that are different from those of the Department of Education and many require the posting of surety bonds. 
  -22-



Table of Contents
In addition, several states have sought to assert jurisdiction over educational institutions
offering online degree programs that have no physical location or other presence in the state but that have some activity in the state, such as enrolling or offering educational services to students who reside in the state, employing faculty who
reside in the state or advertising to or recruiting prospective students in the state. State regulatory requirements for online education vary among the states, are not well developed in many states, are imprecise or unclear in some states and can
change frequently. We have determined that our activities in certain states constitute a presence requiring licensure or authorization under the current requirements of the state education agency in these states, and in other states we have
approvals as we have determined necessary in connection with our marketing and recruiting activities. We review the licensure requirements of other states when necessary to determine whether our activities in those states constitute a presence or
otherwise require licensure or authorization by the applicable state education agency and from time to time we may submit additional applications for licensure or authorization. 
We also are required by the Higher Education Act to be authorized by applicable state educational agencies in South Dakota and other
states where we are located to participate in Title IV programs. See “Regulatory Matters – Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs – State Authorization.” We do not believe that any of the states in which we are
currently licensed or authorized, other than South Dakota, Colorado, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas, are individually material to our operations. If we fail to comply with state licensing requirements, we may
lose our state licensure or authorizations. If we lose state licensure in a state in which we have a physical location, or in a state where we are required to maintain authorization for distance education activities, we would also lose Title IV
eligibility in that state. If we are found not to be in compliance with state requirements for online learning, and a state seeks to restrict one or more of our business activities within its boundaries, we may not be able to recruit students from
that state and may have to cease providing educational programs to students in that state or may be subject to other sanctions, including fines or penalties. Compliance with these new and changing laws, regulations or interpretations related to
state authorization and offering programs via online delivery could increase our cost of doing business and affect our ability to recruit students in particular states, which could, in turn, adversely affect enrollments, revenues and our business.
 State Professional Licensure  Many states have specific licensure requirements that an individual must satisfy to be licensed as a professional in specified fields, including fields such as education and healthcare. These requirements
vary by state and by field. A student’s success in obtaining licensure following graduation typically depends on several factors, including the background and qualifications of the individual graduate, as well as the following factors, among
others:   


 
•
 
 whether the institution and the program were approved by the state in which the graduate seeks licensure, or by a professional association;
  


 
•
 
 whether the program from which the student graduated meets all requirements for professional licensure in that state; 
 


 
•
 
 whether the institution and the program are accredited and, if so, by what accrediting commissions; and 
 


 
•
 
 whether the institution’s degrees are recognized by other states in which a student may seek to work. 
Many states also require that graduates pass a state test or examination as a prerequisite to becoming certified in certain fields, such
as teaching and nursing. Many states also may require a criminal background clearance before granting certain professional licensures or certifications. Our catalog informs students that it is incumbent upon the student to verify whether a specific
criminal background clearance is required in their field of study prior to beginning course work. 
  -23-



Table of Contents
Accreditation  We have been institutionally accredited since 1985 by the Higher Learning Commission, a regional accrediting commission recognized by the Department of Education. Our accreditation was last reaffirmed in
2008 for the maximum term of 10 years as part of a regularly scheduled reaffirmation process. In May 2010, a three-person team from the Higher Learning Commission visited the university’s central administration offices in Rapid City, South
Dakota, in response to the university’s change of control request in connection with the November 2009 merger with Camden. The change of control request was approved with a visit scheduled in 2014-15. Accreditation is a private,
non-governmental process for evaluating the quality of educational institutions and their programs in areas, including student performance, governance, integrity, educational quality, faculty, physical resources, administrative capability and
resources and financial stability. To be recognized by the Department of Education, accrediting commissions must comply with Department of Education regulations, which require, among other things, that accrediting agencies adopt specific standards
for their review of educational institutions, conduct peer review evaluations of institutions and publicly designate those institutions that meet their criteria. An accredited school is subject to periodic review by its accrediting commissions to
determine whether it continues to meet the performance, integrity and quality required for accreditation.  There are six
regional accrediting commissions recognized by the Department of Education, each with a specified geographic scope of coverage, which together cover the entire United States. Most traditional, public and private non-profit, degree-granting colleges
and universities are accredited by one of these six regional accrediting commissions. The Higher Learning Commission, which accredits us, is the same regional accrediting commission that accredits other degree-granting public and private colleges
and universities in the states of Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Dakota, West Virginia, Wisconsin and Wyoming. 
Accreditation by the Higher Learning Commission is important to us for several reasons, one being that it enables our students to receive
Title IV financial aid. Other colleges and universities depend, in part, on an institution’s accreditation in evaluating transfers of credit and applications to graduate schools. Employers rely on the accredited status of institutions when
evaluating candidates’ credentials, and students and corporate and government sponsors under tuition reimbursement programs consider accreditation as assurance that an institution maintains quality educational standards. If we fail to satisfy
the standards of the Higher Learning Commission, we could lose our accreditation by that agency, which would cause us to lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. 
The reauthorization of the Higher Education Act in 2008, and final regulations issued by the Department of Education, in October of 2009,
which became effective July 1, 2010, require accrediting commissions to monitor the growth of institutions that they accredit. The Higher Learning Commission requires all affiliated institutions, including us, to complete an annual data report.
If the non-financial data, particularly enrollment information, and any other information submitted by the institution indicate problems, rapid change or significant growth, the Higher Learning Commission staff may require that the institution
address any concerns arising from the data report in the next self-study and visit process or may recommend additional monitoring. In addition, the Department of Education issued regulations, became effective July 1, 2010, that require the
Higher Learning Commission to notify the Department of Education if an institution accredited by the Higher Learning Commission that offers distance learning programs, such as us, experiences an increase in its headcount enrollment of 50% or more in
any fiscal year. The Department of Education may consider that information in connection with its own regulatory oversight activities.  In December 2009, the Department of Education Office of Inspector General, (Office of Inspector General”), issued an “Alert Memorandum,” calling into question the Higher Learning
Commission’s compliance with the applicable Department of Education regulations related to the Higher Learning Commission’s status as recognized by the Department of Education. Although this matter has not been formally resolved, we cannot
speculate as to the impact on us or other institutions accredited by the Higher Learning Commission if the Higher Learning Commission’s recognition as an accrediting commission were to be limited, suspended, or terminated by the Department of
Education. 
  -24-



Table of Contents
In addition to institution-wide accreditation, there are numerous specialized accrediting
commissions that accredit specific programs or schools within their jurisdiction, many of which are in healthcare and professional fields. Accreditation of specific programs by one of these specialized accrediting commissions signifies that those
programs have met the additional standards of those agencies. In addition to being accredited by the Higher Learning Commission at the institutional level, we also had the following specialized accreditations as of May 31, 2012: 
 






 Specialized or Programmatic Accreditation
  
 Accrediting Body

 Business Degree Programs (Associate of Applied Science, Bachelor of Science, Master of Management, Master of Business
Administration degrees)
  
International Assembly for Collegiate Business Education

 Medical Assisting (Albuquerque, New Mexico; Bloomington, Minnesota; Colorado Springs, Colorado; Denver, Colorado; Independence,
Missouri; Overland Park; Kansas; Roseville, Minnesota; Sioux Falls; South Dakota campuses)
  
Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs

 Pharmacy Tech (Roseville, Minnesota; Sioux Falls, South Dakota campuses)
  
American Society of Health-System Pharmacists

 Veterinary Technology (Rapid City, South Dakota campus)
  
Committee on Veterinary Technician Education and Activities

 Practical Nursing Diploma (Overland Park, Kansas campus)
  
Kansas State Board of Nursing Approval

 Associate of Science in Nursing Mobility (Overland Park, Kansas campus)
  
Kansas State Board of Nursing Approval

 Associate of Science Nursing Program (Zona Rosa, Missouri campus)
  
Missouri Board of Nursing Approval

 Associate of Science Nursing Program (Denver, Colorado campus)
  
Colorado Board of Nursing Approval

 Bachelor of Science in Nursing Program (Bloomington, Minnesota campus)
  
Minnesota Board of Nursing

 Bachelor of Science in Nursing Program (Rapid City, South Dakota; Sioux Falls, South Dakota campuses)
  
South Dakota Board of Nursing Interim Approval

 Bachelor of Science in Nursing Program (Overland Park, Kansas campus)
  
Kansas State Board of Nursing Initial Approval

 Online Registered Nurse to Bachelor of Science in Nursing Program (Distance Learning)
  
South Dakota Board of Nursing Approval

 Associate of Science in Nursing Program (Zona Rosa, Missouri campus)
  
National League for Nursing Accreditation Commission Initial Approval

 Online Registered Nurse to Bachelor of Science in Nursing Program (Distance Learning)
  
Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education Initial Accreditation

 Master of Science in Nursing (Distance Learning)
  
Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education Initial Accreditation
 The paralegal studies programs offered at our campuses in Rapid City and Sioux Falls, South Dakota, are approved by the
American Bar Association.  If we fail to satisfy the standards of any of these specialized accrediting commissions, we could
lose the specialized accreditation for the affected programs, which could result in materially reduced student enrollments in those programs. 
  -25-



Table of Contents
Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs 
To be eligible to participate in Title IV programs, an institution must comply with specific requirements contained in the Higher
Education Act and the regulations issued thereunder by the Department of Education. An institution must, among other things, be licensed or authorized to offer its educational programs by the state or states in which it is physically located (in our
case, South Dakota, Colorado, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas) and maintain institutional accreditation by an accrediting commission recognized by the Department of Education. 
The substantial amount of federal funds disbursed to schools through Title IV programs, the large number of students and institutions
participating in these programs and allegations of fraud and abuse by certain for-profit educational institutions have caused Congress to require the Department of Education to exercise considerable regulatory oversight over for-profit educational
institutions. As a result, for-profit educational institutions, including ours, are subject to extensive oversight and review. Because the Department of Education periodically revises its regulations and changes its interpretations of existing laws
and regulations, we cannot predict with certainty how the Title IV program requirements will be applied in all circumstances. 
Significant factors relating to Title IV programs that could adversely affect us include the following: 
Congressional Action and Changes in Department of Education Regulations. Congress must reauthorize the Higher Education Act
on a periodic basis, usually every five to six years, and the most recent reauthorization occurred in August 2008. In addition, Congress must determine funding levels for Title IV programs on an annual basis and can change the laws governing Title
IV programs at any time. For example, on June 14, 2012, the U.S. Senate Committee on Appropriations passed legislation that, if ultimately enacted into law, would prohibit postsecondary educational institutions, including us, from using federal
funds for marketing, advertising and recruiting expenses. Apart from Title IV programs, eligible veterans and military personnel may receive educational benefits for the pursuit of higher education. A reduction in federal funding levels for Title IV
programs, or for programs providing educational benefits to veterans and military personnel, could reduce the ability of some students to finance their education. Any action by Congress that significantly reduces Title IV program funding or the
ability of our students to participate in Title IV programs could have a material effect on our enrollments, business, financial condition and results of operations. Congressional action also may require us to modify our practices in ways that could
increase administrative costs and reduce profit margins, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In recent years, Congress has placed increased focus on the role that for-profit educational
institutions play in higher education. For example, on June 17, 2010, the Education and Labor Committee of the House of Representatives held a hearing to examine the manner in which accrediting agencies review higher education
institutions’ policies on credit hours and program length. On June 24, 2010, the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee of the Senate (the “HELP Committee”), released a report entitled “Emerging Risk?: An Overview
of Growth, Spending, Student Debt and Unanswered Questions in For-Profit Higher Education” and held the first in a series of hearings to examine the proprietary education sector. On June 21, 2010, the Chairmen of each of these committees,
together with other members of Congress, requested the Government Accountability Office (the “GAO”) to conduct a review and prepare a report with recommendations regarding various aspects of the proprietary sector, including recruitment
practices, educational quality, student outcomes, the sufficiency of integrity safeguards against waste, fraud and abuse in federal student aid programs and the degree to which proprietary institutions’ revenue is composed of Title IV and other
federal funding sources. On August 4, 2010, the HELP Committee held an additional hearing in its series, focusing on student recruiting at for-profit schools, and the GAO released a report entitled “For-Profit Colleges: Undercover Testing
Finds Colleges Encouraged Fraud and Engaged in Deceptive Marketing Practices.” These hearings and the GAO review are not formally related to any rulemaking by the Department of Education, but could lead to new or additional regulatory focus on
proprietary educational institutions. 
  -26-



Table of Contents
The HELP Committee also requested information from 30 proprietary educational institutions,
including us. The request sought information to more accurately understand how we use federal resources, including how we recruit and enroll students, set program price or tuition, determine financial aid including private or institutional loans,
track attendance, handle withdrawal of students and return of Title IV funds and manage compliance with the requirement that no more than 90% of revenues come from Title IV funds. The request also sought an understanding of the number of students
who complete or graduate from programs offered by us, how many of those students find new work in their educational area, the debt levels of students enrolling and completing programs and how we track and manage the number of students who risk
default within the cohort default rate window. In furtherance of this, the HELP Committee requested that we provide information about a broad spectrum of our business, including detailed information relating to financial results, management,
operations, personnel, recruiting, enrollment, graduation, student withdrawals, receipt of Title IV funds, institutional accreditation, regulatory compliance and other matters. We cooperated with the HELP Committee’s request and endeavored to
provide the requested information in a manner that does not compromise our sensitive proprietary operating and other information.  Based on the information provided by proprietary educational institutions in response to the HELP Committee’s request, the HELP Committee released a report entitled “The Return on the Federal
Investment in For-Profit Education: Debt Without a Diploma.” On June 7, 2011, the HELP Committee held another hearing on financial outcomes of students at for-profit colleges. Most recently, on July 30, 2012, the HELP Committee released a
report entitled “For Profit Higher Education: The Failure to Safeguard the Federal Investment and Ensure Student Success,” analyzing the information submitted by all 30 of the companies from which it requested information. 
Congress and the executive branch have also focused on educational benefits for military personnel and veterans. On December 8,
2010, Senator Harkin’s staff released a memorandum entitled “Benefitting Whom? For-Profit Education Companies and the Growth of Military Educational Benefits.” On May 19, 2011, Senator Harkin spoke on the Senate floor regarding
marketing practices employed by for-profit colleges with respect to veterans. In September 2011, a subcommittee of the U.S. Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee conducted hearings covering the quality of education provided by
proprietary institutions and treatment of educational benefits for military personnel for purposes of the 90/10 Rule on institutional eligibility for Title IV programs. On April 27, 2012, in response to alleged abusive recruiting practices by
for-profit institutions, President Obama signed an executive order aimed at providing military personnel, veterans and their family members with the resources they need to make an informed decision about their educational prospects and other
protections (the “Executive Order”). The Executive Order requires the Department of Education, the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs to establish and implement “Principles of
Excellence” to apply to educational institutions receiving funding from federal military and veterans educational benefits programs. The goals of the “Principles of Excellence” are broadly stated in the Executive Order
and relate to disclosures on costs and amounts of costs covered by federal educational benefits, marketing standards, state authorization, accreditation approvals, standard institutional refund policies, educational plans and academic and financial
advising. Educational institutions are required to indicate whether or not they intend to comply with these Principles of Excellence by response to the Department of Veterans Affairs. This response initially was required by June 30,
2012, but the deadline was subsequently extended to August 1, 2012. We have responded that we intend to comply with the Principles of Excellence, as veterans and service members are valued constituencies within our student
and prospective student populations. Also, on May 16, 2012, the U.S. House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity conducted a hearing focusing on the Executive Order and on recruitment of veterans and active duty
military personnel. Additional hearings in the future by these committees may continue to increase Congressional focus on for-profit educational institutions. We cannot predict whether, or the extent to which, these hearings and review will result
in legislation or further rulemaking affecting our participation in Title IV programs. To the extent that any laws or regulations are adopted that limit our participation in Title IV programs or the amount of student financial aid for which the
students at our institutions are eligible, our enrollments, revenues and results of operation could be materially affected. 
  -27-



Table of Contents
On October 29, 2010, following a negotiated rulemaking process that had commenced in
May 2009, the Department published final regulations (the “Final Rules”) pertaining to a number of Title IV program integrity issues. Negotiated rulemaking is a process whereby the Department of Education consults with members of the
postsecondary education community to identify issues of concern and attempts to agree on proposed regulatory revisions to address those issues before the Department of Education formally proposes any regulations. If the Department of Education and
negotiators cannot reach consensus on the entire package of draft regulations, the Department of Education is authorized to propose regulations without being bound by any agreements made in the negotiation process. The Final Rules became effective
July 1, 2011. On June 13, 2011, the Department of Education published final regulations defining the meaning of “gainful employment” for the purpose of determining whether certain educational programs comply with the Title IV
requirement of preparing students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation, which were to be effective on July 1, 2012 (the “Gainful Employment Rule”). However, on June 30, 2012, a Federal District Court vacated the
Gainful Employment Rule. As a result, the Gainful Employment Rule is not presently in effect, pending the final outcome of the underlying litigation and any additional actions by the Department of Education. 
Compliance with these and other new and changing regulations could reduce our enrollments, increase our cost of doing business, and have
a material effect on our business. We believe the following Title IV program regulations and requirements are likely to have the most impact on our business:  Incentive Compensation. An educational institution that participates in Title IV programs may not make any commission, bonus or other incentive payments to any persons or entities involved
in recruitment or admissions activities or in the awarding of financial aid. Historically, the Department of Education had recognized 12 “safe harbor” provisions that specify certain activities and arrangements that were deemed to be
permissible incentive compensation. As a result of the Final Rules, these 12 safe harbors were eliminated effective as of July 1, 2011. The Department of Education effectively took the position that any commission, bonus or other incentive
compensation based in any part, directly or indirectly, on securing enrollment or awarding financial aid is inconsistent with the prohibition against incentive compensation payment in the Higher Education Act. The Department of Education contends
that institutions do not need to rely on these safe harbors and can instead determine if compensation is permissible under the Higher Education Act by considering (1) whether it is a commission, bonus or other incentive payment (meaning an
award of money or something of value, other than a fixed salary or wages), paid or given for services rendered and (2) if so, whether that commission, bonus or other incentive payment is given to a person based in any part, directly or
indirectly, upon securing enrollments or awarding financial aid. The prohibition against incentive compensation applies to any person engaged in student recruitment or admissions activities or in making financial aid award decisions, and any higher
level employees with responsibility for such activities.  In the Final Rules, the Department of Education has maintained that
institutions may make merit-based adjustments to employee compensation, provided that those adjustments are not based, in any part, directly or indirectly, upon securing enrollments or awarding financial aid. Among other examples, the Department of
Education provides guidance that an institution may maintain a hierarchy of enrollment personnel with varying levels of responsibility and salary scales that reflect added amounts of responsibility, that an institution may promote personnel based on
merit, and that an institution may make compensation decisions based on seniority or length of employment, provided that such decisions are consistent with the prohibition on incentive compensation. In a “Dear Colleague” letter issued on
March 17, 2011, the Department of Education provided additional guidance regarding the scope of the prohibition on incentive compensation and to what employees and types of activities the prohibition applies. We have modified some of our
compensation practices as a result of the elimination of the safe harbors. These changes in our compensation practices could (1) reduce the effectiveness of our employees, and make it more difficult for us to attract and retain staff with the
desired talent and motivation to succeed and (2) impair our ability to sustain and grow our business. This could also increase marketing costs and reduce revenues if we are unable to maintain or increase student enrollments. 
In addition, in recent years, several for-profit education companies have been faced with whistleblower lawsuits under the Federal False
Claims Act, known as “qui tam” cases, by current or former employees alleging violations of the prohibition against incentive compensation. In such cases, the whistleblower’s claims are reviewed under seal by the Department of Justice
for potential intervention. If the Department of Justice elects to intervene, it assumes primary control over the litigation. In August 2011, the Department of Justice intervened in a qui tam matter pending against another for-profit education
company claiming violations of the incentive compensation prohibition. These types of claims against for-profit educational companies, and the Department of Justice’s interest in intervention, are expected to increase in the future. If the
Department of Education were to determine that we violated this requirement of Title IV programs, or if we were to be found liable in a False Claims action alleging a violation of this law, or if any third parties we have engaged were to violate
this law, we could be fined or sanctioned by the Department of Education or subjected to other monetary liability or penalties that could be substantial, including the possibility of treble damages under a False Claims action, any of which could
harm our reputation, impose significant costs and have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  -28-



Table of Contents
State Authorization. To be eligible to participate in Title IV programs, an
institution must be licensed or authorized to offer its educational programs by the states in which it is physically located, in accordance with the Department of Education’s regulations. Among other things, the Final Rules require that
institutions demonstrate specific state authorization to operate educational programs beyond secondary education and clarify what is required for an institution to be considered “legally authorized” in a state for purpose of participation
in Title IV programs. Specifically, the Final Rules provide that, effective July 1, 2011, the Department of Education would consider an institution to be legally authorized by a state if the state has a process, applicable to all institutions
except tribal and federal institutions, to review and appropriately act on complaints concerning the institution and to enforce applicable state laws, and the institution further satisfies one of the following requirements: 
 


 
•
 
 The state establishes the institution by name as an educational institution by charter, statute, constitutional provision or other action issued by an
appropriate state agency or state entity, and the institution is authorized to operate educational programs beyond secondary education, including programs leading to a certificate or degree; 
 


 
•
 
 The institution complies with applicable state approval or licensure requirements, except that a state may exempt an institution from any such
requirement based on (1) the institution’s accreditation by one or more accrediting agencies recognized by the Department of Education or (2) the institution being in operation for at least 20 years; and 
 


 
•
 
 The state has a process, applicable to all institutions except federal and tribal institutions, to review and appropriately act on complaints
concerning the institution and applicable state laws.  Under the Final Rules, institutions unable to obtain
state authorization in a state under the above requirements may request a one-year extension of the effective date of the regulation to July 1, 2012, and if necessary, an additional one-year extension of the effective date to July 1, 2013.
To receive an extension of the effective date, an institution must obtain from the state an explanation of how a one-year extension will permit the state to modify its procedures to comply with the regulations. 
In South Dakota, where our operations are headquartered and we maintain several physical facilities, the state historically had not specifically
authorized the degrees or other educational programs of private, regionally accredited institutions of higher education. On March 3, 2012, the Governor of South Dakota signed a bill passed by the South Dakota Legislature during its 2012
Legislative Session that, among other things, expressly authorizes certain named institutions, including us, to provide postsecondary educational programs in South Dakota. In addition to South Dakota, we operate physical facilities offering
educational programs in Colorado, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas. In each of these states, we maintain the required authorizations to offer our educational programs under state law. With respect to New Mexico,
we are currently exempt under state law from a requirement to be licensed by the New Mexico Higher Education Department because of our regional accreditation by the Higher Learning Commission. However, in order to comply with the Final Rules, we
intend to submit an application for licensure to the New Mexico Higher Education Department. 
  -29-



Table of Contents
Where required under applicable law, these authorizations from state educational agencies
are very important to us. To maintain requisite state authorizations, we are required to continuously meet standards relating to, among other things, educational programs, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, marketing and
recruitment, financial operations, addition of new locations and educational programs and various operational and administrative procedures. Failure to comply with applicable requirements of the state educational agencies in South Dakota, Colorado,
Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas could result in us losing our authorization to offer educational programs in those states. If that were to occur, the applicable state educational agency could force us to cease
operations in that state. Even if the applicable state educational agency does not require the university to cease operations on an immediate basis, the loss of authorization by the state educational agency in such state would then cause our
campuses in such state to lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, and such loss of Title IV program eligibility could force us to cease operations in such state. Alternatively, the state educational licensing agencies could restrict
our ability to offer certain degree programs. Additionally, if the Department of Education were to determine that our authorizations in South Dakota, Colorado, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas did not satisfy the
state authorization requirements of the Final Rules, the campuses in the relevant states could lose their eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, and such loss of Title IV program eligibility could force us to cease operations in such
state.  The Final Rules also included a requirement that an institution meet any state authorization requirements in a state
in which it has distance education students, but in which it is not physically located or otherwise subject to state jurisdiction as a condition of awarding Title IV funds to students in that state. In July 2011, a Federal District Court issued an
order vacating the regulation, which was sustained in June 2012 by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The Department of Education may further appeal the court’s decision, proceed to promulgate the
requirement through a supplemental rulemaking process, or both. Independent of this matter of federal regulation, several states have asserted jurisdiction over educational institutions offering online programs that have no physical location or
other presence in the state, but that have some activity in the state, such as enrolling or offering educational services to students who reside in the state, conducting practica or sponsoring internships in the state, employing faculty who reside
in the state or advertising to or recruiting prospective students in the state. Thus, our activities in certain states constitute a presence requiring licensure or authorization under requirements of state law, regulation or policy of the state
educational agency, even though we do not have a physical facility in such states. Therefore, in addition to the states where we maintain physical facilities, we have either obtained approvals or exemptions, or are currently in the process of
obtaining such approvals or exemptions, that we believe are necessary in connection with our activities that may constitute a presence in such states requiring licensure or authorization by the state educational agency based on the laws, rules or
regulations of that state. Notwithstanding our efforts to obtain approvals or exemptions, state regulatory requirements for online education vary among the states, are not well developed in many states, are imprecise or unclear in some states and
can change frequently. Because we enroll students in online programs in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, we expect that regulatory authorities in other states where we are not currently licensed or authorized may request that we seek
additional licenses or authorizations for these institutions in their states in the future. If we fail to comply with state licensing or authorization requirements for a state, or fail to obtain licenses or authorizations when required, we could
lose state licensure or authorization by that state, which could prohibit us from recruiting prospective students or offering services to current students in that state. We could also be subject to other sanctions, including restrictions on
activities in that state, fines and penalties. We review the licensure requirements of other states when we believe that it is appropriate to determine whether our activities in those states may constitute a presence or otherwise may require
licensure or authorization by the respective state education agencies. New laws, regulations or interpretations related to offering educational programs online could increase our cost of doing business and affect our ability to recruit students in
particular states, which could, in turn, adversely affect our enrollments and revenues and have a material effect on our business. 
  -30-



Table of Contents
Misrepresentation. An institution participating in Title IV programs is
prohibited from making misrepresentations regarding the nature of its educational programs, the nature of financial charges and availability of financial assistance, or the employability of graduates. A misrepresentation is defined in the
regulations as any false, erroneous or misleading statement to any student or prospective student, any member of the public, an accrediting agency, a state agency or the Department of Education, and, significantly, the Final Rules as promulgated by
the Department of Education defined misleading statements to broadly include any statements that have a likelihood or tendency to deceive or confuse. However, in June 2012, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit
vacated the regulation insofar as it defined misrepresentation to include true and nondeceitful statements that have only the tendency or likelihood to confuse. If we – or any entity, organization, or person with whom we have an agreement to
provide educational programs or to provide marketing, advertising, recruiting, or admissions services – commit a misrepresentation for which a person could reasonably be expected to rely, or has reasonably relied, to that person’s
detriment, the Department of Education could initiate proceedings to revoke our institutions’ Title IV eligibility, deny applications made by our institutions, impose fines, or initiate a limitation, suspension or termination proceeding against
us. Further, although the Department of Education claims not to have created any private right of action, the misrepresentation regulations as modified by the Final Rules could increase risk of qui tam actions under the False Claims Act.
 Gainful Employment. Under the Higher Education Act, proprietary schools are eligible to participate in Title IV
programs in respect of educational programs that lead to “gainful employment in a recognized occupation.” Historically, this concept has not been defined in detail. The Gainful Employment Rule, as published by the Department of Education,
defines “gainful employment” using two metrics, one based on debt-to-income ratios and the other based on repayment rates. Under the rule as published, an educational program is considered to lead to gainful employment in a recognized
occupation if it meets one of the following metrics: (1) loan repayment rate – at least 35% of former students are repaying their loans; or (2) debt to earnings ratio – either (a) the estimated annual loan repayment of a
typical graduate does not exceed 30% of his or her discretionary annual income, or (b) the estimated annual loan payment of a typical graduate does not exceed 12% of his or her annual earnings. These standards were scheduled to become effective
on July 1, 2012. However, as described in more detail below, a Federal District Court on June 30, 2012 vacated the Gainful Employment Rule. It therefore is not presently in effect, pending the final outcome of the underlying litigation and
any additional actions by the Department of Education.  Under the Gainful Employment Rule as published by the Department of
Education, if an educational program fails both the loan repayment or debt to earnings metrics, after one failure, the institution must provide an oral or written warning to students disclosing the amount by which the program missed minimal
acceptable performance and the program’s plans for improvement. The institution must also establish a three day waiting period before a student can enroll after receiving this disclosure. After two failures in three years, the institution must
provide a written warning to prospective and enrolled students in the failing program, stating the plans the institution intends to take in response, the risks associated with enrolling or continuing in the program, that students “should expect
to have difficulty repaying” their loans and, if the institution chooses to discontinue the program at this stage, notice to students with a timeline for discontinuation. After three failures in four years, the program loses eligibility for
Title IV Program funds. Once a program has lost eligibility, an institution cannot reestablish the program’s Title IV eligibility for at least three years. On June 21, 2012, the Department of Education released data to educational
institutions showing the calculation of gainful employment metrics for the 2011 measurement year for each of the institutions’ covered programs. These 2011 metrics were released for informational purposes only, as the Gainful Employment Rule
were to be effective on July 1, 2012. The informational metrics for 2011 were based on data reported by us relating to federal fiscal years 2007 and 2008. This informational data indicates that all of our educational programs covered by the
relevant reporting period prepared students for gainful employment in the manner set forth in the Gainful Employment Rule. 
  -31-



Table of Contents
On June 30, 2012, a Federal District Court vacated the Gainful Employment Rule, finding
that the loan repayment metric was arbitrary and capricious, and, further, that the loan repayment and debt-to-income metrics were not severable from each other. As a result, the Gainful Employment Rule is not presently in effect. The court did
find, however, that the Department of Education possesses statutory authority to define “gainful employment” by regulation and to develop specific metrics as part of such regulations. The Department of Education may appeal the court’s
decision, re-promulgate gainful employment standards in a manner that addresses the court’s findings, or both. If the decision of the Federal District Court is reversed on appeal, the Department of Education may establish a new effective date
for the Gainful Employment Rule. We therefore are unable to speculate on the outcome of this litigation, the future applicability of the Gainful Employment Rule or other similar standards, or its ultimate effect on our business. 
Not withstanding the 2011 informational data and the above-described Federal District Court decision, the failure of any of our
educational programs to satisfy any gainful employment regulations applicable in the future could render that program or programs ineligible for Title IV program funds. Additionally, the 2011 informational data and any future gainful employment data
released by the Department of Education could influence current students not to continue their studies, discourage prospective students from enrolling in our programs or negatively impact our reputation. If a particular educational program ceased to
become eligible for Title IV Program funds, either because it fails to prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation or due to other factors, we may be required to cease offering that program. If the Gainful Employment Rule were
to be reinstated, we may have to substantially increase our efforts to promote student loan repayment to ensure continued eligibility for certain programs to remain eligible for Title IV funding. Any of these events could materially increase our
costs of doing business, cause decreased enrollments, and have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Department of Education Review of New Programs. Under regulations adopted by the Department of Education that were effective July 1, 2011, any educational institution that seeks to
provide Title IV program funds to students enrolled in a new program that prepares students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation, which include all programs offered by us, must submit a notice to the Department of Education at least 90
days before the expected first day of class. These requirements were vacated by a Federal District Court on June 30, 2012 as part of a decision regarding the Gainful Employment Rule, and thus are not presently in effect. However, we are
currently provisionally certified by the Department of Education and remain subject to certain program approval requirements otherwise applicable to provisionally certified institutions Any delay in obtaining a required Department of Education
approval could delay the introduction of the program, which could negatively affect our growth and our ability to respond to emerging employment trends and add programs that are responsive to those trends, which in turn could decrease our
attractiveness to certain students.  Additional Provisions of the Final Rules. In addition to the issues
specifically addressed above, the Final Rules regarding Title IV program integrity include provisions regarding the definition of a credit hour; written agreements between institutions, particularly institutions under common ownership or control;
the administration of ability-to-benefit examinations; requirements regarding an institution’s return of Title IV program funds; and certain other issues pertaining to a student’s eligibility to receive Title IV program funds. The
Department of Education also routinely issues “Dear Colleague Letters” to provide guidance on certain areas of final regulations. This guidance is intended to assist institutions with understanding the regulations in these areas and does
not change any of the regulations. The Department of Education has issued numerous Dear Colleague Letters to provide guidance on the Final Rules. Compliance with the Final Rules or lack of sufficient guidance for compliance by the Department of
Education, could have a material effect on our business. Uncertainty surrounding application of the Final Rules, interpretive regulations or guidance by the Department of Education may continue for some period of time and could reduce our
enrollment, increase our cost of doing business, and have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Additional Rulemaking. On September 27, 2011, the Department of Education published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“NPRM”) to amend regulations for institutional eligibility
under the Higher Education Act and to streamline the application and approval process for new programs, as required by the Gainful Employment Rule. The public comment period ended on November 14, 2011, and the Department of Education has not
yet published final regulations. In light of the Federal District Court decision of June 30, 2012 that vacated the Gainful Employment Rule, it is unclear whether or when the Department of Education will publish such final regulations.

  -32-



Table of Contents
On October 26, 2011, the Department of Education announced the establishment of a
negotiated rulemaking panel regarding Teacher Preparation and TEACH Grant Programs. On April 12, 2012, after meeting in January, February and April 2012, participants acknowledged that they were unlikely to reach consensus on a set of
proposals. As a result, the Department of Education can issue proposed regulations without regard to any compromises reached during the negotiated rulemaking. The Department of Education’s publication of a proposed rule in the Federal Register
following the failure of the negotiated rulemaking committee to reach consensus remains pending.  On October 28, 2011,
the Department of Education announced the establishment of another negotiated rulemaking panel to consider certain proposed changes to regulations governing Title IV student loan programs. This rulemaking panel met in January, February and March
2012 to consider changes to certain regulations in those areas. At its final meeting in March 2012, the panel reached consensus on changes to regulations to implement a “Pay As You Earn” loan repayment initiative, to incorporate statutory
changes in the income-based repayment plan provisions, to make certain improvements in the administration of the income-based repayment and income-contingent repayment plans, and to overhaul the process for loan discharges based on total and
permanent disability of the borrower. On July 17, 2012, the Department of Education published a proposed rule in the Federal Register reflecting the consensus of the negotiated rulemaking committee, for which the public comment period expires
on August 16, 2012.  On May 1, 2012, the Department of Education announced its intention to establish an additional
negotiated rulemaking committee to develop additional regulations to prevent fraud and otherwise ensure proper use of Title IV program funds. The Department held public hearings on May 23 and 31, 2012 at which interested parties presented
issues for consideration by the rulemaking committee, whose establishment remains pending.  Eligibility and
certification procedures. Each institution must apply periodically to the Department of Education for continued certification to participate in Title IV programs. Such recertification generally is required every six years, but may be
required earlier, including when an institution undergoes a change in control. An institution may also come under the Department of Education’s review when it expands its activities in certain ways, such as opening an additional location,
adding a new educational program or modifying the academic credentials it offers. The Department of Education may place an institution on provisional certification status if it finds that the institution does not fully satisfy all of the eligibility
and certification standards and in certain other circumstances, such as when an institution is certified for the first time or undergoes a change in control. During the period of provisional certification, the institution must comply with any
additional conditions included in the school’s program participation agreement with the Department of Education. In addition, the Department of Education may more closely review an institution that is provisionally certified if it applies for
recertification or approval to open a new location, add an educational program, acquire another school or make any other significant change. If the Department of Education determines that a provisionally certified institution is unable to meet its
responsibilities under its program participation agreement, it may seek to revoke the institution’s certification to participate in Title IV programs without advance notice or opportunity for the institution to challenge the action. Students
attending provisionally certified institutions remain eligible to receive Title IV program funds.  Our current certification
to participate in the Title IV programs was effective in January 2010, following our transaction with Dlorah in 2009, and extends through December 31, 2012. Our certification is on a provisional basis due to the change in ownership of NAU that
resulted from the Dlorah transaction.  Administrative capability. Department of Education regulations
specify extensive criteria by which an institution must establish that it has the requisite “administrative capability” to participate in Title IV programs. To meet the administrative capability standards, an institution must, among other
things:   


 
•
 
 comply with all applicable Title IV program requirements; 
 


 
•
 
 have an adequate number of qualified personnel to administer Title IV programs; 
  -33-



Table of Contents


 
•
 
 have acceptable standards for measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its students; 
 


 
•
 
 not have student loan cohort default rates above specified levels; 
 


 
•
 
 have various procedures in place for awarding, disbursing and safeguarding Title IV program funds and for maintaining required records;
  


 
•
 
 administer Title IV programs with adequate checks and balances in its system of internal controls; 
 


 
•
 
 not be, and not have any principal or affiliate who is, debarred or suspended from federal contracting or engaging in activity that is cause for
debarment or suspension;   


 
•
 
 provide financial aid counseling to its students;   


 
•
 
 refer to the Department of Education’s Office of Inspector General any credible information indicating that any student, parent, employee,
third-party servicer or other agent of the institution has engaged in any fraud or other illegal conduct involving Title IV programs;   


 
•
 
 submit all required reports and financial statements in a timely manner; and 
 


 
•
 
 not otherwise appear to lack administrative capability.  If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria, the Department of Education may:   


 
•
 
 require the institution to repay Title IV funds its students previously received; 
 


 
•
 
 transfer the institution from the advance method of payment of Title IV funds to heightened cash monitoring status or the reimbursement method of
payment;   


 
•
 
 place the institution on provisional certification status; or 
 


 
•
 
 commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the institution’s participation in Title IV programs.
 If the Department of Education determines that we failed to satisfy its administrative capability
requirements, then our students could lose, or be limited in their access to, Title IV program funding.  Financial
responsibility. The Higher Education Act and Department of Education regulations establish extensive standards of financial responsibility that institutions such as us must satisfy to participate in Title IV programs. The Department of
Education evaluates institutions for compliance with these standards on an annual basis based on the institution’s annual audited financial statements as well as when the institution applies to the Department of Education to have its
eligibility to participate in Title IV programs recertified. The most significant financial responsibility standard is the institution’s composite score, which is derived from a formula established by the Department of Education based on three
financial ratios:   


 
•
 
 equity ratio, which measures the institution’s capital resources, financial viability and ability to borrow; 
 


 
•
 
 primary reserve ratio, which measures the institution’s ability to support current operations from expendable resources; and
  


 
•
 
 net income ratio, which measures the institution’s ability to operate at a profit or within its means. 
  -34-



Table of Contents
The Department of Education assigns a strength factor to the results of each of these ratios
on a scale from negative 1.0 to positive 3.0, with negative 1.0 reflecting financial weakness and positive 3.0 reflecting financial strength. The Department of Education then assigns a weighting percentage to each ratio and adds the weighted scores
for the three ratios together to produce a composite score for the institution. The composite score must be at least 1.5 for the institution to be deemed financially responsible without the need for further Department of Education oversight. In
addition to having an acceptable composite score, an institution must, among other things, provide the administrative resources necessary to comply with Title IV program requirements, meet all of its financial obligations including required refunds
to students and any Title IV liabilities and debts, be current in its debt payments and not receive an adverse, qualified or disclaimed opinion by its accountants in its audited financial statements. 
If the Department of Education determines that an institution does not meet the financial responsibility standards due to a failure to
meet the composite score or other factors, the institution should be able to establish financial responsibility on an alternative basis permitted by the Department of Education. This alternative basis could include, in the Department of
Education’s discretion, posting a letter of credit, accepting provisional certification, complying with additional Department of Education monitoring requirements, agreeing to receive Title IV program funds under an arrangement other than the
Department of Education’s standard advance funding arrangement, such as the reimbursement method of payment or heightened cash monitoring, or complying with or accepting other limitations on the institution’s ability to increase the number
of programs it offers or the number of students it enrolls.  Based on our composite score for fiscal year ended May 31,
2007 and continuing for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2008, the Department of Education determined that we failed to meet the standards of financial responsibility. The Department of Education therefore required us to participate in Title IV
programs under an alternative basis of financial responsibility requiring provisional certification, the posting of a letter of credit representing 10% of the Title IV program funds received by us during our most recently completed fiscal year, the
receipt of Title IV program funds under the heightened cash monitoring payment method and compliance with certain other reporting requirements. Based on our audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2009, which indicated
our composite score for such fiscal year was 1.6, the Department of Education informed us by a letter dated January 14, 2010 that we were no longer required to maintain a letter of credit, receive Title IV program funds under the heightened
cash monitoring payment method or be subject to certain other reporting requirements Our audited financial statements for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2012 and May 31, 2011indicated our composite scores for such fiscal years were 2.7 and
3.0, respectively. We remain provisionally certified, however, as a result of the transaction described in “Corporate Information”.  The requirement to post or maintain a letter of credit or other sanctions imposed by the Department of Education increased our cost of regulatory compliance and affected our cash flows. If we are unable
to meet the minimum composite score or comply with the other standards of financial responsibility, and could not post a required letter of credit or comply with the alternative bases for establishing financial responsibility, then our students
could lose their access to Title IV program funding.  Return of Title IV funds for students who
withdraw. When a student who has received Title IV funds withdraws from school, the institution must determine the amount of Title IV program funds the student has “earned.” If the student withdraws during the first 60%
of any period of enrollment or payment period, the amount of Title IV program funds that the student has earned is equal to a pro rata portion of the funds the student received or for which the student would otherwise be eligible. If the student
withdraws after the 60% threshold, then the student is deemed to have earned 100% of the Title IV program funds he or she received. The institution must then return the unearned Title IV program funds to the appropriate lender or the Department of
Education in a timely manner, which is generally no later than 45 days after the date the institution determined that the student withdrew. If such payments are not timely made, the institution will be required to submit a letter of credit to the
Department of Education equal to 25% of the Title IV funds that the institution should have returned for withdrawn students in its most recently completed fiscal year. Under Department of Education regulations, late returns of Title IV program funds
for 5% or more of the withdrawn students in the audit sample in the institution’s annual Title IV compliance audit for either of the institution’s two most recent fiscal years or in a Department of Education program review triggers this
letter of credit requirement. We did not exceed this 5% threshold in our annual Title IV compliance audit for either of our two most recent fiscal years. 
  -35-



Table of Contents
The “90/10” Rule. A requirement of the Higher Education Act commonly
referred to as the “90/10” Rule provides that an institution loses its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, if, under a complex regulatory formula that requires cash basis accounting and other adjustments to the calculation of
revenue, the institution derives more than 90% of its revenues for any fiscal year from Title IV program funds. This rule applies only to for-profit postsecondary educational institutions, including us. Prior to the August 2008 reauthorization of
the Higher Education Act, an institution that violated the rule became ineligible to participate in Title IV programs as of the first day of the fiscal year following the fiscal year in which it exceeded the 90% threshold, and it was unable to apply
to regain its eligibility until the next fiscal year. If an institution exceeded the 90% threshold for a fiscal year and it and its students had received Title IV funds for the next fiscal year, it was required to return those funds to the
applicable lender or the Department of Education. The August 2008 reauthorization of the Higher Education Act included significant revisions to the “90/10 Rule,” effective upon the date of the law’s enactment. Under the revised law,
an institution is subject to loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs only if it exceeds the 90% threshold for two consecutive fiscal years, and an institution whose rate exceeds 90% for any single fiscal year will be placed on
provisional certification.  Using the Department of Education’s formula under the “90/10 Rule,” for our 2010,
2011 and 2012 fiscal years, we derived approximately 76%, 79% and 85%, respectively, of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from Title IV program funds. Recent changes in federal law that increased Title IV grant and loan limits, and any
additional increases in the future, may result in an increase in the revenues NAU receives from Title IV programs, which could make it more difficult for us to satisfy the “90/10 Rule.” In addition, economic downturns that adversely
affect students’ employment circumstances could also increase their reliance on Title IV programs. However, such effects may be mitigated by other provisions of the recent Higher Education Act reauthorization that allow institutions, when
calculating their compliance with this revenue test, to include more non-Title IV revenues, such as revenues from institutional loans under certain circumstances.  Student loan defaults. Under the Higher Education Act, an educational institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV programs if defaults by its students on the
repayment of loans received through either the Federal Family Education Loan (“FFEL”) Program or the Federal Direct Loan programs exceed certain levels. For each federal fiscal year, the Department of Education calculates a rate of student
defaults on such loans for each institution, known as a “cohort default rate.” An institution’s cohort default rate for a federal fiscal year is calculated by determining the rate at which borrowers who became subject to their
repayment obligation in that federal fiscal year defaulted by the end of the following federal fiscal year. Before July 1, 2010, we participated in both the FFEL and Federal Direct Loan programs. As of July 1, 2010, following the
elimination of the FFEL program under federal law, we participate only in the Federal Direct Loan program. Defaults by students on the repayment of loans received through the FFEL program still will be counted; however, in the calculation to
determine our eligibility to participate in the Federal Direct Loan program.  If the Department of Education notifies an
institution that its cohort default rates for each of the three most recent federal fiscal years are 25% or greater, the institution’s participation in the Federal Direct Loan and Pell Grant programs ends 30 days after that notification, unless
the institution appeals that determination in a timely manner on specified grounds and according to specified procedures. In addition, an institution’s participation in the Federal Direct Loan programs ends 30 days after notification by the
Department of Education that the institution’s most recent cohort default rate is greater than 40%, unless the institution timely appeals that determination on specified grounds and according to specified procedures. An institution whose
participation ends under either of these provisions may not participate in the Federal Direct Loan and Pell Grant programs, as applicable, for the remainder of the fiscal year in which the institution receives the notification and for the next two
federal fiscal years. 
  -36-



Table of Contents
If an institution’s cohort default rate equals or exceeds 25% in any single federal
fiscal year, the institution may be placed on provisional certification status. Provisional certification does not limit an institution’s access to Title IV program funds, but it does subject an institution to closer review by the Department of
Education if the institution applies for recertification or approval to open a new location, add an educational program, acquire another school or make any other significant change. Additionally, the Department of Education may revoke the
certification of a provisionally-certified institution without advance notice if the Department of Education determines that the institution is not fulfilling material Title IV program requirements. We were approved to participate in the FFEL
program before its expiration on July 1, 2010, and we currently are approved to participate in the Federal Direct Loan program. The potential sanctions discussed in this section are based on the combined cohort default rate for loans issued to
students under both the FFEL program and the Federal Direct Loan program. Our official cohort default rates for the 2009, 2008 and 2007 federal fiscal years (the most recent federal fiscal years for which official cohort default rates as measured
over two federal fiscal years of borrower repayment have been issued by the Department of Education) were 14.1 %, 9.8% and 8.2%, respectively.  The August 2008 reauthorization of the Higher Education Act included significant revisions to the requirements concerning FFEL and Federal Direct Loan cohort default rates. Under the revised law, the
period for which students’ defaults on their loans are included in the calculation of an institution’s cohort default rate has been extended by one additional year, which is expected to increase the cohort default rates for most
institutions. During a transition period covering the cohort default rate for federal fiscal years 2009, 2010 and 2011, the Department of Education is calculating and issuing to institutions their cohort default rates under both the former and
revised methodologies. The Department of Education is expected to calculate and issue institutions’ cohort default rates for federal fiscal year 2009 as measured over three federal fiscal years of borrower repayment in September 2012. The
revised law also increased the threshold for ending an institution’s participation in the relevant Title IV programs from 25% to 30%, effective in 2012.  The Department of Education generally publishes draft cohort default rates in February of each year for the repayment period that ended the prior September 30. On February 25, 2012, we received
notice that our draft cohort default rate for students who entered repayment during the federal fiscal year ended September 30, 2010, measured over two federal fiscal years of borrower repayment, was 15.8%. On March 5, 2012, we received
notice that our draft cohort rate for students who entered repayment during the federal fiscal year ended September 30, 2009, measured over three federal fiscal years of borrower repayment, was 23.2%. Draft cohort default rates do not result in
sanctions, are subject to subsequent data corrections and appeals by an institution, and can change between their issuance to institutions and the Department of Education’s release of official cohort default rates which are typically issued
annually in September.  Compliance reviews. We are subject to announced and unannounced compliance reviews
and audits by various external agencies, including the Department of Education, its Office of Inspector General, institutional and programmatic accreditors, state licensing agencies, agencies that have previously guaranteed FFEL loans, various state
approving agencies for financial assistance to veterans and accrediting commissions. As part of the Department of Education’s ongoing monitoring of institutions’ administration of Title IV programs, the Higher Education Act also requires
institutions to annually submit to the Department of Education a Title IV compliance audit conducted by an independent certified public accountant in accordance with applicable federal and Department of Education audit standards. In addition, to
enable the Department of Education to make a determination of an institution’s financial responsibility, each institution must annually submit audited financial statements prepared in accordance with Department of Education regulations.
 Department of Education Program Review. From time to time, institutions that participate in the Title IV
programs of federal student financial assistance are subject to program reviews by the Department of Education. In March 2011, the Department of Education announced a program review site visit for NAU, which occurred in April 2011. The periods
covered by the program review were the 2008-2009, 2009-2010 and 2010-2011 Title IV award years (with each award year commencing July 1 and ending June 30). The Department of Education’s preliminary program review report contained
findings regarding the manner in which we calculated returns of Title IV program funds for online students that withdrew before completing their educational program, certain discrepancies between our published campus crime statistics and similar
information on its website, and aspects of its written policy on returns of Title IV program funds. With respect to the first finding, we were required to perform a full file review for each of the three award years reviewed and, where necessary,
revise the last date of attendance and prior returns of Title IV funds calculations for online students. We submitted the results of this file review and its responses to the program review findings on October 19, 2011. On February 3,
2012, the Department of Education requested certain additional documentation to facilitate resolution of the program review, which we provided on March 20, 2012. On May 30, 2012, the Department of Education issued a final program review
determination letter requiring us to return an aggregate amount of $335,675 to the Department of Education and applicable FFEL lenders, which was completed within 45 days of the final program review determination letter, as required by the
Department of Education. 
  -37-



Table of Contents
Privacy of student records. The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act
of 1974, or FERPA, and the Department of Education’s FERPA regulations require educational institutions to protect the privacy of students’ educational records by limiting an institution’s disclosure of a student’s personally
identifiable information without the student’s prior written consent. FERPA also requires institutions to allow students to review and request changes to their educational records maintained by the institution, to notify students at least
annually of this inspection right and to maintain records in each student’s file listing requests for access to and disclosures of personally identifiable information and the interest of such party in that information. If an institution fails
to comply with FERPA, the Department of Education may require corrective actions by the institution or may terminate an institution’s receipt of further federal funds. In addition, educational institutions are obligated to safeguard student
information pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, or GLBA, a federal law designed to protect consumers’ personal financial information held by financial institutions and other entities that provide financial services to consumers. GLBA and
the applicable GLBA regulations require an institution to, among other things, develop and maintain a comprehensive, written information security program designed to protect against the unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable financial
information of students, parents or other individuals with whom such institution has a customer relationship. If an institution fails to comply with the applicable GLBA requirements, it may be required to take corrective actions, be subject to
monitoring and oversight by the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, and be subject to fines or penalties imposed by the FTC. For-profit educational institutions are also subject to the general deceptive practices jurisdiction of the FTC with respect
to their collection, use and disclosure of student information. The institution must also comply with the FTC Red Flags Rule, a section of the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act, that requires the establishment of guidelines and policies regarding
identity theft related to student credit accounts.  Potential effect of regulatory violations. If we fail
to comply with the regulatory standards governing Title IV programs, the Department of Education could impose one or more sanctions, including transferring NAU to the reimbursement or cash monitoring method of payment, requiring us to repay Title IV
program funds, requiring us to post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education as a condition for continued Title IV certification, taking emergency action against us, initiating proceedings to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or
terminate our participation in Title IV programs or referring the matter for civil or criminal prosecution. Because we are provisionally certified to participate in Title IV programs, the Department of Education may revoke our certification without
advance notice or advance opportunity for us to challenge that action. If such sanctions or proceedings were imposed against us and resulted in a substantial curtailment or termination of our participation in Title IV programs, our enrollments,
revenues and results of operations could be materially affected.  In addition to the actions that may be brought against us as
a result of our participation in Title IV programs, we are also subject to complaints and lawsuits relating to regulatory compliance brought not only by regulatory agencies, but also by other government agencies and third parties, such as current or
former students or employees and other members of the public.  Regulatory Standards that May Restrict Institutional Expansion or Other
Changes  Many actions that we may wish to take in connection with expanding our operations or other changes are subject to
review or approval by the applicable regulatory agencies.  Adding teaching locations, implementing new educational
programs and increasing enrollment. The requirements and standards of state education agencies, accrediting commissions and the Department of Education limit our ability in certain instances to establish additional teaching locations,
implement new educational programs or increase enrollment in certain programs. Many states require review and approval before institutions can add new locations or programs. The state educational agencies, the Higher Learning Commission and the
specialized accrediting commissions that authorize or accredit us and our programs generally require institutions to notify them in advance of adding new locations or implementing new programs, and upon notification may undertake a review of the
quality of the facility or the program and the financial, academic and other qualifications of the institution. 
  -38-



Table of Contents
Under regulations adopted by the Department of Education that were effective July 1,
2011, any educational institution that seeks to provide Title IV program funds to students enrolled in a new program that prepares students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation, which include all programs offered by NAU, must submit a
notice to the Department of Education at least 90 days before the expected first day of class. These requirements were vacated by a Federal District Court on June 30, 2012 as part of a decision regarding the final gainful employment
regulations, and thus are not presently in effect. However, as a separate condition for an institution to participate in Title IV programs on a provisional basis, as in our case, the Department of Education can require prior approval of such
programs or otherwise restrict the number of programs an institution may add or the extent to which an institution can modify existing educational programs. If an institution that is required to obtain the Department of Education’s advance
approval for the addition of a new program or new location fails to do so, the institution may be liable for repayment of the Title IV program funds received by the institution or students in connection with that program or enrolled at that
location. Additionally, any delay in obtaining a required Department of Education approval could delay the introduction of the program, which could negatively impact our enrollment growth. 
Provisional certification. Each institution must apply to the Department of Education for continued certification to
participate in Title IV programs at least every six years and when it undergoes a change in control. An institution may also come under the Department of Education’s review when it expands its activities in certain ways, such as opening an
additional location, adding an educational program or modifying the academic credentials that it offers.  The Department of
Education may place an institution on provisional certification status if it finds that the institution does not fully satisfy all of the eligibility and certification standards. In addition, if a company acquires a school from another entity, the
acquired school will automatically be placed on provisional certification when the Department of Education approves the transaction. During the period of provisional certification, the institution must comply with any additional conditions or
restrictions included in its program participation agreement with the Department of Education. Students attending provisionally certified institutions remain eligible to receive Title IV program funds, but if the Department of Education finds that a
provisionally certified institution is unable to meet its responsibilities under its program participation agreement, it may seek to revoke the institution’s certification to participate in Title IV programs without advance notice or advance
opportunity for the institution to challenge that action. In addition, the Department of Education may more closely review an institution that is provisionally certified if it applies for recertification or approval to open a new location, add an
educational program, acquire another school or make any other significant change.  We are currently provisionally certified to
participate in Title IV programs through December 31, 2012. Our status beyond that point depends on whether the Department of Education determines at that time that we are fully satisfying all of the Department of Education eligibility and
certification standards.  Acquiring other schools. While we have not acquired any other schools in the past, we
may seek to do so in the future. The Department of Education and virtually all state education agencies and accrediting commissions require a company to obtain their approval if it wishes to acquire another school. The level of review varies by
individual state and accrediting commission, with some requiring approval of such an acquisition before it occurs while others only consider approval after the acquisition has occurred. The approval of the applicable state education agencies and
accrediting commissions is a necessary prerequisite to the Department of Education certifying the acquired school to participate in Title IV programs. The restrictions imposed by any of the applicable regulatory agencies could delay or prevent our
acquisition of other schools in some circumstances. 
  -39-



Table of Contents
Change in ownership resulting in a change in control. Many states and
accrediting commissions require institutions of higher education to report or obtain approval of certain changes in control and changes in other aspects of institutional organization or control. The types of and thresholds for such reporting and
approval vary among the states and accrediting commissions. The Higher Learning Commission provides that an institution must obtain its approval in advance of a change in control, structure or organization for the institution to retain its
accredited status. In addition, in the event of a change in control, structure or organization, the Higher Learning Commission requires a post-transaction focused visit or other evaluation to review the appropriateness of its approval of the change
and whether the institution has met the commitment it made to the Higher Learning Commission prior to the approval. Other specialized accrediting commissions also require an institution to obtain similar approval before or after the event that
constitutes a change in control under their standards.  Many states include the transfer of a controlling interest of common
stock in the definition of a change in control requiring approval, but their thresholds for determining a change in control vary widely. A change in control under the definition of one state educational agency that regulates us might require us to
obtain approval of the change in control to maintain authorization to operate in that state, and in some cases such states could require us to obtain advance approval of the change in control. 
Under Department of Education regulations, an institution that undergoes a change in control loses its eligibility to participate in
Title IV programs and must apply to the Department of Education to reestablish such eligibility. If an institution files the required application and follows other procedures, the Department of Education may temporarily certify the institution on a
provisional basis following the change in control, so that the institution’s students retain access to Title IV program funds until the Department of Education completes its full review. In addition, the Department of Education will extend such
temporary provisional certification if the institution timely files other required materials, including the approval of the change in control by its state authorizing agency and accrediting commission and an audited balance sheet showing the
financial condition of the institution or its parent corporation as of the date of the change in control. If the institution fails to meet any of these applications and other deadlines, its certification will expire and its students will not be
eligible to receive Title IV program funds until the Department of Education completes its full review, which commonly takes several months and may take longer. If the Department of Education approves the application after a change in control, it
will certify the institution on a provisional basis for a period of up to approximately three years.  Our November 2009
transaction with Dlorah was deemed to be a change of control for NAU by both the Department of Education and the Higher Learning Commission. The Department of Education recertified NAU to participate in Title IV programs following the transaction,
with such certification extending through December 31, 2012. The Higher Learning Commission approved the change of ownership or control, with several conditions consistent with its change of ownership procedures and requirements. These
conditions include: (a) that we file a progress report by week six of each semester providing our enrollment information by degree program and by location; (b) that we file a contingency report if there is any decision to offer a follow-up
or secondary stock offering at least 90 days prior to such an offering so that the Higher Learning Commission may assess whether there may be a subsequent change of control under the Higher Learning Commission’s policies; (c) that we
undergo an evaluation within six months of the closing of the transaction focused on ascertaining the appropriateness of the approval of the change of control and of the institution’s compliance with any commitments made in the change of
control application as well as with the applicable accreditation criteria and eligibility requirements; and (d) that a stipulation be added to our affiliation status limiting the programs at the Master’s level to existing programs and
requiring us to seek the Higher Learning Commission’s approval for the addition of any new Master’s degrees. With respect to the progress report condition, the Higher Learning Commission approval provided that, if the pattern of enrollment
growth calls into question the capacity of the institution to provide quality teaching and learning, the Higher Learning Commission may schedule a focused evaluation regarding this issue. Any failure by us to comply with the requirements of the
Department of Education, the Higher Learning Commission or the state educational agencies from which we have a license or authorization, or a failure to obtain their approval of the change in control, could result in loss of authorization,
accreditation or eligibility to participate in Title IV programs and cause a significant decline in our student enrollments. 
  -40-



Table of Contents
A change in control also could occur as a result of future transactions in which we are
involved. Some corporate reorganizations and some changes in the board of directors are examples of such transactions. In addition, Department of Education regulations provide that a change in control occurs for a publicly traded corporation if
either: (a) there is an event that would obligate the corporation to file a Current Report on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission disclosing a change in control, or (b) the corporation has a stockholder that owns at
least 25% of the total outstanding voting stock of the corporation and is the largest stockholder of the corporation, and that stockholder ceases to own at least 25% of such stock or ceases to be the largest stockholder. These standards are subject
to interpretation by the Department of Education. A significant purchase or disposition of our voting stock in the future, including a disposition of our voting stock by Robert Buckingham’s partnership or living trust, could be determined by
the Department of Education to be a change in control under this standard. The potential adverse effects of a change in control could influence future decisions by us and our stockholders regarding the sale, purchase, transfer, issuance or
redemption of stock. In addition, the adverse regulatory effect of a change in control also could discourage bids for our common stock and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 
Item 1A. Risk Factors.  The following risk factors and other information included in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks
and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not material may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and prospects. 
Risks Related to the Extensive Regulation of our Business  If we fail to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements governing our university, we could incur significant monetary liabilities, fines and penalties, including loss of access to federal
student loans and grants for our students, on which we are substantially dependent.  For our fiscal year ended
May 31, 2012, we derived approximately 85% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from federal student financial aid programs, known as Title IV programs, administered by the United States Department of Education, or the Department of
Education. A significant percentage of our students rely on the availability of Title IV program funds to finance their cost of attending NAU. To participate in Title IV programs, a postsecondary institution must be authorized by the appropriate
state education agency or agencies, be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by the Department of Education, and be certified as an eligible institution by the Department of Education. In addition, NAU’s operations and programs are
regulated by other state education agencies and additional accrediting commissions. We are subject to extensive regulation by the education agencies of multiple states, the Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and
Schools, or the Higher Learning Commission, which is our institutional accrediting commission, various specialized accrediting commissions, and the Department of Education. These regulatory requirements cover the vast majority of our operations,
including our educational programs, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing, student recruiting and admissions, and financial operations. These regulatory requirements also affect our ability to open additional
schools and locations, add new educational programs, change existing educational programs and change our ownership structure. 
The agencies and commissions that regulate our operations periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of
existing requirements. Regulatory requirements are not always precise and clear, and regulatory agencies may sometimes disagree with the way we interpret or apply these requirements. Any misinterpretation by us of regulatory requirements could
adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulatory requirements, we could suffer financial penalties, limitations on our operations, loss of accreditation, termination of
or limitations on our ability to grant degrees and certificates, or limitations on or termination of our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, each of which could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of
operations. In addition, if we are charged with regulatory violations, our reputation could be damaged, which could have a negative impact on our enrollments and materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We
cannot predict with certainty how all of these regulatory requirements will be applied, or whether we will be able to comply with all of the applicable requirements in the future. 
  -41-



Table of Contents
If we lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs for any reason, we would
experience a dramatic and adverse decline in revenue, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. Furthermore, we would be unable to continue our business as it currently is conducted, which would be expected to have a
material effect on our ability to continue as a going concern.  Congress may revise the laws governing Title IV programs or reduce
funding for those programs and the Department of Education may revise its regulations administering Title IV programs, any of which could reduce our enrollment and revenue and increase costs of operations. 
Political and budgetary concerns significantly affect Title IV programs. The Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, which is a federal
law that governs Title IV programs, must be periodically reauthorized by Congress and was most recently reauthorized in August 2008. In October 2009, the Department of Education published final regulations implementing statutory changes from the
August 2008 reauthorization relating to, among other things, the “90/10” Rule, student eligibility, disclosure requirements, the relationships between schools and lenders of private and Title IV loans, and the approval and oversight of
accrediting agencies. These regulations took effect on July 1, 2010. Congress must determine funding levels for Title IV programs on an annual basis and can change the laws governing Title IV programs at any time. For example, on June 14,
2012, the U.S. Senate Committee on Appropriations passed legislation that, if ultimately enacted into law, would prohibit postsecondary educational institutions, including us, from using federal funds for marketing, advertising and recruiting
expenses. Apart from Title IV programs, eligible veterans and military personnel may receive educational benefits for the pursuit of higher education. A reduction in federal funding levels for Title IV programs, or for programs providing educational
benefits to veterans and military personnel, could reduce the ability of some students to finance their education. We cannot predict with certainty the nature of any new regulatory requirements, other future revisions to the law or funding levels
for Title IV programs. Because a significant percentage of our revenue is and is expected to be derived from Title IV programs, any action by Congress that significantly reduces Title IV program funding or the ability of us or our students to
participate in Title IV programs could have a material effect on our enrollments, business, financial condition and results of operations. Congressional action also may require us to modify our practices in ways that could increase administrative
costs and reduce profit margins, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  If Congress significantly reduced the amount of available Title IV program funding, we would attempt to arrange for alternative sources of financial aid for our students, such as private sources. We
cannot provide assurance that one or more private organizations would be willing or able to provide sufficient loans to students attending one of our schools or programs, or that the interest rate and other terms of such loans would be as favorable
as Title IV program loans or acceptable to our students or that such private sources would be adequate to replace the full amount of the reduction in Title IV program funding. Therefore, even if some form of private financing sources become
available, our enrollment could be materially affected. In addition, private organizations could require us to guarantee all or part of this assistance resulting in additional costs to us. If we were to provide more direct financial assistance to
our students, we would assume increased credit risks and incur additional costs, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
On October 29, 2010, following a negotiated rulemaking process that had commenced in May 2009, the Department published final
regulations (the “Final Rules”) pertaining to a number of Title IV program integrity issues. Negotiated rulemaking is a process whereby the Department of Education consults with members of the postsecondary education community to identify
issues of concern and attempts to agree on proposed regulatory revisions to address those issues before the Department of Education formally proposes any regulations. If the Department of Education and negotiators cannot reach consensus on the
entire package of draft regulations, the Department of Education is authorized to propose regulations without being bound by any agreements made in the negotiation process. The Final Rules became effective July 1, 2011. On June 13, 2011,
the Department of Education published final regulations defining the meaning of “gainful employment” for the purpose of determining whether certain educational programs comply with the Title IV requirement of preparing students for gainful
employment in a recognized occupation, which were to be July 1, 2012 (the “Gainful Employment Rule”). However, on June 30, 2012, a Federal District Court vacated the Gainful Employment Rule. As a result, the Gainful Employment
Rule is not presently in effect pending the outcome of the underlying litigation and any additional actions by the Department of Education. We are unable to speculate on the outcome of this litigation. We cannot predict with certainty the impact of
the Final Rules, and the Gainful Employment Rule to the extent it is reinstated in the future, on our operations, nor can we predict the timing and impact of other legislative or regulatory changes. Compliance with these and other new and changing
regulations could reduce our enrollments, increase our cost of doing business, and have a material effect on our business. 
  -42-



Table of Contents
On September 27, 2011, the Department of Education published a Notice of Proposed
Rulemaking (“NPRM”) to amend regulations for institutional eligibility under the Higher Education Act and to streamline the application and approval process for new programs, as required by the Gainful Employment Rule. The public comment
period ended on November 14, 2011, and the Department of Education has not yet published final regulations. In light of the Federal District Court decision of June 30, 2012 that vacated the Gainful Employment Rule, it is unclear whether or
when the Department of Education will publish such final regulations.  On October 26, 2011, the Department of Education
announced the establishment of a negotiated rulemaking panel regarding Teacher Preparation and TEACH Grant Programs. On April 12, 2012, after meeting in January, February and April 2012, participants acknowledged that they were unlikely to
reach consensus on a set of proposals. As a result, the Department of Education can issue proposed regulations without regard to any compromises reached during the negotiated rulemaking. The Department of Education’s publication of a proposed
rule in the Federal Register following the failure of the negotiated rulemaking committee to reach consensus remains pending. 
On October 28, 2011, the Department of Education announced the establishment of another negotiated rulemaking panel to consider
certain proposed changes to regulations governing Title IV student loan programs. This rulemaking panel met in January, February and March 2012 to consider changes to certain regulations in those areas. At its final meeting in March 2012, the panel
reached consensus on changes to regulations to implement a “Pay As You Earn” loan repayment initiative, to incorporate statutory changes in the income-based repayment plan provisions, to make certain improvements in the administration of
the income-based repayment and income-contingent repayment plans, and to overhaul the process for loan discharges based on total and permanent disability of the borrower. On July 17, 2012, the Department of Education published a proposed rule
in the Federal Register reflecting the consensus of the negotiated rulemaking committee for which the public comment period expires on August 16, 2012.  On May 1, 2012, the Department of Education announced its intention to establish an additional negotiated rulemaking committee to develop additional regulations to prevent fraud and otherwise ensure
proper use of Title IV program funds. The Department of Education held public hearings on May 23 and 31, 2012 at which interested parties presented issues for consideration by the rulemaking committee, whose establishment remains pending.
 Compliance with the Final Rules, the Gainful Employment Rule to the extent it is reinstated in the future, any regulations
that are promulgated through the current or future negotiated rulemaking processes, other legislation promulgated by Congress, any executive orders issued by the executive branch, and other new and changing regulations and regulatory
agency measures could reduce our enrollments, increase our cost of doing business, and have a material effect on our business. We are unable to predict the timing or the proposed or final form of any regulations that the Department of Education
ultimately may adopt and the impact of such regulations on our business.  Congress has recently commenced an examination of the
for-profit education sector that could result in legislation or further Department of Education rulemaking restricting Title IV program participation by proprietary schools in a manner that could materially affect our business. 
  -43-



Table of Contents
Recently, Congress has placed increased focus on the role that for-profit educational
institutions play in higher education. Congress has been holding various hearings on and requesting the GAO to conduct reviews of the proprietary education sector. As part of this investigation, on August 5, 2010, the HELP Committee requested
information from 30 proprietary educational institutions, including us, in connection with the HELP Committee’s ongoing hearings relating to for–profit colleges receiving Title IV student financial aid. The request sought information to
more accurately understand how we use Federal resources, including how we recruit and enroll students, set program price or tuition, determine financial aid including private or institutional loans, track attendance, handle withdrawal of students
and return of Title IV dollars and manage compliance with the requirement that no more than 90% of revenues come from Title IV dollars. Most recently, on July 30, 2012, the HELP Committee released a report entitled “For Profit Higher Education:
The Failure to Safeguard the Federal Investment and Ensure Student Success,” analyzing the information submitted by all 30 of the companies from which it requested information. The findings and recommendations contained in this report could
negatively impact our reputation and materially affect our business. Congress and the executive branch have also focused on educational benefits for military personnel and veterans. On April 27, 2012, in response to alleged abusive recruiting
practices by for-profit institutions, President Obama signed an executive order aimed at providing military personnel, veterans and their family members with the resources they need to make an informed decision about their educational prospects and
other protections (the “Executive Order”). The Executive Order requires the Department of Education, the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs to establish and implement “Principles of Excellence” to apply
to educational institutions receiving funding from federal military and veterans educational benefits programs. The goals of the Principles of Excellence are broadly stated in the Executive Order and relate to disclosures on costs and amounts of
costs covered by federal educational benefits, marketing standards, state authorization, accreditation approvals, standard institutional refund policies, educational plans and academic and financial advising. Educational institutions are required to
indicate whether or not they intend to comply with these Principles of Excellence by response to the Department of Veterans Affairs. This response was initially required by June 30, 2012, but the deadline was subsequently extended to
August 1, 2012. We have responded that we intend to comply with the Principles of Excellence, as veterans and service members are valued constituencies within our student and prospective student populations. See “Regulatory Matters —
Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs — Congressional Action and Changes in Department of Education Regulations.”  We cannot predict whether, or the extent to which, these hearings and review will result in legislation or further rulemaking affecting our participation in Title IV programs. To the extent that any laws
or regulations are adopted that limit our participation in Title IV programs or the amount of student financial aid for which the students at our institutions are eligible, our enrollments, revenues and results of operation could be materially
affected.  Recent statutory and regulatory changes substantially increased reporting and other requirements that could impair our
reputation and adversely affect our enrollments. Our failure to comply with or accurately interpret pertinent disclosure requirements may subject us to penalties and other sanctions. 
The most recent reauthorization of the Higher Education Act, in August 2008, contains numerous revisions to the requirements governing
Title IV programs. Among other things, institutions participating in Title IV programs are subject to extensive additional reporting and disclosure requirements. The Final Rules published by the Department of Education in October 2010 that became
effective July 1, 2011 require a number of specific disclosures to students and prospective students regarding our educational programs. Such disclosures include the occupations that NAU’s educational programs prepare students to enter
upon completing their program, total program costs and median student debt incurred for our programs, along with program completion and placement rates for our programs. Any failure by us to properly interpret these new requirements could
subject us to limitation, suspension or termination of our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, the imposition of conditions on our participation in Title IV programs, monetary liabilities, fines and penalties or other sanctions imposed
by the Department of Education, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The prospect of such sanctions may cause us to conservatively interpret the new reporting requirements of Title IV
programs by the Department of Education, which may limit our flexibility in operating our business.  If any of the education regulatory
agencies or commissions that regulate us do not approve or delay any required approvals of transactions involving a change of control, our ability to operate or participate in Title IV programs may be impaired. 
  -44-



Table of Contents
If we experience a change in control under the standards of the Department of Education, the
Higher Learning Commission, any applicable state educational licensing agency, or any specialized accrediting agency commission, we must notify or seek the approval of each such agency. These agencies do not have uniform criteria for what
constitutes a change in control. Transactions or events that typically constitute a change in control include significant acquisitions or dispositions of the voting stock of an institution or its parent company, and significant changes in the
composition of the board of directors of an institution or its parent company. Some of these transactions or events may be beyond our control. Our failure to obtain, or a delay in receiving, approval of any change in control from the Department of
Education, the Higher Learning Commission or applicable state educational licensing agencies could impair our ability to operate or participate in Title IV programs, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results
of operations. Failure to obtain, or a delay in receiving, approval of any change in control from any state in which we are currently licensed or authorized, or from any of our specialized accrediting commissions, could require us to suspend our
activities in that state or suspend offering the applicable programs until we receive the required approval, or could otherwise impair our operations. The potential adverse effects of a change in control could influence future decisions by us and
our stockholders regarding the sale, purchase, transfer, issuance or redemption of our stock, which could discourage bids for shares of our stock your shares of our stock and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares.
 Our failure to satisfy the conditions imposed by the Higher Learning Commission with respect to its prior approval of the transaction
with Dlorah could result in the loss of NAU’s accreditation by the Higher Learning Commission.  The Higher
Learning Commission’s approval of the November 2009 transaction whereby Dlorah became our wholly owned subsidiary was subject to several conditions, consistent with the Higher Learning Commission’s change of ownership procedures and
requirements. These conditions include: (a) that NAU file a progress report by week six of each semester providing enrollment information by degree program and by location; (b) that NAU file a contingency report if there is any
decision to offer a follow-up or secondary stock offering at least 90 days prior to such an offering so that the Higher Learning Commission may assess whether there may be a subsequent change of control under the Higher Learning Commission’s
policies; (c) that NAU undergo an evaluation within six months of the closing of our transaction with Dlorah focused on ascertaining the appropriateness of the approval of the change of control and of NAU’s compliance with any commitments
made in the change of control application as well as with the applicable accreditation criteria and eligibility requirements; and (d) that a stipulation be added to the affiliation status of NAU limiting the programs at the Master’s degree
level to existing programs and requiring NAU to seek the Higher Learning Commission’s approval for the addition of any new Master’s degrees. Any failure on our part to satisfy these conditions may result in the loss of our accreditation by
the Higher Learning Commission, which would prevent us from participating in Title IV programs and could cause a significant decline in our student enrollments.  We cannot offer new programs, expand our operations into certain states or acquire additional schools if such actions are not approved by the applicable regulatory and accrediting agencies, and we
may have to repay Title IV funds disbursed to students enrolled in any such programs, schools or states if we do not obtain prior approval.  Our expansion plans include offering new educational programs, expanding operations in additional states and potentially acquiring existing schools from other companies. If we are unable to obtain the
necessary approvals for such new programs, operations or acquisitions from the Department of Education, the Higher Learning Commission or any applicable state educational licensing agency or accrediting commission, or if we are unable to obtain such
approvals in a timely manner, our ability to consummate the planned actions and provide Title IV program funds to any affected students would be impaired, which could have a material effect on our expansion plans and growth. If we were to determine
erroneously that any such action did not need approval or that we had obtained all required approvals, including all required approvals for each of our current programs and locations, we could be liable for repayment of Title IV program funds
provided to students in that program or at that location.  If the Department of Education does not recertify us to continue
participating in Title IV programs, our students would lose their access to Title IV program funds, or we could be recertified but required to accept significant limitations as a condition of our continued participation in Title IV programs.

  -45-



Table of Contents
The Department of Education certification to participate in Title IV programs lasts a
maximum of six years, and institutions are required to seek recertification from the Department of Education on a regular basis to continue their participation in Title IV programs. An institution must also apply for recertification by the
Department of Education if it undergoes a change in control, as defined by Department of Education regulations, and may be subject to similar review if it expands its operations or educational programs in certain ways. Generally, the recertification
process includes a review by the Department of Education of the institution’s educational programs and locations, administrative capability, financial responsibility and other oversight categories. The Department of Education could limit,
suspend or terminate an institution’s participation in Title IV programs for violations of the Higher Education Act or Title IV regulations. Our current certification to participate in the Title IV programs, granted in connection with our
transaction with Dlorah, was effective in January 2010 and expires December 31, 2012. There can be no assurance that the Department of Education will recertify us after our current period of certification or that it would not impose
restrictions in connection with any such recertification. In addition, the Department of Education may take emergency action to suspend our certification without advance notice if it receives reliable information that we are violating Title IV
requirements and it determines that immediate action is necessary to prevent misuse of Title IV funds. If the Department of Education does not renew or withdraws our certification to participate in Title IV programs at any time, our students would
no longer be able to receive Title IV program funds. Similarly, the Department of Education could renew our certification, but restrict or delay our students’ receipt of Title IV funds, limit the number of students to whom it could disburse
such funds or impose other restrictions. Any of these outcomes could have a material effect on NAU’s enrollments and our business, financial condition and results of operations.  We would lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs if we fail to maintain our institutional accreditation, and our student enrollments could decline if we fail to maintain any of our
accreditations or approvals.  An institution must be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by the
Department of Education to participate in Title IV programs. We have been granted institutional accreditation by the Higher Learning Commission, which is a regional accrediting commission recognized by the Department of Education. To remain
accredited, we must continuously meet accreditation standards relating to, among other things, performance, governance, institutional integrity, educational quality, faculty, administrative capability, resources and financial stability. Our
accreditation was last reaffirmed by the Higher Learning Commission in 2008 for the maximum term of ten years. In connection with our change of control request related to our November 2009 merger with Camden, a three-person team from the Higher
Learning Commission visited the university’s central administration offices in Rapid City, South Dakota. The change of control request was approved with the next comprehensive evaluation visit scheduled for 2014-15. If we fail to satisfy any of
the Higher Learning Commission’s standards, including a failure to satisfy the conditions under which the Higher Learning Commission approved the November 2009 transaction, we could lose our accreditation by the Higher Learning Commission,
which would cause us to lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs and a significant decline in total student enrollments. In addition, many of our individual educational programs are also accredited by specialized accrediting commissions
or approved by specialized state agencies. If we fail to satisfy the standards of any of those specialized accrediting commissions or state agencies, we could lose the specialized accreditation or approval for the affected programs, which could
result in materially reduced student enrollments in those programs and have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In December 2009, the Office of Inspector General issued an “Alert Memorandum,” calling into question the Higher Learning Commission’s compliance with the applicable Department of Education
regulations related to the Higher Learning Commission’s status as recognized by the Department of Education. Although this matter has not been formally resolved, we are unable to speculate as to the impact on us or other institutions accredited
by the Higher Learning Commission if the Higher Learning Commission’s recognition as an accrediting commission were to be limited, suspended, or terminated by the Department of Education. 
If we fail to maintain any of our state authorizations, we would lose our ability to operate in that state and for campuses in the state to
participate in Title IV programs. 
  -46-



Table of Contents
An institution must be authorized by each state in which it physically operates to
participate in Title IV programs. The Department of Education historically has determined that an institution is authorized for the purpose of eligibility to participate in Title IV program eligibility if the institution’s state does not
require the institution to obtain licensure or authorization to operate in the state. Under the Final Rules published by the Department of Education on October 29, 2010, the Department of Education considers an institution to be “legally
authorized in a state” if, among other things:   


 
•
 
 The state establishes the institution by name as an educational institution by charter, statute, constitutional provision or other action issued by an
appropriate state agency or state entity, and the institution is authorized to operate educational programs beyond secondary education, including programs leading to a certificate or degree; 
 


 
•
 
 The institution complies with applicable state approval or licensure requirements, except that a state may exempt an institution from any such
requirement based on (1) the institution’s accreditation by one or more accrediting agencies recognized by the Department of Education or (2) the institution being in operation for at least 20 years; and 
 


 
•
 
 The state has a process, applicable to all institutions except federal and tribal institutions, to review and appropriately act on complaints
concerning the institution and applicable state laws.  Under the Final Rules, institutions unable to obtain
state authorization in a state under the above requirements may request a one-year extension of the effective date of the regulation to July 1, 2012, and if necessary, an additional one-year extension of the effective date to July 1, 2013.
To receive an extension of the effective date, an institution must obtain from the state an explanation of how a one-year extension will permit the state to modify its procedures to comply with the regulations. 
In South Dakota, where our operations are headquartered and we maintain several physical facilities, the state historically had not
specifically authorized the degrees or other educational programs of private, regionally accredited institutions of higher education. On March 3, 2012, the Governor of South Dakota signed a bill passed by the South Dakota Legislature during its
2012 Legislative Session that, among other things, expressly authorizes certain named institutions, including us, to provide postsecondary educational programs in South Dakota. In addition to South Dakota, we operate physical facilities offering
educational programs in Colorado, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas. With respect to New Mexico, we are currently exempt under state law from a requirement to be licensed by the New Mexico Higher Education
Department because of our regional accreditation by the Higher Learning Commission. However, in order to comply with the Final Rules, we intend to submit an application for licensure to the New Mexico Higher Education Department. To maintain our
state authorizations, we must continuously meet standards relating to, among other things, educational programs, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, marketing and recruitment, financial operations, addition of new locations and
educational programs and various operational and administrative procedures. We may need to apply for additional authorization in these or other states in which we are authorized in order to comply with the state authorization requirements in Final
Rules, and the authorization process could result in unexpected delays or other setbacks that could jeopardize our Title IV eligibility. If we fail to satisfy any of these standards, we could lose our authorization from the applicable state
educational agency to offer educational programs and could be forced to cease operations in such state. Such a loss of authorization would also cause our physical campus in the state to lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Some
states may also prescribe financial regulations that are different from those of the Department of Education and many require the posting of surety bonds. If we fail to comply with state licensing requirements, we may lose our state licensure or
authorizations. If we lose state licensure in a state in which we have a physical location, we would also lose Title IV eligibility in that state. Any such event could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations. 
  -47-



Table of Contents
The Final Rules also included a requirement that an institution meet any state authorization
requirements in a state in which it has distance education students, but in which it is not physically located or otherwise subject to state jurisdiction, as a condition of awarding Title IV funds to students in that state. In July 2011, a Federal
District Court issued an order vacating the regulation, which was sustained in June 2012 by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The Department of Education may further appeal the court’s decision, proceed to
promulgate the requirement through a supplemental rulemaking process, or both. We therefore cannot predict with any certainty the future effectiveness of this aspect of the Final Rules. Independent of this matter of federal regulation, several
states have asserted jurisdiction over educational institutions offering online programs that have no physical location or other presence in the state, but that have some activity in the state, such as enrolling or offering educational services to
students who reside in the state, conducting practica or sponsoring internships in the state, employing faculty who reside in the state or advertising to or recruiting prospective students in the state. Thus, our activities in certain states
constitute a presence requiring licensure or authorization under requirements of state law, regulation or policy of the state educational agency, even though we do not have a physical facility in such states. Therefore, in addition to the states
where we maintain physical facilities, we have either obtained approvals or exemptions, or are currently in the process of obtaining such approvals or exemptions, that we believe are necessary in connection with our activities that may constitute a
presence in such states requiring licensure or authorization by the state educational agency based on the laws, rules or regulations of that state. Notwithstanding our efforts to obtain approvals or exemptions, state regulatory requirements for
online education vary among the states, are not well developed in many states, are imprecise or unclear in some states and can change frequently. Because we enroll students in online programs in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, we expect
that regulatory authorities in other states where we are not currently licensed or authorized may request that we seek additional licenses or authorizations for these institutions in their states in the future. If we fail to comply with state
licensing or authorization requirements for a state, or fail to obtain licenses or authorizations when required, we could lose state licensure or authorization by that state, which could prohibit us from recruiting prospective students or offering
services to current students in that state. We could also be subject to other sanctions, including restrictions on activities in that state, fines and penalties. We review the licensure requirements of other states when we believe that it is
appropriate to determine whether our activities in those states may constitute a presence or otherwise may require licensure or authorization by the respective state education agencies. New laws, regulations or interpretations related to offering
educational programs online could increase our cost of doing business and affect our ability to recruit students in particular states, which could, in turn, adversely affect our enrollments and revenues and have a material effect on our business.
 If we do not comply with the Department of Education’s “administrative capability” standards, we could suffer financial
penalties, be required to accept other limitations to continue participating in Title IV programs or lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs.  Department of Education regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite “administrative capability” to participate in Title IV programs.
These criteria require, among other things, that we:   


 
•
 
 comply with all applicable Title IV program regulations; 
 


 
•
 
 have capable and sufficient personnel to administer the federal student financial aid programs; 
 


 
•
 
 not have student loan cohort default rates in excess of specified levels; 
 


 
•
 
 have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of our students; 
 


 
•
 
 have various procedures in place for safeguarding federal funds; 
 


 
•
 
 not be, and not have any principal or affiliate who is, debarred or suspended from federal contracting or engaging in activity that is cause for
debarment or suspension;   


 
•
 
 provide financial aid counseling to our students;   


 
•
 
 refer to the Department of Education’s Office of Inspector General any credible information indicating that any applicant, student, employee
or agent of the institution has been engaged in any fraud or other illegal conduct involving Title IV programs;   


 
•
 
 submit in a timely manner all reports and financial statements required by Title IV regulations; and 
 


 
•
 
 not otherwise appear to lack administrative capability. 
  -48-



Table of Contents
If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria or comply with any other Department
of Education regulations, the Department of Education may:   


 
•
 
 require the institution to repay Title IV program funds; 
 


 
•
 
 transfer the institution from the “advance” system of payment of Title IV program funds to cash monitoring status or to the
“reimbursement” system of payment;   


 
•
 
 place the institution on provisional certification status; or 
 


 
•
 
 commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in Title IV programs.
 If we were found not to have satisfied the Department of Education’s “administrative
capability” requirements, we could be limited in our access to, or lose, Title IV program funding, which could significantly reduce our enrollments and have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 If we do not meet specific financial responsibility standards established by the Department of Education, we may be required to post a
letter of credit or accept other limitations to continue participating in Title IV programs, or we could lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs.  To participate in Title IV programs, an eligible institution must satisfy specific measures of financial responsibility prescribed by the Department of Education, or post a letter of credit in favor of
the Department of Education and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV programs. These financial responsibility tests are applied to each institution on an annual basis based on the institution’s audited
financial statements, and may be applied at other times, such as if the institution undergoes a change in control. The Department of Education may also apply such measures of financial responsibility to the operating company and ownership
entities of an eligible institution and, if such measures are not satisfied by the operating company or ownership entities, require the institution to post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education and possibly accept other
conditions on its participation in Title IV programs. The operating restrictions that may be placed on an institution that does not meet the quantitative standards of financial responsibility include being transferred from the “advance
payment” method of receiving Title IV program funds to either the “reimbursement” or the “heightened cash monitoring” system, which could result in a significant delay in the institution’s receipt of those funds.
Limitations on, or termination of, our participation in Title IV programs as a result of our failure to demonstrate financial responsibility would limit our students’ access to Title IV program funds, which could significantly reduce
enrollments and have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  As described in more
detail under “Regulatory Matters — Regulation of Federal Student Aid Programs — Financial Responsibility,” the Department of Education annually assesses our financial responsibility through a composite score determination. Based
on our composite score for fiscal year ended May 31, 2007, and continuing for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2008, the Department of Education previously determined that we failed to meet the standards of financial responsibility. As a
result of this determination, the Department of Education required us to post a letter of credit equal to 10 percent of Title IV program funds we received during our most recently completed fiscal year. Based on our audited financial statements for
the fiscal year ended May 31, 2009, the Department of Education informed us that we were no longer required to maintain a letter of credit. Our audited financial statements for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2012 and May 31, 2011
indicated our composite scores for such fiscal years were 2.7 and 3.0, respectively. Any obligation to post a letter of credit in the future could increase our costs of regulatory compliance. If we are unable to secure any required letter of credit,
we would lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, which can be expected to have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  -49-



Table of Contents
We may lose our eligibility to participate in the federal student financial aid programs if the
percentage of our revenues derived from Title IV programs is too high.  A provision of the Higher Education Act
commonly referred to as the “90/10” Rule, as amended in August 2008, provides that a for-profit educational institution loses its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if, under a complex regulatory formula that requires cash
basis accounting and other adjustments to the calculation of revenue, the institution derives more than 90% of its revenues from Title IV program funds for any two consecutive fiscal years. An institution that derives more than 90% of its revenue
(on a cash basis) from Title IV programs for any single fiscal year will be placed on provisional certification for at least two fiscal years and may be subject to additional conditions or sanctions imposed by the Department of Education. During the
period of provisional certification, the institution must comply with any additional conditions included in the institution’s program participation agreement with the Department of Education. In addition, the Department of Education may more
closely review an institution that is provisionally certified if it applies for recertification or approval to open a new location, add an educational program, acquire another school or make any other significant change. If the Department of
Education determines that a provisionally certified institution is unable to meet its responsibilities under its program participation agreement, the Department of Education may seek to revoke the institution’s certification to participate in
Title IV programs without advance notice or opportunity for the institution to challenge the action. If we were to violate the 90/10 Rule, we would become ineligible to participate in Title IV programs as of the first day of the fiscal year
following the second consecutive fiscal year in which we exceeded the 90% threshold and would be unable to regain eligibility for two fiscal years thereafter. Prior to the Higher Education Act amendment in August 2008, an institution was required to
disclose in a footnote to its annual audited financial statements the percentage of its revenues derived from Title IV program funds that the institution received during the fiscal year covered by such financial statements. Under regulations that
were published by the Department of Education in October 2009, a proprietary institution must continue to disclose in a footnote to its annual audited financial statements not only its 90/10 calculation, but also the amounts of the federal and
non-federal revenues, by source, included in its 90/10 calculation. The certified public accountant that prepares the institution’s audited financial statements will be required to review that information and test the institution’s
calculation. These regulations became effective on July 1, 2010, and also contain other modifications to the 90/10 Rule, including the means by which certain institutional loans may be considered in the calculation. These revised regulations
may affect our ability to remain eligible to participate in Title IV programs or require us to incur additional costs in connection with our administration of Title IV programs. If we violate the 90/10 Rule and continue to disburse Title IV program
funds to students after the effective date of our loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, we would be required to return those funds to the applicable lender or the Department of Education. 
Using the Department of Education’s formula under the “90/10 Rule,” for our 2008 and 2009 fiscal years, as promulgated
prior to regulatory revisions implementing the August 2008 reauthorization of the Higher Education Act, we derived approximately 68% and 72%, respectively, of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from Title IV program funds. For our 2011 and
2012 fiscal years, we derived approximately 79% and 85%, respectively, of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from Title IV program funds.  Increases in Title IV grant and loan limits currently or in the future may result in an increase in the revenues we receive from Title IV programs. Further, a significant number of states in which we
operate have faced budget constraints, which have caused or may cause them to reduce state appropriations in a number of areas, including with respect to the amount of financial assistance provided to postsecondary students, which could further
increase our percentage of revenues derived from Title IV program funds. Also, the employment circumstances of our students or their parents could also increase reliance on Title IV program funds. We expect our ratio under the 90/10 Rule to continue
to increase in the future. If we become ineligible to participate in Title IV programs as a result of noncompliance with the 90/10 Rule, it can be expected to have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

  -50-



Table of Contents
We may lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if our student loan default rates are
too high.  An educational institution may lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if, for three
consecutive years, 25% or more of its students who were required to begin repayment on their student loans in the relevant fiscal year default on their payment by the end of the next federal fiscal year. In addition, an institution may lose its
eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if the default rate of its students exceeds 40% for any single year. Our cohort default rates have historically been significantly below these levels, at 14.1%, 9.8% and 8.2% for federal fiscal years
2009, 2008 and 2007, the most recent federal fiscal years for which official cohort default rates as measured over two federal fiscal years of borrower repayment have been issued by the Department of Education. We cannot, however, provide any
assurance that this will continue to be the case. The August 2008 reauthorization of the Higher Education Act extends by one year the period for which students’ defaults on their loans will be included in the calculation of an
institution’s default rate, a change that is expected to increase most institutions’ default rates. The new law also increases the threshold for an institution to lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs from 25% to 30%.
During a transition period covering the cohort default rates for federal fiscal years 2009, 2010 and 2011, the Department of Education is calculating and issuing to institutions their cohort default rates under both the former and revised
methodologies. The Department of Education is expected to calculate and issue institutions’ official cohort default rates for federal fiscal year 2009 as measured over three federal fiscal years of borrower repayment in September 2012. As
described in more detail under “Regulatory Matters — Regulation of Federal Student Aid Programs — Student Loan Defaults,” the Department of Education notified us in March 2012 that our draft cohort default rate for federal fiscal
year 2009 as measured over three federal fiscal years of borrower repayment was 23.2%. Draft cohort default rates do not result in sanctions, are subject to subsequent data corrections and appeals by an institution, and can change between their
issuance to institutions and the Department of Education’s release of official cohort default rates, which are typically issued annually in September. Any increase in interest rates or reliance on “self-pay” students, as well as
declines in income or job losses for our students, could contribute to higher default rates on student loans. Exceeding the student loan default rate thresholds and losing eligibility to participate in Title IV programs would have a material effect
on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any future changes in the formula for calculating student loan default rates, economic conditions or other factors that cause our default rates to increase, could place us in danger of
losing its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, which would have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  We would be subject to sanctions if we were to pay impermissible commissions, bonuses or other incentive payments to individuals involved in certain recruiting, admission or financial aid
activities.  The Higher Education Act prohibits an educational institution that participates in Title IV programs from
making any commission, bonus or other incentive payments based directly or indirectly on securing enrollments or financial aid to any persons or entities involved in student recruiting or admissions activities, or in making decisions about the award
of student financial assistance. Under Department of Education regulations in effect prior to July 1, 2011, there were twelve “safe harbor” provisions which specify certain activities and arrangements that an institution may carry out
without violating the prohibition against incentive compensation reflected in the Higher Education Act, including the following:   


 
•
 
 an institution could make up to two adjustments (upward or downward) to a covered employee’s salary or fixed hourly wage rate within any 12-month
period without the adjustment being considered an incentive payment, provided that no adjustment is based solely on the number of students recruited, admitted, enrolled or awarded financial aid; 
 


 
•
 
 a covered employee could be compensated based upon students successfully completing their educational programs; and 
 


 
•
 
 the incentive payment prohibition in the Higher Education Act did not apply to managerial and supervisory employees who do not directly manage or
supervise employees who are directly involved in recruiting or admissions activities, or the awarding of Title IV funds. 
  -51-



Table of Contents
While we believe that our compensation policies and practices have not been based on success in enrolling
students in violation of applicable law, the Department of Education’s regulations and interpretations of the incentive compensation law do not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances and, in a limited number of instances,
our past actions may not have been within the scope of any historic safe harbor provided in the compensation regulations.  In
the Final Rules published by the Department of Education on October 29, 2010 that became effective July 1, 2011, all of the previous safe harbor provisions were eliminated. The Department of Education effectively has taken the position
that any commission, bonus or other incentive compensation based in any part, directly or indirectly, or securing enrollment or awarding financial aid is inconsistent with the prohibition against incentive compensation payment in the Higher
Education Act. The Department of Education contends that institutions do not need to rely on these safe harbors and can instead determine if compensation is permissible under the Higher Education Act by considering (1) whether it is a
commission, bonus or other incentive payment (meaning an award of money or something of value, other than a fixed salary or wages), paid or given for services rendered and (2) if so, whether that commission, bonus or other incentive payment is
given to a person based in any part, directly or indirectly, upon securing enrollments or awarding financial aid. The prohibition against incentive compensation applies to any person engaged in student recruitment or admissions activities or in
making financial aid award decisions, and any higher level employees with responsibility for such activities.  In the Final
Rules, the Department of Education has maintained that institutions may make merit-based adjustments to employee compensation, provided that those adjustments are not based, in any part, directly or indirectly, upon securing enrollments or awarding
financial aid. Among other examples, the Department of Education provides guidance that an institution may maintain a hierarchy of enrollment personnel with varying levels of responsibility and salary scales that reflect added amounts of
responsibility, that an institution may promote personnel based on merit, and that an institution may make compensation decisions based on seniority or length of employment, provided that such decisions are consistent with the prohibition on
incentive compensation. In a “Dear Colleague” letter issued on March 17, 2011, the Department of Education provided additional guidance regarding the scope of the prohibition on incentive compensation and to what employees and types
of activities the prohibition applies. We have modified some of our compensation practices as a result of the elimination of the safe harbors. These changes in our compensation practices could (1) reduce the effectiveness of our employees, and
make it more difficult for us to attract and retain staff with the desired talent and motivation to succeed and (2) impair our ability to sustain and grow our business. This could also increase marketing costs and reduce revenues if we are
unable to maintain or increase student enrollments.  In addition, in recent years, other postsecondary educational
institutions have been named as defendants to whistleblower lawsuits, known as “qui tam” cases, brought by current or former employees pursuant to the Federal False Claims Act, alleging that their institution’s compensation practices
did not comply with the incentive compensation rule. A qui tam case is a civil lawsuit brought by one or more individuals, referred to as a relator, on behalf of the federal government for an alleged submission to the government of a false claim for
payment. The relator, often a current or former employee, is entitled to a share of the government’s recovery in the case, including the possibility of treble damages. A qui tam action is always filed under seal and remains under seal until the
government decides whether to intervene in the case. If the government intervenes, it takes over primary control of the litigation. If the government declines to intervene in the case, the relator may nonetheless elect to continue to pursue the
litigation at his or her own expense on behalf of the government. Any such litigation could be costly and could divert management’s time and attention away from the business, regardless of whether a claim has merit. 
We are subject to sanctions if we fail to correctly calculate and timely return Title IV program funds for students who withdraw before completing
their educational program.  An institution participating in Title IV programs must calculate the amount of unearned
Title IV program funds that it has disbursed to students who withdraw from their educational programs before completing such programs and must return those unearned funds to the appropriate lender or the Department of Education in a timely manner,
generally within 45 days of the date the institution determines that the student has withdrawn. If the unearned funds are not properly calculated and timely returned for a sufficient percentage of students, we may have to post a letter of credit in
favor of the Department of Education equal to 25% of Title IV program funds that should have been returned for such students in the prior fiscal year, and we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by the Department of Education. If we do not
correctly calculate and timely return unearned Title IV program funds, we may have to post letters of credit in favor of the Department of Education, may be liable for repayment of Title IV funds and related interest and may otherwise be subject to
adverse actions by the Department of Education, including termination of our participation in Title IV programs, any of which could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and have a material effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations. 
  -52-



Table of Contents
We or certain of our educational programs may lose eligibility to participate in the Title IV programs
if our educational programs are not shown to lead to “gainful employment” in a recognized occupation.  Under
the Higher Education Act, proprietary schools are generally eligible to participate in Title IV programs only to the extent that their educational programs lead to “gainful employment” in a recognized occupation. On June 13, 2011, the
Department of Education published the final Gainful Employment Rule defining “gainful employment” using two metrics, one based on debt-to-income ratios and the other based on repayment rates. These standards were scheduled to become
effective on July 1, 2012. However, as described in more detail below, on June 30, 2012, a Federal District Court vacated the Gainful Employment Rule. It therefore is not presently in effect, pending the final outcome of the underlying
litigation and any additional actions by the Department of Education. See “Regulatory Matters — Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs — Gainful Employment.” Under the Gainful Employment Rule as promulgated by the
Department of Education, if an educational program fails both the loan repayment or debt to earnings metrics, after one failure, the institution must provide an oral or written warning to students disclosing the amount by which the program missed
minimal acceptable performance and the program’s plans for improvement. The institution must also establish a three day waiting period before a student can enroll after receiving this disclosure. After two failures in three years, the
institution must provide a written warning to prospective and enrolled students in the failing program, stating the plans the institution intends to take in response, the risks associated with enrolling or continuing in the program, that students
“should expect to have difficulty repaying” their loans and, if the institution chooses to discontinue the program at this stage, notice to students with a timeline for discontinuation. After three failures in four years, the program loses
eligibility for Title IV Program funds. Once a program has lost eligibility, an institution cannot reestablish the program’s Title IV eligibility for at least three years. 
On June 21, 2012, the Department of Education released data to educational institutions showing the calculation of gainful
employment metrics for the 2011 measurement year for each of the institutions’ covered educational programs. These 2011 metrics were released for informational purposes only, as the Gainful Employment Rule was to be effective on July 1,
2012. The informational metrics for 2011 were based on data reported by us relating to federal fiscal years 2007 and 2008. This informational data indicates that all of our educational programs covered by the relevant reporting period prepared
students for gainful employment in the manner set forth in the Gainful Employment Rule.  On June 30, 2012, a Federal
District Court vacated the Gainful Employment Rule, finding that the loan repayment metric was arbitrary and capricious, and, further, that the loan repayment and debt-to-income metrics were not severable from each other. As a result, the Gainful
Employment Rule is not presently in effect. The court did find, however, that the Department of Education possesses statutory authority to define “gainful employment” by regulation and to develop specific metrics as part of such
regulations. The Department of Education may appeal the court’s decision, re-promulgate gainful employment standards in a manner that addresses the court’s findings, or both. If the decision of the Federal District Court is reversed on
appeal, the Department of Education may establish a new effective date for the Gainful Employment Rule. We therefore are unable to speculate on the outcome of this litigation, the future applicability of the Gainful Employment Rule or other similar
standards, or its ultimate effect on our business. 
  -53-



Table of Contents
The Gainful Employment Rule as promulgated by the Department of Education also provided that
any educational institution that seeks to provide Title IV program funds to student enrolled in a new program that prepares students for gainful employment in a recognized program, which includes all programs offered by us, must submit a notice to
the Department of Education at least 90 days before the expected first day of class. These requirements were also vacated by a Federal District Court on June 30, 2012, as part of the above-described court decision, and thus presently are not in
effect. However, we are currently provisionally certified by the Department of Education and remain subject to certain program approval requirements otherwise applicable to provisionally certified institutions. Any delay in obtaining a required
Department of Education approval could delay the introduction of the program, which could negatively affect our growth and our ability to respond to emerging employment trends and add programs that are responsive to those trends, which in turn could
decrease our attractiveness to certain students.  Notwithstanding the 2011 informational data and the above-described Federal
Court decision, the failure of any of our programs to satisfy any gainful employment regulations applicable in the future could render that program or programs ineligible for Title IV program funds. Additionally, the 2011 informational data and any
future gainful employment data released by the Department of Education could influence current students not to continue their studies, discourage prospective students from enrolling in our programs or negatively impact our reputation. 
We continue to evaluate the impact of these rules on our business and to monitor developments in this area. It is unclear at this time
the level of administrative burden, increased costs, or effect on growth and enrollments that may result from these new reporting and disclosure requirements. There remain many open questions and interpretive issues with respect to these aspects of
the final regulations. It is possible that the Gainful Employment Rule, to the extent it is reinstate in the future, could render a significant number of our programs, and many programs offered by other proprietary educational institutions,
ineligible for Title IV funding. In addition, the continuing eligibility of our educational programs for Title IV funding would be at risk due to factors beyond our control, such as changes in the income levels of our former students, increases in
interest rates, changes in student mix to persons requiring higher amounts of student loans to complete their programs, changes in student loan delinquency rates and other factors. If a particular program ceased to be eligible for Title IV funding,
either because it fails to prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation or due to other factors, we may be required to cease offering that program. We may have to substantially increase our efforts to promote student loan
repayment to ensure continued eligibility for certain programs to remain eligible for Title IV funding. We could also be required to increase disclosures to our students and prospective students, and our program growth could be restricted or
compromised. Any of these events could materially increase our costs of doing business, cause decreased enrollments, and have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
We could be held liable for any misrepresentation regarding the nature of our educational programs, financial charges and financial assistance or
the employability of our graduates.  An institution participating in Title IV programs is prohibited from making
misrepresentations regarding the nature of its educational programs, the nature of financial charges and availability of financial assistance, or the employability of graduates. A misrepresentation is defined in the regulations as any false,
erroneous or misleading statement to any student or prospective student, any member of the public, an accrediting agency, a state agency or the Department of Education, and, significantly, the Final Rules as promulgated by the Department of
Education defined misleading statements to broadly include any statements that have a likelihood or tendency to deceive or confuse. However, in June 2012, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit vacated the regulation
insofar as it defined misrepresentation to include true and nondeceitful statements that have only the tendency or likelihood to confuse. If we – or any entity, organization, or person with whom we have an agreement to provide educational
programs or to provide marketing, advertising, recruiting, or admissions services – commit a misrepresentation for which a person could reasonably be expected to rely, or has reasonably relied, to that person’s detriment, the Department of
Education could initiate proceedings to revoke our Title IV eligibility, deny applications made by us, impose fines, or initiate a limitation, suspension or termination proceeding against us. Further, although the Department of Education claims not
to have created any private right of action, the misrepresentation regulations as modified by the Final Rules could increase risk of qui tam actions under the False Claims Act. 
  -54-



Table of Contents
If our students experience a loss or reduction of state financial aid, we could be materially
affected.  A significant number of states in which we operate have faced budget constraints, which have caused or may
cause them to reduce or eliminate state appropriations, including with respect to the amount of financial assistance provided to postsecondary students, and additional states may reduce or eliminate such appropriations in the future. State financial
aid programs generally are subject to annual appropriation by the state legislatures, which may eliminate or significantly decrease the amount of state financial aid available to students. We cannot predict whether future reductions in state
financial aid programs will occur or how long such reductions will persist. For fiscal year ended May 31, 2012, we derived approximately 1% of our total revenue from state financial aid programs. In fiscal year ended May 31, 2012, students
enrolled at our Minnesota locations received financial assistance through a state financial aid program. The loss or reduction of state financial aid could decrease our student enrollment and could have a material effect on our business. 
A substantial decrease in private student financing options or a significant increase in financing costs for our students could have a material
effect on us.  Some of our eligible students have used private (i.e., non-Title IV) loan programs to fund a portion of
their education costs not covered by Title IV program funds or state financial aid sources. Recent adverse market conditions for consumer and federally guaranteed student loans (including lenders’ increasing difficulties in reselling or
syndicating student loan portfolios) have resulted, and could continue to result, in providers of private loans reducing the availability of or increasing the costs associated with providing private loans to postsecondary students. In particular,
loans to students with low credit scores who would not otherwise be eligible for credit-based private loans have become increasingly difficult to obtain. Prospective students may find that these increased financing costs make borrowing prohibitively
expensive and abandon or delay enrollment in postsecondary education programs. If our students’ are unable to finance their education our student population could decrease, which would have a material effect on our business, financial condition
and results of operations.  Government and regulatory agencies and third parties may conduct compliance reviews, bring claims or
initiate litigation against us.  Because we operate in a highly regulated industry, we may be subject to compliance
reviews and claims of non-compliance and lawsuits by government agencies, regulatory agencies and third parties, including claims brought by third parties on behalf of the federal government. If the results of these reviews or proceedings are
unfavorable to us, or if we are unable to defend successfully against lawsuits or claims, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, limitations, loss of eligibility for Title IV funding, injunctions or other penalties. Even if
we adequately address issues raised by an agency review or successfully defend a lawsuit or claim, we may have to divert significant financial and management resources from our ongoing business operations to address issues raised by those reviews or
to defend against those lawsuits or claims. Additionally, we may experience adverse collateral consequences as a result of any negative publicity associated with such claims, including declines in student enrollments and lessened willingness of
third parties to do business with us. Claims and lawsuits brought against us may damage our reputation or cost us to incur expenses, even if such claims and lawsuits are without merit.  Risks Related to Our Business  We operate in a highly competitive industry, and
competitors with greater resources could harm our business, decrease market share and put downward pressure on our tuition rates.  The postsecondary education market is highly fragmented and competitive. We compete for students with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and universities, and other for-profit
schools, including those that offer online learning programs, and alternatives to higher education, such as employment and military service. Many public and private schools, colleges and universities, including most major colleges and universities,
offer online programs. We expect to experience additional competition in the future as more colleges, universities and for-profit schools offer an increasing number of online programs. Public institutions receive substantial government subsidies,
and public and private non-profit institutions have access to government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions and other financial resources generally not available to for-profit schools. Accordingly, public and private nonprofit
institutions may have instructional and support resources superior to those in the for-profit sector, and public institutions can offer substantially lower tuition prices. Some of our competitors in both the public and private sectors also have
substantially greater financial and other resources than us. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors and may face competitive pressures that could have a material effect on our business, financial condition
and results of operations. 
  -55-



Table of Contents
Our online and distance learning programs operate in a highly competitive market with rapid
technological changes.  Online education is a highly fragmented and competitive market subject to rapid technological
change. Competitors vary in size and organization from traditional colleges and universities, many of which offer some form of online education programs, to for-profit schools and software companies providing online education and training software.
We expect the online education and training market to be subject to rapid changes in delivery, interaction and other future innovation and advancement. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to adapt to changing technologies in online and
distance learning and offer an attractive online/distance education option while maintaining competitive pricing. Furthermore, the expansion of our online programs and the development of new programs may not be accepted by the online education
market. In addition, a general decline in Internet use for any reason, including due to security or privacy concerns, the cost of Internet service or changes in government regulation of Internet use, may result in less demand for online
educational services, in which case we may not be able to recruit and retain students and grow our online programs as planned. Accordingly, if we are unable to keep pace with changes in technology or maintain technological relevance, or if the use
of the Internet changes, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.  If our graduates are
unable to obtain professional licenses or certifications in their chosen field of study, we may face declining enrollments and revenues or be subject to student litigation. 
Certain of our students, particularly in the healthcare programs, require or desire professional licenses or certifications after
graduation to obtain employment in their chosen fields. Their success in obtaining such licensure depends on several factors, including the individual merits of the student, whether the institution and the program were approved by the state or by a
professional association, whether the program from which the student graduated meets all state requirements and whether the institution is accredited. If one or more states refuses to recognize our graduates for professional licensure in the future
based on factors relating to us or our programs, the potential growth of our programs would be negatively impacted, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we could be exposed
to litigation that would force us to incur legal and other expenses that could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  If we are unable to continue our recent revenue growth, our stock price may decline and we may not have adequate financial resources to execute our business plan. 
Our revenue increased from approximately $89.8 million in fiscal 2010 to approximately $106.8 million in fiscal 2011 and then to
approximately $118.9 million in fiscal 2012. If we are unable to maintain adequate revenue growth, our stock price may decline and we may not have adequate financial resources to execute our business plan. In addition, you should not rely on the
results of any prior periods as an indication of our future operating performance.  We have experienced losses and may not maintain
profitability.  We have experienced losses in the past and it is possible we will experience losses in the future. In
addition, we expect that our operating expenses and business development expenses will increase as we enroll more students, open new education locations and develop new programs. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to
generate sufficient revenues to maintain profitability. 
  -56-



Table of Contents
Our financial performance depends on our ability to continue to develop awareness among, and attract
and retain, new students.  Building awareness of NAU and the programs and services we offer is critical to our ability
to attract prospective students. If we are unable to successfully market and advertise our educational programs, our ability to attract and enroll students could be adversely affected, and, consequently, our ability to increase revenue or maintain
profitability could be impaired. It is also critical to our success that we convert prospective students to enrolled students in a cost-effective manner and that these enrolled students remain active in our programs. Some of the factors that could
prevent us from successfully enrolling and retaining students include:   


 
•
 
 the reduced availability of, or higher interest rates and other costs associated with, Title IV loan funds or other sources of financial aid;
  


 
•
 
 the emergence of more successful competitors;   


 
•
 
 factors related to our marketing, including the costs and effectiveness of Internet advertising and broad-based branding campaigns and recruiting
efforts;   


 
•
 
 performance problems with our online systems;   


 
•
 
 failure to maintain institutional and specialized accreditations; 
 


 
•
 
 failure to obtain and maintain required state authorizations; 
 


 
•
 
 the requirements of the education agencies that regulate us that restrict the initiation of new locations, new programs and modification of existing
programs;   


 
•
 
 the requirements of the education agencies that regulate us that restrict the ways schools can compensate their recruitment personnel;
  


 
•
 
 increased regulation of online education, including in states in which we do not have a physical presence; 
 


 
•
 
 restrictions that may be imposed on graduates of online programs that seek certification or licensure in certain states; 
 


 
•
 
 student dissatisfaction with our services and programs; 
 


 
•
 
 adverse publicity regarding us, our competitors, or online or for-profit education generally; 
 


 
•
 
 price reductions by competitors that we are unwilling or unable to match; 
 


 
•
 
 a decline in the acceptance of online education;   


 
•
 
 an adverse economic or other development that affects job prospects in our core disciplines; 
 


 
•
 
 a decrease in the perceived or actual economic benefits that students derive from our programs; 
 


 
•
 
 litigation or regulatory investigations that may damage our reputation; and 
 


 
•
 
 changes in the general economy, including employment.  If, for any reason or reasons, including those presented above, we are unable to maintain and increase our awareness among prospective students, recruit students and convert prospective students into
enrolled students, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 
  -57-



Table of Contents
Our growth may place a strain on our resources that could adversely affect our systems, controls and
operating efficiency.  Our ability to sustain our current rate of growth or profitability depends on a number of
factors, including our ability to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals, our ability to maintain operating margins, our ability to recruit and retain high quality academic faculty and administrative personnel and other competitive factors. In
recent years, a majority of our growth has resulted from an increase in students enrolling in our Associate degree programs; however, we believe that future growth will be based upon an expansion of our current programs, the addition of new
programs, an increase in our physical and online presence, affiliation agreements and increasing enrollments. The growth and expansion of our domestic and international operations may place a significant strain on our resources and increase demands
on our management information and reporting systems, financial management controls and personnel. Any failure to effectively manage or maintain growth could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 If we cannot maintain student enrollments, our results of operations may be adversely affected. 
Our strategy for growth and profitability depends, in part, upon the retention of our students. While we provide certain services to our
students (e.g., tutoring) in an effort to retain students and lower attrition rates, many of our students face financial, personal or family constraints that require them to withdraw within a term or at the end of a given term. Additionally, some
students may decide to continue their education at a different institution. If for any reason, we are unable to predict and manage student attrition, our overall enrollment levels would likely decline, which could have a material effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.  If the proportion of students who are enrolled in our Associate degree
programs continues to increase, we may experience increased costs and reduced margins.  In recent years, the
proportion of our enrollment composed of Associate degree students has increased. We have experienced certain effects from this shift, such as an increase in our student loan cohort default rate. If this shift towards Associate degree programs
continues, we may experience additional consequences, such as higher costs per start, lower retention rates, higher student services costs, an increase in the percentage of our revenue derived from Title IV programs under the 90/10 Rule, more
limited ability to implement tuition price increases and other effects that could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  An increase in interest rates could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain students.  For the fiscal years ended May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, NAU derived cash receipts equal to approximately 85%, 79%, and 76%, respectively, of its net revenue from tuition financed under Title IV
programs, which include student loans with interest rates subsidized by the federal government. Additionally, some students finance their education through private loans that are not subsidized. If our students’ employment circumstances are
adversely affected by regional or national economic downturns, they may be more heavily dependent on student loans. Interest rates have reached relatively low levels in recent years, creating a favorable borrowing environment for students. However,
if interest rates increase or Congress decreases the amount available for Title IV funding, our students may have to pay higher interest rates on their loans. Any future increase in interest rates will result in a corresponding increase in
educational costs to our existing and prospective students, which could result in a significant reduction in our student population and revenues. Higher interest rates could also contribute to higher default rates with respect to our students’
repayment of their education loans. Higher default rates may in turn adversely impact our eligibility to participate in some or all of the Title IV programs, which could result in a material effect on our enrollments and future growth prospects and
our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  -58-



Table of Contents
Our reputation and the value of our stock may be negatively affected by the actions of other
postsecondary educational institutions.  In recent years, regulatory proceedings and
litigation have been commenced against various postsecondary educational institutions relating to, among other things, deceptive trade practices, false claims against the government and non-compliance with Department of Education requirements, state
education laws and state consumer protection laws. These proceedings have been brought by students, the Department of Education, the United States Department of Justice, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and state governmental
agencies, among others. These allegations have attracted adverse media coverage and have been the subject of legislative hearings and regulatory actions at both the federal and state levels, focusing not only on the individual schools but in
some cases on the larger for-profit postsecondary education sector as a whole. Adverse media coverage regarding other for-profit education companies or other educational institutions could damage our reputation, result in lower enrollments, revenues
and results of operations and have a negative impact on the value of our stock. Such coverage could also result in increased scrutiny and regulation by the Department of Education, Congress, accrediting commissions, state legislatures, state
attorneys general, state education agencies or other governmental authorities of all educational institutions, including us.  Our
expansion into new markets outside the United States will subject us to risks inherent in international operations, are subject to significant start-up costs and place strain on our management. As part of our growth strategy, we intend
to continue to establish markets outside the United States, subject to approvals from the Higher Learning Commission and other appropriate accrediting or regulatory agencies. Currently, we have affiliations with institutions in Chile, Bolivia,
Paraguay, Ghana, United Arab Emirates and Greece. Our operations in each of the foreign jurisdictions may subject us to additional educational and other regulations of foreign jurisdictions, which may differ materially from the regulations
applicable to our domestic operations. Such international expansion is expected to require a significant amount of start-up costs. Additionally, our management does not have significant experience in operating a business at the international level.
As a result, we may be unsuccessful in carrying out our plans for international expansion, obtaining the necessary licensing, permits or market saturation, or in successfully navigating other challenges posed by operating an international
business.  If we do not maintain existing and develop additional relationships with employers, our future growth may be
impaired.  Currently, we have relationships with certain employers to provide their employees with an opportunity to
enroll in classes and obtain degrees through us while maintaining their employment. These relationships are an important part of our strategy because they provide us with a steady source of potential working adult students for particular programs
and increase our reputation among employers. If we are unable to develop new relationships or maintain our existing relationships, this source of potential students may be impaired and enrollments and revenue may decrease, any of which could have a
material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  If students fail to pay their outstanding balances, our
business may be harmed.  From time to time, students may carry balances on portions of their education expense not
covered by financial aid programs. These balances are unsecured and not guaranteed. Furthermore, disruptive economic events could adversely affect the ability or willingness of our former students to repay student loans, which may increase our
student loan cohort default rate and require the devotion of increased time, attention and resources to manage these defaults. As a result, losses related to unpaid student balances in excess of the amounts we have reserved for bad debts, or the
failure of students to repay their debt obligations, could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Government regulations relating to the Internet could increase our cost of doing business and affect our ability to grow. 
The increasing popularity and use of the Internet and other online services has led and may lead to the adoption of new laws and
regulatory practices in the United States or foreign countries and to new interpretations of existing laws and regulations. These new laws and interpretations may relate to issues such as online privacy, copyrights, trademarks and service marks,
sales taxes, fair business practices and the requirement that online education institutions qualify to do business as foreign corporations or be licensed in one or more jurisdictions where they have no physical location. As the proportion of our
students who take online courses increases, new laws, regulations or interpretations related to doing business over the Internet could increase our costs of compliance or doing business and materially affect our ability to offer online courses,
which would have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  -59-



Table of Contents
Our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to keep pace with changing market needs.
 Increasingly, prospective employers of NAU students require their new employees to possess appropriate technological
skills and interpersonal skills, such as communication, critical thinking and teamwork skills. These skills evolve rapidly in a changing economic and technological environment. Accordingly, it is important for our programs to evolve in response to
those economic and technological changes. The expansion of existing programs and the development of new programs may not be accepted by current or prospective students or the employers of our graduates. Even if NAU is able to develop acceptable new
programs, we may not be able to begin offering those new programs as quickly as required by prospective employers or as quickly as our competitors offer similar programs. In addition, we may be unable to obtain specialized accreditations or
licensures that may make certain programs desirable to students. To offer a new academic program, NAU may be required to obtain appropriate federal, state and accrediting agency approvals that may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could
significantly affect our growth plans. In addition, to be eligible for Title IV programs, a new academic program may need to be approved by the Department of Education, the Higher Learning Commission and state educational agencies. If we are unable
to adequately respond to changes in market requirements due to regulatory or financial constraints, unusually rapid technological changes or other factors, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired, the rates at which our
graduates obtain jobs involving their fields of study could suffer and our reputation among students, prospective students and employers may be impaired, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.  Establishing new academic programs or modifying existing programs requires us to invest in management and
business development, incur marketing expenses and reallocate other resources. We may have limited experience with any courses in new academic areas and may need to modify our systems, strategy and delivery platform or enter into arrangements with
other educational institutions to provide such programs effectively and profitably. If we are unable to offer new courses and programs in a cost-effective manner, or are otherwise unable to effectively manage the operations of newly established
academic programs, it could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Capacity constraints
of our computer networks and changes to the acceptance and regulation of online programs could have a material effect on student retention and growth.  If we are successful in increasing student enrollments, additional resources in the forms of human, intellectual and financial capital, as well as information technology resources, will be necessary. We
have invested and continue to invest significant resources in information technology when such technology systems and tools have become impaired or obsolete. In an attempt to utilize recent technology, we could install new information
technology systems without accurately assessing its costs or benefits or experience delayed or ineffective implementation of new information technology systems. Similarly, we could fail to respond in a timely or sufficiently competitive way to
future technological developments in our industry. As a result, this growth may place a significant strain on our operational resources, including our computer networks and information technology infrastructure, thereby restricting our ability to
enroll and retain students and grow our online programs.  System disruptions and security threats to our computer networks could have a
material effect on our ability to attract and retain students.  The performance and reliability of our computer
network infrastructure is critical to our reputation and ability to attract and retain students. Any computer system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in traffic on our computer networks, including those that host our online
programs, may cause network outages and disrupt our online and on-ground operations that may damage our reputation. 
Additionally, we face a number of threats to our computer systems, including unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and
other security problems and system disruptions. We have devoted and will continue to devote significant resources to the security of our computer systems, but they are still vulnerable to security threats. A user or hacker who circumvents security
measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. As a result, we expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these system disruptions and security breaches and may have to
spend more to alleviate problems caused by these disruptions and breaches, which could have a material effect on our reputation, ability to retain and store data and our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  -60-



Table of Contents
A failure of our information systems to store, process and report relevant data may reduce
management’s effectiveness, interfere with regulatory compliance and increase operating expenses.  We are heavily
dependent on the integrity of our data management systems. If these systems do not effectively collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software
deficiencies or human error, our ability to plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations, including the Higher Education Act, will be impaired. Any such impairment of our information systems could
materially affect our reputation and our ability to provide student services or accurately budget or forecast operating activity, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. 
The personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft or loss, and could subject us to liability or adversely affect our
reputation and operations.  Possession and use of personal information in our operations subjects us to risks and
costs that could harm our business and reputation. We collect, use and retain large amounts of personal information regarding our students and their families, including social security numbers, tax return information, personal and family financial
data and credit card numbers. We also collect and maintain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of business. Some of this personal information is held and managed by certain of our vendors. Although we use security and
business controls to limit access and use of personal information, a third party may be able to circumvent those security and business controls, which could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. In addition, errors in the storage, use
or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. Possession and use of personal information in our operations also subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require us to implement
certain policies and procedures, such as the procedures we adopted to comply with the Red Flags Rule that was promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission under the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act, which requires the establishment of guidelines and
policies regarding identity theft related to student credit accounts, and could require us to make certain notifications of data breaches and restrict our use of personal information. A violation of any laws or regulations relating to the collection
or use of personal information could result in the imposition of fines against us. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these
breaches. While we believe we have taken appropriate precautions and safety measures, there can be no assurances that a breach, loss or theft of any such personal information will not occur. Any breach, theft or loss of such personal information
could have a material effect on our reputation, could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could result in liability under state and federal privacy statutes and legal actions by state attorneys
general and private litigants.  We may incur liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of class materials posted online
for class discussions.  In some instances, our faculty members or students may distribute to students in class or post
various articles or other third-party content on class discussion boards. We may incur liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of this material distributed in class or posted online for class discussions. As a for-profit
organization, we may be subject to a greater risk of liability for the unauthorized duplication of materials under the Copyright Act than a non-profit institution of higher education. Third parties may raise claims against us for the unauthorized
duplication of this material. Any such claims could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on financial resources and management personnel, regardless of whether the claims have merit. Our general liability insurance may not
cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our courses or pay monetary damages, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

  -61-



Table of Contents
We rely on exclusive proprietary rights and intellectual property that may not be adequately protected
under current laws.  Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary rights and intellectual
property. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, domain names and contractual agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on trademark protection in both the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions to
protect our rights to various marks, as well as distinctive logos and other marks associated with them. We also rely on agreements under which we obtain intellectual property or license rights to own or use content developed by faculty members,
content experts and other third-parties. We cannot assure that these measures are adequate, that we have secured, or will be able to secure, appropriate protections for all of our proprietary rights in the United States or any foreign jurisdictions,
or that third parties will not terminate license rights or infringe upon or otherwise violate our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect these rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to infringe our trademarks, use, duplicate or
copy the proprietary aspects of our student recruitment and educational delivery methods, curricula, online resource material and other content. Our management’s attention may be diverted by these attempts and we have in the past, and may in
the future, need to use funds in litigation to protect our proprietary rights against any infringement or violation, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
We may be involved in disputes from time to time relating to our intellectual property and the intellectual property of third parties.
 We have in the past, and may in the future, become parties to disputes from time to time over rights and obligations
concerning intellectual property, and we may not always prevail in these disputes. Third parties may allege that we have not obtained sufficient rights in the content of a course or other intellectual property. Third parties may also raise claims
against us alleging infringement or violation of the intellectual property of that third party. Some third party intellectual property rights may be extremely broad, and it may not be possible for us to conduct our operations in such a way as
to avoid violating those intellectual property rights. Any such intellectual property claim could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether such claim
has merit. Our general liability and cyber liability insurance, if any, may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our courses or pay monetary damages or license fees to third
parties, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  We may not be able to
retain key personnel or hire and retain the personnel we need to sustain and grow our business.  Our success depends
largely on the skills, efforts and motivations of our executive officers, who have significant experience with our business and within the education industry. Due to the nature of the education industry, we face significant competition in attracting
and retaining personnel who possess the skills necessary to sustain and grow our business. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced faculty members and staff members on
acceptable terms, could impair our ability to sustain and grow our business.  Our business may be affected by changing economic
conditions.  The United States economy and the economies of other key industrialized countries currently have
recessionary characteristics, including reduced economic activity, increased unemployment and substantial uncertainty about the financial markets. In addition, homeowners in the United States have experienced an unprecedented reduction in wealth due
to the decline in residential real estate values across much of the country. The reduction in wealth, unavailability of credit and unwillingness of employers to sponsor non-traditional educational opportunities for their employees could have a
material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war,
natural disasters or breaches of security could have an adverse effect on our operations.  Terrorist attacks and other
acts of violence or war, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, tornados and other natural disasters or breaches of security at our educational sites could disrupt our operations. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war, natural disasters or
breaches of security that directly impact our physical facilities, online offerings or ability to recruit and retain students and employees could adversely affect our ability to deliver our programs to our students and, thereby, adversely affect our
business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war, natural disasters or breaches of security could adversely affect the economy and demographics of the affected region, which
could cause significant declines in the number of our students in that region and could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  -62-



Table of Contents
The economic downturn may affect the Company’s real estate business. 
The downturn in the United States economy in general, and the real estate industry specifically, has negatively affected our real estate
operation that develops, leases and sells residential properties in Rapid City, South Dakota. Currently, our real estate operation is marketing two condominium developments. To date only a small number of condominium units have been sold. Our real
estate operation plans to build additional condominium buildings and units only upon the achievement of the sale of a substantial number of the currently available condominium units. Unless the United States economy and the real estate market
improve, we may be forced to sell the condominium units at a loss or attempt to lease them, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.  None.
 Item 2. Properties.  We lease our educational sites and administrative facilities except for our main educational site in Rapid City, South Dakota, which we own. Our educational sites (including those that are pending
regulatory approval) are located in Colorado, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota, and Texas and our corporate headquarters is located in Rapid City, South Dakota, as set forth under the heading
“Educational Sites” under Item 1. As of June 30, 2012, we leased 35 educational sites (two of which are pending regulatory approvals) and administrative facilities. 
We evaluate current utilization of our facilities and projected enrollment growth to determine facility needs. We believe our existing
facilities are adequate for current requirements and that additional space can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms to meet future requirements.  Item 3. Legal Proceedings.  From time to
time, we are a party to various lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. We are not at this time a party, as plaintiff or defendant, to any legal proceedings that, individually or in the
aggregate, would be expected to have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. 
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures  Not applicable.  PART II 
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities.  Market Information  Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol “NAUH”. 
  -63-



Table of Contents
The following table sets forth the high and low sales price, and dividends paid per share of our common
stock by quarter for our past two most recent fiscal years.   




























 
  
Fiscal 2012
 
  
Fiscal 2011
 

 
  
CashDividendsDeclared
 
  
High
 
  
Low
 
  
CashDividendsDeclared
 
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 First Quarter
  
$
0.030
  
  
$
11.83
 
  
$
7.35
  
  
$
0.0275
  
  
$
10.50
  
  
$
4.88
  

 Second Quarter
  
$
0.0325
  
  
$
9.27
  
  
$
6.68
  
  
$
0.030
  
  
$
8.21
  
  
$
4.57
  

 Third Quarter
  
$
0.0325
  
  
$
8.80
  
  
$
6.88
  
  
$
0.030
  
  
$
7.93
  
  
$
6.27
  

 Fourth Quarter
  
$
0.0325
  
  
$
7.59
  
  
$
3.48
  
  
$
0.030
  
  
$
7.92
  
  
$
6.52
  
 Peer Group Performance Graph 
The following performance graph compares the cumulative stockholder return on our common stock since May 31, 2010 with The NASDAQ
StockMarket (U.S.) Index and a self-determined peer group consisting of Strayer Education, Inc. (STRA), Capella Education Co. (CPLA), Grand Canyon Education, Inc. (LOPE), American Public Education, Inc. (APEI), and Bridgeport Education, Inc. (BPI).
At present, there is no comparative index for the education industry. This graph is not deemed to be “soliciting material” or to be filed with the SEC or subject to the SEC’s proxy rules or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the
Securities Exchange Act, and the graph shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any of our prior or subsequent filings under the Securities Act or the Securities Exchange Act. 
  

  
















 Name
  
5/31/2010
 
  
5/31/2011
 
  
5/31/2012
 

 National American University
  
 
100
  
  
 
89
  
  
 
40
  

 NASDAQ Stock Market (U.S.)
  
 
100
  
  
 
128
  
  
 
130
  

 Peer Group
  
 
100
  
  
 
76
  
  
 
61
  
 The comparison assumes $100 was invested on May 31, 2010 in our common stock, the NASDAQ Stock Market (U.S.) Index
and the peer companies selected by us. 
  -64-



Table of Contents
Stockholders  As of August 2, 2012, there were approximately 35 holders of record of our common stock. 
Dividends  Prior to our
transaction with Dlorah, we did not pay any cash dividends. Prior to the closing of our follow-on public offering, which closed on June 1, 2010, pursuant to our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, the holders of our
Class A common stock, par value $0.0001, were entitled to a quarterly accruing dividend equal to $0.11 (for a total of $0.44 per year) per share of common stock into which such Class A common stock is convertible for each of the
Company’s eight successive fiscal quarters following the first issuance of Class A common stock, paid when and if declared by our board of directors. If a dividend was paid on the Class A common stock, we must have also declared and
paid a dividend on the common stock equal to one-fourth of the amount of the dividend paid to the Class A common stock. During our fiscal year 2010, we have paid two dividends on the Class A common stock and common stock, which were paid
on January 4, 2010 and March 20, 2010. For each of those dividends, the record holders of Class A common stock received a dividend equal to $0.11 per share of common stock into which such Class A common stock was convertible and
the holders of common stock received a dividend of $0.0275 per share.  We also declared and paid a contingent special dividend
that were payable promptly after the completion of our follow-on public offering on June 1, 2010, to our Class A common stockholders and common stockholders of record on May 20, 2010. The aggregate amount of the special dividend paid
was approximately $11.1 million, or (a) approximately $0.64 per share of common stock into which a share of Class A common stock was convertible to holders of Class A common stock and (b) $ 0.16 per share of common stock
payable to holders of common stock. Immediately prior to the completion of our follow-on public offering, all Class A common stock were converted into common stock. The payment of the special dividend represented the aggregate amount of the
dividend that would be foregone by the Class A common stockholders by converting their Class A common stock into common stock in connection with the follow-on public offering and the corresponding required dividend to the common
stockholders, using a present value discount to reflect that the dividend would be paid in advance of when it is otherwise payable.  Because no Class A common stock were outstanding following its conversion into common stock prior to the consummation of the follow-on public offering, we have no further obligation to accrue or pay
dividends on any of our outstanding capital stock. Nevertheless, during our fiscal years 2012 and 2011, our board of directors have declared dividends on our common stock, and to the extent that funds are available, our board of directors currently
intends to continue paying dividends on our common stock. The payment of any dividends in the future, however, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our financial condition, results of operations, earnings, capital
requirements, contractual restrictions, outstanding indebtedness and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors.  Use of
Proceeds  In December 2007, we completed our initial public offering, or IPO, pursuant to a registration statement on Form
S-1 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (File No. 333-143098) that was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 26, 2007. Under the registration statement, we registered the offering and sale of
7,812,500 units, each unit consisting of one share of common stock, $0.0001 par value per share, and one warrant to purchase one share of common stock. A total of 6,626,300 units were sold in the offering at a price to the public of $8.00 per unit.
After deducting underwriting discounts, commissions and offering expenses of approximately $4.2 million, we raised a total of $48.8 million.  In connection with the transaction with Dlorah on November 23, 2009, we used $3.3 million of our IPO proceeds to redeem all of the outstanding warrants that were publicly traded immediately before
the consummation of the Dlorah transaction, and $3.7 million of our proceeds from the IPO to buyout an employment agreement and legal, accounting, filing, and insurance fees associated with being a public entity. 
  -65-



Table of Contents
We have used and intend to use the remaining net proceeds from the IPO for general corporate
purposes and growth initiatives, including expansion of educational sites.  Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation
Plans  The following table sets forth information about our common stock that may be issued upon the exercise of options,
warrants and rights under all of the our compensation plans (including individual compensation arrangements) under which our equity securities are authorized for issuance as of May 31, 2012, which includes our 2009 Stock Option and Compensation
Plan.   
















 Plan category
  
Number ofsecuritiesto beissued
uponexercise ofoutstandingoptions,warrantsand rights
 
  
Weighted-averageexerciseprice
ofoutstandingoptions,warrantsand rights
 
  
Number ofsecuritiesremainingavailable forfutureissuanceunder
equitycompensationplans(excludingsecuritiesreflected incolumn (a))
 

 
  
(a)
 
  
(b)
 
  
 
 

 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders (1)
  
 
225,366
  
  
$
9.92
  
  
 
800,114
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 2009 Incentive Plan
  
 
225,366
  
  
$
9.92
  
  
 
800,114
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
See “National American University Holdings, Inc. 2009 Stock Option and Compensation Plan” described in “Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements—Note 9—Stockholders’ Equity” for further description of our equity compensation plan. 


(a)
Includes grants of stock options and time-based restricted stock units 


(b)
Includes weighted average exercise price of stock options only. 
  -66-



Table of Contents
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. The following table summarizes common
stock repurchased by us during the quarter ended May 31, 2012:   




















 Period
  
Total Numberof SharesPurchased
 
  
Average Price Paidper Share
 
  
Total Number ofShares Purchasedas Part of PubliclyAnnounced
Plansor Programs (1)
 
  
Maximum Numberof Shares thatMayYet be PurchasedUnder the PlansorPrograms (1)
 

 March 1, 2012 – March 31, 2012
  
 
98,275
  
  
$
6.77
  
  
 
933,333
  
  
 
468,480
  

 April 1, 2012 – April 30, 2012
  
 
535,540
  
  
$
6.18
  
  
 
1,468,873
  
  
 
0
  

 May 1, 2012 – May 31, 2012
  
 
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
 
1,468,873
  
  
 
0
  
  


(1) 
 On November 4, 2011, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to $10 million of its outstanding
common stock in open market or privately negotiated transactions. The maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the plan or program is based on the average price per share of $7.11. Any fluctuation in this average price will have an
impact on the maximum number of shares.   
  -67-



Table of Contents
Item 6. Selected Financial Data. 
The following table shows our selected consolidated financial and operating data for each of the fiscal years ended May 31, 2012,
2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Dlorah was the accounting acquirer in our transaction as described in Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, our historical financial information reflects the operations of Dlorah. The
selected consolidated statements of financial data for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008 are derived from Dlorah’s audited consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting standards
generally accepted in the United States. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of our results for any future period.  This information should be read in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and
related notes.   
























 
  
Year Ended May 31,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands, except per share data)
 

 Income Statement
  



 



 



 



 




 Total revenues
  
$
118,894
  
 
$
106,808
  
 
$
89,796
  
 
$
62,584
  
 
$
49,457
  

 Operating expenses:
  



 



 



 



 




 Cost of educational services
  
 
27,831
  
 
 
22,575
  
 
 
20,419
  
 
 
17,398
  
 
 
15,130
  

 Selling, general and administrative
  
 
77,476
  
 
 
64,474
  
 
 
49,886
  
 
 
37,626
  
 
 
32,642
  

 Auxiliary expense
  
 
4,747
  
 
 
2,888
  
 
 
2,076
  
 
 
1,595
  
 
 
1, 523
  

 Cost of condominium sales
  
 
0.00
  
 
 
381
  
 
 
761
  
 
 
558
  
 
 
122
  

 (Gain)/Loss on disposition of property and equipment
  
 
(320
) 
 
 
82
  
 
 
29
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
5
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
  
 
109,734
  
 
 
90,400
  
 
 
73,171
  
 
 
57,180
  
 
 
49,422
  

 Operating income
  
 
9,160
  
 
 
16,408
  
 
 
16,625
  
 
 
5,404
  
 
 
35
  








 Other (expense) income
  
 
(340
) 
 
 
271
  
 
 
(101
) 
 
 
(499
) 
 
 
(649
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income taxes
  
 
8,820
  
 
 
16,679
  
 
 
16,524
  
 
 
4,905
  
 
 
(614
) 








 Income tax expense
  
 
(3,683
) 
 
 
(6,375
) 
 
 
(6,485
) 
 
 
(1,797
) 
 
 
231
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
 
5,137
  
 
 
10,304
  
 
 
10,039
  
 
 
3,108
  
 
 
(383
) 

 Net (income) loss attributable to non-controlling interest
  
 
(88
) 
 
 
(38
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
13
  
 
 
(37
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to National American University Holdings, Inc. and subsidiaries
  
$
5,049
  
 
$
10,266
  
 
$
10,035
  
 
$
3,121
  
 
$
-420
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from operations per Class A Share
  



 



 



 



 











 Basic
  
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
95.25
  
 
$
31.21
  
 
$
-4.20
  








 Diluted
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
95.25
  
 
 
31.21
  
 
 
-4.20
  








 Income from operations per Common Share
  



 



 



 



 











 Basic
  
 
0.19
  
 
 
0.39
  
 
 
-0.04
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  








 Diluted
  
 
0.19
  
 
 
0.38
  
 
 
-0.04
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  








 Balance Sheet
  



 



 



 



 











 Total assets
  
$
83,098
  
 
$
77,938
  
 
$
47,286
  
 
$
28,865
  
 
$
28,162
  








 Long-term obligations
  
$
19,719
  
 
$
7,075
  
 
$
3,531
  
 
$
10,972
  
 
$
13,041
  

 Cash Dividends declared per Class A Share
  
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0.86
  
 
$
2.00
  
 
$
2.00
  

 Cash Dividends declared per Common Share
  
$
0.13
  
 
$
0.12
  
 
$
0.22
  
 
 
n/a
  
 
 
n/a
  




 
  
Year Ended May 31,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands, except per share data)
 

 Weighted Average Shares
  



 



 



 



 




 Basic EPS
  



 



 



 



 




 Class A
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
100,000
  
 
 
100,000
  
 
 
100,000
  

 Common
  
 
26,488,265
  
 
 
26,236,783
  
 
 
3,103,847
  
 
 
n/a
  
 
 
n/a
  

 Diluted EPS
  



 



 



 



 




 Class A
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
100,000
  
 
 
100,000
  
 
 
100,000
  

 Common
  
 
26,638,427
  
 
 
26,836,039
  
 
 
3,103,959
  
 
 
n/a
  
 
 
n/a
  

 Other Data (Unaudited)
  



 



 



 



 




 Loss from Real Estate Operations Before Taxes
  
$
(255
) 
 
$
(621
) 
 
$
(735
) 
 
$
(527
) 
 
$
(900
) 

 EBITDA1
  
$
13,520
  
 
$
19,392
  
 
$
19,163
  
 
$
7,662
  
 
$
2,241
  

 Student Headcount (for Spring quarter of the fiscal year)2
  
 
11,221
  
 
 
10,015
  
 
 
8,758
  
 
 
6,479
  
 
 
4,960
  
  


1
Consists of income attributable to the Company, less income from non-controlling interest, plus income (loss) from non-controlling interest, minus interest income, plus
interest expense, plus income taxes, plus depreciation and amortization. 
  -68-



Table of Contents
We use EBITDA as a measure of operating performance. However, EBITDA is not a recognized
measurement under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and when analyzing our operating performance, investors should use EBITDA in addition to, and not as an alternative for, income as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Because not all companies use identical calculations, our presentation of EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies and is therefore limited as a comparative measure. Furthermore, as an analytical tool, EBITDA has
additional limitations, including that (a) it is not intended to be a measure of free cash flow, as it does not consider certain cash requirements such as tax payments; (b) it does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our
working capital needs; and (c) although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized often will have to be replaced in the future, and EBITDA does not reflect any cash requirements for such
replacements, or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments. To compensate for these limitations, we evaluate our profitability by considering the economic effect of the excluded expense items independently as well as in
connection with our analysis of cash flows from operations and through the use of other financial measures.  We believe EBITDA
is useful to an investor in evaluating our operating performance because it is widely used to measure a company’s operating performance without regard to certain non-cash expenses (such as depreciation and amortization) and expenses that are
not reflective of our core operating results over time. We believe EBITDA presents a meaningful measure of corporate performance exclusive of our capital structure, the method by which assets were acquired and non-cash charges, and provides us with
additional useful information to measure our performance on a consistent basis, particularly with respect to changes in performance from period to period.  The following table provides a reconciliation of net income attributable to the Company to EBITDA:   
























 
  
Year Ended May 31,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands)
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to the Company
  
$
5,049
  
 
$
10,266
  
 
$
10,035
  
 
$
3,121
  
 
$
(420
) 

 Income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interest
  
 
88
  
 
 
38
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
(13
) 
 
 
37
  

 Interest income
  
 
(133
) 
 
 
(148
) 
 
 
(206
) 
 
 
(242
) 
 
 
(282
) 

 Interest expense
  
 
594
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
525
  
 
 
834
  
 
 
1,023
  

 Income taxes
  
 
3,683
  
 
 
6,375
  
 
 
6,485
  
 
 
1,797
  
 
 
(231
) 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
4,239
  
 
 
2,861
  
 
 
2,320
  
 
 
2,165
  
 
 
2,114
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 EBITDA
  
$
13,520
  
 
$
19,392
  
 
$
19,163
  
 
$
7,662
  
 
$
2,241
  
  


2 
 Student headcount is based on the headcount as of the last day of the university’s spring term, which runs from March to May.

  -69-



Table of Contents
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations.  You should read the following discussion together with the financial statements and the
related notes included elsewhere in this annual report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are based on management’s current expectations, estimates and projections about our business and operations, and involves risks and
uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those currently anticipated and expressed in such forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including those we discuss under “Risk Factors,” “Special
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and elsewhere in this annual report.  Background 
National American University, or NAU, is a regionally accredited, for-profit, multi-campus institution of higher learning offering
associate, bachelor’s and master’s degree programs in business-related disciplines, such as accounting, applied management, business administration and information technology, and in healthcare-related disciplines, such as nursing and
healthcare management. Courses are offered through educational sites as well as online via the Internet. Operations include 35 educational sites (two of which are pending regulatory approvals, Indianapolis, Indiana and Tigard, Oregon) located in
Colorado, Indiana, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota and Texas, distance learning service centers in Indiana, Missouri, New Jersey and Texas and distance learning operations and central administration
offices in Rapid City, South Dakota.  As of May 31, 2012, NAU had enrolled 3,029 students at its physical locations,
6,230 students for its online programs, and 1,962 students at its hybrid learning centers who attended physical campus locations and also took classes online. NAU supports the instruction of 3,500 additional students at affiliated institutions for
whom NAU provides online course hosting and technical assistance. NAU provides courseware development, technical support and online class hosting services to various colleges, technical schools and training institutions in the United States and
Canada who do not have the capacity to develop and operate their own in-house online curriculum for their students. NAU does not share revenues with these institutions, but rather charges a fee for its services, enabling it to generate additional
revenue by leveraging its current online program infrastructure.  The real estate operations consist of apartment facilities,
condominiums and other real estate holdings in Rapid City, South Dakota. The real estate operations generated approximately 0.9% of our revenues for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2012.  Key Financial Results Metrics  Revenue. Revenue is derived
mostly from NAU’s operations. For fiscal year ended May 31, 2012, approximately 92.4% of our revenue was generated from NAU’s academic revenue, which consists of tuition and fees assessed at the start of each term. The remainder of
our revenue comes from NAU’s auxiliary revenue from sources such as NAU’s food services, bookstore, dormitory and motel operations and the real estate operations rental income and condominium sales. Tuition revenue is reported net of
adjustments for refunds and scholarships and is recognized on a daily basis over the length of the term. Upon withdrawal, students generally are refunded tuition based on the uncompleted portion of the term. Auxiliary revenue is recognized when
earned.  Factors affecting net revenue include: 
 


 
•
 
 the number of students who are enrolled and who remain enrolled in courses throughout the term; 
 


 
•
 
 the number of credit hours per student;   


 
•
 
 the student’s degree and program mix;   


 
•
 
 changes in tuition rates;   


 
•
 
 the affiliates with which NAU is working as well as the number of students at the affiliates; and 
 


 
•
 
 the amount of scholarships for which students qualify. 
  -70-



Table of Contents
We record unearned tuition for academic services to be provided in future periods.
Similarly, we record a tuition receivable for the portion of the tuition that has not been paid. Tuition receivable at the end of any calendar quarter largely represents student tuition due for the prior academic quarter. Based upon past experience
and judgment, we establish an allowance for doubtful accounts to recognize those receivables we anticipate will not be paid. Any uncollected account more than six months past due on students who have left NAU is charged against the allowance. Bad
debt expense as a percentage of revenues for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010 was 3.5%, 3.1%, and 2.6%, respectively.  We define enrollments for a particular reporting period as the number of students registered in a course on the last day of the reporting period. Enrollments are a function of the number of continuing
students registered and the number of new enrollments registered during the specified period. Enrollment numbers are offset by inactive students, graduations and withdrawals occurring during the period. Inactive students for a particular period are
students who are not registered in a class and, therefore, are not generating net revenue for that period.  We believe the
principal factors affecting NAU’s enrollments and net revenue are the number and breadth of the programs being offered; the effectiveness of our marketing, recruiting and retention efforts; the quality of our academic programs and student
services; the convenience and flexibility of our online delivery platform; the availability and amount of federal and other funding sources for student financial assistance; and general economic conditions. 
The following chart is a summary of our student enrollment on May 31, 2012, and May 31, 2011, by degree type and by
instructional delivery method.   
















 
  
May 31, 2012(Spring ’12
Qtr)
 
  
May 31, 2011(Spring ’11
Qtr)
 
  
% Growth forsame quarterover prior year
 

 
  
Number of Students
 
  
Number of Students
 
  

 Graduate
  
 
392
  
  
 
385
  
  
 
1.8
% 

 Undergraduate and Diploma
  
 
10,829
  
  
 
9,630
 
  
 
12.5
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
11,221
  
  
 
10,015
  
  
 
12.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 On-Campus
  
 
3,029
  
  
 
4,624
  
  
 
(34.5
%) 

 Online
  
 
6,230
  
  
 
3,751
  
  
 
66.1
% 

 Hybrid
  
 
1,962
  
  
 
1,640
  
  
 
19.6
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
11,221
  
  
 
10,015
  
  
 
12.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



 We experienced a 12.0% growth in enrollment in spring term 2012 over spring term 2011. This growth was
consistent with our historic enrollment growth, which has averaged approximately 11.75% annually since 1998. We believe this recent growth is attributable to four main factors: investment in the expansion and development of physical locations;
investment in the expansion of current academic programs and development of new academic programs; the development of a disciplined student recruitment process; and the current economic downturn, in which many working adults have decided to utilize
education to obtain a job, advance in a job or retain their current job. We also believe we have realized a significant increase in enrollments since 2005 due to our investment of approximately $57 million to expand and develop physical locations
and academic programming. In addition, we believe that our strategic plan was critical in obtaining the growth and results of operations that we have seen over the last year.  We plan to continue expanding and developing our academic programming, opening additional physical locations and, potentially, making acquisitions. This growth will be subject to applicable regulatory
requirements and market conditions. With these efforts, we anticipate our positive enrollment trends will continue. To the extent the economic downturn has caused enrollment growth, our ability to maintain or increase that portion of our growth will
depend on how economic factors are perceived by our target student market in relation to the advantages of pursuing higher education. If current market conditions continue, we believe that the extent to which these enrollment trends will continue
will be correlated with the opening of additional physical locations, the number of programs that are developed, the number of programs that are expanded to other locations, and, potentially, the number of locations and programs added through
acquisitions. If market conditions decline or if we are unable to open new physical locations, develop or expand academic programming or make acquisitions, whether as a result of regulatory limitations or other factors, our growth rate will likely
return to more historic levels. 
  -71-



Table of Contents
Expenses. Expenses consist of cost of educational services, selling, general
and administrative, auxiliary expenses, the cost of condominium sales, and the loss on disposition of property and equipment. Cost of educational services expenses contain expenditures attributable to the educational activity of NAU. This expense
category includes salaries and benefits of faculty and academic administrators, costs of educational supplies, faculty reference and support material and related academic costs, and facility costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses
include the salaries of the learner services positions (and other expenses related to support of students), salaries and benefits of admissions staff, marketing expenditures, salaries of other support and leadership services (including finance,
human resources, compliance and other corporate functions), as well as depreciation, bad debt expenses and other related costs associated with student support functions. Auxiliary expenses include expenses for the cost of goods sold, including costs
associated with books, clothing, food and textbook shrinkage. The cost of condominium sales is the expense related to condominiums that are sold during the reporting period. The gain or loss on disposition of property and equipment expense records
the cost incurred or income received in the disposal of assets that are no longer used by us.  Factors affecting comparability
 Set forth below are selected factors we believe have had, or which we expect to have, a significant effect on the
comparability of our recent or future results of operations:  Introduction of new programs and specializations.
We plan to develop additional degree and diploma programs and specializations over the next several years. When introducing new programs and specializations, we invest in curriculum development, support infrastructure and marketing research.
Revenues associated with these new programs are dependent upon enrollments, which are lower during the periods of introduction. During this period of introduction and development, the rate of growth in revenues and operating income has been, and may
be, adversely affected, in part, due to these factors. Historically, as the new programs and specializations develop, increases in enrollment are realized, cost-effective delivery of instructional and support services are achieved, economies of
scale are recognized and more efficient marketing and promotional processes are gained.  Stock-based
compensation. We expect to incur increased non-cash, stock based compensation expense in connection with existing and future issuances under our Stock Plan or other equity incentive plans as compared with prior years in an effort to create a
consistent and comprehensive compensation package for management.  Seasonality. Our operations are generally
subject to seasonal trends. While we enroll students throughout the year, summer and winter quarter new enrollments and revenue are generally lower than enrollments and revenue in other quarters due to the traditional custom of summer breaks and the
holiday break in December and January. In addition, we generally experience an increase in enrollments in the fall of each year when most students seek to begin their postsecondary education.  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  The discussion of our financial
condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. Management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those discussed below, on an ongoing basis. These estimates are
based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results of our analysis form the basis for making assumptions about the carrying values of assets and liabilities
that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions, and the impact of such differences may be material to the consolidated financial statements. We believe the
following critical accounting policies involve more significant judgments and estimates than others used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: 
  -72-



Table of Contents
Revenue recognition. Academic revenue represented approximately 92.4%, 92.9%,
and 91.8% of revenue for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. We recognize revenue from tuition ratably over the length of the respective term. Academic revenue is tuition revenue, fees and charges assessed at the
start of each term. If a student drops or withdraws from a course during the first week of classes, we refund 100% of the charges for tuition and fees, beyond the first week but during the first 60% of scheduled classes, the percentage of tuition
charges refunded is based on a daily proration on a percent of the term completed. If the last day of attendance is beyond 60% of the scheduled classes, tuition and fees are not refunded. Deferred revenue and student deposits in any period represent
the excess of tuition, fees and other student payments received as compared to amounts recognized as revenue on the statement of operations, and are reflected as current liabilities on the balance sheet. 
Allowance for doubtful accounts. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the
inability, failure or refusal of the students to make required payments. We determine the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts based on an analysis of aging of the accounts receivable and with regard to historical bad debt experience.
Accounts receivable balances are generally written off when deemed uncollectible at the time the account is returned by an outside collection agency. However, accounts that are 180 days old are fully reserved and management continues collection
efforts until it is determined that the possibility of collection is unlikely. Bad debt expense is recorded as a selling, general and administrative expense. As of May 31, 2012, and 2011, the allowance for doubtful accounts was approximately
$0.8 million, and $0.2 million respectively. During the fiscal years ended May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, bad debt expense was $4.2 million, $3.4 million, and $2.4 million, respectively. The bad debt expense was 3.6%, 3.1%, and 2.6% of total
revenue for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Accounting for Income Taxes.
The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an
entity’s financial statements or tax returns. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred
tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in earnings in the period when the new rate is enacted.  We
evaluate and account for uncertain tax positions using a two-step approach. Recognition (step one) occurs when we conclude that a tax position, based solely on its technical merits, is more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination.
Measurement (step two) determines the amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. De-recognition of a tax position that was
previously recognized would occur when we subsequently determine that a tax position no longer meets the more-likely-than-not threshold of being sustained.  Share-Based Compensation. We measure and recognize compensation expense for all share-based awards issued to employees and directors based on estimated fair values of the share awards on the
date of grant. We record compensation expense for all share-based awards over the vesting period.  Regulation and Oversight 
We are subject to extensive regulation by state education agencies, accrediting commissions and federal government agencies, particularly
by the U.S. Department of Education (the “Department of Education”) under the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (the “Higher Education Act”) and the regulations promulgated thereunder by the Department of Education. The
regulations, standards and policies of these agencies cover substantially all of our operations. For a more complete description of this regulation and oversight, see “Item I – Business – Regulatory Matters”. 
  -73-



Table of Contents
Department of Education Rulemaking. On October 29, 2010, following
a negotiated rulemaking process that had commenced in May 2009, the Department of Education published final regulations pertaining a number of Title IV program integrity issues (the “Final Rules”), which became effective July 1, 2011,
except for rules pertaining to verification and updating of student aid application information, which became effective July 1, 2012. On June 13, 2011, the Department of Education published final regulations defining the meaning of
“gainful employment” (the “Gainful Employment Rule”), which was to become effective July 1, 2012. However, on June 30, 2012, a Federal District Court vacated the Gainful Employment Rule. As a result, the Gainful
Employment Rule is not presently in effect pending the final outcome of the underlying litigation and any additional actions by the Department of Education. See “Item I – Business – Regulatory Matters – Gainful Employment.”
 On June 21, 2012, the Department of Education released data to educational institutions showing the calculation of
gainful employment metrics for the 2011 measurement year for each institutions’ covered educational programs. These 2011 metrics were released for informational purposes only. The informational metrics for 2011 were based on data reported by us
relating to federal fiscal years 2007 and 2008. This informational data indicates that all of our educational programs covered by the relevant reporting period prepared students for gainful employment in the manner set forth in the Gainful
Employment Rule.  On September 27, 2011, the Department of Education published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
(“NPRM”) to amend regulations for institutional eligibility under the Higher Education Act and to streamline the application and approval process for new programs, as required by the Gainful Employment Rule. The public comment period ended
on November 14, 2011, and the Department of Education has not yet published final regulations. In light of the Federal District Court decision of June 30, 2012 that vacated the Gainful Employment Rule, it is unclear whether or when the
Department of Education will publish such final regulations.  On October 26, 2011, the Department of Education announced
the establishment of a negotiated rulemaking panel regarding Teacher Preparation and TEACH Grant Programs. On April 12, 2012, after meeting in January, February and April 2012, participants acknowledged that they were unlikely to reach
consensus on a set of proposals. As a result, the Department of Education can issue proposed regulations without regard to any compromises reached during the negotiated rulemaking. The Department of Education’s publication of a proposed rule in
the Federal Register following the failure of the negotiated rulemaking committee to reach consensus remains pending.  On
October 28, 2011, the Department of Education announced the establishment of another negotiated rulemaking panel to consider certain proposed changes to regulations governing Title IV student loan programs. This rulemaking panel met in January,
February and March 2012 to consider changes to certain regulations in those areas. At its final meeting in March 2012, the panel reached consensus on changes to regulations to implement a “Pay As You Earn” loan repayment initiative, to
incorporate statutory changes in the income-based repayment plan provisions, to make certain improvements in the administration of the income-based repayment and income-contingent repayment plans, and to overhaul the process for loan discharges
based on total and permanent disability of the borrower. On July 17, 2012, the Department of Education published a proposed rule in the Federal Register reflecting the consensus of the negotiated rulemaking committee for which the public
comment period expires on August 16, 2012.  On May 1, 2012, the Department of Education announced its intention to
establish an additional negotiated rulemaking committee to develop additional regulations to prevent fraud and otherwise ensure proper use of Title IV program funds. The Department held public hearings on May 23 and 31, 2012 at which interested
parties presented issues for consideration by the rulemaking committee, whose establishment remains pending.  Compliance with
new and changing regulations could reduce our enrollments, increase our cost of doing business, and have a material effect on our business. To the extent that any laws or regulations are adopted that limit our participation in Title IV programs or
the amount of student financial aid for which the students at our institutions are eligible, our enrollments, revenues and results of operation could be materially affected. 
  -74-



Table of Contents
Department of Education Program Review. From time to time, institutions that
participate in the Title IV programs of federal student financial assistance are subject to program reviews by the Department of Education. In March 2011, the Department of Education announced a program review site visit for NAU, which occurred in
April 2011. The periods covered by the program review were the 2008-2009, 2009-2010 and 2010-2011 Title IV award years (with each award year commencing July 1 and ending June 30). The Department of Education’s preliminary program
review report contained findings regarding the manner in which we calculated returns of Title IV program funds for online students that withdrew before completing their educational program, certain discrepancies between our published campus crime
statistics and similar information on its website, and aspects of its written policy on returns of Title IV program funds. With respect to the first finding, we were required to perform a full file review for each of the three award years reviewed
and, where necessary, revise the last date of attendance and prior returns of Title IV funds calculations for online students. We submitted the results of this file review and its responses to the program review findings on October 19, 2011. On
February 3, 2012, the Department of Education requested certain additional documentation to facilitate resolution of the program review, which we provided on March 20, 2012. On May 30, 2012, the Department of Education issued a final
program review determination letter requiring us to return an aggregate amount of $335,675 to the Department of Education and applicable FFEL lenders, which was completed within 45 days of the final program review determination letter, as required
by the Department of Education.  State Authorization. To be eligible to participate in Title IV programs, an
institution must be licensed or authorized to offer its educational programs by the states in which it is physically located, in accordance with the Department of Education’s regulations. The Department of Education’s Final Rule published
on October 29, 2010 requires, among other things, institutions to demonstrate specific state authorization to operate educational programs beyond secondary education. In South Dakota, where our operations are headquartered and we maintain
several physical facilities, the state historically has not specifically authorized the degrees or other educational programs of private, regionally accredited institutions of higher education. On March 3, 2012, the Governor of South Dakota
signed a bill passed by the South Dakota Legislature during its 2012 Legislative Session that, among other things, expressly authorizes certain named institutions, including NAU, to provide postsecondary educational programs in the state. In New
Mexico, one of the other states where we maintain operations, we are currently exempt under state law from a requirement to be licensed by the New Mexico Higher Education Department because of our regional accreditation by the Higher Learning
Commission. However, in order to comply with the Final Rules, we intend to submit an application for licensure to the New Mexico Higher Education Department. See “Item I – Business – Regulatory Matters – State
Authorization.”  Results of Operations — For the Year Ended May 31, 2012 Compared to the Year Ended May 31,
2011  National American University Holdings, Inc.  The following table sets forth statements of operations data as a percentage of total revenue for each of the periods indicated: 
 












 
  
Year-EndedMay 31, 
2012In percentages
 
 
Year-EndedMay 31, 
2011In percentages
 

 Total revenues
  
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 

 Operating expenses:
  



 




 Cost of educational services
  
 
23.4
  
 
 
21.1
  

 Selling, general and administrative
  
 
65.2
  
 
 
60.4
  

 Auxiliary expense
  
 
4.0
  
 
 
2.6
  

 Cost of condominiums sales
  
 
0.0
  
 
 
0.4
  

 (Gain)/Loss on disposition of property
  
 
(0.3
) 
 
 
0.1
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
  
 
92.3
  
 
 
84.6
  





 Operating income
  
 
7.7
  
 
 
15.4
  

 Interest expense
  
 
(0.5
) 
 
 
(0.0
) 

 Interest income
  
 
0.1
  
 
 
0.1
  

 Other income
  
 
0.1
  
 
 
0.1
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
 
7.4
  
 
 
15.6
  

 Income tax expense
  
 
(3.1
) 
 
 
(6.0
) 

 Net income attributable to non-controlling interest
  
 
(0.1
) 
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to the Company
  
 
4.2
  
 
 
9.6
  

  -75-



Table of Contents
For the year ended May 31, 2012, we generated $118.9 million in revenue, an increase of
11.3% compared to the same period in 2011. This increase was attributable to enrollment growth, an average tuition increase of 4.7% effective September 2011, fees billed to affiliated institutions for our courseware development, technical support
and online class hosting services, continued geographic and programmatic expansion. Our revenue for the year ended May 31, 2012 consisted of $117.8 million from our NAU operations and $1.1million from our other operations. Total operating
expenses were $109.7 million or 92.3% of total revenue for the year ended May 31, 2012, an increase of 21.4% compared to the same period in 2011 due to the additional expansion and development. Income before income taxes was $8.8 million or
7.4% of total revenue for the year ended May 31, 2012, a decrease of 47.1% compared to the same period in 2011. Net income attributable to the Company was $5.0 million or 4.2% of total revenue for the year ended May 31, 2012, a
decrease of 50.8% compared to the same period in 2011. The additional details regarding these variances are described in greater detail below.  NAU  The following table sets forth statements of operations data as a
percentage of total revenue for each of the periods indicated:   












 
  
Year-EndedMay 31, 
2012In percentages
 
 
Year-EndedMay 31, 
2011In percentages
 

 Total revenues
  
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 

 Operating expenses:
  



 




 Cost of educational services
  
 
23.6
  
 
 
21.4
  

 Selling, general and administrative
  
 
64.2
  
 
 
59.5
  

 Auxiliary expense
  
 
4.1
  
 
 
2.7
  

 Loss on disposition of property
  
 
0.0
  
 
 
0.1
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
  
 
91.9
  
 
 
83.7
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income
  
 
8.1
  
 
 
16.3
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Interest expense
  
 
(0.5
) 
 
 
(0.0
) 

 Interest income
  
 
0.1
  
 
 
0.1
  

 Income before non-controlling interest and taxes
  
 
7.7
  
 
 
16.4
  
 Total revenue. The total revenue for NAU for the year ended May 31, 2012 was
$117.8 million, an increase of $12.5 million or 11.8%, as compared to total revenue of $105.4 million for the year ended May 31, 2011. The increase was primarily due to the enrollment increase of approximately 12%, which was
consistent with our investment in new program development, program expansion, development of new educational sites and student retention initiatives, over the prior year. The enrollment increase can also be attributed, in part, to the current
economic downturn, in which many working adults have decided to utilize education to obtain a job, advance in a job or retain their current job. In addition, the increase in total revenue is due to an average tuition increase of 4.7% that was
approved by NAU’s board of governors in January 2011 and became effective September 2011, and increased book sales due to enrollment increases. We believe that management’s execution of NAU’s well-defined strategic plan contributed to
the increase in revenues.  The academic revenue for the year ended May 31, 2012 was $109.8 million, an increase of
$10.6 million or 10.7%, as compared to academic revenue of $99.2 million for the year ended May 31, 2011. The increase was primarily due to the enrollment increase over the prior year. The auxiliary revenue was $8.0 million, an increase of $1.8
million or 29.9%, as compared to auxiliary revenue of $6.2 million for the year ended May 31, 2011. The increase in auxiliary revenue was primarily driven by increased enrollment growth and the implementation of a new online bookstore vendor.

  -76-



Table of Contents
Cost of educational services. The educational services expense as a percentage
of academic segment revenue increased by 2.2% for the year ended May 31, 2012, to 23.6%, as compared to 21.4% for the year ended May 31, 2011. This increase was a result of increases in instructional compensation and related expenses. The
educational services expenses for the year ended May 31, 2012, were $27.8 million, an increase of $5.3 million, or 23.3%, as compared to educational expenses of $22.6 million for the year ended May 31, 2011. This increase was
primarily due to increases in instructional compensation and related expenses. These increases were attributable to the increased faculty and staff members needed to provide and maintain the quality of our educational services to our increased
student enrollment as well as for the new programs such as occupational therapy and cardiovascular technology. In fiscal year 2012, the cost of developing and expanding new educational sites was categorized as educational services expenses,
increasing the overall amount of educational services expenses.  Selling, general and administrative expenses.
The selling, general and administrative expense as a percentage of total academic segment revenue increased by 4.7% for the year ended May 31, 2012, to 64.2%, as compared to 59.5% for the year ended May 31, 2011. This increase was
primarily the result of the university’s additional expenses relating to opening new locations. The selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended May 31, 2012 were $75.7 million, an increase of $13.0 million, or 20.7%
(with a significant portion of this increase detailed below), as compared to selling, general and administrative expenses of $62.7 million for the year ended May 31, 2011. The increase was attributed to additional support staff necessary to
support our continued growth, increased admissions staff to support our growth plan and larger marketing costs to sustain our growth initiative.  For the twelve months ended May 31, 2012, the gross expenditures associated with the development and expansion of new educational sites and new programs as business expansion and development expense
increased $8.5 million over the same period last year. Within this category, three locations which incurred expenses of $7.1 million for the twelve months ended May 31, 2011, have commenced operations and did not incur business expansion
and development expenses during the twelve months ended May 31, 2012. However, these locations are incurring expenses reported in SG&A totaling $7.5 million for an increase in spending of $0.4 million. Developing and opening of
eight new locations have contributed to business expansion and program development expenses of an additional $7.1 million. Consistent with our strategic plan, the total business expansion and development expenditures were $22.8 million for the
12 months ended May 31, 2012 as compared to $14.3 million for the twelve months ended May 31, 2011. Over half of the spending for business expansion and development for the twelve months ended May 31, 2012 was spent on marketing and
admissions activities. The details of the business expansion and development expenditures are detailed in the table below (in millions):   
















 
  
 Twelve monthsendedMay 31,2012($)
 
  
 Twelve monthsendedMay31 2011($)
 
  
Difference($)
 

 Allen, TX
  
$
1.8
  
  
$
1.3
  
  
$
0.5
  






 Austin, TX
  
 
—  
  
  
 
3.1
  
  
 
(3.1
)

 Bellevue, NE
  
 
1.9
  
  
 
0.1
  
  
 
1.8
  

 Burnsville, MN
  
 
1.3
  
  
 
0.2
  
  
 
1.1
  

 Centennial, CO
  
 
1.4
  
  
 
0.8
  
  
 
0.6
  

 Colorado Springs South, CO
  
 
1.5
  
  
 
1.0
  
  
 
0.5
  

 Georgetown, TX
  
 
0.6
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
0.6
  

 Houston, TX
  
 
1.2
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1.2
  

 Indianapolis, IN
  
 
1.0
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1.0
  

  -77-



Table of Contents
















 Lee’s Summit, MO
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2.1
  
  
 
(2.1
)

 Lewisville, TX
  
 
1.1
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1.1
  

 Mesquite, TX
  
 
1.3
  
  
 
0.1
  
  
 
1.2
  

 Rochester, MN
  
 
0.6
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
0.6
  






 Minnetonka, MN
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1.9
  
  
 
(1.9
)

 Portland, OR
  
 
0.3
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
0.3
  

 Richardson, TX
  
 
0.8
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
0.8
  

 South Austin, TX
  
 
1.1
  
  
 
0.1
  
  
 
1.0
  






 Tulsa, OK
  
 
2.2
  
  
 
0.5
  
  
 
1.7
  

 Weldon Spring, MO
  
 
1.5
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1.5
  

 Wichita West, KS
  
 
2.1
  
  
 
1.1
  
  
 
1.0
  

 Distance Learning
  
 
0.6
  
  
 
0.3
  
  
 
0.3
  






 Other Nursing
  
 
0.5
  
  
 
1.7
  
  
 
(1.2
)






 TOTAL
  
$
22.8
  
  
$
14.3
  
  
$
8.5
  
 Auxiliary. Auxiliary expenses for the year ended May 31, 2012 were $4.7 million, an
increase of $1.9 million, or 64.4%, as compared to auxiliary expenses of $2.9 million for the year ended May 31, 2011. This increase was primarily the result of closing our physical bookstores and engaging a third-party vendor to create an
online bookstore.  Income before non-controlling interest and taxes. The income before non-controlling interest
and taxes for the year ended May 31, 2012, was $9.1 million, a decrease of $8.2 million, or 47.5% compared to the year ended May 31, 2011. We are executing our strategic growth initiatives by expanding existing academic programs,
developing new academic programs and developing educational sites, which resulted in revenue being up over $12.5 million during the year ended May 31, 2012 compared to the same time period last fiscal year. Expenses were 91.9% of total revenue
for the year ended May 31, 2012 and were 83.7% for the same period in fiscal year 2011. This increase is consistent with our efforts to grow with additional locations.  Other  The following table sets forth statements of operations data as a
percentage of total revenue for each of the periods indicated:   












 
  
Year-EndedMay 31, 
2012In percentages
 
 
Year-EndedMay 31, 
2011In percentages
 

 Total revenues
  
 
100.0
%
 
 
100.0
%

 Operating expenses:
  



 




 Selling, general and administrative
  
 
168.9
  
 
 
125.2
  

 Cost of condominium sales
  
 
0.0
  
 
 
26.5
  

 (Gain) / loss on disposition of property
  
 
(33.7
) 
 
 
0.0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
  
 
135.2
  
 
 
151.7
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating loss
  
 
(35.2
)
 
 
(51.7
)


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Interest expense
  
 
(0.0
)
 
 
(0.0
)

 Interest income
  
 
0.0
  
 
 
0.0
  

 Other income
  
 
11.3
  
 
 
8.5
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loss before non-controlling interest and taxes
  
 
(23.9
)
 
 
(43.2
)
 Our other operations total revenue for the year ended May 31, 2012 was $1.1 million, a decrease of
$0.4 million or 25.7%, as compared to total revenue of $1.4 million for the year ended May 31, 2011. The decrease is due to fewer sales of condominiums in fiscal year 2012. 
The rental income from apartments for the year ended May 31, 2012 was $1.1 million, an increase of $79,000 or 8.0%, as compared $1.0
million for the year ended May 31, 2011. 
  -78-



Table of Contents
The condominium sales for the year ended May 31, 2012 were $0, a decrease of $0.4
million or 100.0%, as compared to $0.4 million for the year ended May 31, 2011.  The selling, general and administrative
expenses as a percentage of total revenue increased by 43.7% for the year ended May 31, 2012 to 168.9%, as compared to 125.2% for the year ended May 31, 2011. The selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended May 31,
2012 were $1.8 million, which remained flat compared to the year ended May 31, 2011.  The cost of the condominium sales
for the year ended May 31, 2012 was $0, a decrease of $0.4 million, or 100.0%, as compared to $0.4 million for the year ended May 31, 2011.  The loss before non-controlling interest and taxes for the year ended May 31, 2012 was $0.3 million, a increase of $0.3 million, as compared to a loss of $0.6 million for the year ended May 31,
2011.  Results of Operations — For the Year Ended May 31, 2011 Compared to the Year Ended May 31, 2010
 National American University Holdings, Inc.  The following table sets forth statements of operations data as a percentage of total revenue for each of the periods indicated: 
 












 
  
Year-EndedMay 31, 
2011In percentages
 
 
Year-EndedMay 31, 
2010In percentages
 

 Total revenues
  
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 

 Operating expenses:
  



 




 Cost of educational services
  
 
21.1
  
 
 
22.7
  

 Selling, general and administrative
  
 
60.4
  
 
 
55.6
  

 Auxiliary expense
  
 
2.6
  
 
 
2.4
  

 Cost of condominium sales
  
 
0.4
  
 
 
0.8
  

 Loss on disposition of property
  
 
0.1
  
 
 
0.0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
  
 
84.6
  
 
 
81.5
  

 Operating income
  
 
15.4
  
 
 
18.5
  

 Interest expense
  
 
(0.0
) 
 
 
(0.6
) 

 Interest income
  
 
0.1
  
 
 
0.2
  

 Other income
  
 
0.1
  
 
 
0.3
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
 
15.6
  
 
 
18.4
  

 Income tax expense
  
 
(6.0
) 
 
 
(7.2
) 

 Net income attributable to non-controlling interest
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to the Company
  
 
9.6
  
 
 
11.2
  
 For the year ended May 31, 2011, we generated $106.8 million in revenue, an increase of 18.9%
compared to the same period in 2010. This increase was attributable to enrollment growth, an average tuition increase of 4.3% effective September 2010, fees billed to affiliated institutions for our courseware development, technical support and
online class hosting services, continued geographic and programmatic expansion and revenue from condominium sales. Our revenue for the year ended May 31, 2011 consisted of $105.4 million from our NAU operations and $1.4 million from
our other operations. Total operating expenses were $90.4 million or 84.6% of total revenue for the year ended May 31, 2011, an increase of 23.6% compared to the same period in 2010 due to the additional expansion and development. Income
before income taxes was $16.7 million or 15.6% of total revenue for the year ended May 31, 2011, an increase of 0.9% compared to the same period in 2010. Net income attributable to the Company was $10.3 million or 9.6% of total revenue for
the year ended May 31, 2011, an increase of 2.3% compared to the same period in 2010. 
  -79-



Table of Contents
NAU  The following table sets forth statements of operations data as a percentage of total revenue for each of the periods indicated: 
 












 
  
Year-EndedMay 31, 
2011In percentages
 
 
Year-EndedMay 31, 
2010In percentages
 

 Total revenues
  
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 

 Operating expenses:
  



 




 Cost of educational services
  
 
21.4
  
 
 
23.2
  

 Selling, general and administrative
  
 
59.5
  
 
 
54.8
  

 Auxiliary expense
  
 
2.7
  
 
 
2.5
  

 Loss on disposition of property
  
 
0.1
  
 
 
0.0
  

 Total operating expenses
  
 
83.7
  
 
 
80.5
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income
  
 
16.3
  
 
 
19.5
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Interest expense
  
 
(0.0
) 
 
 
(0.1
) 

 Interest income
  
 
0.1
  
 
 
0.2
  

 Income before non-controlling interest and taxes
  
 
16.4
  
 
 
19.6
  
 Total revenue. The total revenue for NAU for the year ended May 31, 2011 was $105.4
million, an increase of $17.4 million or 19.8%, as compared to total revenue of $87.9 million for the year ended May 31, 2010. The increase was primarily due to the enrollment increase of approximately 14%, which was consistent with
our investment in new program development, program expansion, development of new educational sites and student retention initiatives, over the prior year. The enrollment increase can also be attributed, in part, to the economic downturn, in which
many working adults have decided to utilize education to obtain a job, advance in a job or retain their current job. In addition, the increase in total revenue is due to an average tuition increase of 4.3% that was approved by NAU’s board of
governors in April 2010 and became effective September 2010, and fees billed to affiliated institutions for our courseware development, technical support and online class hosting services. We believe that management’s execution of
NAU’s well-defined strategic plan contributed to the increase in revenues.  The academic revenue for the year ended
May 31, 2011 was $99.2 million, an increase of $16.8 million or 20.4%, as compared to academic revenue of $82.4 million for the year ended May 31, 2010. The increase was primarily due to the enrollment increase over the prior
year. The auxiliary revenue was $6.2 million, an increase of $0.6 million or 11.3%, as compared to auxiliary revenue of $5.5 million for the year ended May 31, 2010. The increase in auxiliary revenue was primarily driven by
increased enrollment growth in the sales of books and instructional materials.  Cost of educational services.
The educational services expense as a percentage of total revenue decreased by 1.8% for the year ended May 31, 2011, to 21.4%, as compared to 23.2% for the year ended May 31, 2010. This decrease was a result of realizing continued
economies of scale through enrollment growth and by counseling students to enroll in online courses, thereby increasing our student to instructor ratios. The educational services expenses for the year ended May 31, 2011, were
$22.6 million, an increase of $2.2 million, or 10.6%, as compared to educational expenses of $20.4 million for the year ended May 31, 2010. This increase was primarily due to increases in instructional compensation and related
expenses. These increases were attributable to the increased faculty and staff members needed to provide and maintain the quality of our educational services to our increased student enrollment. 
Selling, general and administrative expenses. The selling, general and administrative expense as a percentage of total
revenue increased by 4.7% for the year ended May 31, 2011, to 59.5%, as compared to 54.8% for the year ended May 31, 2010. This increase was primarily the result of the university’s additional expenses relating to opening new
locations. The selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended May 31, 2011 were $62.7 million, an increase of $14.4 million, or 29.9% (with a significant portion of this increased detailed below), as compared to selling,
general and administrative expenses of $48.2 million for the year ended May 31, 2010. The increase was attributed to additional support staff necessary to support our continued growth, increased admissions staff to support our growth plan
and larger marketing costs to sustain our growth initiative. 
  -80-



Table of Contents
In addition, we track the expenditures associated with new educational sites, new program
development and program expansion within the selling, general and administrative expense category. For the year ended May 31, 2011, the total business expansion and development expenditures were $14.3 million as compared to
$6.5 million for the same period in fiscal year 2010. Included in this total was $3.1 million for the continued development of the Austin, Texas, campus compared to $2.2 million for the same period in fiscal year 2010,
$9.3 million for the expansion and development of hybrid learning centers in Missouri, Minnesota, Kansas, Texas, Oklahoma, and Colorado as compared to $2.0 million for the same period in fiscal year 2010, and $2.0 million for the
continued expansion for the nursing programs in Denver, Colorado; Bloomington, Minnesota; Albuquerque, New Mexico; Rapid City, South Dakota; and Sioux Falls, South Dakota, as compared to $1.1 million for the same period in fiscal year 2010.
 Auxiliary. Auxiliary expenses for the year ended May 31, 2011 were $2.9 million, an increase of
$0.8 million, or 39.1%, as compared to auxiliary expenses of $2.1 million for the year ended May 31, 2010. This increase was primarily the result of the increase in cost of books resulting from higher book sales. 
Income before non-controlling interest and taxes. The income before non-controlling interest and taxes for the year ended
May 31, 2011, was $17.3 million, which remained flat as compared to the year ended May 31, 2010. We are executing our strategic growth initiatives by expanding existing academic programs, developing new academic programs and
developing educational sites, which resulted in revenue being up over $17.4 million during the year ended May 31, 2011 compared to the same time period last fiscal year. Expenses were 83.7% of total revenue for the year ended May 31,
2011 and were 80.5% for the same period in fiscal year 2010. This increase is consistent with our efforts to grow with additional locations. 
Other  The following
table sets forth statements of operations data as a percentage of total revenue for each of the periods indicated:   












 
  
Year-EndedMay 31, 
2011In percentages
 
 
Year-EndedMay 31, 
2010In percentages
 

 Total revenues
  
 
100.0
%
 
 
100.0
%

 Operating expenses:
  



 




 Selling, general and administrative
  
 
125.2
  
 
 
89.1
  

 Cost of condominium sales
  
 
26.5
  
 
 
41.1
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
  
 
151.7
  
 
 
130.2
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loss
  
 
(51.7
)
 
 
(30.2
)


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Interest expense
  
 
(0.0
)
 
 
(21.6
)

 Interest income
  
 
0.0
  
 
 
0.3
  

 Other income
  
 
8.5
  
 
 
11.8
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loss before non-controlling interest and taxes
  
 
(43.2
)
 
 
(39.7
)
 Our other operations total revenue for the year ended May 31, 2011 was $1.4 million, a decrease of
$0.4 million or 22.2%, as compared to total revenue of $1.9 million for the year ended May 31, 2010. The decrease is due to fewer sales of condominiums in fiscal year 2011. 
The rental income from apartments for the year ended May 31, 2011 was $1.0 million, an increase of $72,000 or 7.8%, as compared
$0.9 million for the year ended May 31, 2010.  The condominium sales for the year ended May 31, 2011 were
$0.4 million, a decrease of $0.5 million or 51.8%, as compared to $0.9 million for the year ended May 31, 2010. 
The selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenue increased by 36.1% for the year ended May 31, 2011
to 125.2%, as compared to 89.1% for the year ended May 31, 2010. The selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended May 31, 2011 were $1.8 million, an increase of $0.2 million, or 9.3%, as compared to
$1.6 million for the year ended May 31, 2010. 
  -81-



Table of Contents
The cost of the condominium sales for the year ended May 31, 2011 was
$0.4 million, a decrease of $0.4 million, or 49.9%, as compared to $0.8 million for the year ended May 31, 2010.  The loss before non-controlling interest and taxes for the year ended May 31, 2011 was $0.6 million, a decrease of $0.1 million, as compared to a loss of $0.7 million for the year ended
May 31, 2010.  Liquidity and Capital Resources  Liquidity. At May 31, 2012, and May 31, 2011, cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $30.6 million and $44.8 million, respectively. Consistent with our cash
management plan and investment philosophy, a portion of the excess cash was invested in United States securities directly or through money market funds, as well as in bank deposits and certificate of deposits. Of the amounts listed above, the
marketable securities for May 31, 2012 and May 31, 2011 were $14.9 million and $19.1 million, respectively.  We
retain a $3.0 million revolving line of credit with Great Western Bank. Advances under the line bear interest at a variable rate based on prime and are secured by the Company’s checking, savings and investment accounts held by the bank. This
line of credit replaces two lines of credit that were maintained during fiscal year 2011. There were no advances outstanding against any of the lines at May 31, 2012 and May 31, 2011. 
During 2008, our real estate operations started the construction of a new condominium building in Rapid City, South Dakota. The project
was funded by a construction line of credit from Great Western Bank totaling $3.8 million. The line of credit was paid in full and closed during the year ended May 31, 2010. 
Based on our current operations and anticipated growth, the cash flows from operations and other sources of liquidity are anticipated to
provide adequate funds for ongoing operations and planned capital expenditures for the near future. These expenditures include our plans for continued expansion and development of new programming, development of new hybrid learning centers and
growth of our affiliate relationships. We spent $13.2 million on capital expenditures for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2012, as compared to $6.7 million last fiscal year. Also, we believe that we are positioned to further supplement our
liquidity with debt, if needed.  Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $12.9
million and $15.8 million for the years ended May 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. This decrease is related primarily to the decrease in result of operations offset by adjustments for certain non-cash items which included a $1.4 million
increase in depreciation and amortization and $0.6 million increase in deferred income taxes.  Net cash provided by operating
activities for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2011 was $15.8 million as compared to $13.1 million for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2010. The increase is related primarily to the increase in results of operations after adjustments for
certain non-cash items which included a $2.0 million increase in deferred income taxes and a $1.0 million increase in provision for uncollectible tuition. The increase is partially offset by cash used for working capital. 
Investing Activities. Net cash used in investing activities was $9.4 million for the year ended May 31, 2012, as
compared to the net cash used in investing activities of $15.2 million for the year ended May 31, 2011. This decrease in cash used in investing activities was primarily the result of increased proceeds received from the sale of investments, net
of purchase of investments, of $12.1 million. This increase was offset by a $6.5 million increase purchase of property and equipment. 
  -82-



Table of Contents
For the year ended May 31, 2011, the cash flows used in investing activities was $15.2
million as compared to $11.6 million for the previous fiscal year. The increase in the cash used in investing activities was related to the purchase of investments offset by proceeds received from the sale of investments. Our investment committee is
focused on capital preservation.  Financing Activities. Net cash used in financing activities was $13.5 million
for May 31, 2012 as compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $16.4 million for the year ended May 31, 2011. In Fiscal 2011, we had cash inflows of $32.1 million related to the additional issuance of common stock as well as
$5.9 million received for warrant conversion, which were not repeated in Fiscal 2012. These inflows were offset in Fiscal 2012 by a $10.0 million decrease in dividends paid.  Net cash provided by financing activities was $16.4 million and $3.7 million for the years ended May 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase of $12.7 million is related to the additional
issuance of common stock in 2011 for $32.1 million as well as $5.9 million received for warrant conversions. These inflows were offset by $7.5 million paid for the purchase of our treasury stock and $13.4 million for dividends. 
The table below sets forth our contractual commitments associated with operating leases as of May 31, 2012: 
 
























 
  
Payments Due By Period (in thousands)
 

 
  
Total
 
  
Within 1 year
 
  
1-3 Years
 
  
3-5 Years
 
  
More than 5 years
 

 Operating leases
  
$
69,905
  
  
$
6,096
  
  
$
12,307
  
  
$
11,824
  
  
$
39,678
  
 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  Other than operating leases, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in
financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.  Impact of
Inflation  We increase tuition (usually once a year) to assist in offsetting inflationary impacts without creating a
hardship for students. Consistent with our operating plan, a yearly salary increase in December (supported by evaluations and recommendations from supervisors) is considered to help alleviate the inflationary effects on staff. There can be no
assurance that future inflation will not have an impact on operating results and financial condition. 
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Risk. 
Market risk. We have no derivative financial instruments or derivative commodity instruments. Cash in excess of current
operating requirements is invested in short-term certificates of deposit and money market instruments.  Interest rate
risk. Interest rate risk is managed by investing excess funds in cash equivalents and marketable securities bearing variable interest rates tied to various market indices. As such, future investment income may fall short of expectations due
to changes in interest rates or losses in principal may occur if securities are forced to be sold which have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. At May 31, 2012, a 10% increase or decrease in interest rates would not have
a material impact on future earnings, fair values or cash flows. To date there have been no material drawings on the lines of credit. 
  -83-



Table of Contents
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  National American University Holdings, Inc.   








 
  
Page
 

 Annual Financial Statements:
  




 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
85
  

 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of May 31, 2012 and 2011
  
 
87
  

 Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive (Loss) for the fiscal years ended May 
31, 2012, 2011 and 2010
  
 
88
  

 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the fiscal years ended May 
31, 2012, 2011 and 2010
  
 
90
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2012, 2011 and
2010
  
 
91
  

 Notes to Annual Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
93
  

 Financial Statement Schedules
All schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or not required.
  




  -84-



Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
National American University Holdings, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Rapid City, South Dakota  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
National American University Holdings, Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of May 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended May 31, 2012. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements
based on our audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company as of May 31, 2012 and 2011, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended May 31, 2012, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2012, based on the criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated August 3, 2012, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. 
 




 

 /s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP 

 Minneapolis, Minnesota
August 3, 2012

  -85-



Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
National American University Holdings, Inc. and subsidiaries  Rapid City, South Dakota  We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of
National American University Holdings, Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of May 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
included in the accompanying management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  A company’s internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company’s board of directors, management, and
other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America (“generally accepted accounting principles”). A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or
fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  In our opinion, the
Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2012, based on the criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended May 31, 2012, of the Company and our report dated August 3, 2012, expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial
statements.   




 

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

 Minneapolis, Minnesota
August 3, 2012

  -86-



Table of Contents
NATIONAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
AS OF MAY 31, 2012 AND 2011  (In thousands except per share data) 












 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 

 ASSETS
  



 




 CURRENT ASSETS:
  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
15,658
  
 
$
25,716
  

 Available for sale investments
  
 
14,917
  
 
 
19,085
  

 Student receivables — net of allowance of $759 and $223 at May 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively
  
 
2,804
  
 
 
2,010
  

 Other receivables
  
 
366
  
 
 
425
  

 Bookstore inventory
  
 
6
  
 
 
1,057
  

 Income tax receivable
  
 
974
  
 
 
1,260
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
1,914
  
 
 
1,723
  

 Prepaid and other current assets
  
 
613
  
 
 
559
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
37,252
  
 
 
51,835
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Property and Equipment - Net
  
 
40,496
  
 
 
21,265
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 OTHER ASSETS:
  



 




 Condominium inventory
  
 
2,667
  
 
 
2,664
  

 Land held for future development
  
 
312
  
 
 
312
  

 Course development — net of accumulated amortization of $1,715 and $1,415 at May 31, 2012 and 2011,
respectively
  
 
1,241
  
 
 
956
  

 Other
  
 
1,130
  
 
 
906
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
5,350
  
 
 
4,838
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  
$
83,098
  
 
$
77,938
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  



 




 CURRENT LIABILITIES:
  



 




 Current portion of capital lease payable
  
$
40
  
 
$
0
  

 Accounts payable
  
 
4,175
  
 
 
4,430
  

 Dividends payable
  
 
840
  
 
 
831
  

 Student accounts payable
  
 
659
  
 
 
400
  

 Deferred income
  
 
236
  
 
 
294
  

 Accrued and other liabilities
  
 
6,717
  
 
 
6,403
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
12,667
  
 
 
12,358
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 DEFERRED INCOME TAXES
  
 
5,098
  
 
 
2,827
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES
  
 
4,161
  
 
 
4,248
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CAPITAL LEASE PAYABLE, NET OF CURRENT PORTION
  
 
10,460
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Note 10)
  



 




 STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY:
  



 




 Common stock $0.0001 par value (50,000,000 authorized; 28,057,891 issued and 25,574,124 outstanding as of May 31, 2012;
27,546,499 issued and 26,546,499 outstanding as of May 31, 2011)
  
 
3
  
 
 
3
  

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
57,203
  
 
 
56,643
  

 Retained earnings
  
 
11,239
  
 
 
9,549
  

 Treasury stock, at cost (2,483,767 shares at May 31, 2012 and 1,000,000 shares at May 31, 2011)
  
 
(17,589
) 
 
 
(7,505
) 

 Accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes - unrealized gain on available for sale securities
  
 
25
  
 
 
72
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total National American University Holdings, Inc. stockholders’ equity
  
 
50,881
  
 
 
58,762
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to non-controlling interest
  
 
(169
) 
 
 
(257
) 

 Total equity
  
 
50,712
  
 
 
58,505
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  
$
83,098
  
 
$
77,938
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  -87-



Table of Contents
NATIONAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED MAY 31, 2012, 2011 AND 2010  (In thousands except per share data) 
















 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 REVENUE:
  



 



 




 Academic revenue
  
$
109,833
  
 
$
99,216
  
 
$
82,418
  

 Auxiliary revenue
  
 
7,992
  
 
 
6,153
  
 
 
5,528
  

 Rental income — apartments
  
 
1,069
  
 
 
990
  
 
 
918
  

 Condominium sales
  
 
0
  
 
 
449
  
 
 
932
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenue
  
 
118,894
  
 
 
106,808
  
 
 
89,796
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 OPERATING EXPENSES:
  



 



 




 Cost of educational services
  
 
27,831
  
 
 
22,575
  
 
 
20,419
  

 Selling, general and administrative
  
 
77,476
  
 
 
64,474
  
 
 
49,886
  

 Auxiliary expense
  
 
4,747
  
 
 
2,888
  
 
 
2,076
  

 Cost of condominium sales
  
 
0
  
 
 
381
  
 
 
761
  

 (Gain)/Loss on disposition of property
  
 
(320
) 
 
 
82
  
 
 
29
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
  
 
109,734
  
 
 
90,400
  
 
 
73,171
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 OPERATING INCOME
  
 
9,160
  
 
 
16,408
  
 
 
16,625
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE):
  



 



 




 Interest income
  
 
133
  
 
 
148
  
 
 
206
  

 Interest expense
  
 
(594
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(525
) 

 Other income — net
  
 
121
  
 
 
123
  
 
 
218
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other income (expense)
  
 
(340
) 
 
 
271
  
 
 
(101
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES
  
 
8,820
  
 
 
16,679
  
 
 
16,524
  






 INCOME TAX EXPENSE
  
 
(3,683
) 
 
 
(6,375
) 
 
 
(6,485
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCOME
  
 
5,137
  
 
 
10,304
  
 
 
10,039
  






 NET (INCOME) LOSS ATTRIBUTABLE TO NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST
  
 
(88
) 
 
 
(38
) 
 
 
(4
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO NATIONAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
  
 
5,049
  
 
 
10,266
  
 
 
10,035
  






 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) —
  



 



 




 Unrealized losses on investments, before tax
  
 
(74
) 
 
 
(37
) 
 
 
(19
) 

 Income tax benefit related to items of other comprehensive loss
  
 
27
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
6
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS, NET OF TAX
  
 
(47
) 
 
 
(24
) 
 
 
(13
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO NATIONAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY HOLDINGS, INC.
  
$
 5,002
  
 
$
 10,242
  
 
$
10,022
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

(continued) 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  -88-



Table of Contents
NATIONAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED MAY 31, 2012, 2011 AND 2010  (In thousands except per share data)   
















 
  
2012
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Basic EPS
  



  



  




 Class A
  



  



  




 Distributed earnings
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
135.89
  

 Undistributed earnings
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(40.64
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
95.25
  






 Common
  



  



  




 Distributed earnings
  
$
0.13
  
  
$
0.12
  
  
$
0.22
  

 Undistributed earnings
  
 
0.06
  
  
 
0.27
  
  
 
(0.26
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
0.19
  
  
$
0.39
  
  
$
(0.04
) 






 Diluted EPS
  



  



  




 Class A
  



  



  




 Distributed earnings
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
135.89
  

 Undistributed earnings
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(40.64
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
95.25
  






 Common
  



  



  




 Distributed earnings
  
$
0.13
  
  
$
0.12
  
  
$
0.22
  

 Undistributed earnings
  
 
0.06
  
  
 
0.26
  
  
 
(0.26
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
0.19
  
  
$
0.38
  
  
$
(0.04
) 






 Weighted Average Shares outstanding
  



  



  




 Basic EPS
  



  



  




 Class A
  



  
 
—  
  
  
 
100,000
  

 Common
  
 
26,488,265
  
  
 
26,236,783
  
  
 
3,103,847
  






 Diluted EPS
  



  



  




 Class A
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
100,000
  

 Common
  
 
26,638,427
  
  
 
26,836,039
  
  
 
3,103,959
  

(concluded) 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  -89-



Table of Contents
NATIONAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED MAY 31, 2012, 2011 AND 2010  (In thousands except per share data) 
































 
  
Equity attributable to National American University Holdings, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 

 
  
Commonstock
 
  
Additionalpaid-incapital
 
 
Retainedearnings
 
 
Accumulatedothercomprehensiveincome
 
 
Treasurystock
 
 
Equityattributableto non-controllinginterest
 
 
Totalstockholders’equity
 

 Balance—May 31, 2009
  
$
0
  
  
$
385
  
 
$
7,251
  
 
$
109
  
 
$
(1,869
) 
 
$
(984
) 
 
$
4,892
  

 Recapitalization of Dlorah, Inc.
  
 
1
  
  
 
22,508
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
22,509
  

 Retirement of treasury stock
  
 
0
  
  
 
(1,869
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,869
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Merger costs associated with reverse merger
  
 
0
  
  
 
(3,365
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(3,365
) 

 Contributed capital from non-controlling interest holders
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
685
  
 
 
685
  

 Share based compensation expense
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,507
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,507
  

 Conversion of Class A shares to common
  
 
1
  
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Dividends declared
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
(14,897
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(14,897
) 

 Net income
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
10,035
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
10,039
  

 Other comprehensive loss, net of tax
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(13
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(13
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance—May 31, 2010
  
$
2
  
  
$
19,165
  
 
$
2,389
  
 
$
96
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
(295
) 
 
$
21,357
  

 Issuance of 4,550,000 shares common stock net of issuance cost of $1,578
  
 
1
  
  
 
30,498
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
30,499
  

 Conversion of 1,068,387 warrants to 1,068,387 shares common stock
  
 
0
  
  
 
5,876
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
5,876
  

 Purchase of 1,000,000 shares common stock for the treasury
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(7,505
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(7,505
) 

 Share based compensation expense
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,104
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 



 
 
1,104
  

 Dividends declared
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
(3,106
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(3,106
) 

 Net income
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
10,266
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
38
  
 
 
10,304
  

 Other comprehensive loss, net of tax
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(24
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(24
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance—May 31, 2011
  
$
3
  
  
$
56,643
  
 
$
9,549
  
 
$
72
  
 
$
(7,505
) 
 
$
(257
) 
 
$
58,505
  

 Purchase of 1,468,873 shares common stock for the treasury
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(10,084
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(10,084
) 

 Share based compensation expense
  
 
0
  
  
 
560
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
560
  

 Dividends declared
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
(3,359
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(3,359
) 

 Net income
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
5,049
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
88
  
 
 
5,137
  

 Other comprehensive loss, net of tax
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(47
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(47
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance—May 31, 2012
  
$
3
  
  
$
57,203
  
 
$
 11,239
  
 
$
 25
  
 
$
(17,589
) 
 
$
(169
) 
 
$
 50,712
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  -90-



Table of Contents
NATIONAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED MAY 31, 2012, 2011 AND 2010  (In thousands except per share data)   
















 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
  



 



 




 Net income
  
$
5,137
  
 
$
10,304
  
 
$
10,039
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash flows provided by operating activities:
  



 



 




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
4,239
  
 
 
2,861
  
 
 
2,320
  

 (Gain) loss on disposition of property and equipment
  
 
(320
) 
 
 
81
  
 
 
(89
) 

 Provision for uncollectable tuition
  
 
4,204
  
 
 
3,350
  
 
 
2,355
  

 Noncash compensation expense
  
 
560
  
 
 
1,104
  
 
 
1,507
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
2,107
  
 
 
1,540
  
 
 
(453
) 

 Changes in assets and liabilities:
  



 



 




 Accounts and other receivables
  
 
(4,483
) 
 
 
(3,010
) 
 
 
(3,750
) 

 Student notes
  
 
(109
) 
 
 
(411
) 
 
 
(17
) 

 Bookstore inventory
  
 
1,051
  
 
 
(137
) 
 
 
(316
) 

 Prepaid and other current assets
  
 
(54
) 
 
 
262
  
 
 
(1,179
) 

 Condominium inventories
  
 
(3
) 
 
 
382
  
 
 
756
  

 Accounts payable
  
 
(142
) 
 
 
(665
) 
 
 
324
  

 Deferred income
  
 
(58
) 
 
 
(11
) 
 
 
(62
) 

 Other long-term liabilities
  
 
128
  
 
 
1,324
  
 
 
758
  

 Income tax receivable/payable
  
 
286
  
 
 
(1,491
) 
 
 
(320
) 

 Accrued and other liabilities
  
 
314
  
 
 
294
  
 
 
1,209
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash flows provided by operating activities
  
 
12,857
  
 
 
15,777
  
 
 
13,082
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
  



 



 




 Purchases of available for sale investments
  
 
(67,993
) 
 
 
(35,995
) 
 
 
(16,397
) 

 Proceeds from sale of available for sale investments
  
 
72,087
  
 
 
27,982
  
 
 
9,687
  

 Purchases of property and equipment
  
 
(13,205
) 
 
 
(6,659
) 
 
 
(4,671
) 

 Proceeds from sale of property and equipment
  
 
430
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
167
  

 Course development
  
 
(585
) 
 
 
(454
) 
 
 
(346
) 

 Other
  
 
(115
) 
 
 
(48
) 
 
 
(7
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash flows used in investing activities
  
 
(9,381
) 
 
 
(15,173
) 
 
 
(11,567
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
  



 



 




 Repayments of lines of credit
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(3,305
) 

 Repayments of long-term debt
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(8,654
) 

 Repayments of capital lease payable
  
 
(100
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Contributed capital by non-controlling interest members
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
685
  

 Cash paid for treasury stock
  
 
(10,084
) 
 
 
(7,505
) 
 
 
0
  

 Cash received for warrants
  
 
0
  
 
 
5,876
  
 
 
0
  

 Issuance of common stock
  
 
0
  
 
 
32,077
  
 
 
0
  

 Cash paid for stock issuance
  
 
0
  
 
 
(640
) 
 
 
0
  

 Cash received in reverse merger
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
22,092
  

 Cash paid for merger costs
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(3,365
) 

 Dividends paid
  
 
(3,350
) 
 
 
(13,391
) 
 
 
(3,781
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash flows (used in) provided by financing activities
  
 
(13,534
) 
 
 
16,417
  
 
 
3,672
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

(continued)  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  -91-



Table of Contents
NATIONAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED MAY 31, 2012, 2011 AND 2010  (In thousands except per share data)   
















 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
  
2010
 

 NET (DECREASE) INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
  
$
(10,058
) 
 
$
17,021
  
  
$
5,187
  






 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS — Beginning of year
  
 
25,716
  
 
 
8,695
  
  
 
3,508
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS — End of year
  
$
15,658
  
 
$
25,716
  
  
$
8,695
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW AND NON-CASH INFORMATION:
  



 



  




 Cash paid for income taxes
  
$
1,289
  
 
$
6,308
  
  
$
7,884
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Cash paid for interest
  
$
510
  
 
$
0
  
  
$
554
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Tenant improvements paid by lessor
  
$
0
  
 
$
1,271
  
  
$
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Capital lease additions
  
$
10,600
  
 
$
0
  
  
$
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Dividends declared at May 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010
  
$
840
  
 
$
831
  
  
$
11,116
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

(concluded)  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  -92-



Table of Contents
NATIONAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  AS OF AND FOR THE
YEARS ENDED MAY 31, 2012, 2011 AND 2010  (Dollar amounts, except per share, in thousands) 
1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
Nature of Operations – National American University Holdings, Inc., formerly known as Camden Learning
Corporation (the “Company”), was incorporated in the State of Delaware on April 10, 2007. The Company was a special purpose acquisition company formed to serve as a vehicle for the acquisition of an operating business. On
November 23, 2009, Dlorah, Inc., a South Dakota corporation (“Dlorah”), became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (the “Transaction”), pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Reorganization between the Company and Dlorah.
In connection with the Transaction, the stockholders of Dlorah received approximately 77% of the equity of the Company, and Dlorah was deemed to be the acquirer for accounting purposes. The Transaction has been accounted for as a reverse merger
accompanied by a recapitalization. As a result of the Transaction, the historical results of Dlorah became the historical results of the Company.  The Company’s common stock is listed on The Nasdaq Global Market. The Company owns and operates National American University (“NAU” or the “university”). NAU is a regionally
accredited, proprietary, multi-campus institution of higher learning, offering associate, bachelor’s and master’s degree programs in business-related disciplines, such as accounting, applied management, business administration and
information technology, and in healthcare-related disciplines, such as nursing and healthcare management. Courses are offered through educational sites, as well as online via the Internet. Operations include 35 educational sites (two of which are
pending accreditation and/or regulatory approvals) located in Colorado, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota and Texas, distance learning service centers in Indiana, Missouri, New Jersey and Texas, and
distance learning operations and central administration offices located in Rapid City, South Dakota. A substantial portion of NAU’s academic income is dependent upon federal student financial aid programs, employer tuition assistance, online
learning programs and contracts to provide instruction and course materials to other educational institutions. To maintain eligibility for financial aid programs, NAU must comply with Department of Education requirements, which include, among other
items, the maintenance of certain financial ratios.  The Company, through its Fairway Hills real estate division, also manages
apartment units and develops and sells multi-family residential real estate in the Rapid City, South Dakota area. 
Approximately 92%, 93% and 92% of the Company’s total revenues for the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively
were derived from NAU’s academic revenue.  Statement Presentation and Basis of Consolidation - The
accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”). Throughout the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, amounts in tables are in thousands of dollars except for per share data as otherwise designated. The Company’s fiscal year end is May 31. The Company consolidates the accounts of all wholly owned divisions, including NAU,
the Fairway Hills Park and Recreational Association, the Park West Owners’ Association, the Vista Park Owners’ Association, and the Company’s interest in Fairway Hills Section III Partnership (the “Partnership”). The
Partnership is 50% owned by the Company and 50% owned by individual family members, most of whom are also either direct or indirect stockholders of the Company. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in
consolidation. 
  -93-



Table of Contents
The Partnership is deemed to be a variable interest entity (“VIE”) under Financial
Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 810-10, Consolidation. The Company determines whether it is the primary beneficiary of an entity subject to consolidation based on a
qualitative assessment of the purpose and design of the VIE, the risks that the VIE were designed to create and pass along to other entities, the activities of the VIE that could be directed and which entity could direct them, and the expected
relative impact of those activities on the economic performance of the VIE. We assess our VIE determination with respect to an entity on an ongoing basis. We have not identified any additional VIEs in which we hold a significant interest.
 The Company has determined that the Partnership qualifies as a VIE and that the Company is the primary beneficiary of the
Partnership. Accordingly, the Company consolidated assets, liabilities, and net income of the Partnership within its consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations. As of May 31, 2012 and 2011, the consolidated balance sheets include
Partnership assets of $891 and $1,001, respectively, and Partnership liabilities of $109 and $59, respectively. The consolidated statements of operations include Partnership net income of $176, $76, and $8 for the years ended May 31 2012, 2011
and 2010, respectively.  Use of Estimates — The preparation of financial statements in conformity with the
United States generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts and disclosures reported in the financial statements. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates the estimates and
assumptions, including those related to bad debts, income taxes, and certain accruals. Actual results could differ from those estimates.  Cash and Cash Equivalents — The Company considers all highly liquid debt instruments with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Cash is held in bank accounts
that periodically exceed insured limits; however, no losses have occurred, and the Company feels the risk of loss is not significant.  Investments — The Company’s investments consist of government-backed bonds and certificates of deposit. These securities are classified as “available-for-sale.”
Available-for-sale securities represent securities carried at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets. Unrealized gains and losses deemed to be temporary are reported net of taxes and included in other comprehensive income within
stockholders’ equity. Realized gains and losses and declines in value deemed to be other-than-temporary on available-for-sale securities are included in other income – net in the consolidated statements of operations. Fair value of the
securities is based upon quoted market prices in active markets or estimated fair value when quoted market prices are not available. The cost basis for realized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities is determined on a specific
identification basis. There were no realized gains or losses on sales of investments for each of the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.  The Company’s investments were comprised of the following at May 31:   




































 
  
2012
 
  
2011
 

 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
GrossUnrealizedHoldingGains
 
  
GrossUnrealizedHoldingLosses
 
  
FairValue
 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
GrossUnrealizedHoldingGains
 
  
GrossUnrealizedHoldingLosses
 
 
FairValue
 

 U.S. Treasury debt securities
  
$
14,215
  
  
$
40
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
14,255
  
  
$
18,211
  
  
$
115
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
18,326
  

 Certificates of deposit
  
 
662
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
662
  
  
 
659
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
659
  

 Other debt securities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
101
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
100
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
14,877
  
  
$
40
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
14,917
  
  
$
18,971
  
  
$
115
  
  
$
(1
) 
 
$
19,085
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  -94-



Table of Contents
As of May 31, 2012, the Company’s investment maturity dates are as follows: 
 
























 
  
 
 
  
Gross
 
  
Gross
 
  
Gross
 
  
 
 

 
  
 
 
  
Unrealized
 
  
Unrealized
 
  
Unrealized
 
  
 
 

 
  
Amortized
 
  
Holding
 
  
Holding Losses
 
  
Holding Losses
 
  
Fair
 

 
  
Cost
 
  
Gains
 
  
< 1 Year
 
  
> 1 Year
 
  
Value
 

 Less than one year
  
$
14,568
  
  
$
20
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
14,588
  

 One to five years
  
 
309
  
  
 
20
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
329
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
14,877
  
  
$
40
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
14,917
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Declines in the fair value of individual securities classified as available-for-sale below their amortized
cost that are determined to be other than temporary result in write-downs of the individual securities to their fair value, with the resulting write-downs included in current earnings as realized losses. Unrealized losses that may occur are
generally due to changes in interest rates and, as such, are considered by the Company to be temporary. Management evaluates securities for other-than-temporary impairment on at least a quarterly basis, and more frequently when economic or market
concerns warrant such evaluation. Consideration is given to (1) length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, (2) the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and (3) the intent and
ability of the Company to retain its investments in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value.  Student Receivables — Student receivables are recorded at estimated net realizable value and are revised periodically based on estimated future collections. Interest and service charges
are applied to all past due student receivables; however, collections are first applied to principal balances until such time that the entire principal balance has been received. Student accounts are charged off only when reasonable collection means
are exhausted. The university has determined that most accounts with an outstanding balance of 180 days after the start of the term are uncollectable. Bad debt expense is included in cost of educational services on the consolidated statements
of operations.  Other Receivables — Other receivables consist of institutional, which are amounts due from
other educational institutions to which the university provides instruction and course materials, and are stated at net realizable value.  Bookstore Inventory — The bookstore operations have been outsourced to a third-party provider during the current year. In prior years, the inventories consisted mainly of textbooks and
supplies. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined by the first-in, first-out method. 
Property and Equipment — Property and equipment are stated at cost. Renewals and improvements are capitalized, while
repairs and maintenance are expensed when incurred. Upon the retirement, sale or disposition of assets, costs and related accumulated depreciation are eliminated from the accounts and any gain or loss is reflected in operating income. For financial
statement purposes, depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives and includes the depreciation of the capital lease obligation in the amount of $309. The total depreciation expense was $4,239,
$2,861 and $2,320 for fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010 respectively.   








 
  
Years
 

 Buildings and building improvements
  
 
19–40
  

 Land improvements
  
 
10–20
  

 Furniture, vehicles, and equipment
  
 
5–15
  
 For tax purposes, depreciation is computed using the straight-line and accelerated methods. 
  -95-



Table of Contents
Property and equipment — net consists of the following as of May 31 (in
thousands):   












 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 

 Land
  
$
659
  
 
$
718
  

 Land improvements
  
 
374
  
 
 
374
  

 Buildings and building improvements
  
 
40,268
  
 
 
22,259
  

 Furniture, vehicles, and equipment
  
 
23,664
  
 
 
19,018
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total gross property and equipment
  
 
64,965
  
 
 
42,369
  

 Less accumulated depreciation
  
 
(24,469
) 
 
 
(21,104
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net property and equipment
  
$
40,496
  
 
$
21,265
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Capitalized Course Development Costs — The university internally develops curriculum and
electronic instructional materials for certain courses. The curriculum is primarily developed by employees and contractors. The curriculum is integral to the learning system. Customers do not acquire the curriculum or future rights to it.
 The Company capitalizes course development costs. Costs that qualify for capitalization are external direct costs, payroll,
and payroll-related costs. Costs related to general and administrative functions are not capitalizable and are expensed as incurred. Capitalization ends at such time that the course and/or material is available for general use by faculty and
students. After becoming available for general use, the costs are amortized on a course-by-course basis over a period of three to five years. After the amortization period commences, the cost of maintenance and support is expensed as incurred. If it
is determined that the curriculum will not be used, the capitalized curriculum costs are written off and expensed in the period of this determination.  Impairment of Long-Lived Assets — Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment when circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. For assets that are to
be held and used, an impairment loss is recognized when the estimated undiscounted cash flows associated with the asset or group of assets is less than their carrying value. If impairment exists, an adjustment is made to write the asset down to its
fair value, and a loss is recorded as the difference between the carrying value and fair value. Fair values are determined based on quoted market values, discounted cash flows, or internal and external appraisals, as applicable. Assets to be held
for sale are carried at the lower of carrying value or fair value, less cost to sell. The Company had no impairments in 2012, 2011, or 2010.  Condominium Inventory — Condominium inventory is stated at cost (including capitalized interest). Condominium construction costs are accumulated on a specific identification basis. Under
the specific identification basis, cost of revenues includes all applicable land acquisition, land development and specific construction costs (including direct and indirect costs) of each condominium paid to third parties. Land acquisition, land
development and condominium construction costs do not include employee related benefit costs. The specific construction and allocated land costs of each condominium, including models, are included in direct construction. Allocated land acquisition
and development costs are estimated based on the total costs expected in a project. Direct construction also includes amounts paid through the closing date of the condominium for construction materials and contractor costs. Condominium inventory is
recorded as a long term asset due to the normal operating cycle being greater than one year.  Deferred Income
Taxes — Deferred income taxes are provided using the asset and liability method whereby deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences. Temporary differences are the differences
between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. 
  -96-



Table of Contents
Non-Controlling Interest — The non-controlling interest presented on the
consolidated statements of operations represents the individual owners’ share of the Partnership’s income or loss. The consolidated balance sheet amount “Non-controlling interest” represents the individual owners’ share of
the Partnership obligations in excess of Partnership assets. The Company has determined the non-controlling owners to have a legal obligation to fund such deficits and believes it is fully collectable at May 31, 2012. 
Academic Revenue Recognition — Academic revenue represents tuition revenue and the revenue generated through affiliate
relationships. Tuition revenue and affiliate revenue is recorded ratably over the length of respective courses. Academic revenue also includes certain fees and charges assessed at the start of each term. The portion of tuition and registration fees
payments received but not earned is recorded as student accounts payable and reflected as a current liability on the consolidated balance sheets, as such amount represents revenue that the Company expects to earn within the next year. Academic
revenue is reported net of adjustments for refunds and scholarships. If a student withdraws prior to the completion of the academic term, students are refunded the portion of tuition and registration fees already paid, that pursuant to the
Company’s refund policy and applicable federal and state law and accrediting agency standards, the Company is not entitled to. Refunds and scholarships are recorded during the respective terms. 
Auxiliary Revenue — Auxiliary revenue represents revenues from the university’s food service, bookstore, and
dormitory operations. Revenue is recognized as items are sold and services are performed.  Rental Income —
Rental income is primarily obtained from tenants of three apartment complexes under short-term operating leases. Tenants are required to pay rent on a monthly basis. Rent not paid by the end of the month is considered past due, while rent paid in
advance is included in deferred income on the consolidated balance sheets. If a tenant becomes 60 days past due, eviction procedures are started.  Rental Expense — The university accounts for rent expense under its long-term operating leases using the straight-line method. Certain of the university’s operating leases contain
rent escalator provisions. Accordingly, a $4,161 and $4,248, deferred rent and tenant improvement liability at May 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, is recorded in other long-term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. 
Advertising — The university follows the policy of expensing the cost of advertising as incurred. Advertising costs of
$16,000, $10,521 and $7,614 for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, are included in selling, general, and administrative expenses on the consolidated statements of operations.  Business Expansion and Development — The university continues to commit resources to the development of new branch campuses and new programs, as well as the expansion of existing programs
into new markets. During the year ended May 31, 2012, the university opened new educational sites in Burnsville, Minnesota; Lewisville, Texas; Mesquite, Texas; and Austin, Texas; The university also continued to develop and expand distance
learning programs, including opening service centers in Secaucus, New Jersey; Georgetown, Texas; Houston, Texas; Weldon Spring, Missouri; Rochester, Minnesota; and Indianapolis, Indiana. Business expansion and development costs include salaries,
marketing and advertising, and other third-party expenses incurred to support such development and expansion. The amounts are included in selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of operations and totaled $22,784,
$14,326 and $6,529 in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
  -97-



Table of Contents
2. EARNINGS PER SHARE 
Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is computed by dividing net income attributable to National American
University Holdings, Inc. by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the applicable period. Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential dilution that could occur assuming vesting, conversion or exercise of all
dilutive unexercised options, warrants and restricted stock. As described in Note 9, the Company had one class of common stock outstanding as of May 31, 2012 and 2011. The class A stock was converted to common stock on May 27, 2010; and,
due to the limited number of days between the conversion and the end of the year, the Company utilized the two class method to calculate and report earnings per share for each class of stock for 2010. For purposes of calculating basic and diluted
earnings per share, undistributed earnings are allocated to the Class A stock and common stock based on the proportion of weighted average outstanding shares of each class of stock for the year ending May 31, 2010. 
The following is a reconciliation of the numerator and denominator for the basic and diluted EPS computations: 
 
















 
  
For the year
 

 
  
ended May 31,
 

 
  
2012
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Numerator:
  



  



  




 Net income attributable to National American University Holdings, Inc.
  
$
5,049,000
  
  
$
10,266,272
  
  
$
10,035,000
  

 Distributed earnings (DE)
  
 
3,368,411
  
  
 
3,106,138
  
  
 
14,900,751
  

 Undistributed earnings (UE)
  
 
1,680,589
  
  
 
7,160,134
  
  
 
(4,865,751
) 






 UE attributable to Class A
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(4,063,868
) 

 UE attributable to Common
  
 
1,680,589
  
  
 
7,160,134
  
  
 
(801,883
) 

 DE attributable to Class A
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
13,588,792
  

 DE attributable to Common
  
 
3,368,411
  
  
 
3,106,138
  
  
 
1,311,959
  






 Denominator:
  



  



  




 Class A shares
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
100,000
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Weighted average shares outstanding used to compute basic net income per common share
  
 
26,488,265
  
  
 
26,236,783
  
  
 
3,103,847
  

 Incremental shares issuable upon the assumed exercise of stock options
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Incremental shares issuable upon the assumed exercise of restricted shares
  
 
47,547
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
112
  

 Incremental shares issuable upon the assumed exercise of warrants
  
 
102,615
  
  
 
599,256
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Common shares used to compute diluted net income per share
  
 
26,638,427
  
  
 
26,836,039
  
  
 
3,103,959
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Basic net income per Class A share
  



  
 
—  
  
  
$
95.25
  

 Basic net income per common share
  
$
0.19
  
  
 
0.39
  
  
 
(0.04
) 






 Diluted net income per Class A share
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
95.25
  

 Diluted net income per common share
  
$
0.19
  
  
 
0.38
  
  
$
(0.04
) 
 A total of 223,950 and 121,750 shares of common stock subject to issuance upon exercise of stock options
for the years ended May 31, 2012 and 2011 respectively, have been excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS as the effect would have been anti-dilutive.  A total of 2,800,000 shares of common stock subject to issuance upon exercise of warrants for the year ended May 31, 2010 have been excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS as the effect would
have been anti-dilutive. 
  -98-



Table of Contents
3. RECENTLY ADOPTED AND NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 
In January 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2010-06, Fair Value Measurement and Disclosures
(Topic 820): Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements. This guidance provides for the following new required disclosures related to fair value measurements: 1) the amounts of and reasons for significant transfers in and out of level 1
and level 2 inputs and 2) separate presentation of purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a gross basis rather than as one net number for level three reconciliations. The guidance also clarifies existing disclosures as follows: 1) provide
fair value measurement disclosures for each class of assets and liabilities and 2) provide disclosures about the valuation techniques and inputs used for both recurring and nonrecurring level 2 or level 3 inputs. The new disclosures and
clarifications of existing disclosures were effective for the Company’s fourth quarter ended May 31, 2010. Disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the roll forward of activity for level 3 fair value measurements
were effective for the Company’s first quarter ended August 31, 2011. The Company has adopted this standard, but it did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-04, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and
Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs. The new guidance is intended to create a consistent definition of fair value and common requirements for measurement of and disclosure about fair value between U.S. GAAP and International Financial
Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). The amendments provide clarification on the application of certain existing fair value measurement guidance and enhance disclosure requirements, including the disclosure of all transfers between Level 1 and
Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy and expanded quantitative and qualitative disclosures for fair value measurements that are estimated using significant unobservable (Level three) inputs. The Company adopted this standard in the fourth quarter
ended May 31, 2012, but it did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  In
June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income, which requires comprehensive income to be reported in either a single statement or in two consecutive statements
reporting net income and other comprehensive income. The amendment does not change what items are reported in other comprehensive income or the U.S. GAAP requirement to report reclassification of items from other comprehensive income to net income.
In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-12, Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update
No. 2011-05, which defers the requirement within ASU 2011-05 to present on the face of the financial statements the effects of reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income on the components of net income and other
comprehensive income for all periods presented. During the deferral, entities should continue to report reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income consistent with the presentation requirements in effect prior to the issuance of
ASU 2011-05. These standards will be effective for the Company’s fiscal quarter ending August 31, 2012 with retrospective application required. As these standards impact presentation requirements only, the adoption of this guidance is not
expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements 
  -99-



Table of Contents
4. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS 
The university extends unsecured credit to a portion of the students who are enrolled throughout the campuses for
tuition and other educational costs. A substantial portion of credit extended to students is repaid through the students’ participation in various federal financial aid programs authorized by Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965,
as amended (the “Higher Education Act”). The university is required under 34 CFR 600.5(d) to maintain at least 10% of its revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from non-Title IV program funds. The university believes they
are in compliance with this requirement for the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, as shown in the underlying calculation:   




























 
  
2012
 
  
 
 
 
2011
 
  
 
 
 
2010
 
  
 
 

 Title IV HEA funds received
  
$
89,390
  
  



 
$
78,388
  
  



 
$
58,251
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  




 Academic revenue (cash basis)
  
$
105,577
  
  
 
=84.67
% 
 
$
99,393
  
  
 
=78.87
% 
 
$
76,546
  
  
 
=76.10
% 
 To participate in Title IV Programs, an educational institution must be authorized to offer its
programs of instruction by relevant state education agencies, be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by the U.S. Department of Education (the “Department of Education”), and be certified as an eligible institution by the
Department of Education. For this reason, educational institutions are subject to extensive regulatory requirements imposed by all of these entities. After an educational institution receives the required certifications by the appropriate entities,
the educational institution must demonstrate compliance with the Department of Education’s regulation pertaining to Title IV programs on an ongoing basis. Included in these regulations is the requirement that the Company must satisfy
specific standards of financial responsibility. The Department of Education evaluates educational institutions for compliance with these standards each year, based upon an educational institution’s annual audited financial statements, as well
as following any changes in ownership. Under regulations which took effect July 1, 1998, the Department of Education calculates an educational institution’s composite score for financial responsibility based on its (i) equity ratio,
which measures the educational institution’s capital resources, ability to borrow and financial viability; (ii) primary reserve ratio, which measures the educational institution’s ability to support current operations from expendable
resources; and (iii) net income ratio, which measures the educational institution’s ability to operate at a profit. This composite score can range from -1 to +3.  An institution that does not meet the Department of Education’s minimum composite score requirements of 1.5 may establish its financial responsibility by posting a letter of credit or complying with
additional monitoring procedures as defined by the Department of Education. Based on the consolidated financial statements for the 2012, 2011 and 2010 fiscal years, the university’s calculations result in a composite score of 2.7, 3.0, and 2.4,
respectively. Therefore the University currently meets the minimum composite score requirement as most recently required by the Department of Education. 
5. LINES OF CREDIT 
During the second quarter 2012, the university entered into a $3,000 unsecured revolving line of credit with Great
Western Bank that matured on May 31, 2012 Advances under the line bear interest at prime (3.25% at May 31, 2012). No advances had been made on this line of credit at any time during the year ended May 31, 2012. 
The university maintained a $3,000 line of credit with Wells Fargo Bank that matured in June 2011. Advances under the line bore interest
at a variable rate based on prime and were secured by checking, savings, and investment accounts held by Wells Fargo Bank. No advances had been made on this line of credit at any time during the year ended May 31, 2011. 
  -100-



Table of Contents
During 2009, the Company utilized a line of credit with Great Western Bank to fund the
construction of a new building (see Note 13). The line of credit was paid in full and closed during the year ended May 31, 2010. 
6. LEASES 
The university leases building facilities for branch operations and equipment for classroom operations under operating
leases with various terms and conditions. Total rent expense for the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, was $5,032, $4,481 and $3,752, respectively.  Future minimum lease payments on non-cancelable operating leases for the five years ending May 31 are as follows (in thousands): 
 








 2013
  
$
5,046
  

 2014
  
 
5,082
  

 2015
  
 
5,062
  

 2016
  
 
4,924
  

 2017
  
 
4,648
  

 Thereafter
  
 
20,526
  
 As part of ongoing operations, the Company entered into an arrangement for additional space that will
house the Corporate headquarters, distance learning operations, and the Rapid City campus operations. The Company is obligated to make future payments under a capital lease obligation, which totaled $25.1 million, had a net present value of $10.5
million as of May 31, 2012, and was recognized as current and non-current capital lease payable of $0.1 and $10.4 respectively. The asset is included in net property and equipment in the consolidated balance sheet. 
The following is a schedule of future minimum commitments for the capital lease as of May 31, 2012: 
 








 2013
  
$
 1,050
  

 2014
  
 
1,071
  

 2015
  
 
1,092
  

 2016
  
 
1,115
  

 2017
  
 
1,137
  

 Thereafter
  
 
19,151
  


  
  
  
 

 Total future minimum lease obligation
  
$
24,616
  

 Less: Imputed interest on capital leases
  
 
(14,116
) 


  
  
  
 

 Net present value of lease obligations
  
$
10,500
  


  
  
  
 

  -101-



Table of Contents
7. INCOME TAXES 
Components of the provision for income taxes for the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, were as follows:
  
















 
  
2012
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Current tax expense:
  



  



  




 Federal
  
$
1,065
  
  
$
4,189
  
  
$
6,116
  

 State
  
 
511
  
  
 
647
  
  
 
780
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
1,576
  
  
 
4,836
  
  
 
6,896
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Deferred tax expense (benefit):
  



  



  




 Federal
  
 
2,020
  
  
 
1,434
  
  
 
(382
) 

 State
  
 
87
  
  
 
105
  
  
 
(29
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
2,107
  
  
 
1,539
  
  
 
(411
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total tax expense
  
$
3,683
  
  
$
6,375
  
  
$
6,485
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The effective tax rate varies from the statutory federal income tax rate for the following reasons:
  
















 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Statutory
  
 
34.0
% 
 
 
34.0
% 
 
 
34.0
% 

 State income taxes — net of federal benefit
  
 
3.5
  
 
 
3.2
  
 
 
3.0
  

 Permanent differences and other
  
 
4.7
  
 
 
1.0
  
 
 
2.3
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effective income tax rate
  
 
42.2
% 
 
 
38.2
% 
 
 
39.3
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  -102-



Table of Contents
Deferred income taxes reflect the tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of the Company’s deferred assets (liabilities) as of May 31 were as follows: 
 












 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 

 Deferred income tax assets:
  



 




 Account receivable allowances
  
$
308
  
 
$
104
  

 Bad debt write-offs
  
 
1,082
  
 
 
1,056
  

 Other
  
 
265
  
 
 
133
  

 Accrued salaries
  
 
657
  
 
 
760
  

 Start up costs
  
 
363
  
 
 
382
  

 Capital lease obligation
  
 
3,938
  
 
 
—  
  

 Deferred rent
  
 
1,560
  
 
 
1,550
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred income tax assets
  
 
8,173
  
 
 
3,985
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred income tax liabilities:
  



 




 Fixed assets and course development
  
 
(11,121
) 
 
 
(4,838
) 

 Prepaid expenses
  
 
(221
) 
 
 
(209
) 

 Other
  
 
(15
) 
 
 
(42
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred income tax liabilities
  
 
(11,357
) 
 
 
(5,089
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred income tax assets (liabilities)
  
$
(3,184
) 
 
$
(1,104
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The Company follows guidance of ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes, formerly FIN No. 48,
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes – an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, which requires that income tax positions must be more likely than not to be sustained based solely on their technical merits in order to be
recognized. The Company has recorded no liability for uncertain tax positions. The Company has elected to record interest and penalties from unrecognized tax benefits in the tax provision. 
The Company files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various states. Because of closure of an Internal Revenue
Service examination, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal income tax examinations for years before 2010 and, generally, is no longer subject to state and local income tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 2006. 
8. EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION PLANS 
Employee Benefit Plan Payable — The Company sponsors a 401(k) plan for its university employees,
which provides for a discretionary match, net of forfeitures, of up to 5%. The university uses certain consistently applied operating ratios to determine contributions. The university’s contributions were $601, $555 and $447 for the years ended
May 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Compensation Plans — The Company had entered into an
employment agreement dated January 3, 2005, as amended to date, with Robert Buckingham, an executive officer of the Company. The agreement required, among other things, an annual incentive payment of 10% of the Company’s annual income as
defined in the agreement, which was paid out annually. For the year ended May 31, 2010, the Company recorded $793 as an expense in selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of operations. Furthermore, the
agreement provided for a deferred compensation payment payable upon retirement or death equal to one year’s salary. 
  -103-



Table of Contents
On March 19, 2010, the Company entered into a Termination of Employment Agreement and
Release Agreement (the “Termination Agreement”). Under the Termination Agreement, the parties terminated the Employment Agreement, which contained the terms and conditions of Mr. Buckingham’s employment with the Company as an
executive officer of the Company, and which was filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K on November 30, 2009.  The Company has also entered into employment agreements with Dr. Ronald Shape, Chief Executive Officer and Dr. Jerry Gallentine, President, that require, among other things, an annual incentive
payment as defined in the agreements. The incentive payments are paid in installments each year, are recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses and accrued other liabilities in the consolidated financial statements, and total $0.0,
$634 and $749 for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  On May 2, 2011, the Company approved a Chief Executive Officer
Compensation Plan and a Cabinet Level Officer Compensation Plan, in connection with establishing the overall compensation levels for the executive management team of the Company for the 2012 fiscal year. Each compensation plan has a base salary
component, quarterly achievement award component and an annual achievement award component as defined in the agreements. A similar Senior Executive Level Officer Compensation Plan was announced on May 21, 2012 for the 2013 fiscal year.

9. STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
The authorized capital stock for the Company is 51,000,000, consisting of (i) 50,000,000 shares of common
stock, par value $0.0001 and (ii) 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001, and (iii) 100,000 shares of class A common stock, par value $0.0001. All shares of class A common stock were converted to common stock during the
year ended May 31, 2010 at a rate of 157.3 shares of common stock for each share of class A common stock.  Of the
authorized shares, 25,574,124 and 26,546,499 shares of common stock were outstanding as of May 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. No shares of preferred stock were outstanding. 
On January 31, 2011, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional 1,000,000 shares, not to
exceed $10,000, of the Company’s outstanding common stock in open market or privately negotiated transactions. The Board determined, among other things, that the repurchase program would offset dilution from the exercise of existing warrants to
purchase shares of common stock. During the third quarter fiscal 2011, the Company repurchased 1,000,000 shares for $7,505. No remaining shares are authorized to be repurchased under this directive. 
On November 4, 2011, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $10,000 of its outstanding common stock
in open market or privately negotiated transactions. The timing and actual number of shares purchased depends on a variety of factors such as price, corporate and regulatory requirements, and other prevailing market conditions. During the year ended
May 31, 2012, 1,468,873 shares were repurchased for $10,000. No remaining shares are authorized to be repurchased under this directive.  During the year ended May 31, 2010, the Company filed a registration statement on Form S-1 with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the offer and sale of up to 7,000,000 shares of its common
stock (half coming from selling stockholders), plus 1,050,000 shares to cover over-allotment. The sale of 7,000,000 shares closed on June 1, 2010, and the sale of the 1,050,000 over-allotment shares closed on June 5, 2010. Also, in
connection with the Transaction, the former Dlorah stockholders were issued, in the aggregate, warrants to purchase up to 2,800,000 shares of common stock at $5.50 per share that would have expired if not converted by November 23, 2011. These
warrants contained a cashless exercise feature. In fiscal 2011, 1,283,753 warrants were converted into 1,123,846 shares of common stock. In fiscal 2012, 1,516,247 warrants were converted into 510,920 shares of common stock via the cashless exercise
feature. All warrants were converted by November 23, 2011, and no remaining warrants are outstanding. 
  -104-



Table of Contents
Stock-Based Compensation 
In December 2009, the Company adopted the 2009 Stock Option and Compensation Plan (the “Plan”) pursuant to which the Company may
grant restricted stock awards, restricted stock units and stock options to aid in recruiting and retaining employees, officers, directors and other consultants. Restricted stock awards accrue dividends that are paid when the shares vest. Restricted
stock unit awards do not accrue dividends prior to vesting. Grants are issued at prices determined by the compensation committee, generally equal to the closing price of the stock on the date of the grant, vest over various terms (generally three
years), and expire ten years from the date of the grant. The Plan allows vesting based upon performance criteria. Certain option and share awards provide for accelerated vesting if there is a change in control of the Company (as defined in the
Plan). The fair value of stock options granted is calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Share options issued under the Plan may be incentive stock options or nonqualified stock options. At May 31, 2012, all stock options
issued have been nonqualified stock options. A total of 1,300,000 shares were authorized by the Plan. Shares forfeited or canceled are eligible for reissuance under the Plan. At May 31, 2012, 800,114 shares of common stock remain available for
issuance under the Plan.  Restricted stock  The fair value of restricted stock awards was calculated using the Company’s stock price as of the associated grant date, and the expense is accrued ratably over the vesting period of the award.
 During the quarter ended August 31, 2010, the Company granted 53,000 restricted stock units (“RSUs”) with a
grant date fair value of $5.52 per share; these shares vested May 31, 2011 based on the Company’s profitability. In connection with the vesting and issuance of restricted stock units to employees, the Company repurchased 14,894 shares at a
total cost of $143 to facilitate payment of the employees’ tax liability associated with the award.  During the quarter
ended August 31, 2011, the Company issued 41,500 RSUs with performance based vesting at a grant date fair value of $10.59 per share. The number of shares earned was determined by the Company’s profitability during the year ended
May 31, 2012. The performance criteria required for vesting of these RSUs was not attained resulting in the cancelation of all these awards and no expense was recorded.  During the quarter ended August 31, 2011, the Company also awarded 1,888 restricted stock awards with time based vesting at a grant date fair value of $10.59 per share to the members of the board of
directors. Shares vest one year from the grant date and require board service for the entire year. The award agreement calls for acceleration of vesting upon the holder’s death; 472 shares vested in 2012 due to the death of Mr. Yelick.
 Compensation expenses associated with restricted stock awards and restricted stock unit awards, respectively, totaled $237 and
$0 for the year ended May 31, 2012, $607 and $293 for the year ended May 31, 2011, and $1,507 and $0 for the year ended May 31, 2010. In addition, federal and state payroll taxes totaling $140, $275, and $600 related to these awards
were also included in compensation expense for the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. At May 31 2012, unamortized compensation cost of restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards totaled $3. The unamortized cost
is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 0.2 years as of May 31, 2012. 
  -105-



Table of Contents
A summary of restricted shares activity under the Plan as of and for the years ended
May 31, 2012 and 2011 is presented below:   












 Restricted Shares
  
Shares
 
 
Weighted AverageGrant Date FairValue
 

 Non-vested shares at May 31, 2010
  
 
110,333
  
 
$
8.64
  

 Granted
  
 
53,000
  
 
 
5.52
  

 Vested
  
 
(109,167
) 
 
 
7.14
  

 Forfeited
  
 
—  
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Non-vested shares at May 31, 2011
  
 
54,166
  
 
 
8.62
  





 Granted
  
 
43,388
  
 
 
10.59
  

 Vested
  
 
(54,638
) 
 
 
8.63
  

 Forfeited
  
 
(41,500
) 
 
 
10.59
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Non-vested shares at May 31, 2012
  
 
1,416
  
 
$
10.59
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Stock options  The Company accounts for stock option-based compensation by estimating the fair value of options granted using a Black-Scholes option valuation model. The Company recognizes the expense for grants of
stock options on a straight-line basis in the statement of operations as operating expense based on their fair value over the requisite service period.  For stock options issued during the years ended May 31, 2012 and 2011, the following assumptions were used to determine fair value: 
 










Assumptions used:
  
May 31, 2012
 
 
May 31, 2011

 Expected term (in years)
  
 
6.00
  
 
5.75

 Expected volatility
  
 
50.00
% 
 
45.59%

 Weighted average risk free interest rate
  
 
1.22
% 
 
0.46%

 Weighted average risk free interest rate range
  
 
1.22
% 
 
0.13%-0.50%

 Weighted average expected dividend
  
 
1.13
% 
 
1.24%

 Weighted average expected dividend range
  
 
1.13
% 
 
1.20%-1.60%

 Weighted average fair value
  
$
4.56
  
 
$3.44
 Expected volatilities are based on historic volatilities from traded shares of a selected publicly traded
peer group. The Company has limited historical data to estimate forfeitures. The expected term of options granted is the safe harbor period. The risk-free interest rate for periods matching the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S.
Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. Expected dividend is based on the historic dividend of the company. 
  -106-



Table of Contents
A summary of option activity under the Plan as of May 31, 2012 and 2011, and changes
during the years then ended is presented below:   




















 Stock Options
  
Shares
 
 
WeightedAverageExercisePrice
 
  
Weighted AverageRemainingContractual Life(Years)
 
  
AggregateIntrinsicValue
 

 Outstanding at May 31, 2010
  
 
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
  



  




 Granted
  
 
121,750
  
 
 
9.17
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  



  




 Forfeited or canceled
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  



  




 Outstanding at May 31, 2011
  
 
121,750
  
 
$
9.17
  
  
 
9.1
  
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Exercisable at May 31, 2011
  
 
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Outstanding at May 31, 2011
  
 
121,750
  
 
$
9.17
  
  
 
9.1
  
  




 Granted
  
 
133,500
  
 
 
10.59
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  



  




 Forfeited or canceled
  
 
(31,300
) 
 
 
9.88
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  



  




 Outstanding at May 31, 2012
  
 
223,950
  
 
$
9.92
  
  
 
8.7
  
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Exercisable at May 31, 2012
  
 
54,625
  
 
$
9.17
  
  
 
8.1
  
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The Company recorded compensation expense for stock options of $323, $204 and $0 for the years ended
May 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively in the statement of operations. As of May 31, 2012 there was $391 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock option based compensation arrangements granted under the Plan.
The unamortized cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.1 years as of May 31, 2012.  The
Company plans to issue new shares as settlement of options exercised. There were no options exercised during the year ended May 31, 2012 or 2011.  Dividends  The holders of class A common stock were entitled to a quarterly
dividend equal to $0.11 per quarter (for a total of $0.44 per year) per share of the common stock into which such class A common stock was convertible, paid when and if declared by the board of directors. When a dividend was paid on the class A
common stock, a dividend equal to one-fourth of the per share amount of any class A common stock dividend paid was also paid to holders of common stock. On May 10, 2010, the Company announced that on April 26, 2010, its board of directors
declared, subject to the satisfaction of the condition set forth below, a one-time special cash dividend in the amount of $0.1609694 per share on each share of the Company’s common stock and in the amount of $0.6438774 per share on each share
of the Company’s common stock issuable upon conversion of the class A common stock. This special dividend totaled $11,116 of which $11,108 was paid on June 4, 2010 with the difference related to the restricted shares which was paid
once the restrictions lapsed. All the dividends required under the terms of the merger agreement for the Transaction have been declared and paid as detailed in the following table. 
  -107-



Table of Contents
















 Date declared
  
Record date
 
  
Payment date
 
  
Per share
 

 August 30, 2010
  
 
September 30, 2010
  
  
 
October 8, 2010
  
  
$
0.0275
  

 October 25, 2010
  
 
December 31, 2010
  
  
 
January 7, 2011
  
  
$
0.0300
  

 January 31, 2011
  
 
March 31, 2011
  
  
 
April 8, 2011
  
  
$
0.0300
  

 May 2, 2011
  
 
June 30, 2011
  
  
 
July 8, 2011
  
  
$
0.0300
  

 August 29, 2011
  
 
September 30, 2011
  
  
 
October 7, 2011
  
  
$
0.0300
  

 November 4, 2011
  
 
December 31, 2011
  
  
 
January 9, 2012
  
  
$
0.0325
  

 January 30, 2012
  
 
March 30, 2012
  
  
 
April 6, 2012
  
  
$
0.0325
  

 April 30, 2012
  
 
June 30, 2012
  
  
 
July 9, 2012
  
  
$
0.0325
  

10. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 
From time to time, the Company is a party to various claims, proceedings, or lawsuits relating to the conduct of its
business. Although the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some lawsuits, claims, or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the Company, management believes, based on facts presently known, that the outcome of such
legal proceedings and claims will not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, cash flows or future results of operations.  The Company is subject to extensive regulation by federal and state governmental agencies and accrediting bodies. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates the results of internal compliance monitoring
activities and those of applicable regulatory agencies and, when appropriate, records liabilities to provide for the estimated costs of any necessary remediation. In March 2011, the Department of Education announced a program review site visit for
NAU, which occurred in April 2011. The periods covered by the program review were the 2008-2009, 2009-2010 and 2010-2011 Title IV award years, (with each award year commencing July 1 and ending June 30). NAU received the Department of
Education’s preliminary program review report on June 16, 2011, which contained findings regarding the manner in which NAU calculated returns of Title IV program funds for online students that withdrew before completing their educational
program, certain discrepancies between NAU’s published campus crime statistics and similar information on its website, and aspects of its written policy on returns of Title IV program funds. With respect to the first finding, NAU was required
to perform a full file review for each of the three award years and, where necessary, revise the last date of attendance and prior returns of Title IV funds calculations for online students. NAU submitted the results of this file review and its
responses to the program review findings, on October 19, 2011. On February 3, 2012, the Department of Education requested certain additional documentation to facilitate resolution of the program review, which NAU provided to the Department
of Education on March 20, 2012. On May 30, 2012, the Department of Education issued a final program review determination with respect to this matter, requiring NAU to return an aggregate amount of approximately $300 to the Department of
Education and FFEL lenders, which was completed within 45 days of the final program review determination letter, as required by the Department of Education. The Company has accrued $300 as an estimated liability The Company cannot predict the
outcome of future program reviews and any unfavorable outcomes could have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows, and financial position.  During the third quarter 2012, the South Dakota Department of Revenue conducted a Sales and Use Tax Audit on the three year period of 2008 through 2011 and has issued a preliminary report of taxes due. As
of May 31, 2012, the Company is researching the audit findings and has accrued $400 as an estimated liability, pending final resolution. 
  -108-



Table of Contents
11. SELF-INSURED HEALTH INSURANCE 
The Company maintains a self-insured health insurance plan for employees. Under this plan, the Company pays a monthly
fee to its administrator, as well as claims submitted by its participants. As there generally is a lag between the time a claim is incurred by a participant and the time the claim is submitted, the Company has recorded a liability for outstanding
claims of approximately $287 and $271 at May 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Such liability is reported with accrued liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. At May 31, 2012, the Company’s maximum aggregate risk was
approximately $3,558. The maximum specific risk per participant is $50 per year, although total risk for all participants will not exceed the noted maximum aggregate risk for the year. 
12. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
The Company is required under 34 CFR668.23(d) to disclose all related-party transactions (as defined within the
regulation) regardless of materiality to the financial statements. Rent totaling $0.5 per month was paid to related parties for home office space under month-to-month leases in 2010. All other related-party transactions are intercompany amounts that
are eliminated in consolidation. 
13. CONDOMINIUM PROJECT 
During 2009, the Company completed construction on a new building containing 24 condominium units to be sold to
the general public. These condominium units are accounted for within condominium inventory within the consolidated balance sheets, and the sales of the condominium units are recorded within condominium sales within the consolidated statements of
operations. Nine units have been sold as of May 31, 2012.  In addition, six units of an existing 48-unit apartment
building have been sold as condominiums, with the remaining units available for sale or lease. These condominium units are accounted for within net property and equipment within the consolidated balance sheets, and the sales of the condominium units
are recorded as a gain on disposition of property within the consolidated statements of operations. 
14. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 
Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an
exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Following is a description of each category in the fair value hierarchy and the
financial assets and liabilities of the Company that are included in each category at May 31, 2012 and 2011:  Level
1 – Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. The types of assets and liabilities included in Level 1 are highly liquid and actively traded instruments with quoted market prices. 
Level 2 – Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices
in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. The type of assets and liabilities included in Level 2 are typically
either comparable to actively traded securities or contracts or priced with models using observable inputs. Level 2 assets consist of certificates of deposit (CD) that are valued at cost, which approximates fair value. Level 2 instruments require
more management judgment and subjectivity as compared to Level 1 instruments. For instance:   


 
•
 
 Determining which instruments are most similar to the instrument being priced requires management to identify a sample of similar securities based on
the coupon rates, maturity, issuer, credit rating and instrument type, and subjectively selecting an individual security or multiple securities that are deemed most similar to the security being priced; and 
 


 
•
 
 Determining whether a market is considered active requires management judgment. 
  -109-



Table of Contents
Level 3 – Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity
and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. The type of assets and liabilities included in Level 3 are those with inputs requiring significant management judgment or estimation. The Company does not have any Level 3
assets or liabilities.  Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis: 
In accordance with the fair value hierarchy, the following table shows the fair value as of May 31, 2012 and 2011, of those financial
assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, according to the valuation techniques the Company used to determine their fair market value. No other financial assets or liabilities are measured at fair value on a recurring or
nonrecurring basis at May 31, 2012 or 2011.   




















 
  
QuotedPrices inActiveMarkets(Level 1)
 
  
OtherObservableInputs(Level 2)
 
  
UnobservableInputs (Level 3)
 
  
Fair Value
 

 May 31, 2012
  



  



  



  




 Investments
  



  



  



  




 CD’s and money market accounts
  
$
 1,831
  
  
$
419
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
2,250
  

 US treasury bills and notes
  
 
14,255
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
14,255
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets at fair value
  
$
16,086
  
  
$
419
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
16,505
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 May 31, 2011
  



  



  



  




 Investments
  



  



  



  




 CD’s and money market accounts
  
$
 1,640
  
  
$
417
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
2,057
  

 US treasury bills and notes
  
 
18,427
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
18,427
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets at fair value
  
$
20,067
  
  
$
417
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
20,484
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Following is a summary of the valuation techniques for assets and liabilities recorded in the consolidated
balance sheets at fair value on a recurring basis:  CD’s and money market accounts: Investments which have closing
prices readily available from an active market are used as being representative of fair value. The Company classifies these investments as Level 1. Market prices for certain CD’s are obtained from quoted prices for similar assets. The Company
classifies these investments as Level 2.  U.S. treasury bills and notes: Closing prices are readily available from
active markets and are used as being representative of fair value. The Company classifies these investments as Level 1. 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments:  The Company’s financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, CD’s and money market accounts, US treasury bills and notes, receivables, payables and capital lease payables. The carrying
values approximated fair values for cash and cash equivalents, receivables and payables because of the short-term nature of these instruments. CD’s and money market accounts and treasury bills and notes are recorded at fair values as indicated
in the preceding disclosures. 
  -110-



Table of Contents
15. COMPLETED MERGER 
In August 2009, the Company, then known as Camden Learning Corporation, and Dlorah entered into an Agreement and Plan
of Reorganization, under which the Company agreed to purchase all of the ownership interests in Dlorah for cash and stock.  In
connection with the approval of the Transaction, the Company’s stockholders adopted an amendment to its amended and restated articles of incorporation (i) to change the Company’s corporate name to “National American University
Holdings, Inc.”, (ii) to create a new class of common stock to be designated as Class A Common Stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the “Class A Stock”), (iii) to increase the Company’s authorized capital stock from
21,000,000 shares consisting of 20,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the “Common Stock”), and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the “Preferred Stock”), to 51,100,000
shares, consisting of 50,000,000 shares of Common Stock, 100,000 shares of Class A Stock, and 1,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, and (iv) to remove the provisions related to the Company’s status as a blank check company, including,
among other things, the classification of the board of directors, and to make the Company’s corporate existence perpetual. Furthermore, the Company’s stockholders adopted the 2009 Stock Option and Compensation Plan (the “Incentive
Plan”) pursuant to which the Company reserved 1,300,000 shares of Common Stock for issuance pursuant to the Incentive Plan. 
The Transaction closed on November 23, 2009, and on that date, Dlorah became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The
stockholders of Dlorah received shares and warrants representing approximately 77% of the Company’s issued capital shares. The acquisition was accounted for as a reverse merger accompanied by a recapitalization of the Company. Under this
accounting method, Dlorah was considered the acquirer for accounting purposes because it obtained effective control of the Company as a result of the acquisition. This determination was primarily based on the following facts: Dlorah’s retention
of a significant voting interest in the Company; Dlorah’s appointment of a majority of the members of the Company’s initial board of directors; Dlorah’s operations comprising the ongoing operations of the Company; and Dlorah’s
senior management serving as the senior management of the Company. Under this method of accounting, the recognition and measurement provisions of the accounting guidance for business combinations do not apply and therefore, the Company did not
recognize goodwill or other intangible assets. Instead, the Transaction has been treated as the equivalent of Dlorah issuing stock for the net monetary assets of the Company, primarily cash, which are stated at their carrying value. Because of the
reverse merger, the historical results represent those of Dlorah.  At the time of the Transaction, all the issued and
outstanding equity interests of Dlorah were automatically converted into the right to receive (i) 100,000 shares of Class A Stock, automatically convertible after two years (or earlier if elected by the stockholders, which was done in the
fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010) into 15,730,000 shares of the Common Stock at a ratio of 157.3 shares of Common Stock for every one share of Class A Stock, (ii) 2,800,000 newly issued common stock purchase warrants (the
“Warrants”) at a purchase price of $5.50 per share, and (iii) 250,000 shares of Restricted Common Stock that are not freely tradable until such time as the Common Stock trades at or above $8.00 per share for any 60 consecutive trading
day period, provided that such shares shall be forfeited on the fifth anniversary of the date of issuance if such restriction has not been satisfied by then. This restriction lapsed on March 23, 2010. 
Additionally, the Company entered into an employment agreement with its chairman of the board of directors through December 2011, which
was later terminated (see Note 8). 
  -111-



Table of Contents
16. SEGMENT REPORTING 
Operating segments are defined as business areas or lines of an enterprise about which financial information is
available and evaluated on a regular basis by the chief operating decision makers, or decision-making groups, in deciding how to allocate capital and other resources to such lines of business. 
The Company operates two operating and reportable segments: NAU and other. The NAU segment contains the revenues and expenses associated
with the university operations and the allocated portion of corporate overhead. The other segment contains primarily real estate. These operating segments are divisions of the Company for which separate financial information is available and
evaluated regularly by executive management in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.  General
administrative costs of the Company are allocated to specific divisions of the Company.  The majority of the Company’s
revenue is derived from the NAU segment, which provides undergraduate and graduate education programs. NAU derives its revenue primarily from student tuition. The other division operates multiple apartment and condominium complexes and derives its
revenues primarily from condominium sales and rental income. 
  -112-



Table of Contents








































 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Consolidated
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated
 

 
  
NAU
 
 
Other
 
 
Total
 
 
NAU
 
  
Other
 
 
Total
 
  
NAU
 
 
Other
 
 
Total
 

 Revenue:
  



 



 



 



  



 



  



 



 




 Academic
  
$
109,833
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
109,833
  
 
$
99,216
  
  
$
0
  
 
$
99,216
  
  
$
82,418
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
82,418
  

 Auxiliary
  
 
7,992
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
7,992
  
 
 
6,153
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
6,153
  
  
 
5,528
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
5,528
  

 Rental income apartments
  
 
0
  
 
 
1,069
  
 
 
1,069
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
990
  
 
 
990
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
918
  
 
 
918
  

 Condominium sales
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
449
  
 
 
449
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
932
  
 
 
932
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenue
  
 
117,825
  
 
 
1,069
  
 
 
118,894
  
 
 
105,369
  
  
 
1,439
  
 
 
106,808
  
  
 
87,946
  
 
 
1,850
  
 
 
89,796
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating expenses:
  



 



 



 



  



 



  



 



 




 Cost of educational services
  
 
27,831
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
27,831
  
 
 
22,575
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
22,575
  
  
 
20,419
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
20,419
  

 Selling, general administrative
  
 
75,671
  
 
 
1,805
  
 
 
77,476
  
 
 
62,672
  
  
 
1,802
  
 
 
64,474
  
  
 
48,238
  
 
 
1,648
  
 
 
49,886
  

 Auxiliary
  
 
4,747
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
4,747
  
 
 
2,888
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
2,888
  
  
 
2,076
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
2,076
  

 Cost of condominium sales
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
381
  
 
 
381
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
761
  
 
 
761
  

 (Gain) loss on disposition of property
  
 
40
  
 
 
(360
) 
 
 
(320
) 
 
 
82
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
82
  
  
 
29
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
29
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
  
 
108,289
  
 
 
1,445
  
 
 
109,734
  
 
 
88,217
  
  
 
2,183
  
 
 
90,400
  
  
 
70,762
  
 
 
2,409
  
 
 
73,171
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from operations
  
 
9,536
  
 
 
(376
) 
 
 
9,160
  
 
 
17,152
  
  
 
(744
) 
 
 
16,408
  
  
 
17,184
  
 
 
(559
) 
 
 
16,625
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Other income (expense):
  



 



 



 



  



 



  



 



 




 Interest inc
  
 
133
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
133
  
 
 
148
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
148
  
  
 
200
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
206
  

 Interest exp
  
 
(594
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(594
) 
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
(125
) 
 
 
(400
) 
 
 
(525
) 

 Other income—net
  
 
0
  
 
 
121
  
 
 
121
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
123
  
 
 
123
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
218
  
 
 
218
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other income (expense)
  
 
(461
) 
 
 
121
  
 
 
(340
) 
 
 
148
  
  
 
123
  
 
 
271
  
  
 
75
  
 
 
(176
) 
 
 
(101
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before taxes
  
$
9,075
  
 
$
(255
) 
 
$
8,820
  
 
$
17,300
  
  
$
(621
) 
 
$
16,679
  
  
$
17,259
  
 
$
(735
) 
 
$
16,524
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
70,404
  
 
$
12,694
  
 
$
83,098
  
 
$
60,215
  
  
$
17,723
  
 
$
77,938
  
  
$
33,085
  
 
$
14,201
  
 
$
47,286
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Expenditures for for long-lived assets
  
$
13,025
  
 
$
180
  
 
$
13,205
  
 
$
6,430
  
  
$
229
  
 
$
6,659
  
  
$
3,385
  
 
$
1,286
  
 
$
4,671
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Depreciation & amortization
  
$
3,692
  
 
$
547
  
 
$
4,239
  
 
$
2,326
  
  
$
535
  
 
$
2,861
  
  
$
1,811
  
 
$
509
  
 
$
2,320
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  -113-



Table of Contents
17. SUMMARIZED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) 
The following table sets forth selected unaudited quarterly financial information for the last eight quarters.
  




















 
  
Quarter
 

 
  
First
 
  
Second
 
  
Third
 
  
Fourth
 

 Fiscal Year Ended May 31, 2012
  



  



  



  




 Revenues
  
$
25,397
  
  
$
30,445
  
  
$
29,942
  
  
$
33,110
  

 Income from operations
  
 
1,762
  
  
 
3,258
  
  
 
1,347
  
  
 
2,793
  

 Net income
  
 
1,106
  
  
 
1,958
  
  
 
506
  
  
 
1,567
  

 Net income attributable to NAUH and Subs
  
 
1,023
  
  
 
1,943
  
  
 
519
  
  
 
1,564
  

 Net income per share (common):
  



  



  



  




 Basic
  
 
0.04
  
  
 
0.07
  
  
 
0.02
  
  
 
0.06
  

 Diluted
  
 
0.04
  
  
 
0.07
  
  
 
0.02
  
  
 
0.06
  







 Fiscal Year Ended May 31, 2011
  



  



  



  




 Revenues
  
$
23,172
  
  
$
27,840
  
  
$
27,733
  
  
$
28,063
  

 Income from operations
  
 
2,102
  
  
 
4,554
  
  
 
6,254
  
  
 
3,498
  

 Net income
  
 
1,348
  
  
 
2,757
  
  
 
3,879
  
  
 
2,320
  

 Net income attributable to NAUH and Subs
  
 
1,340
  
  
 
2,746
  
  
 
3,867
  
  
 
2,313
  

 Net income per share (common):
  



  



  



  




 Basic
  
 
0.05
  
  
 
0.10
  
  
 
0.15
  
  
 
0.09
  

 Diluted
  
 
0.05
  
  
 
0.10
  
  
 
0.14
  
  
 
0.09
  

18. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 
We evaluated subsequent events after the balance sheet date of May 31, 2012, through the date the consolidated
financial statements were issued. We did not identify any additional material events or transactions occurring during this subsequent event reporting period that required further recognition or disclosure in these consolidated financial statements.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
 None. 
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures  Disclosure Controls and Procedures  The Company’s Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer have evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, as of May 31, 2012. Based upon such
review, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company had in place, as of May 31, 2012, effective controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company
(including consolidated subsidiaries) in the reports it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules thereunder, is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the
Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by an issuer in reports it files or
submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including its principal executive officer or officers and principal financial officer or officers, or persons performing similar functions, as
appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 
  -114-



Table of Contents
Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such
term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements. Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the Company conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting as
of May 31, 2012. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control – Integrated Framework. Based on management’s
assessment using this framework, management concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of May 31, 2012.  Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Oversight Board
(United States) and, as part of this audit, has issued its report on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, as stated in their report included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Item 9B . Other Information  None.  PART III 
Certain information required by Part III is incorporated by reference from our definitive Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders (the “Proxy Statement”), which will be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after May 31, 2012. Except for those portions specifically incorporated in this annual report on Form 10-K by reference
to our Proxy Statement, no other portions of the Proxy Statement are deemed to be filed as part of this Form 10-K. 
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth in the Company’s Proxy
Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.  Item 11. Executive Compensation. 
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth in the Company’s Proxy
Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.  Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.  The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
reference to the information set forth in the Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.  
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.  The information required by
this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth in the Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.  Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services.  The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth in the Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. 
  -115-



Table of Contents
PART IV 
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  (a)(1) Financial Statements  All required financial statements of the registrant
are set forth under Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K.  (a)(2) Financial Statement Schedules 
None required.   


(b)
Exhibits   






 Exhibit No.
  
 Description




2.1
  
Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated August 7, 2009, by and among Camden Learning Corporation, Dlorah Subsidiary, Inc. and Dlorah, Inc. *




2.2
  
Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated August 11, 2009, by and among Camden Learning Corporation, Dlorah Subsidiary, Inc. and Dlorah, Inc. *




2.3
  
Amendment No. 1 to the Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated October 26, 2009, by and among Camden Learning Corporation, Dlorah Subsidiary, Inc., and
Dlorah, Inc. **




3.1
  
Second Amended and Restated Certificate of
Incorporation***




3.2
  
Amended Bylaws######




4.1
  
Specimen Common Stock Certificate***




10.1
  
Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of November 23, 2009, by and among Camden Learning Corporation and each of H. & E. Buckingham Limited Partnership and Robert D.
Buckingham Living Trust. ***




10.2
  
Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of November 29, 2007, by and among Camden Learning Corporation and certain of the founding stockholders of Camden Learning
Corporation. ****




10.3
  
Form of Restricted Stock Agreement under the registrant’s 2009 Stock Option and Compensation Plan.*****




10.4
  
National American University Holdings, Inc. 2009 Stock Option and Compensation Plan.***




10.5
  
Employment Agreement between Dlorah, Inc. and Jerry L. Gallentine, amended and restated September 9, 2003, and further amended by the First Amendment to Employment Agreement, dated
November 18, 2009. ***




10.6
  
Employment Agreement between Dlorah, Inc. and Ronald Shape, dated effective as of June 1, 2010.###




10.7
  
Joinder to Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of January 12, 2010 between National American University Holdings, Inc. and T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. on behalf of its
investment advisory clients T. Rowe Price Small-Cap Value Fund, Inc. and T. Rowe Price U.S. Equities Trust.#




10.8
  
Joinder to Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of November 23, 2009 between Camden Learning Corporation and Ashford Capital Management Inc.#

  -116-



Table of Contents









10.9
  
Joinder to Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of November 23, 2009 between Camden Learning Corporation and Granite Point Capital, LP.#




10.10
  
Joinder to Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of November 23, 2009 between Camden Learning Corporation and Granite Point Capital Offshore Fund, Ltd.#




10.11
  
Restricted Stock Award Agreement, dated effective as of March 19, 2010, by and between National American University Holdings, Inc. and Dr. Ronald Shape.#




10.12
  
Joinder to Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of November 23, 2009 between Camden Learning Corporation and Silver Capital Fund, LLC##




10.13
  
Joinder to Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of November 23, 2009 between Camden Learning Corporation and Silver Capital Fund (Offshore), LTD##




10.14
  
Form of Director Indemnification
Agreement******




10.15
  
Cabinet Level Officer Compensation Plan####




21.1
  
Subsidiaries of the Registrant




23.1
  
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm




31.1
  
Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002




31.2
  
Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002




32.1
  
Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002




32.2
  
Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002




101
  
the following materials from National American University Holdings, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2012, are formatted in XBRL
(eXtensible Business Reporting Language): (a) Consolidated Balance Sheets, (b) Consolidated Statements of Operations, (c) Consolidated Statements of Stockholders Equity, (d) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and
(e) Notes to Annual Consolidated Financial Statements
  


*
Incorporated by reference to National American University Holdings, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 11, 2009. 


**
Incorporated by reference to National American University Holdings, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 27, 2009. 


***
Incorporated by reference to National American University Holdings, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 30, 2009. 


****
Incorporated by reference to National American University Holdings, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 5, 2007. 


*****
Incorporated by reference to National American University Holdings, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on January 12, 2010. 


******
Incorporated by reference to National American University Holdings, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 11, 2010. 


#
Incorporated by reference to National American University Holdings, Inc.’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed on March 23, 2010. 


##
Incorporated by reference to National American University Holdings, Inc.’s Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form S-1/A filed on May 11, 2010.



###
Incorporated by reference to National American University Holdings, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 30, 2011. 


####
Incorporated by reference to National American University Holdings, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 6, 2011. 


#####
Incorporated by reference to National American University Holdings, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 24, 2012. 


######
Incorporated by reference to National American University Holdings, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on August 5, 2011. 
  -117-



Table of Contents
SIGNATURES  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.   






National American University Holdings, Inc.




By:
 
/s/ Ronald L. Shape

Name:
 
Ronald L. Shape, Ed. D.

Title:
 
 Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer)




By:
 
/s/ Venessa D. Green

Name:
 
Venessa D. Green, MBA, CPA

Title:
 
 Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer and principal accounting officer)
 Dated as of August 3, 2012.  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated as of
August 3, 2012.   






 Name
  
 Title




 /s/ Robert D. Buckingham
  


 Robert D. Buckingham
  
Chairman of the Board of Directors




 /s/ Jerry L. Gallentine
  


 Jerry L. Gallentine, Ph.D.
  
President and Director




 /s/ Therese Crane
  


 Therese Crane, Ed.D.
  
Director




 /s/ R. John Reynolds
  


 R. John Reynolds, Ph.D.
  
Director




 /s/ Thomas D. Saban
  


 Thomas D. Saban, Ph.D.
  
Director




 /s/ David L. Warnock
  


 David L. Warnock
  
Director




 /s/ Richard Halbert
  


 Richard Halbert
  
Director
  
  -118-




