
10-K
1
d265737d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, DC 20549  FORM 10-K   


 
þ
Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
 


 
    
 For the fiscal year ended January 28, 2012 
or   


 
¨
Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
 


 
    
 For the transition period from             to
              Commission File Number:
001-33764  ULTA SALON, COSMETICS & FRAGRANCE, INC. 
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) 
 






 Delaware (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or
organization)
 
 36-3685240 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

 1000 Remington Blvd., Suite 120
Bolingbrook, Illinois (Address of principal executive offices)
 
 60440 (Zip code)
 Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (630) 410-4800 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 






 Title of each class
 
 Name of each exchange on which registered

Common stock, par value $0.01 per share
 
The NASDAQ Global Select Market
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    þ  Yes      ¨  No  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    ¨  Yes      þ  No  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    þ  Yes      ¨  No  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule
405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    þ  Yes      ¨  No 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    ¨  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 
 










Large accelerated filer  þ
 
Accelerated filer  ¨
  
Non- accelerated filer  ¨
 
Smaller reporting company  ¨


 
(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).    ¨  Yes      þ  No  The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based upon the closing sale price of the common stock on July 30, 2011, as reported on the NASDAQ Global
Select Market, was approximately $3,034,284,000. Shares of the registrant’s common stock held by each executive officer and director and by each entity or person that, to the registrant’s knowledge, owned 5% or more of the
registrant’s outstanding common stock as of July 30, 2011 have been excluded in that such persons may be deemed to be affiliates of the registrant. This determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for
other purposes.  The number of shares of the registrant’s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, outstanding as of March 22, 2012
was 62,474,444 shares.  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  Information required in response to Part III of Form 10-K (Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14) is hereby incorporated by reference to the registrant’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held during the current fiscal year. The Proxy Statement will be filed by the registrant with the SEC no later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K. 
   
 


Table of Contents
ULTA SALON, COSMETICS & FRAGRANCE, INC. 
TABLE OF CONTENTS   










 Part I 
   

 Item 1.
 
Business
  
 
3
  

 Item 1A.
 
Risk Factors
  
 
13
  

 Item 1B.
 
Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
23
  

 Item 2.
 
Properties
  
 
24
  

 Item 3.
 
Legal Proceedings
  
 
25
  

 Item 4.
 
Mine Safety Disclosures
  
 
25
  



 Part II 
   

 Item 5.
 
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
  
 
26
  

 Item 6.
 
Selected Financial Data
  
 
29
  

 Item 7.
 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  
 
30
  

 Item 7A.
 
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
  
 
40
  

 Item 8.
 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
40
  

 Item 9.
 
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
 
40
  

 Item 9A.
 
Controls and Procedures
  
 
41
  

 Item 9B.
 
Other Information
  
 
41
  



 Part III 
   

 Item 10.
 
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
42
  

 Item 11.
 
Executive Compensation
  
 
42
  

 Item 12.
 
Security Ownership and Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
  
 
42
  

 Item 13.
 
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
42
  

 Item 14.
 
Principal Accountant Fees and Services
  
 
42
  



 Part IV 
   

 Item 15.
 
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 
  
 
43
  

  2 


Table of Contents
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS  This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the safe harbor provisions of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which reflect our current views with respect to, among other things, future events and financial performance. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking words such as
“outlook,” “believes,” “expects,” “plans,” “estimates,” or other comparable words. Any forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K are based upon our historical performance and on current
plans, estimates and expectations. The inclusion of this forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the future plans, estimates or expectations contemplated by us will be achieved. Such
forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which include, without limitation: the impact of weakness in the economy; changes in the overall level of consumer spending; changes in the wholesale cost of our products;
the possibility that we may be unable to compete effectively in our highly competitive markets; the possibility that our continued opening of new stores could strain our resources and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial
performance; the possibility that new store openings and existing locations may be impacted by developer or co-tenant issues; the possibility that the capacity of our distribution and order fulfillment infrastructure may not be adequate to support
our recent growth and expected future growth plans; the possibility of material disruptions to our information systems; weather conditions that could negatively impact sales; and other risk factors detailed in our public filings with the Securities
and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), including risk factors contained in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 28, 2012. We assume no obligation to update any
forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or developments. References in the following discussion to “we”, “us”, “our”, “the Company”, “Ulta” and similar references
mean Ulta Salon, Cosmetics 
& Fragrance, Inc. unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires.  Part I
  


Item  1.
Business 
Overview  Ulta Salon,
Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. is the largest beauty retailer that provides one-stop shopping for prestige, mass and salon products and salon services in the United States. We focus on providing affordable indulgence to our customers by
combining the product breadth, value and convenience of a beauty superstore with the distinctive environment and experience of a specialty retailer. Key aspects of our business include: 
One-Stop Shopping.     Our customers can satisfy all of their beauty needs at Ulta.
We offer a unique combination of over 20,000 prestige and mass beauty products organized by category in a bright, open store environment. The beauty products are arranged in self-service displays and full-service boutiques in a way that encourages
our customers to play, touch, test, learn and explore. We believe we offer the widest selection of categories across prestige and mass cosmetics, fragrance, haircare, skincare, bath and body products and salon styling tools. We also offer a
full-service salon and a wide range of salon haircare products in all of our stores.  Our Value
Proposition.     We believe our focus on delivering a compelling value proposition to our customers across all of our product categories is fundamental to our customer loyalty. For example, we run frequent promotions and
coupons for our mass brands, gift-with-purchase offers and multi-product gift sets for our prestige brands, and a comprehensive customer loyalty program.  An Off-Mall Location.     Our stores are predominately located in convenient, high-traffic locations such as power centers. Our typical store is approximately 10,000 square
feet, including approximately 950 square feet dedicated to our full-service salon. Our displays, store design and open layout allow us the flexibility to respond to consumer trends and changes in our merchandising strategy. 
We were founded in 1990 as a discount beauty retailer at a time when prestige, mass and salon products were sold through distinct channels —
department stores for prestige products, drug stores and mass merchandisers for mass products, and salons and authorized retail outlets for professional hair care products. After extensive research, we recognized an opportunity to better satisfy how
a woman wanted to shop for beauty products. This 
  3 


Table of Contents

led to what we believe to be a unique retail approach that focuses on all aspects of how women prefer to shop for beauty products by combining the fundamental elements of a beauty superstore,
including one-stop shopping, a compelling value proposition and convenient locations, together with an uplifting specialty retail experience. While we are currently executing on the core elements of our business strategy, we plan to continually
refine our approach in order to further enhance the shopping experience for our customers.  Our competitive strengths 
We believe the following competitive strengths differentiate us from our competitors and are critical to our continuing success: 
Differentiated merchandising strategy with broad appeal.    We believe our broad selection of merchandise across categories,
price points and brands offers a unique shopping experience for our customers. While the products we sell can be found in department stores, specialty stores, salons, drug stores and mass merchandisers, we offer all of these products in one retail
format so that our customer can find everything she needs in one shopping trip. We appeal to a wide range of customers by offering over 500 brands, such as Bare Escentuals cosmetics, Chanel and Estée Lauder fragrances, L’Oréal
haircare and cosmetics and Paul Mitchell haircare. We also have private label Ulta offerings in key categories. Because our offerings span a broad array of product categories in prestige, mass and salon, we appeal to a wide range of customers
including women of all ages, demographics, and lifestyles.  Our unique customer experience.    We combine the value
and convenience of a beauty superstore with the distinctive environment and experience of a specialty retailer. We cater to the woman who loves to indulge in shopping for beauty products as well as the woman who is time constrained and comes to the
store knowing exactly what she wants. Our distribution infrastructure consistently delivers an in-stock rate of greater than 95%, so our customers know they will find the products they are looking for. Our well-trained beauty consultants are not
commission-based and therefore can provide unbiased and customized advice tailored to our customers’ needs. Together with our customer service strategy, our store locations, layout and design help create our unique retail shopping experience,
which we believe increases both the frequency and length of our customers’ visits.  Retail format poised to benefit from shifting
channel dynamics.    Over the past several years, the approximately $93 billion beauty products and salon services industry has experienced significant changes, including a shift in how manufacturers
distribute and customers purchase beauty products. This has enabled the specialty retail channel in which we operate to grow at a greater rate than the industry overall since at least 2000. We are capitalizing on these trends by offering a primarily
off-mall, service-oriented specialty retail concept with a comprehensive product mix across categories and price points.  Loyal and active
customer base.    We have over nine million customer loyalty program members. We utilize this valuable proprietary database to drive traffic, better understand our customers’ purchasing patterns and
support new store site selection. We employ a broad range of media, including digital, catalogs and newspaper inserts, to entertain and educate our customers and, most importantly, to drive traffic to our stores. 
Strong vendor relationships across product categories.    We have strong, active relationships with over 300 vendors, including
Estée Lauder, Bare Escentuals, Coty, L’Oréal and Procter & Gamble. We believe the scope and extent of these relationships, which span the three distinct beauty categories of prestige, mass and salon and have taken years
to develop, create a significant impediment for other retailers to replicate our model. These relationships also frequently afford us the opportunity to work closely with our vendors to market both new and existing brands in a collaborative manner.
 Experienced management team.    We have an experienced senior management team with extensive retail
experience that brings a creative merchandising approach and a disciplined operating philosophy to our business. We continue to expand the depth of our management team at all levels and in all functional areas to support our growth strategy.
 Growth strategy  We intend
to expand our presence as a leading retailer of beauty products and salon services by pursuing the following primary growth strategies: 
Accelerate pace of new store expansion and grow to over 1,000 stores in the United States.    We continue to believe that over
the long-term, we have the potential to grow our store base to over 1,000 Ulta stores in the 
  4 


Table of Contents

United States. Our internal real estate model takes into account a number of variables, including demographic and sociographic data as well as population density relative to maximum drive times,
economic and competitive factors. We plan to continue opening stores both in markets in which we currently operate and new markets. As the economy continues to recover, we have been successful in opening new stores in diverse markets across the
United States allowing us to increase our new store growth rates back to historical levels consistent with our long-term target of 15% to 20%. 
We opened 61 new stores during fiscal 2011, representing a 16% increase in square footage growth and a 30% increase in the number of new stores opened
compared to 47 in fiscal 2010. We also remodeled 17 stores and relocated 2 stores in fiscal 2011. Our fiscal 2011 and 2010 new store program represents primarily new stores opened in existing centers compared to prior years when the new store
openings were more balanced between new and existing centers. This trend is expected to continue for several more years. The shift to more existing centers had no impact on new store performance. 
 
























 
  
Fiscal Year
 

 
  
2007
 
  
2008
 
 
2009
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 

 Total stores beginning of period
  
 
196
  
  
 
249
  
 
 
311
  
 
 
346
  
 
 
389
  

 Stores opened
  
 
53
  
  
 
63
  
 
 
37
  
 
 
47
  
 
 
61
  

 Stores closed
  
 
—
  
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(1
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total stores end of period
  
 
249
  
  
 
311
  
 
 
346
  
 
 
389
  
 
 
449
  

 Stores remodeled
  
 
17
  
  
 
8
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
17
  

 Total square footage
  
 
2,589,244
  
  
 
3,240,579
  
 
 
3,613,840
  
 
 
4,094,808
  
 
 
4,747,148
  

 Average square footage per store
  
 
10,399
  
  
 
10,420
  
 
 
10,445
  
 
 
10,526
  
 
 
10,573
  
 Continue expanding our offering by adding new products, brands and service offerings.     Our
strategy is to continue to expand our portfolio of products, brands and services both by capitalizing on the success of our existing vendor relationships and by identifying and developing new vendor relationships. Over the last several years we have
added new products from existing vendors across product categories. We have also added a number of new brands in recent years, most notably in our prestige category which is currently the beauty industry’s highest growth category. Brand
additions include Mark Jacobs, Givenchy, Taylor Swift, Dolce and Gabanna and Coach in fragrance; Bliss, Clarisonic, Mario Badescu, Jack Black, The Art of Shaving, Dermalogica and Philosophy in skin care; Laura Geller, Butter London, Benefit, Cargo
and Tarte in cosmetics; and Living Proof, Phyto, Ouidad and Pureology in hair care. We also offer haircare services in our full service salons as well as skin and brow services in each of our stores. We plan to continue expanding our portfolio of
services in the future by establishing Ulta as a leading salon authority providing high quality and consistent services from our licensed stylists and introducing new beauty-related services.  Enhancing our successful loyalty program.     We have over nine million active customer loyalty members who are enrolled in our loyalty programs. Loyalty member transactions
represent more than fifty percent of our annual total net sales, and the transaction data demonstrates that loyalty members shop with higher frequency and spend more per visit as compared to non-members. We have been converting loyalty members from
our national certificate program to the ULTAmate Rewards program which is a points-based program. Currently slightly more than 20% of our stores are on the points-based program and we will be rolling additional markets onto this program in fiscal
2012. Both loyalty programs provide a robust database of information relative to customer information and shopping behavior which provides a significant long-term opportunity for CRM applications including enabling customer segmentation and
one-on-one marketing communications tailored to our customers’ unique beauty needs.  Broaden our marketing
reach.     We believe a key component of our success is the brand exposure we get from our marketing initiatives, which provide an effective means to introduce new products, brands and services to our existing and potential
new customers. We have, historically, utilized primarily direct mail advertising, catalogues and newspaper inserts to communicate with our customers. Our national magazine print advertising campaign exposes potential new customers to our retail and
e-commerce businesses. We plan to continue to leverage our 
  5 


Table of Contents

print marketing while expanding our reach into other marketing channels including various broadcast formats, digital, social media and e-mail marketing. We plan to continue to focus on our
in-store marketing and eventing as an additional means of educating our customers and increasing the frequency of their visits to our stores. 
Enhancing and expanding our digital business.     Our website serves two roles: to generate direct channel sales and profits
and as a vehicle to communicate with our customers in an interactive, enjoyable way to reinforce the Ulta brand and drive traffic to our stores. We continue to aggressively develop and add new website features and functionality, marketing programs,
product assortment and new brands, and multi-channel integration points. We intend to establish ourselves over time as a leading online beauty resource by providing our customers with a rich online experience for information on key trends and
products, editorial content, expanded assortments, leading website features and functionality, and social media content. Through our continued enhancements and multi-channel marketing initiatives, we believe we are well positioned to capitalize on
the growth of Internet sales of beauty products. We believe our website and retail stores provide our customers with an integrated multi-channel shopping experience and increased flexibility for their beauty buying needs. 
Improving our operating margin.     We plan to continue to improve our operating results by leveraging our infrastructure and
continually optimizing the efficiency of our operations. We will continue to make investments in our information systems to enable us to enhance our efficiency in areas such as merchandise planning and allocation, inventory management, distribution
and point of sale (POS) functions. We believe we will continue to improve our profitability by reducing our operating expenses as a percentage of net sales, in particular supply chain, general corporate overhead and fixed store expenses. 
Our market  We operate within the large
and steadily growing U.S. beauty products and salon services industry. This market represents approximately $93 billion in retail sales, according to Euromonitor International and IBIS World Inc. The approximately $53 billion beauty products
industry includes color cosmetics, haircare, fragrance, bath and body, skincare, salon styling tools and other toiletries. Within this market, we compete across all major categories as well as a range of price points by offering prestige, mass and
salon products. The approximately $40 billion salon services industry consists of hair, face and nail services.  Distribution for beauty
products is varied. Prestige products are typically purchased in department or specialty stores, while mass products and staple items are generally purchased at drug stores, food retail stores and mass merchandisers. In addition, salon haircare
products are sold in salons and authorized professional retail outlets.  Competition 
Our major competitors for prestige and mass products include traditional department stores such as Macy’s and Nordstrom, specialty stores such as
Sephora and Bath & Body Works, drug stores such as CVS/pharmacy and Walgreens and mass merchandisers such as Target and Wal-Mart. We believe the principal bases upon which we compete are the quality and assortment of merchandise, our value
proposition, the quality of our customers’ shopping experience and the convenience of our stores as one-stop destinations for beauty products and salon services.  The market for salon services and products is highly fragmented. Our competitors for salon services and products include Regis Corp., Sally Beauty, JCPenney salons and independent salons. 
Key trends  We believe an important
shift is occurring in the distribution of beauty products. Department stores, which have traditionally been the primary distribution channel for prestige beauty products, have been meaningfully affected by changing consumer preferences and industry
consolidation over the past decade. We believe women, particularly younger generations, tend to find department stores intimidating, high-pressured and hinder a multi-brand shopping experience and, as such, are choosing to shop elsewhere for their
beauty care needs. According to industry sources, 55% of women aged 18 to 24 shop in specialty stores, compared to 40% of women aged 18 to 
  6 


Table of Contents

64. Over the past ten years, department stores have lost significant market share to specialty stores in apparel, and we believe the beauty category is undergoing a similar shift in retail
channels. We believe women are seeking a shopping experience that provides something different, a place to experiment, learn about various products, find what they want and indulge themselves. A recent Kline & Company report found that
consumers seek out specialty retailers for a number of reasons including that specialty stores carry more niche products, the merchandise and retail environment is more fun and provides the ability to shop across product lines and the customer
service is better than in other channels.  As a result of this market transformation, there are a number of beauty brands pursuing new
distribution channels for their products, such as specialty retail, spas and salons, direct response television (i.e., home shopping and infomercials) and the Internet. In addition, many smaller brands are selling their products through these
channels due to the high fixed costs associated with operating in most department stores and to capitalize on consumers’ growing propensity to shop in these channels. According to industry sources, color cosmetics sales through these channels
are projected to grow at a higher rate than sales of color cosmetics in total. There are a number of beauty brands that have built significant consumer awareness and sales by initially offering their products on direct response television. We
benefit from offering brands that sell their products through this channel, as we experience increased store traffic and sales after these brands appear on television.  Historically, manufacturers have distributed their products through distinct channels—department stores for prestige products, drug stores and mass merchandisers for mass products, and salons and
authorized retail outlets for professional hair care products. We believe women are increasingly shopping across retail channels as well as purchasing a combination of prestige and mass beauty products. We attribute this trend to a number of
factors, including the growing availability of prestige brands outside of department stores and increased innovation in mass products. Based on the competitive environment in which we operate, we believe that we have been at the forefront of
breaking down the industry’s historical distribution paradigm by combining a wide range of beauty products, categories and price points under one roof. Our strategy reflects a more customer-centric model of how women prefer to shop today for
their beauty needs.  Major growth drivers for the industry include favorable consumer spending trends, product innovation and growth of certain
population segments.   


 
Ÿ
 
 Baby Boomers (born between 1946 and 1964):    Baby Boomers have larger disposable incomes and are increasing their spending on
personal care as well as health and wellness. The aging of the Baby Boomer generation is also influencing product innovation and demand for anti-aging products and cosmetic procedures. 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 Generation X (born between 1965 and 1976):    Generation X is entering their peak earning years and represents a significant
contributor to overall consumer spending, including beauty products. A survey by American Express showed that Generation X spends 60% more on beauty products than Baby Boomers. In addition, while prior generations grew up shopping in department
stores and general merchandisers, Generation X has grown up shopping in specialty stores and we believe seeks a retail environment that combines a compelling experience, functionality, variety and location. 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 Generation Y (born between 1977 and 1994):    According to the United States Census Bureau data, the 20 to 34 year-old age group is
expected to grow by approximately 10% from 2003 to 2015. As Generation Y continues to enter the workforce, they will have increased disposable income to spend on beauty products. 
We believe we are well positioned to capitalize on these trends and capture additional market share in the industry. We believe we have demonstrated an
ability to provide a differentiated store experience for customers as well as offer a breadth and depth of merchandise previously unavailable from more traditional beauty retailers.  Stores  Our stores are predominately located in convenient, high-traffic locations such as
power centers. Our typical store is approximately 10,000 square feet, including approximately 950 square feet dedicated to our full-service salon. We opened 61 stores in fiscal 2011 and the average investment required to open a new Ulta store is
approximately $0.9 million, which includes capital investments, net of landlord contributions, pre-opening 
  7 


Table of Contents

expenses, and initial inventory, net of payables. However, our net investment required to open new stores and the net sales generated by new stores may vary depending on a number of factors,
including geographic location. As of January 28, 2012, we operated 449 stores in 43 states.  Store remodel program 
Our retail store concept, including physical layout, displays, lighting and quality of finishes, has continued to evolve over time to match the rising
expectations of our customers and to keep pace with our merchandising and operating strategies. We have a formal store remodel program in place to update our older stores to provide a consistent shopping experience across all of our locations. We
remodeled 17 stores in fiscal 2011. Our newer store prototype, including new stores and remodels, represents approximately 84% of our store base. We continue to evolve this program to update older stores with a consistent look and experience to
drive additional customer traffic and increase our sales and profitability. The remodel store selection process is subject to the same discipline as our new store real estate decision process. Our focus is to remodel the oldest, highest performing
stores first, subject to criteria such as rate of return, lease terms, market performance and quality of real estate. We also consider remodeling all relevant stores in a particular geography when appropriate, which allows us to present a consistent
brand identity across an entire market. The average investment to remodel a store in fiscal 2011 was approximately $0.8 million. Each remodel takes approximately three months to complete, during which time we keep the store open. 
Salon  We operate full-service salons in
all of our stores. Our current Ulta store format includes an open and modern salon area with approximately eight to ten stations. The entire salon area is approximately 950 square feet with a concierge desk, skin treatment room, semi-private shampoo
and hair color processing areas. Each salon is a full-service salon offering hair cuts, hair coloring and permanent texture, with most salons also providing facials and waxing. We employ licensed professional stylists and estheticians that offer
highly skilled services as well as an educational experience, including consultations, styling lessons, skincare regimens, and at-home care recommendations.  Ulta.com  We established Ulta.com to give our customers an integrated multi-channel buying
experience by providing them with an opportunity to access product offerings and information beyond our brick-and-mortar retail stores. The Ulta.com website and experience supports the key elements of the Ulta brand proposition and provides access
to more than 11,000 beauty products from hundreds of brands. As Ulta.com continues to grow in terms of functionality and content, we expect it to become an even greater element in Ulta’s marketing programs and a more important resource for our
customers to access product and store information, beauty trends and techniques, and buy from a larger assortment of product offerings. 
Merchandising  Strategy
 We focus on offering one of the most extensive product and brand selections in our industry, including a broad assortment of branded
and private label beauty products in cosmetics, fragrance, haircare, skincare, bath and body products and salon styling tools. A typical Ulta store carries over 20,000 prestige and mass beauty products. We present these products in an assisted
self-service environment using centrally produced planograms (detailed schematics showing product placement in the store) and promotional merchandising planners. Our merchandising team continually monitors current fashion trends, historical sales
trends and new product launches to keep Ulta’s product assortment fresh and relevant to our customers. We believe our broad selection of merchandise, from moderate-priced brands to higher-end prestige brands, offers a unique shopping experience
for our customers. The products we sell can also be found in department stores, specialty stores, salons, mass merchandisers and drug stores, but we offer all of these products in one retail format so that our customer can find everything she needs
in one stop. We believe we offer a compelling value proposition to our customers across all of our product categories. For example, we run frequent promotions and gift coupons for our mass brands, gift-with-purchase offers and multi-product gift
sets for our prestige brands, and a comprehensive customer loyalty program. 
  8 


Table of Contents
We believe our private label products are a strategically important category for growth and profit
contribution. Our objective is to provide quality, trend-right private label products to continue to strengthen our customers’ perception of Ulta as a contemporary beauty destination. Ulta manages the full development cycle of these products
from concept through production in order to deliver differentiated packaging and formulas to build brand image. Current Ulta cosmetics and bath brands have a strong following and we may expand our private label products into additional categories.
 Category mix  We
offer products in the following categories:   


 
Ÿ
 
 Cosmetics, which includes products for the face, eyes, cheeks, lips and nails; 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 Haircare, which includes shampoos, conditioners, styling products, and hair accessories; 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 Salon styling tools, which includes hair dryers, curling irons and flat irons; 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 Skincare and bath and body, which includes products for the face, hands and body; 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 Fragrance for both men and women;   


 
Ÿ
 
 Private label, consisting of Ulta branded cosmetics, skincare, bath and body products and haircare; and 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 Other, including candles, home fragrance products and other miscellaneous health and beauty products. 
Organization  Our merchandising
team reports directly to our CEO and consists of a Senior Vice President of Merchandising who oversees a team that includes approximately five category Vice Presidents and 27 Divisional Merchandise Managers, Senior Buyers, Buyers and
Assistant/Associate Buyers. Our merchandising team works directly with our centralized merchandise planning group to ensure a consistent delivery of products across our store base.  Our planogram department assists the merchants and replenishment team to keep new products flowing into stores on a timely basis. All major product categories undergo planogram revisions once or twice a
year and adjustments are made to assortment mix and product placement based on current sales trends.  Our visual department works with our
merchandising team on every advertising event regarding strategic placement of promotional merchandise, along with functional and educational signage and creative product presentation standards, in all of our stores. All stores receive a centrally
produced promotional planner for each event to ensure consistent implementation.  Planning and allocation 
We have developed a disciplined approach to buying and a dynamic inventory planning and allocation process to support our merchandising strategy. We
centrally manage product replenishment to our stores through our merchandise planning group. This group serves as a strategic partner to, and provides financial oversight of, the merchandising team. The merchandising team creates a sales forecast by
category for the year. Our merchandise planning group creates an open-to-buy plan, approved by senior executives, for each product category. The open-to-buy plan is updated weekly with POS data, receipts and inventory levels and is used throughout
the year to balance buying opportunities and inventory return on investment. We believe this structure maximizes our buying opportunities while maintaining organizational and financial control. Regularly replenished products are presented
consistently in all stores utilizing a merchandising planogram process. POS data is used to calculate sales forecasts and to determine replenishment levels. We determine promotional product replenishment levels using sales histories from similar or
comparable events. To ensure our inventory remains productive, our planning and replenishment group, along with senior executives, monitors the levels of clearance and aged inventory in our stores on a weekly basis. 
  9 


Table of Contents
Vendor relationships  We work with over 300 vendors. Our Senior Vice President of Merchandising has over 30 years of experience and each merchandising vice president has over 15 years of experience developing relationships in
the industry with which he or she works. We have no long-term supply agreements or exclusive arrangements with our vendors. There continues to be vendor consolidation within the beauty products industry. Our top ten vendors represent approximately
53% of our total annual sales. These include vendors across all product categories, such as Bare Escentuals, Farouk Systems, L’Oréal, Procter & Gamble, and Coty, among others. We believe our vendors view us as a significant
distribution channel for growth and brand enhancement. We believe we have strong relationships with our vendors.  Marketing and advertising
 Marketing strategy 
We employ a multi-faceted marketing strategy to increase brand awareness and drive traffic to both our stores and website. Our marketing strategy
complements a basic tenet of our business strategy, which is to provide our customers with an engaging and uplifting experience. We communicate this vision to our customers and prospective customers through a multi-media, multi-touchpoint approach.
Our primary media expenditure is in direct mail catalogs and free-standing newspaper inserts. These vehicles allow the customer to see the breadth of our selection of prestige, mass and salon beauty products. We additionally engage our customers
through an active growing social media dialog, targeted digital communications and broadcast compaigns.  In order to reach new customers and to
establish Ulta as a national brand, we advertise in national beauty and lifestyle magazines such as Allure, Glamour, Lucky, and Self. These advertising channels have historically been successful in raising our brand awareness on a national level and
driving additional sales from both existing and new customers. In conjunction with our national brand advertising, we have initiated a public relations strategy that focuses on reaching top tier magazine editors to ensure consistent messaging in
beauty magazines as well as direct-to-customer efforts through multi-media channels.  Our digital marketing strategy complements our print
media strategy. Ulta.com serves not only as an e-commerce site, but additionally as an extension of Ulta’s marketing and prospecting strategies (beyond catalogs, newspaper inserts and national advertising) by exposing potential new customers to
the Ulta brand and product offerings and providing a 24 hour forum for loyalists to engage with the brand. This dual role for Ulta.com exists through online marketing strategies including search marketing, affiliate marketing, social networking,
banner advertising, and other online marketing channels. Ulta.com’s email marketing programs are also effective in communicating with and driving sales from online and retail store customers. 
Customer loyalty programs  We
maintain two customer loyalty programs. Our national certificate program provides reward certificates for free beauty products. Customers earn purchase-based reward credit and redeem the related reward certificate during specific promotional periods
throughout the year. We are also rolling out our ULTAmate Rewards program in which customers earn purchase-based points, valid for up to one year, which can be redeemed at any time. We have over nine million active loyalty program members.
 Staffing and operations 
Retail  Our current Ulta store
format is staffed with a general manager, a salon manager, three to four assistant managers, and approximately twenty full and part-time associates, including approximately six to eight prestige consultants and eight to ten licensed salon
professionals. The management team in each store reports to the general manager. The general manager oversees all store activities including salon management, inventory management, merchandising, cash management, scheduling, hiring and guest
services. Members of store management receive bonuses depending on their position and based upon store sales and shrink. Each general manager reports to a district manager, who in turn reports to a Regional Vice President of Operations who in turn

  10 


Table of Contents

reports to the Senior Vice President of Operations who in turn reports to our Chief Executive Officer. Each store team receives additional support from time to time from recruiting specialists
for the retail and salon operations, regionally based human resource managers, a field loss prevention team, salon technical trainers, management trainers and vendors.  Ulta stores are open seven days a week, eleven hours a day, Monday through Saturday, and seven hours on Sunday. Our stores have extended hours during the holiday season. 
Salon  A typical salon is staffed
with eight to ten licensed salon professionals, including a salon manager, six stylists, and one to two estheticians. Our higher producing salons have a guest coordinator and an assistant manager. Our salon technical trainers and vendor education
classes create a comprehensive educational program for approximately 3,500 Ulta salon professionals.  Training and development
 Our success is dependent in part on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate qualified employees at all levels of the
organization. We have developed a corporate culture that enables individual store managers to make store-level operating decisions and consistently rewards their success. We are committed to improving the skills and careers of our workforce and
providing advancement opportunities for our associates. Our associates and management teams are essential to our store expansion strategy. We use a combination of existing managers, internal promotes and outside hires to support our new stores.
 All of our associates participate in an interactive new-hire orientation through which each associate becomes acquainted with Ulta’s
vision and mission. Training for new store managers, prestige consultants and sales associates familiarizes them with beauty products and sales, opening and closing routines, guest service expectations, our loss prevention policy and procedures, and
our culture. We also have ongoing development programs that include operational training for hourly associates, prestige consultants, management and stylists. We provide continuing education to both salon professionals and retail associates
throughout their careers at Ulta. In contrast to the sales teams at traditional department stores, our sales teams are not commissioned. Our prestige consultants are trained to work across all prestige lines and within our prestige
“boutiques”, where customers can receive a makeover or skin analysis.  Distribution 
We operate two distribution facilities. The first facility, located in Romeoville, Illinois, is approximately 317,000 square feet in size, including an
overflow facility. The second distribution facility is in Phoenix, Arizona and is approximately 330,000 square feet in size. We intend to open a third distribution center, located in Chambersburg, Pennsylvania, in fiscal 2012 to support our future
growth needs. The Chambersburg warehouse contains approximately 373,000 square feet.  Inventory is shipped from our suppliers to our
distribution facilities. We carry over 20,000 products and replenish our stores with such products primarily in eaches (i.e., less-than-case quantities), which allows us to ship less than an entire case when only one or two of a particular product
is required. Our distribution facilities use warehouse management and warehouse control software systems, which have been upgraded or installed in the last two years. All products are bar-coded, which supports real-time inventory management and
processing accuracy throughout the distribution center. Store replenishment order selection is performed using industry standard put-to-light and various other wireless technologies. Product is delivered to stores using a broad network of contract
carriers.  Information technology  We are committed to using technology to enhance our competitive position. We depend on a variety of information systems and technologies to maintain and improve our competitive position and to manage the

  11 


Table of Contents

operations of our growing store base. We rely on computer systems to provide information for all areas of our business, including supply chain, merchandising, POS, e-commerce, finance, accounting
and human resources. Our core business systems consist mostly of a purchased software program that integrates with our internally developed software solutions. Our technology also includes a company-wide network that connects all corporate users,
stores, and our distribution infrastructure and provides communications for credit card and daily polling of sales and merchandise movement at the store level. We intend to leverage our technology infrastructure and systems where appropriate to gain
operational efficiencies through more effective use of our systems, people and processes. We update the technology supporting our stores, distribution infrastructure and corporate headquarters on a continual basis. We will continue to make
investments in our information systems to facilitate our growth and enable us to enhance our competitive position.  Intellectual property
 We have registered over 30 trademarks in the United States and other countries. The majority of our trademark registrations contain the
ULTA mark, including Ulta Salon Cosmetics Fragrance (and design), Ulta.com, and Ulta Beauty and two related designs. We maintain our marks on a docket system to monitor filing deadlines for renewal and continued validity. All marks that are deemed
material to our business have been applied for or registered in the United States and select foreign countries, including Canada.  We believe
our trademarks, especially those related to the Ulta brand, have significant value and are important to building brand recognition. 
Government regulation  In our U.S.
markets, we are affected by extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints. Such laws, regulations and other constraints may exist at the federal, state or local levels in the United
States. The cosmetic, dietary supplement, food and over-the-counter (OTC) drug products we sell in our stores, including our Ulta branded products, are subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Federal Trade Commission
(FTC) and State Attorneys General (AG) in the United States. Such regulations principally relate to the safety of ingredients, proper labeling, manufacturing, advertising, packaging and distribution of the products. 
Products classified as cosmetics (as defined in the Food, Drug and Cosmetic (FDC) Act) are not subject to pre-market approval by the FDA, but the products
and the ingredients must generally be safe and must be properly manufactured and labeled. Certain products, such as sunscreens and acne treatments, are classified as OTC drugs, and certain ingestible products, such as vitamins and minerals, are
classified as dietary supplements. Both OTC drugs and dietary supplements have specific ingredients, labeling and manufacturing requirements. The labeling of these products is subject to the requirements of the FDC Act and the Fair Packaging and
Labeling Act. Further, claims we make in advertising, including claims about the safety or efficacy of products, pricing claims and environmental claims, are subject to regulation by the FTC and State AG’s who generally prohibit deceptive
practices.  The government regulations that most impact our day-to-day operations are the labor and employment and taxation laws to which most
retailers are typically subject. We are also subject to typical zoning and real estate land use restrictions and typical advertising and consumer protection laws (both federal and state). Our salon business is subject to state board regulations and
state licensing requirements for our stylists and our salon procedures.  In our store leases, we require our landlords to obtain all necessary
zoning approvals and permits for the site to be used as a retail site and we also ask them to obtain any zoning approvals and permits for our specific use (but at times the responsibility for obtaining zoning approvals and permits for our specific
use falls to us). We require our landlords to deliver a certificate of occupancy for any work they perform on our buildings or the shopping centers in which our stores are located. We are responsible for delivering a certificate of occupancy for any
remodeling or build-outs that we perform and are responsible for complying with all applicable laws in connection with such construction projects or build-outs. 
  12 


Table of Contents
Associates  As of January 28, 2012, we employed approximately 4,500 people on a full-time basis and approximately 9,500 on a part-time basis. We have no collective bargaining agreements. We have not experienced
any work stoppages and believe we have good relationships with our associates.  Available Information 
Our principal website address is www.ulta.com. We make available at this address under investor relations (at http://ir.ulta.com), free of charge, our
proxy statement, annual report to shareholders, annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically
filed with or furnished to the SEC. Information available on our website is not incorporated by reference in and is not deemed a part of this Form 10-K. In addition, our filings with the SEC may be accessed through the SEC’s Electronic Data
Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval (EDGAR) system at www.sec.gov. You may read and copy any filed document at the SEC’s public reference rooms in Washington, D.C. at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330 for further information about the public reference rooms. All statements made in any of our securities filings, including all forward-looking statements or information, are made as of the date of the document in which the statement is
included, and we do not assume or undertake any obligation to update any of those statements or documents unless we are required to do so by law.   


Item  1A.
Risk Factors 
Investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other
information contained in this Form 10-K before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or future growth could suffer. In these circumstances, the market price of
our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.  The global economic crisis and volatility in
global economic conditions and the financial markets as well as declines in consumer spending may adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows.  The global economic crisis and volatility and disruption to the capital and credit markets have had a significant, adverse impact on global economic conditions, resulting in recessionary pressures and
declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. These conditions have led to decreases in consumer spending across the economy. Increases in the levels of unemployment, energy costs, healthcare costs and taxes, combined with tighter credit
markets, reduced consumer confidence and other factors, contribute to the decline in consumer spending. While this decline has moderated, the level of consumer spending is not where it was prior to the global recession, and economic conditions could
lead to further declines in consumer spending in the future. We offer a wide selection of beauty products and premium salon services. Continued uncertainty in the economy could adversely impact levels of consumer discretionary spending across all of
our product categories including prestige beauty products and premium salon services. Additionally, there can be no assurance that various governmental activities to stabilize the markets and stimulate the economy will restore consumer confidence or
change spending habits. Reduced consumer spending could cause changes in customer order patterns and changes in the level of inventory purchased by our customers, and may signify a reset of consumer spending habits, all of which may adversely affect
our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows.  Economic conditions have also resulted in a tightening of the credit markets,
including lending by financial institutions, which is a source of capital for our borrowing and liquidity. This tightening of the credit markets has increased the cost of capital and reduced the availability of credit. Concern about the stability of
the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers. These factors have led to a decrease in
spending by businesses and consumers alike, and a corresponding decrease in global infrastructure spending. While global credit and financial markets appear to be recovering from extreme disruptions

  13 


Table of Contents

experienced over the past few years, uncertainty about continuing economic stability remains. It is difficult to predict how long the current economic and capital and credit market conditions
will continue, the extent to which they will continue to recover, if at all, and which aspects of our products or business may be adversely affected. Current market and credit conditions could continue to make it more difficult for developers and
landlords to obtain the necessary credit to build new retail centers. A significant decrease in new retail center development has adversely affected our new store program and could limit our future growth opportunities as long as the aforementioned
conditions exist. Continued turbulence in the United States and international markets and economies and declines in consumer spending may adversely affect our ability to refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity
needs, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows.  Additionally, the general deterioration in
economic conditions could adversely affect our commercial partners including our product vendors as well as the real estate developers and landlords who we rely on to construct and operate centers in which our stores are located. A bankruptcy or
financial failure of a significant vendor or a number of significant real estate developers or shopping center landlords could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. 
We may be unable to compete effectively in our highly competitive markets.  The markets for beauty products and salon services are highly competitive with few barriers to entry even when economic conditions are favorable. We compete against a diverse group of retailers, both
small and large, including regional and national department stores, specialty retailers, drug stores, mass merchandisers, high-end and discount salon chains, locally owned beauty retailers and salons, Internet businesses, catalog retailers and
direct response television, including television home shopping retailers and infomercials. We believe the principal bases upon which we compete are the quality of merchandise, our value proposition, the quality of our customers’ shopping
experience and the convenience of our stores as one-stop destinations for beauty products and salon services. Many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources
and therefore may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we
can. As a result, we may lose market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows.  If we are unable to gauge beauty trends and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales will decrease.  We believe our success depends in substantial part on our ability to:   


 
Ÿ
 
 recognize and define product and beauty trends;   


 
Ÿ
 
 anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product and service offerings in our stores and salons in advance of our competitors;
  


 
Ÿ
 
 develop and maintain vendor relationships that provide us access to the newest merchandise on reasonable terms; and 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 distribute merchandise to our stores in an efficient and effective manner and maintain appropriate in-stock levels. 
If we are unable to anticipate and fulfill the merchandise needs of the regions in which we operate, our net sales may decrease and we may be forced to
increase markdowns of slow-moving merchandise, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows.  If we fail to retain our existing senior management team or attract qualified new personnel, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and
cash flows.  Our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization. This execution requires an experienced and
talented management team. If we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities 
  14 


Table of Contents

of other key executive personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition profitability and cash flows. Furthermore, our ability to manage our retail
expansion will require us to continue to train, motivate and manage our associates. We will need to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified executive, managerial and merchandising personnel and store associates. Competition for this type
of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably.  On March 8, 2012 we announced the implementation of a Chief Financial Officer succession plan after our current CFO, Gregg R. Bodnar, advised us that due to a family health issue he will be required
to relocate and as such intends to step down from his current position at such time as a suitable successor CFO can be identified. In order to facilitate an orderly transition, Mr. Bodnar plans to remain in his present position pending the
appointment of his successor and is expected to assist in the transition of his successor. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to timely identify a suitable successor Chief Financial Officer or that Mr. Bodnar’s
services will be available to us through a transition period. Our inability to facilitate an orderly transition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. 
We intend to continue to open new stores, which could strain our resources and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
profitability and cash flows.  Our continued and future growth largely depends on our ability to successfully open and operate new
stores on a profitable basis. During fiscal 2011, we opened 61 new stores. We intend to continue to grow our number of stores for the foreseeable future, and believe we have the long-term potential to grow our store base to over 1,000 stores in the
United States. During fiscal 2011, the average investment required to open a typical new store was approximately $0.9 million. This continued expansion could place increased demands on our financial, managerial, operational and administrative
resources. For example, our planned expansion will require us to increase the number of people we employ as well as to monitor and upgrade our management information and other systems and our distribution infrastructure. These increased demands and
operating complexities could cause us to operate our business less efficiently and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows.  The capacity of our distribution and order fulfillment infrastructure may not be adequate to support our recent growth and expected future growth plans, which could prevent the successful
implementation of these plans or cause us to incur costs to expand this infrastructure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. 
We operate two distribution facilities, which house the distribution operations for Ulta retail stores together with the order fulfillment operations of
our e-commerce business. In order to support our recent and expected future growth and to maintain the efficient operation of our business, we intend to open a third distribution center in fiscal 2012. Our failure to open our third distribution
center in fiscal 2012 or to expand our distribution capacity on a timely basis to keep pace with our anticipated growth in stores could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. 
Any significant interruption in the operations of our distribution facilities could disrupt our ability to deliver merchandise to our stores in a
timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows.  We
distribute products to our stores without supplementing such deliveries with direct-to-store arrangements from vendors or wholesalers. We are a retailer carrying over 20,000 beauty products that change on a regular basis in response to beauty
trends, which makes the success of our operations particularly vulnerable to disruptions in our distribution infrastructure. Any significant interruption in the operation of our supply chain infrastructure, such as disruptions in our information
systems, disruptions in operations due to fire or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements, or shipping and transportation problems, could drastically reduce our ability to receive and process orders and provide products and services to our
stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. 
  15 


Table of Contents
Any material disruption of our information systems could negatively impact financial results and
materially adversely affect our business operations, particularly during the holiday season.  We are increasingly dependent on a
variety of information systems to effectively manage the operations of our growing store base and fulfill customer orders from our e-commerce business. We have identified the need to expand and upgrade our information systems to support recent and
expected future growth. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed could have an adverse effect on our business and results of our operations. Any material disruption of our systems could disrupt our ability to track, record and
analyze the merchandise that we sell and could negatively impact our operations, shipment of goods, ability to process financial information and credit card transactions, and our ability to receive and process e-commerce orders or engage in normal
business activities. Moreover, security breaches or leaks of proprietary information, including leaks of customers’ private data, could result in liability, decrease customer confidence in our company, and weaken our ability to compete in the
marketplace, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows.  Our e-commerce
operations, while relatively small, are increasingly important to our business. The Ulta.com website serves as an effective extension of Ulta’s marketing and prospecting strategies (beyond catalogs, newspaper inserts and national advertising)
by exposing potential new customers to the Ulta brand, product offerings, and enhanced content. As the importance of our website and e-commerce operations to our business grows, we are increasingly vulnerable to website downtime and other technical
failures. Our failure to successfully respond to these risks could reduce e-commerce sales and damage our brand’s reputation. 
Unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer, associate or company information could damage out reputation, expose us to litigation and
negatively impact our business.  We collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential customer and associate information as part
of our normal course of business. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. Despite the security measures we have in place, our
systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, human errors, or other similar events. Any security breach of customer, associate or
company confidential information could result in damage to our reputation and result in lost sales, litigation, fines, or additional investments to fix or replace the systems that were breached. Any of these events could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows.  Increased costs or interruption in our third-party
vendors’ overseas sourcing operations could disrupt production, shipment or receipt of some of our merchandise, which would result in lost sales and could increase our costs.  We directly source the majority of our gift-with-purchase and other promotional products through third-party vendors using foreign factories. In addition, many of our vendors use overseas sourcing to
varying degrees to manufacture some or all of their products. Any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from such foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, unanticipated political changes,
increased customs duties, legal or economic restrictions on overseas suppliers’ ability to produce and deliver products, and natural disasters, could materially harm our operations. We have no long-term supply contracts with respect to such
foreign-sourced items, many of which are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be imported into the United States from such countries. Our business is also subject
to a variety of other risks generally associated with sourcing goods from abroad, such as political instability, disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices. Our sourcing operations may also be hurt by health concerns
regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters that may occur overseas or acts of war or terrorism in the United States or worldwide, to the extent these acts affect
the production, shipment or receipt of merchandise. Our future operations and performance will be subject to these factors, which are beyond our control, and these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
profitability and cash flows or may require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. 
  16 


Table of Contents
A reduction in traffic to, or the closing of, the other destination retailers in the shopping areas
where our stores are located could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with unsold inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. 
As a result of our real estate strategy, most of our stores are located in off-mall shopping areas known as power centers. Power centers typically contain
three to five big-box anchor stores along with a variety of smaller specialty tenants. As a consequence of most of our stores being located in such shopping areas, our sales are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic generated by the other
destination retailers and the anchor stores in power centers where our stores are located. Customer traffic to these shopping areas may be adversely affected by the closing of such destination retailers or anchor stores, or by a reduction in traffic
to such stores resulting from a regional economic downturn, a general downturn in the local area where our store is located, or a decline in the desirability of the shopping environment of a particular power center. Such a reduction in customer
traffic would reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions
to reduce excess inventory, which would further decrease our gross profits and net income. This risk is more pronounced during the current severe economic downturn which has resulted in a number of national retailers filing for bankruptcy or closing
stores due to depressed consumer spending levels.  Diversion of exclusive salon products, or a decision by manufacturers of exclusive
salon products to utilize other distribution channels, could negatively impact our revenue from the sale of such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows.
 The retail products that we sell in our salons are meant to be sold exclusively by professional salons and authorized professional
retail outlets. However, incidents of product diversion occur, which involve the selling of salon exclusive haircare products to unauthorized channels such as drug stores, grocery stores or mass merchandisers. Diversion could result in adverse
publicity that harms the commercial prospects of our products (if diverted products are old, tainted or damaged), as well as lower product revenues should consumers choose to purchase diverted product from these channels rather than purchasing from
one of our salons. Additionally, the various product manufacturers could in the future decide to utilize other distribution channels for such products, therefore widening the availability of these products in other retail channels, which could
negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products.  We rely on our good relationships with vendors to purchase
prestige, mass and salon beauty products on reasonable terms. If these relationships were to be impaired, or if certain vendors were to change their distribution model or are unable to supply sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth
plans, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient selection or volume of merchandise on reasonable terms, and we may not be able to respond promptly to changing trends in beauty products, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our
competitive position, business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows.  We have no long-term supply agreements or exclusive
arrangements with vendors and, therefore, our success depends on maintaining good relationships with our vendors. Our business depends to a significant extent on the willingness and ability of our vendors to supply us with a sufficient selection and
volume of products to stock our stores. Some of our prestige vendors may not have the capacity to supply us with sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans. We also have strategic partnerships with certain core brands, which have
allowed us to benefit from the growing popularity of such brands. Any of our other core brands could in the future decide to scale back or end its partnership with us and strengthen its relationship with our competitors, which could negatively
impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. If we fail to maintain strong relationships with our existing vendors, or fail to continue acquiring and strengthening relationships with additional vendors of beauty products, our ability
to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of merchandise on reasonable terms may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our competitive position.  During fiscal 2011, merchandise supplied to Ulta by our top ten vendors accounted for approximately 53% of our net sales. There continues to be vendor consolidation within the beauty products industry.
The loss of or a reduction in the amount of merchandise made available to us by any one of these key vendors, or by any of our other vendors, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows.

  17 


Table of Contents
If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be
harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows.  We regard our
trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. Our principal intellectual property rights include registered and common law trademarks on our name, “Ulta,” and
other marks incorporating that name, copyrights in our website content, rights to our domain name www.ulta.com and trade secrets and know-how with respect to our Ulta branded product formulations, product sourcing, sales and marketing and other
aspects of our business. As such, we rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees, consultants, suppliers and others to protect our proprietary rights. If we are unable to
protect or preserve the value of our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary rights for any reason, or if other parties infringe on our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be impaired and we could lose
customers.  If our manufacturers are unable to produce products manufactured uniquely for Ulta, including Ulta branded products and
gift-with-purchase and other promotional products, consistent with applicable regulatory requirements, we could suffer lost sales and be required to take costly corrective action, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, profitability and cash flows.  We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent
third-party vendors for the manufacture of all products manufactured uniquely for Ulta, including Ulta branded products and gift-with-purchase and other promotional products. Our third-party manufacturers of Ulta products may not maintain adequate
controls with respect to product specifications and quality and may not continue to produce products that are consistent with applicable regulatory requirements. If we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory
requirements, we could be required to take costly corrective action. In addition, sanctions under various laws may include seizure of products, injunctions against future shipment of products, restitution and disgorgement of profits, operating
restrictions and criminal prosecution. The FDA does not have a pre-market approval system for cosmetics, and we believe we are permitted to market our cosmetics and have them manufactured without submitting safety or efficacy data to the FDA.
However, cosmetic products may become subject to more extensive regulation in the future. These events could interrupt the marketing and sale of our Ulta products, severely damage our brand reputation and image in the marketplace, increase the cost
of our products, cause us to fail to meet customer expectations or cause us to be unable to deliver merchandise in sufficient quantities or of sufficient quality to our stores, any of which could result in lost sales, which could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows.  We, as well as our vendors, are subject to laws and
regulations that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. 
In our U.S. markets, numerous laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels can affect our business. Legal requirements are frequently
changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. If we fail to comply with any present or future laws or regulations, we could be subject
to future liabilities, a prohibition on the operation of our stores or a prohibition on the sale of our Ulta branded products. In particular, failure to adequately comply with the following legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial conditions, profitability and cash flows.   


 
Ÿ
 
 In March 2010, comprehensive healthcare reform legislation under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care Education and
Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “Acts”) was passed and signed into law. This healthcare reform legislation significantly expands healthcare coverage to many uninsured individuals and to those already insured. Due to the
breadth and complexity of the healthcare reform legislation and the staggered implementation and uncertain timing of the regulations and lack of interpretive guidance, it is difficult to predict the overall impact of the healthcare reform
legislation on our business over the coming years. Possible adverse effects include increased costs, exposure to expanded liability and requirements for us to revise the ways in which we conduct business. Additionally,

  18 


Table of Contents


 
 
because significant provisions of the Acts will become effective on various dates over the next several years, future changes could significantly impact any effects on our business that we
previously anticipated.   


 
Ÿ
 
 Our rapidly expanding workforce, growing in pace with our number of stores, makes us vulnerable to changes in labor and employment laws. In addition,
changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could hurt our profitability and affect our growth strategy. 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 Our salon business is subject to state board regulations and state licensing requirements for our stylists and our salon procedures. Failure to
maintain compliance with these regulatory and licensing requirements could jeopardize the viability of our salons.   


 
Ÿ
 
 We operate stores in California, which has enacted legislation commonly referred to as “Proposition 65” requiring that “clear and
reasonable” warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to chemicals known to the State of California to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity. Although we have sought to comply with Proposition 65 requirements, there can be no assurance
that we will not be adversely affected by litigation relating to Proposition 65.  In addition, the formulation,
manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, sale and storage of our vendors’ products and our Ulta products are subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including the FDA, the FTC and state attorneys general in the
United States. If we, our vendors or the manufacturers of our Ulta products fail to comply with those regulations, we could become subject to significant penalties or claims, which could harm our results of operations or our ability to conduct our
business. In addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may impair the marketability of our vendors’
products or our Ulta products, resulting in significant loss of net sales. Our failure to comply with FTC or state regulations that cover our vendors’ products or our Ulta product claims and advertising, including direct claims and advertising
by us, may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise harm the distribution and sale of our products.  As we
grow the number of our stores in new cities and states, we are subject to local building codes in an increasing number of local jurisdictions. Our failure to comply with local building codes, and the failure of our landlords to obtain certificates
of occupancy in a timely manner, could cause delays in our new store openings, which could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public reputation. 
Ensuring compliance with local zoning and real estate land use restrictions across numerous jurisdictions is increasingly challenging as we grow the
number of our stores in new cities and states. Our store leases generally require us to provide a certificate of occupancy with respect to the interior build-out of our stores (landlords generally provide the certificate of occupancy with respect to
the shell of the store and the larger shopping area and common areas), and while we strive to remain in compliance with local building codes relating to the interior buildout of our stores, the constantly increasing number of local jurisdictions in
which we operate makes it increasingly difficult to stay abreast of changes in, and requirements of, local building codes and local building and fire inspectors’ interpretations of such building codes. Moreover, our landlords have occasionally
been unable, due to the requirements of local zoning laws, to obtain in a timely manner a certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of our stores and/or the larger shopping centers and/or common areas (which certificate of occupancy is
required by local building codes for us to open our store), causing us in some instances to delay store openings. As the number of local building codes and local building and fire inspectors to which we and our landlords are subject to increases, we
may be increasingly vulnerable to increased construction costs and delays in store openings caused by our or our landlords’ compliance with local building codes and local building and fire inspectors’ interpretations of such building
codes, which increased construction costs and/or delays in store openings could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition, profitability and cash flows.  Our Ulta products and salon services may cause unexpected and undesirable side
effects that could result in their discontinuance or expose us to lawsuits, either of which could result in unexpected costs and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability
and cash flows.  Unexpected and undesirable side effects caused by our Ulta products for which we have not provided sufficient label
warnings, or salon services which may have been performed negligently, could result in the discontinuance 
  19 


Table of Contents

of sales of our products or of certain salon services or prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected products and services. Such side effects could also expose us
to product liability or negligence lawsuits. Any claims brought against us may exceed our existing or future insurance policy coverage or limits. Any judgment against us that is in excess of our policy limits would have to be paid from our cash
reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. Further, we may not have sufficient capital resources to pay a judgment, in which case our creditors could levy against our assets. These events could cause negative publicity regarding our
company, brand or products, which could in turn harm our reputation and net sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. 
Legal proceedings or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement may require us to spend time and money and could prevent us from
developing certain aspects of our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows.  Our technologies, promotional products purchased from third-party vendors, or Ulta products or potential products in development may infringe rights under patents, patent applications, trademark,
copyright or other intellectual property rights of third parties in the United States and abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful, could cause us to pay
substantial damages. Further, if a third party were to bring an intellectual property infringement suit against us, we could be forced to stop or delay development, manufacturing, or sales of the product that is the subject of the suit. 
As a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the
third party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product or be forced to cease some
aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened intellectual property infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. Even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive,
which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. The inability to enter into licenses could harm our business significantly.  In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent or trademark litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent
and Trademark Office (USPTO) proceedings before the USPTO’s Trademark Trial and Appeal Board and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to products purchased from third-party
vendors or our Ulta branded products and technology. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings better than us because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from
the initiation and continuation of intellectual property litigation or other proceedings could impair our ability to compete in the marketplace. Intellectual property litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time and
resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows.  Increases in
the demand for, or the price of, raw materials used to build and remodel our stores could hurt our profitability.  The raw materials
used to build and remodel our stores are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, general economic conditions and other unpredictable factors. As a retailer engaged in an
active building and remodeling program, we are particularly vulnerable to increases in construction and remodeling costs. As a result, increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition, profitability and cash flows.  Increases in costs of mailing, paper and printing will affect the cost of our
catalog and promotional mailings, which will reduce our profitability.  Postal rate increases and paper and printing costs affect the
cost of our catalog and promotional mailings. In response to any future increases in mailing costs, we may consider reducing the number and size of certain catalog editions. In addition, we rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure,
such as discounts for bulk 
  20 


Table of Contents

mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier routes. We are not a party to any long-term contracts for the supply of paper. The cost of paper fluctuates significantly, and our future paper costs
are subject to supply and demand forces that we cannot control. Future additional increases in postal rates or in paper or printing costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows.
 Our secured revolving credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants that could limit our operational flexibility, including
our ability to open stores.  We have a $200 million secured revolving credit facility with a term expiring October 2016. Substantially
all of our assets are pledged as collateral for outstanding borrowings under the agreement. Outstanding borrowings bear interest at the prime rate or Libor plus 1.50% and the unused line fee is 0.225%. The credit facility agreement contains usual
and customary restrictive covenants relating to our management and the operation of our business. These covenants, among other things, limit our ability to grant liens on our assets, incur additional indebtedness, pay cash dividends and redeem our
stock, enter into transactions with affiliates and merge or consolidate with another entity. These covenants could restrict our operational flexibility and any failure to comply with these covenants or our payment obligations would limit our ability
to borrow under the credit facility and, in certain circumstances, may allow the lenders thereunder to require repayment.  We may need
to raise additional funds to pursue our growth strategy, and we may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. 
From time to time we may seek additional equity or debt financing to provide for capital expenditures and working capital consistent with our growth
strategy. In addition, if general economic, financial or political conditions in our markets change, or if other circumstances arise that have a material effect on our cash flow, the anticipated cash needs of our business as well as our belief as to
the adequacy of our available sources of capital could change significantly. Any of these events or circumstances could result in significant additional funding needs, requiring us to raise additional capital to meet those needs. If financing is not
available on satisfactory terms or at all, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy as planned and our results of operations may suffer. 
Failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting and could harm our
ability to manage our expenses.  Reporting obligations as a public company and our anticipated growth are likely to place a
considerable strain on our financial and management systems, processes and controls, as well as on our personnel. In addition, as a public company we are required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 so that our management can periodically certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. As a result, we have been required to improve our financial and managerial
controls, reporting systems and procedures and have incurred and will continue to incur expenses to test our systems and to make such improvements. If our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal controls or if our
independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified, we could be subject to regulatory
scrutiny and a loss of public confidence, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price. In addition, if we do not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, we may not be able to
accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause a decline in our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise capital.  The market price for our common stock may be volatile, and an investor may not be able to sell our stock at a favorable price or at all. 
The market price of our common stock is likely to fluctuate significantly from time to time in response to factors including: 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors; 
  21 


Table of Contents


 
Ÿ
 
 fluctuations in quarterly operating results;   


 
Ÿ
 
 our performance during peak retail seasons such as the holiday season; 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole; 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any research analysts that follow our stock or any failure to
meet the estimates made by research analysts;   


 
Ÿ
 
 investors’ perceptions of our prospects and the prospects of the beauty products and salon services industries; 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 the performance of our key vendors;   


 
Ÿ
 
 announcements by us, our vendors or our competitors of significant acquisitions, divestitures, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital
commitments;   


 
Ÿ
 
 introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 small trading volumes and small public float;   


 
Ÿ
 
 stock transactions by our principal stockholders;   


 
Ÿ
 
 recruitment or departure of key personnel; and   


 
Ÿ
 
 the level and quality of securities research analyst coverage for our common stock. 
In addition, public announcements by our competitors, other retailers and vendors concerning, among other things, their performance, strategy, or
accounting practices could cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance.  Our
comparable store sales and quarterly financial performance may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock.  Our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of other factors affect our comparable
store sales and quarterly financial performance, including:   


 
Ÿ
 
 general U.S. economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment; 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 changes in our merchandising strategy or mix;   


 
Ÿ
 
 performance of our new and remodeled stores;   


 
Ÿ
 
 the effectiveness of our inventory management;   


 
Ÿ
 
 timing and concentration of new store openings, including additional human resource requirements and related pre-opening and other start-up costs;
  


 
Ÿ
 
 cannibalization of existing store sales by new store openings; 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 levels of pre-opening expenses associated with new stores; 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 timing and effectiveness of our marketing activities, such as catalogs and newspaper inserts; 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 seasonal fluctuations due to weather conditions; and   


 
Ÿ
 
 actions by our existing or new competitors.  Accordingly, our results for any one fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter, and comparable store sales for any particular future period may
decrease. In that event, the price of our common stock would likely decline. For more information on our quarterly results of operations, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.” 
  22 


Table of Contents
Our current principal stockholder has significant influence over us and they could delay, deter, or
prevent a change of control or other business combination or otherwise cause us to take action with which you might not agree.  Our
principal stockholder owns or controls, in the aggregate, approximately 18% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, this stockholder will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the
election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions and will have significant influence over our management and policies. Such concentration of voting power could have the effect of
delaying or deterring a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, the significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock
because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning shares in companies with a stockholder holding such significant influence. 
Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, stockholder rights agreement and Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change in
control, even if a sale of the Company would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could cause our stock price to decline and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. 
Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a
premium over the market price of our common stock and harm the market price of our common stock and diminish the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions include: 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 dividing our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 authorizing our board of directors to issue preferred stock and additional shares of our common stock without stockholder approval;
  


 
Ÿ
 
 prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent;   


 
Ÿ
 
 prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws except
with a two-thirds majority stockholder approval; and   


 
Ÿ
 
 requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at stockholders’ meetings. 
As permitted by our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, we have a stockholder rights agreement, sometimes known as a
“poison pill,” which provides for the issuance of a new series of preferred stock to holders of common stock. In the event of a takeover attempt, this preferred stock gives rights to holders of common stock other than the acquirer to buy
additional shares of common stock at a discount, leading to the dilution of the acquirer’s stake.  We are also subject to provisions of
Delaware law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years after the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder, subject to specified exceptions. Together, these provisions
of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and stockholder rights agreement and of Delaware law could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing
market prices for our common stock.  There can be no assurance that we will declare dividends in the future. 
Although we announced a special cash dividend on March 8, 2012 that is payable on May 15, 2012, any future dividend payments will be within the
discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, contractual restrictions, anticipated cash needs, provisions of
applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. We may not have sufficient liquidity in the future to pay dividends on our common stock. 
 


Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments  None. 
  23 


Table of Contents


Item 2.
Properties  All of
our retail stores, corporate offices and distribution and warehouse facilities are leased or subleased. Our retail stores are predominately located in convenient, high-traffic, locations such as power centers. Our typical store is approximately
10,000 square feet, including approximately 950 square feet dedicated to our full-service salon. Most of our retail store leases provide for a fixed minimum annual rent and generally have a fixed 10-year initial term with options for two or three
extension periods of five years each, exercisable at our option. As of January 28, 2012, we operated 449 retail stores in 43 states, as shown in the table below:   








 State
  
Number ofstores
 

 Alabama
  
 
9
  

 Arizona
  
 
23
  

 Arkansas
  
 
3
  

 California
  
 
39
  

 Colorado
  
 
11
  

 Connecticut
  
 
3
  

 Delaware
  
 
1
  

 Florida
  
 
31
  

 Georgia
  
 
19
  

 Idaho
  
 
1
  

 Illinois
  
 
37
  

 Indiana
  
 
8
  

 Iowa
  
 
4
  

 Kansas
  
 
3
  

 Kentucky
  
 
6
  

 Louisiana
  
 
4
  

 Maine
  
 
2
  

 Maryland
  
 
8
  

 Massachusetts
  
 
6
  

 Michigan
  
 
15
  

 Minnesota
  
 
11
  

 Mississippi
  
 
3
  

 Missouri
  
 
4
  

 Nebraska
  
 
2
  

 Nevada
  
 
6
  

 New Hampshire
  
 
1
  

 New Jersey
  
 
13
  

 New Mexico
  
 
1
  

 New York
  
 
15
  

 North Carolina
  
 
17
  

 North Dakota
  
 
1
  

 Ohio
  
 
14
  

 Oklahoma
  
 
7
  

 Oregon
  
 
5
  

 Pennsylvania
  
 
18
  

 Rhode Island
  
 
1
  

 South Carolina
  
 
6
  

 Tennessee
  
 
7
  

 Texas
  
 
57
  

 Utah
  
 
4
  

 Virginia
  
 
11
  

 Washington
  
 
7
  

 Wisconsin
  
 
5
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
449
  

  24 


Table of Contents
As of January 28, 2012, we operated two distribution facilitates located in Romeoville, Illinois and
Phoenix, Arizona. The Romeoville warehouse contains approximately 317,000 square feet, including an overflow facility. The lease for the Romeoville warehouse expires on April 30, 2015. The Phoenix warehouse contains approximately 330,000 square
feet. The lease for the Phoenix warehouse expires on March 31, 2019 and has three renewal options with terms of five years each.  In
August 2011, we entered into a lease for a distribution center located in Chambersburg, Pennsylvania. The Chambersburg warehouse contains approximately 373,000 square feet and is expected to open in fiscal 2012. The lease expires on March 31,
2027 and has three renewal options with terms of five years each.  Our principal executive office is in Bolingbrook, Illinois. The lease for
the Bolingbrook office expires on August 31, 2018.  Item 3.     Legal
Proceedings  General litigation — In May 2010, a putative employment class action
lawsuit was filed against us and certain unnamed defendants in state court in California. The plaintiff and members of the proposed class are alleged to be (or have been) non-exempt hourly employees. The suit alleges that Ulta violated various
provisions of the California labor laws and failed to provide plaintiff and members of the proposed class with full meal periods, paid rest breaks, certain wages, overtime compensation and premium pay. The suit seeks to recover damages and
penalties as a result of these alleged practices. On June 21, 2010, we filed our answer to the lawsuit. On January 12, 2011, the Company and plaintiffs engaged in a voluntary mediation. Although we continue to deny
plaintiffs’ allegations, in the interest of putting certain of the claims behind us, we agreed in principle to settle all claims of the putative class consisting of non-exempt hourly hair designers in the salon department within the California
retail stores. The settlement, which is not an admission of liability, is subject to final documentation and Court approval. Counsel for the plaintiffs has agreed to dismiss without prejudice the claims of all other putative class
members. The proposed settlement was approved and became final in January 2012. The settlement amount was not material.  On March 2,
2012, a putative employment class action lawsuit was filed against us and certain unnamed defendants in state court in Los Angeles County, California. The plaintiff and members of the proposed class are alleged to be (or to have been) non-exempt
hourly employees. The suit alleges that Ulta violated various provisions of the California labor laws and failed to provide plaintiff and members of the proposed class with full meal periods, paid rest breaks, certain wages, overtime compensation
and premium pay. The suit seeks to recover damages and penalties as a result of these alleged practices. The Company denies plaintiff’s allegations and intends to vigorously defend the matter. 
We are also involved in various legal proceedings that are incidental to the conduct of our business. In the opinion of management, the amount of any
liability with respect to these proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, will not be material. 
Item 4.     Mine Safety Disclosures 
None.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 The names of our executive officers, their ages and their positions are shown below: 
 








 Name
  
 Age
  
 Position

 Carl S. Rubin
  
52
  
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director

 Gregg R. Bodnar
  
47
  
Chief Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary

 Robert S. Guttman
  
59
  
Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary
 There is no family relationship between any of the Directors or executive officers and any other Director or executive
officer of Ulta. 
  25 


Table of Contents
Carl S. Rubin.    Mr. Rubin has been our Chief Executive Officer since
September 2010 and President and Director since May 2010. Prior to joining Ulta, Mr. Rubin was President of the North American Retail division of Office Depot Inc. from January 2006 to April 2010. Mr. Rubin first joined Office Depot as
Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer and Chief Merchandising Officer in 2004. From 1998 to 2004, Mr. Rubin served at Accenture, including three years as a partner, working with a range of retail clients across department store,
specialty store and e-commerce venues. Prior to 1998, Mr. Rubin held a number of senior merchandising and general management positions in the specialty retail and department store industry including Federated Department Stores. Mr. Rubin
was a member of the executive committee of the board of directors of the National Retail Federation from January 2007 through March 2010. 
Gregg R. Bodnar.    Mr. Bodnar has been our Chief Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary since October 2006. Prior to
joining Ulta, Mr. Bodnar was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Borders International (a subsidiary of Borders Group, Inc.) from January 2003 to June 2006. From 1996 to 2003, Mr. Bodnar served in various positions of
increasing responsibility within the finance department of Borders Group, Inc., and from 1993 to 1996, served as Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Rao Group Inc. Mr. Bodnar was an auditor and certified public accountant at
the public accounting firm of Coopers & Lybrand from 1988 to 1993.  Robert S. Guttman.    Mr. Guttman
has been our Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary since August 2007. Prior to joining Ulta, Mr. Guttman was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of The Reynolds and Reynolds Company from August 2005 to October
2006. From 2000 to 2005, Mr. Guttman served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of CCC Information Services, Inc. Prior to that time, Mr. Guttman was an Associate General Counsel with Sears, Roebuck and Co., having
served in various positions as a lawyer with Sears from 1986 to 2000.  Part II 
 


Item 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
Market Information  Our common stock has
traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “Ulta” since October 25, 2007. Our initial public offering was priced at $18.00 per share. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for our common stock on
the NASDAQ Global Select Market during fiscal years 2011 and 2010:   












 Fiscal Year 2011
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 First quarter
  
$
53.19
  
  
$
36.73
  

 Second quarter
  
 
68.70
  
  
 
49.61
  

 Third quarter
  
 
72.86
  
  
 
48.89
  

 Fourth quarter
  
 
78.80
  
  
 
64.09
  
  












 Fiscal Year 2010
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 First quarter
  
$
25.36
  
  
$
17.29
  

 Second quarter
  
 
26.18
  
  
 
21.24
  

 Third quarter
  
 
32.33
  
  
 
22.18
  

 Fourth quarter
  
 
37.85
  
  
 
30.41
  
 Holders of the Registrant’s Common Stock  The last reported sale price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on March 22, 2012 was $93.59 per share. As of March 22, 2012, we had 94 holders of record of our common stock.
Because many shares of common stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. 
  26 


Table of Contents
Dividends  On March 8, 2012, we announced that our Board of Directors had declared a $1.00 per share special cash dividend to shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 20, 2012. The
special cash dividend, which totals approximately $62 million, will be payable on May 15, 2012.  Our Board of Directors may determine
future dividends after giving consideration to our levels of profit and cash flow, capital requirements, current and future liquidity, restrictions as part of our credit facility as well as financial and other conditions existing at the time.
 Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers  The following table sets forth repurchases of our common stock during the fourth quarter of 2011:   




















 Period
  
Total numberof
sharespurchased (1)
 
  
Average pricepaid
pershare
 
  
Total number of 
sharespurchased as part ofpublicly
announcedplans or programs (2)
 
  
Number of
maximumshares that may yet to bepurchased under plansor programs (2)
 

 November 27, 2011 to December 24, 2011
  
 
672
  
  
 
68.37
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 December 25, 2011 to January 28, 2012
  
 
49,325
  
  
 
64.67
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
49,997
  
  
 
64.72
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
    


(1)
Represents shares of the Company’s common stock transferred from employees in satisfaction of minimum statutory tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of
restricted stock during the period.   


(2)
During the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company did not have a formal plan or program for the repurchase of the Company’s common stock. 
Sales of Unregistered Securities 
None.  Securities Authorized for Issuance
Under Equity Compensation Plans  The following table provides information about Ulta common stock that may be issued under our equity
compensation plans as of January 28, 2012.   
















 Plan category
  
Number of securitiesto be
issued uponexercise ofoutstanding options,warrants and rights
 
  
Weighted-averageexercise price
ofoutstanding options,warrants and rights
 
  
Number of 
securitiesremaining availablefor future issuanceunder equitycompensation plans
 

 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders
  
 
3,559,395
  
  
$
26.46
  
  
 
5,030,937
  

 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
3,559,395
  
  
$
26.46
  
  
 
5,030,937
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  27 


Table of Contents
Stock Performance Graph  The following performance graph and related information shall not be deemed “soliciting material” or to be “filed” with the SEC, nor shall such information be incorporated by
reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing. 
Set forth below is a graph comparing the cumulative total stockholder return on Ulta’s common stock with the NASDAQ Global Select Market Composite
Index (NQGS) and the S&P Retail Index (RLX) for the period covering Ulta’s first trading day on October 25, 2007 through the end of Ulta’s fiscal year ended January 28, 2012. The graph assumes an investment of $100 made at
the closing of trading on October 25, 2007, in (i) Ulta’s common stock, (ii) the stocks comprising the NQGS, and (iii) stocks comprising the RLX. All values assume reinvestment of the full amount of all dividends, if any,
into additional shares of the same class of equity securities at the frequency with which dividends are paid on such securities during the applicable time period.   



  28 


Table of Contents
Item 6.    Selected Financial
Data  The following table presents our selected financial data. The table should be read in conjunction with Item 7,
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
 
























 
  
Fiscal year ended(1)
 

 
  
January 28,2012
 
 
January 29,2011
 
 
January 30,2010
 
 
January 31,2009
 
 
February 2,2008
 

 
  
(In thousands, except per share and per square foot data)
 

 Income statement:
  



 



 



 



 




 Net sales
  
$
1,776,151
  
 
$
1,454,838
  
 
$
1,222,771
  
 
$
1,084,646
  
 
$
912,141
  

 Cost of sales
  
 
1,159,311
  
 
 
970,753
  
 
 
846,202
  
 
 
752,939
  
 
 
628,495
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
616,840
  
 
 
484,085
  
 
 
376,569
  
 
 
331,707
  
 
 
283,646
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
410,658
  
 
 
358,106
  
 
 
302,413
  
 
 
271,095
  
 
 
225,167
  

 Pre-opening expenses
  
 
9,987
  
 
 
7,095
  
 
 
6,003
  
 
 
14,311
  
 
 
11,758
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income
  
 
196,195
  
 
 
118,884
  
 
 
68,153
  
 
 
46,301
  
 
 
46,721
  

 Interest expense
  
 
587
  
 
 
755
  
 
 
2,202
  
 
 
3,943
  
 
 
4,542
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
 
195,608
  
 
 
118,129
  
 
 
65,951
  
 
 
42,358
  
 
 
42,179
  

 Income tax expense
  
 
75,344
  
 
 
47,099
  
 
 
26,595
  
 
 
17,090
  
 
 
16,844
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
120,264
  
 
$
71,030
  
 
$
39,356
  
 
$
25,268
  
 
$
25,335
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income per common share:
  



 



 



 



 




 Basic
  
$
1.96
  
 
$
1.20
  
 
$
0.68
  
 
$
0.44
  
 
$
0.69
  

 Diluted
  
$
1.90
  
 
$
1.16
  
 
$
0.66
  
 
$
0.43
  
 
$
0.48
  

 Weighted average common shares outstanding:
  



 



 



 



 




 Basic
  
 
61,259
  
 
 
58,959
  
 
 
57,915
  
 
 
57,425
  
 
 
20,383
  

 Diluted
  
 
63,334
  
 
 
61,288
  
 
 
59,237
  
 
 
58,967
  
 
 
53,293
  

 Other operating data:
  



 



 



 



 




 Comparable store sales increase(2)
  
 
10.9
% 
 
 
11.0
% 
 
 
1.4
% 
 
 
0.2
% 
 
 
6.4
% 

 Number of stores end of year
  
 
449
  
 
 
389
  
 
 
346
  
 
 
311
  
 
 
249
  

 Total square footage end of year
  
 
4,747,148
  
 
 
4,094,808
  
 
 
3,613,840
  
 
 
3,240,579
  
 
 
2,589,244
  

 Total square footage per store(3)
  
 
10,573
  
 
 
10,526
  
 
 
10,445
  
 
 
10,420
  
 
 
10,399
  

 Average total square footage(4)
  
 
4,413,236
  
 
 
3,811,597
  
 
 
3,459,628
  
 
 
2,960,355
  
 
 
2,283,935
  

 Net sales per average total square foot(5)
  
$
402
  
 
$
382
  
 
$
353
  
 
$
366
  
 
$
399
  

 Capital expenditures
  
 
128,636
  
 
 
97,115
  
 
 
68,105
  
 
 
110,863
  
 
 
101,866
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
75,931
  
 
 
64,936
  
 
 
62,166
  
 
 
51,445
  
 
 
39,503
  

 Balance sheet data:
  



 



 



 



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
253,738
  
 
$
111,185
  
 
$
4,017
  
 
$
3,638
  
 
$
3,789
  

 Working capital
  
 
415,377
  
 
 
241,032
  
 
 
136,417
  
 
 
159,695
  
 
 
117,039
  

 Property and equipment, net
  
 
376,985
  
 
 
326,099
  
 
 
290,861
  
 
 
292,224
  
 
 
236,389
  

 Total assets
  
 
957,217
  
 
 
730,488
  
 
 
553,635
  
 
 
568,932
  
 
 
469,413
  

 Total debt
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
106,047
  
 
 
74,770
  

 Total stockholders’ equity
  
 
584,704
  
 
 
402,533
  
 
 
292,608
  
 
 
244,968
  
 
 
211,503
  

  29 


Table of Contents
 


(1)
Our fiscal year-end is the Saturday closest to January 31 based on a 52/53-week year. Each fiscal year consists of four 13-week quarters, with an extra week added
onto the fourth quarter every five or six years.   


(2)
Comparable store sales increase reflects sales for stores beginning on the first day of the 14th month of operation. Remodeled stores are included in comparable store
sales unless the store was closed for a portion of the current or comparable prior year.   


(3)
Total square footage per store is calculated by dividing total square footage at end of year by number of stores at end of year. 
 


(4)
Average total square footage represents a weighted average which reflects the effect of opening stores in different months throughout the year.
  


(5)
Net sales per average total square foot was calculated by dividing net sales for the year by the average square footage for those stores open during each year.
 Item 7.    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations  The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results
of operations should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which reflect our current views with respect to, among other things, future events and financial performance. You
can identify these forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking words such as “outlook,” “believes,” “expects,” “plans,” “estimates,” or other comparable words. Any forward-looking
statements contained in this Form 10-K are based upon our historical performance and on current plans, estimates and expectations. The inclusion of this forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person
that the future plans, estimates or expectations contemplated by us will be achieved. Such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which include, without limitation: the impact of weakness in the economy; changes
in the overall level of consumer spending; changes in the wholesale cost of our products; the possibility that we may be unable to compete effectively in our highly competitive markets; the possibility that our continued opening of new stores could
strain our resources and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance; the possibility that new store openings and existing locations may be impacted by developer or co-tenant issues; the possibility that the capacity of
our distribution and order fulfillment infrastructure may not be adequate to support our recent growth and expected future growth plans; the possibility of material disruptions to our information systems; weather conditions that could negatively
impact sales; and other risk factors detailed in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), including risk factors contained in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended January 28, 2012. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or developments. References in the following discussion to “we”, “us”,
“our”, “the Company”, “Ulta” and similar references mean Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires. 
Overview  We were founded in 1990 as a
discount beauty retailer at a time when prestige, mass and salon products were sold through separate distribution channels. After extensive research, we recognized an opportunity to better satisfy how a woman wanted to shop for beauty products,
which led to what we believe to be our unique combination of beauty superstore and specialty store attributes. We believe our strategy provides us with the competitive advantages that have contributed to our strong financial performance. 
We are currently the largest beauty retailer that provides one-stop shopping for prestige, mass and salon products and salon services in the United
States. We combine the unique elements of a beauty superstore with the distinctive environment and experience of a specialty retailer. Key aspects of our beauty superstore strategy include our ability to offer our customers a broad selection of over
20,000 beauty products across the categories of cosmetics, fragrance, haircare, skincare, bath and body products and salon styling tools, as well as salon 
  30 


Table of Contents

haircare products. We focus on delivering a compelling value proposition to our customers across all of our product categories. Our stores are predominately located in convenient, high-traffic
locations such as power centers.  The continued growth of our business and any future increases in net sales, net income and cash flows is
dependent on our ability to execute our growth strategy, including growing our store base, expanding our product, brand and service offerings, enhancing our loyalty program, broadening our marketing channels, expanding our e-commerce business and
improving our profitability by expanding operating margin. We believe that the steadily expanding U.S. beauty products and services industry, the shift in distribution of prestige beauty products from department stores to specialty retail stores,
coupled with Ulta’s competitive strengths, positions us to capture additional market share in the industry through successful execution of our growth strategy.  Comparable store sales is a key metric that is monitored closely within the retail industry. Our comparable store sales have fluctuated in the past and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the
future. A variety of factors affect our comparable store sales, including general U.S. economic conditions, changes in merchandise strategy or mix, and timing and effectiveness of our marketing activities, among others. We do not expect our 10.9%
fiscal 2011 comparable store sales increase to continue into the future. Our long-term annual comparable store sales increase target is 3% to 5%.  Over the long-term, our growth strategy is to increase total net sales through increases in our comparable store sales and by opening new stores. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales is expected to
increase as a result of our ability to expand merchandise margin and leverage our supply chain infrastructure and fixed store costs with comparable store sales increases and operating efficiencies. We plan to continue to improve our operating
results by leveraging our fixed costs and decreasing our selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of our net sales. 
Global economic conditions  Economic
conditions in the U.S. continue to be uncertain. Fiscal stress in the U.S. and Europe has resulted in significant fluctuations in the U.S. stock markets and has negatively impacted consumer sentiment. While the U.S. credit markets have stabilized
and credit availability has improved compared to the recent recessionary period, economic growth is expected to continue to be weak. Consumer spending habits are affected by levels of unemployment, unsettled financial markets, weakness in housing
and real estate, higher interest rates, fuel and energy costs, and consumer perception of economic conditions, among others. Sudden negative changes in one or more of the factors that affect consumer spending could adversely affect consumer spending
levels which could lead to reduced consumer demand for our merchandise and adversely affect our sales levels and financial performance. 
Basis of presentation  The Company has
determined its operating segments on the same basis that it uses to internally evaluate performance. We have combined our three operating segments: retail stores, salon services and e-commerce, into one reportable segment because they have a similar
class of consumer, economic characteristics, nature of products and distribution methods.  Net sales include store and e-commerce merchandise
sales as well as salon service revenue. We recognize merchandise revenue at the point of sale in our retail stores and the time of shipment in the case of Internet sales. Merchandise sales are recorded net of estimated returns. Salon service revenue
is recognized at the time the service is provided. Gift card sales revenue is deferred until the customer redeems the gift card. Company coupons and other incentives are recorded as a reduction of net sales. 
Comparable store sales reflect sales for stores beginning on the first day of the 14th month of operation. Therefore, a store is included in our
comparable store base on the first day of the period after one year of operations plus the initial one month grand opening period. Non-comparable store sales include sales from new stores that have not yet completed their 13th month of
operation and stores that were closed for part or all of the period in either year as a result of remodel activity. Remodeled stores are included in comparable store sales unless the store was closed for a portion of the current or prior period.
E-commerce merchandise sales are excluded from comparable store sales. There may be variations in the way in which some of our competitors and other retailers calculate comparable or same store sales. 
  31 


Table of Contents
Comparable store sales is a critical measure that allows us to evaluate the performance of our store base as
well as several other aspects of our overall strategy. Several factors could positively or negatively impact our comparable store sales results:   


 
Ÿ
 
 the general national, regional and local economic conditions and corresponding impact on customer spending levels; 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 the introduction of new products or brands;   


 
Ÿ
 
 the location of new stores in existing store markets; 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 competition;   


 
Ÿ
 
 our ability to respond on a timely basis to changes in consumer preferences; 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 the effectiveness of our various marketing activities; and
 


 
Ÿ
 
 the number of new stores opened and the impact on the average age of all of our comparable stores. 
Cost of sales includes:   


 
Ÿ
 
 the cost of merchandise sold, including all vendor allowances, which are treated as a reduction of merchandise costs; 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 warehousing and distribution costs including labor and related benefits, freight, rent, depreciation and amortization, real estate taxes, utilities,
and insurance;   


 
Ÿ
 
 store occupancy costs including rent, depreciation and amortization, real estate taxes, utilities, repairs and maintenance, insurance, licenses, and
cleaning expenses;   


 
Ÿ
 
 salon payroll and benefits;   


 
Ÿ
 
 customer loyalty program expense; and   


 
Ÿ
 
 shrink and inventory valuation reserves.  Our cost of sales may be negatively impacted as we open an increasing number of stores. Changes in our merchandise mix may also have an impact on cost of sales. This presentation of items included in cost
of sales may not be comparable to the way in which our competitors or other retailers compute their cost of sales.  Selling, general and
administrative expenses include:   


 
Ÿ
 
 payroll, bonus and benefit costs for retail and corporate employees; 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 advertising and marketing costs;   


 
Ÿ
 
 occupancy costs related to our corporate office facilities; 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 stock-based compensation expense;   


 
Ÿ
 
 depreciation and amortization for all assets except those related to our retail and warehouse operations, which is included in cost of sales; and
  


 
Ÿ
 
 legal, finance, information systems and other corporate overhead costs.  This presentation of items in selling, general and administrative expenses may not be comparable to the way in which our competitors or other retailers compute their selling, general and administrative
expenses.  Pre-opening expense includes non-capital expenditures during the period prior to store opening for new, remodeled and relocated
stores including rent during the construction period for new and relocated stores, store set-up labor, management and employee training, and grand opening advertising. 
  32 


Table of Contents
Interest expense includes interest costs and unused facility fees associated with our credit facility, which
is structured as an asset based lending instrument. Our interest expense will fluctuate based on the seasonal borrowing requirements associated with acquiring inventory in advance of key holiday selling periods and fluctuation in the variable
interest rates we are charged on outstanding balances. Our credit facility is used to fund seasonal inventory needs and new and remodel store capital requirements in excess of our cash on hand and cash flow from operations. Our credit facility
interest is based on a variable interest rate structure which can result in increased cost in periods of rising interest rates.  Income tax
expense reflects the federal statutory tax rate and the weighted average state statutory tax rate for the states in which we operate stores. 
Results of operations  Our fiscal years
are the 52 or 53 week periods ending on the Saturday closest to January 31. The Company’s fiscal years ended January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010 were 52 week years and are hereafter referred to as
fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009.  As of January 28, 2012, we operated 449 stores across 43 states. The following tables present
the components of our results of operations for the periods indicated:   
















 
  
Fiscal year ended
 

 
  
January 28,2012
 
 
January 29,2011
 
 
January 30,2010
 

 
  
(In thousands, except number of stores)
 

 Net sales
  
$
1,776,151
  
 
$
1,454,838
  
 
$
1,222,771
  

 Cost of sales
  
 
1,159,311
  
 
 
970,753
  
 
 
846,202
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
616,840
  
 
 
484,085
  
 
 
376,569
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
410,658
  
 
 
358,106
  
 
 
302,413
  

 Pre-opening expenses
  
 
9,987
  
 
 
7,095
  
 
 
6,003
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income
  
 
196,195
  
 
 
118,884
  
 
 
68,153
  

 Interest expense
  
 
587
  
 
 
755
  
 
 
2,202
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
 
195,608
  
 
 
118,129
  
 
 
65,951
  

 Income tax expense
  
 
75,344
  
 
 
47,099
  
 
 
26,595
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
120,264
  
 
$
71,030
  
 
$
39,356
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Other operating data:
  



 



 




 Number of stores end of period
  
 
449
  
 
 
389
  
 
 
346
  

 Comparable store sales increase
  
 
10.9
% 
 
 
11.0
% 
 
 
1.4
% 

  33 


Table of Contents
















 
  
Fiscal year ended
 

 (Percentage of net sales)
  
January 28,2012
 
 
January 29,2011
 
 
January 30,2010
 

 Net sales
  
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 

 Cost of sales
  
 
65.3
% 
 
 
66.7
% 
 
 
69.2
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
34.7
% 
 
 
33.3
% 
 
 
30.8
% 

 Selling, general and adminstrative expenses
  
 
23.1
% 
 
 
24.6
% 
 
 
24.7
% 

 Pre-opening expenses
  
 
0.6
% 
 
 
0.5
% 
 
 
0.5
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income
  
 
11.0
% 
 
 
8.2
% 
 
 
5.6
% 

 Interest expense
  
 
0.0
% 
 
 
0.1
% 
 
 
0.2
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
 
11.0
% 
 
 
8.1
% 
 
 
5.4
% 

 Income tax expense
  
 
4.2
% 
 
 
3.2
% 
 
 
2.2
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
 
6.8
% 
 
 
4.9
% 
 
 
3.2
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Fiscal year 2011 versus fiscal year 2010  Net sales  Net sales increased $321.4 million, or 22.1%, to $1,776.2 million in
fiscal 2011 compared to $1,454.8 million in fiscal 2010. Salon service sales increased $12.1 million, or 14.0% to $98.5 million compared to $86.4 million in fiscal 2010. The sales increases are due to the opening of 60 net new stores in 2011 and a
10.9% increase in comparable store sales which was primarily due to a 10.1% increase in store traffic. Non-comparable stores, which include stores opened in fiscal 2011 as well as stores opened in fiscal 2010 which have not yet turned comparable,
contributed $168.4 million of the net sales increase while comparable stores contributed $153.0 million of the total net sales increase. We attribute the increase in comparable store sales to our successful marketing and merchandise strategies.
 Gross profit  Gross
profit increased $132.7 million, or 27.4%, to $616.8 million in fiscal 2011, compared to $484.1 million, in fiscal 2010. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales increased 140 basis points to 34.7% in fiscal 2011 compared to 33.3% in fiscal 2010.
The increase in gross profit margin in fiscal 2011 was primarily driven by:   


 
Ÿ
 
 80 basis points of leverage in fixed store costs attributed to the impact of significantly higher sales levels in fiscal 2011; and
  


 
Ÿ
 
 70 basis points improvement in merchandise margin due primarily to improved promotional pricing and a shift in category mix towards higher margin
product compared with fiscal 2010.  Selling, general and administrative expenses 
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased $52.6 million, or 14.7%, to $410.7 million in fiscal 2011 compared to $358.1 million in
fiscal 2010. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A expenses decreased 150 basis points to 23.1% in fiscal 2011 compared to 24.6% in fiscal 2010. The leverage in SG&A expense was primarily driven by: 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 70 basis points improvement in variable store and marketing expense leverage attributed to costs efficiencies and higher sales volume; and
  


 
Ÿ
 
 60 basis points in corporate overhead leverage, excluding the fiscal 2010 non-recurring compensation charge, attributed to higher sales volume.

  34 


Table of Contents
Pre-opening expenses  Pre-opening expenses increased $2.9 million, or 40.8%, to $10.0 million in fiscal 2011 compared to $7.1 million in fiscal 2010. During fiscal 2011, we opened 61 new stores, remodeled 17 stores and
relocated 2 stores. During fiscal 2010, we opened 47 new stores and remodeled 13 stores and relocated 5 stores.  Interest expense
 Interest expense was $0.6 million in fiscal 2011 and $0.8 million in fiscal 2010. Interest expense for both periods represents various
fees related to the credit facility. We did not utilize our credit facility during fiscal 2011 or 2010.  Income tax expense
 Income tax expense of $75.3 million in fiscal 2011 represents an effective tax rate of 38.5%, compared to fiscal 2010 tax expense of
$47.1 million and an effective tax rate of 39.9%. The lower tax rate in fiscal 2011 is primarily due to a decrease in non-deductible compensation expense and increases in certain federal and state tax deductions and credits compared to fiscal 2010.
 Net income  Net
income increased $49.3 million, or 69.3%, to $120.3 million in fiscal 2011 compared to $71.0 million in fiscal 2010. The increase in net income was primarily due to an increase in gross profit of $132.7 million, which was offset by a $52.6 million
increase in SG&A expenses and a $28.2 million increase in income tax expense.  Fiscal year 2010 versus fiscal year 2009 
Net sales  Net sales increased
$232.0 million, or 19.0%, to $1,454.8 million in fiscal 2010 compared to $1,222.8 million in fiscal 2009. Salon service sales increased $9.8 million, or 12.8%, to $86.4 million compared to $76.6 million in fiscal 2009. The sales increases are due to
the opening of 43 net new stores in 2010 and a 11.0% increase in comparable store sales which was primarily due to a 8.6% increase in store traffic. Non-comparable stores, which include stores opened in fiscal 2010 as well as stores opened in fiscal
2009 which have not yet turned comparable, contributed $102.3 million of the net sales increase while comparable stores contributed $129.7 million of the total net sales increase. We believe the improvement in our comparable store sales trends is
due to a combination of factors including effective marketing and merchandise programs and the relatively lower comparable store sales level in the prior year. We also believe that overall consumer sentiment and shopping patterns improved in 2010
when compared to 2009 which may have contributed to our improving trends.  Gross profit 
Gross profit increased $107.5 million, or 28.6%, to $484.1 million in fiscal 2010, compared to $376.6 million, in fiscal 2009. Gross profit as a
percentage of net sales increased 250 basis points to 33.3% in fiscal 2010 compared to 30.8% in fiscal 2009. Gross profit in fiscal 2010 was impacted by:   


 
Ÿ
 
 120 basis points of leverage in fixed store costs attributed to the impact of significantly higher sales levels in fiscal 2010;
  


 
Ÿ
 
 80 basis points improvement in merchandise margin due to improved promotional pricing and a shift in category mix towards higher margin product
compared with fiscal 2009; and   


 
Ÿ
 
 20 basis points of supply chain efficiencies on product handling automation, engineering efforts and higher sales volume. 
  35 


Table of Contents
Selling, general and administrative expenses 
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased $55.7 million, or 18.4%, to $358.1 million in fiscal 2010 compared to $302.4 million in
fiscal 2009. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A expenses decreased 10 basis points to 24.6% in fiscal 2010 compared to 24.7% in fiscal 2009. SG&A expense as a percentage of sales was primarily impacted by: 
 


 
Ÿ
 
 40 basis points improvement in marketing expense leverage attributed to costs efficiencies and higher sales volume; offset by
  


 
Ÿ
 
 30 basis points deleverage due to the non-recurring executive compensation charge related to our newly appointed President and Chief Executive Officer.
 Pre-opening expenses  Pre-opening expenses increased $1.1 million, or 18.2%, to $7.1 million in fiscal 2010 compared to $6.0 million in fiscal 2009. During fiscal 2010, we opened 47 new stores, remodeled 13 stores and
relocated 5 stores. During fiscal 2009, we opened 37 new stores and remodeled 6 stores.  Interest expense 
Interest expense decreased $1.4 million, or 65.7%, to $0.8 million in fiscal 2010 compared to $2.2 million in fiscal 2009. Fiscal 2010 interest expense
represents fees associated with the credit facility. We did not utilize the credit facility in fiscal 2010.  Income tax expense
 Income tax expense of $47.1 million in fiscal 2010 represents an effective tax rate of 39.9%, compared to fiscal 2009 tax expense of
$26.6 million and an effective tax rate of 40.3%. The decrease in the effective tax rate in fiscal 2010 is primarily attributed to the large number of stock option exercises and share sales deemed to be disqualifying dispositions. 
Net income  Net income increased
$31.6 million, or 80.5%, to $71.0 million in fiscal 2010 compared to $39.4 million in fiscal 2009. The increase in net income was primarily due to an increase in gross profit of $107.5 million, which was offset by a $55.7 million increase in
SG&A expenses and a $20.5 million increase in income tax expense.  Liquidity and capital resources 
Our primary cash needs are for capital expenditures for new, relocated and remodeled stores, increased merchandise inventories related to store expansion,
and for continued improvement in our information technology systems.  Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations,
including changes in working capital, and borrowings under our credit facility. The most significant component of our working capital is merchandise inventories reduced by related accounts payable and accrued expenses. Our working capital position
benefits from the fact that we generally collect cash from sales to customers the same day, or within several days of the related sale, while we typically have up to 30 days to pay our vendors. 
Our working capital needs are greatest from August through November each year as a result of our inventory build-up during this period for the approaching
holiday season. This is also the time of year when we are at maximum investment levels in our new store class and may not have collected all of the landlord allowances due to us as part of our lease agreements. Based on past performance and current
expectations, we believe that cash on hand, cash generated from operations and borrowings under the credit facility will satisfy the Company’s working capital needs, capital expenditure needs, commitments, and other liquidity requirements
through at least the next 12 months. 
  36 


Table of Contents
The following table presents a summary of our cash flows for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009: 
 
















 
  
Fiscal year ended
 

 (In thousands)
  
January 28,2012
 
 
January 29,2011
 
 
January 30,2010
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
$
220,887
  
 
$
176,543
  
 
$
172,827
  

 Net cash used in investing activities
  
 
(128,636
) 
 
 
(97,115
) 
 
 
(68,105
) 

 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
  
 
50,302
  
 
 
27,740
  
 
 
(104,343
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
  
$
142,553
  
 
$
107,168
  
 
$
379
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Operating activities  Operating activities consist of net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization, non-cash stock-based compensation, realized gains or losses on disposal of property
and equipment, and the effect of working capital changes.  Merchandise inventories were $244.6 million at January 28, 2012, compared to
$218.5 million at January 29, 2011, representing an increase of $26.1 million. The increase is due to the addition of 60 net new stores opened since January 29, 2011, offset by a 3.0% decrease in average inventory per store driven by our
comparable store sales increases and management initiatives focused on leveraging store and supply chain inventories.  We had a current tax
liability of $4.0 million at the end of fiscal 2011 compared to a prepaid asset of $10.7 million at the end of fiscal 2010. In fiscal 2010, we finalized the tax benefit estimates related to bonus depreciation on fixed assets and stock option
exercises in the fourth quarter which resulted in tax deductions in excess of our year to date estimated tax payments. In fiscal 2011, we were able to better forecast the implications of those significant tax drivers as well as the resulting
estimated tax payments.  Deferred rent liabilities were $163.5 million at January 28, 2012, an increase of $28.9 million compared to the
prior year end. Deferred rent includes deferred construction allowances, future rental increases and rent holidays which are all recognized on a straight-line basis over their respective lease term. The increase is primarily due to the addition of
60 net new stores opened since January 29, 2011.  Investing activities  We have historically used cash primarily for new and remodeled stores as well as investments in information technology systems. Investment activities primarily related to capital expenditures were $128.6
million in fiscal 2011, compared to $97.1 million and $68.1 million in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. Capital expenditures increased in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 due to the increase in our 2011 new store program. During fiscal 2011 we
opened 61 new stores, remodeled 17 stores and relocated 2 stores, compared to 47 new stores, 13 remodels and 5 relocation during fiscal 2010 and 37 new stores, 6 remodels and 1 relocation during fiscal 2009. 
Financing activities  Financing
activities in fiscal 2011 and 2010 consist principally of capital stock transactions and the related income tax effects, while financing activities in fiscal 2009 consisted principally of draws and payments on our credit facility and capital stock
transactions. Common stock repurchased in fiscal 2011 represents the fair value of common shares repurchased from plan participants in connection with shares withheld to satisfy minimum statutory tax obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock.
 We had no borrowings outstanding under our credit facility at the end of fiscal 2011 or 2010. The zero outstanding borrowings position is due
to a combination of factors including strong sales growth, overall performance of management initiatives including expense control as well as inventory and other working capital reductions. We may require borrowings under the facility from time to
time in future periods to support our new store program and seasonal inventory needs. 
  37 


Table of Contents
Dividend  On March 8, 2012, we announced that our Board of Directors had declared a $1.00 per share special cash dividend to shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 20, 2012. The
special cash dividend, which totals approximately $62 million, will be payable on May 15, 2012.  Our Board of Directors may determine
future dividends after giving consideration to our levels of profit and cash flow, capital requirements, current and future liquidity, restrictions included as part of our credit facility as well as financial and other conditions existing at the
time.  Credit facility  On
August 31, 2010, we terminated our credit facility with Bank of America and entered into a new credit facility pursuant to a Loan and Security Agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent and
a Lender thereunder, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as a Lender, and PNC Bank, National Association, as a Lender.  On October 19, 2011, the
Company entered into an Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the Loan Agreement) with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent and a Lender thereunder, Wells Fargo Capital Finance LLC as a
Lender, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC as a Lender, JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. as a Lender and PNC Bank, National Association, as a Lender. The Loan Agreement amended and restated the Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of August 31, 2010, by and
among the lenders. The Loan Agreement extends the maturity of the Company’s credit facility to October 2016, provides maximum revolving loans equal to the lesser of $200,000 or a percentage of eligible owned inventory, contains a $10,000
subfacility for letters of credit and allows the Company to increase the revolving facility by an additional $50,000, subject to consent by each lender and other conditions. The Loan Agreement contains a requirement to maintain a minimum amount of
excess borrowing availability at all times. Substantially all of the Company’s assets are pledged as collateral for outstanding borrowings under the facility. Outstanding borrowings will bear interest at the prime rate or Libor plus 1.50% and
the unused line fee is 0.225%.  As of January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under its
credit facility.  Seasonality 
Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuation. Significant portions of our net sales and profits are realized during the fourth quarter of the fiscal
year due to the holiday selling season. To a lesser extent, our business is also affected by Mothers’ Day as well as the “Back to School” season and Valentines’ Day. Any decrease in sales during these higher sales volume periods
could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results for the entire fiscal year. Our quarterly results of operations have varied in the past and are likely to do so again in the future. As such, we believe that
period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance.  Impact of
inflation and changing prices  Although we do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on our financial position or results of
operations to date, a high rate of inflation in the future may have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain current levels of gross margin and selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales if the selling prices of
our products do not increase with these increased costs. In addition, inflation could materially increase the interest rates on our debt. 
Off-balance sheet arrangements  Our
off-balance sheet arrangements consist of operating lease obligations and letters of credit. We do not have any non-cancelable purchase commitments as of January 28, 2012. 
  38 


Table of Contents
Contractual obligations  We lease retail stores, warehouses, corporate offices and certain equipment under operating leases with various expiration dates through fiscal 2027. Our store leases generally have initial lease terms of
10 years and include renewal options under substantially the same terms and conditions as the original leases. In addition to future minimum lease payments, most of our lease agreements include escalating rent provisions which we recognize
straight-line over the term of the lease, including any lease renewal periods deemed to be probable. For certain locations, we receive cash tenant allowances and we report these amounts as deferred rent, which is amortized on a straight-line basis
as a reduction of rent expense over the term of the lease, including any lease renewal periods deemed to be probable. While a number of our store leases include contingent rentals, contingent rent amounts are insignificant. 
The following table summarizes our contractual arrangements and the timing and effect that such commitments are expected to have on our liquidity and cash
flows in future periods. The table below excludes variable expenses related to contingent rent, common area maintenance, insurance and real estate taxes. The table below includes obligations for executed agreements for which we do not yet have the
right to control the use of the property as of January 28, 2012:   


























 (In thousands)
  
Total
 
  
Less Than1 Year
 
  
1 to 3Years
 
  
3 to 5Years
 
  
After 5Years
 

 Operating lease obligations(1)
  
$
935,909
  
  
$
123,945
  
  
$
252,236
  
  
$
221,551
  
  

  
$
338,177
  
    


(1)
Variable operating lease obligations related to common area maintenance, insurance and real estate taxes are not included in the table above. Total expenses related to
common area maintenance, insurance and real estate taxes for fiscal 2011 were $25.3 million.  Critical accounting policies
and estimates  Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our financial
statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principals (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements required the use of estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses. Management bases estimates on historical experience and other assumptions it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances and evaluates these estimates on an on-going basis. Actual results may differ from
these estimates. A discussion of our more significant estimates follows. Management has discussed the development, selection, and disclosure of these estimates and assumptions with the audit committee of the board of directors. 
Inventory valuation  Merchandise
inventories are carried at the lower of average cost or market value. Cost is determined using the weighted-average cost method and includes costs incurred to purchase and distribute goods as well as related vendor allowances including co-op
advertising, markdowns, and volume discounts. We record valuation adjustments to our inventories if the cost of a specific product on hand exceeds the amount we expect to realize from the ultimate sale or disposal of the inventory. These estimates
are based on management’s judgment regarding future demand, age of inventory, and analysis of historical experience. If actual demand or market conditions are different than those projected by management, future merchandise margin rates may be
unfavorably or favorably affected by adjustments to these estimates.  Inventories are adjusted for the results of periodic physical inventory
counts at each of our locations. We record a shrink reserve representing management’s estimate of inventory losses by location that have occurred since the date of the last physical count. This estimate is based on management’s analysis of
historical results and operating trends. Adjustments to earnings resulting from revisions to management’s estimates of the lower of cost or market and shrink reserves have been insignificant during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
  39 


Table of Contents
Impairment of long-lived tangible assets  We review long-lived tangible assets whenever events or circumstances indicate these assets might not be recoverable based on undiscounted future cash flows. Assets are reviewed at the lowest level for
which cash flows can be identified, which is the store level. Significant estimates are used in determining future operating results of each store over its remaining lease term. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be
recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. We have not recorded an impairment charge in any of the periods presented in the accompanying financial statements. 
Share-based compensation  We account for share-based compensation in accordance with the Accounting Standards CodificationTM (ASC) rules for stock compensation. Share-based compensation cost is measured at grant date, based on the fair value
of the award, and is recognized on a straight-line method over the requisite service period for awards expected to vest.  We estimate the grant
date fair value of stock options using a Black-Scholes valuation model. The expected volatility is based on volatilities of our stock and a peer group of publicly-traded companies. The risk free interest rate is based on the United States Treasury
yield curve in effect on the date of grant for the respective expected life of the option. The expected life represents the time the options granted are expected to be outstanding. We have limited historical data related to exercise behavior since
our initial public offering on October 30, 2007. As a result, we have elected to use the shortcut approach to determine the expected life in accordance with the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin on share-based payments. 
See notes to financial statements, “Summary of significant accounting policies — Share-based compensation,” for disclosure
related to the Company’s stock compensation expense and related valuation model assumptions. See Note 10 to our financial statements, “Share-based awards,” for disclosure related to our stock compensation expense and related valuation
model assumptions.   


Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 
Market risk represents the risk of loss that may impact our financial position due to adverse changes in financial market prices and rates. Our market
risk exposure is primarily the result of fluctuations in interest rates. We do not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. 
Interest rate sensitivity  We are
exposed to interest rate risks primarily through borrowing under our credit facility. Interest on our borrowings is based upon variable rates. We did not utilize the credit facility during fiscal 2011. 
The Company had an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $25 million which was designated as a cash flow hedge. The agreement expired on
January 31, 2010. The interest rate swap was recorded at fair value in fiscal 2009 and changes in market value related to the effective portion of the cash flow hedge was recorded as unrecognized gain or loss in accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) section of the stockholders’ equity in the balance sheets.  Item 8.     
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  See the index included under Item 15, “Exhibits
and Financial Statement Schedules”.  Item 9.     Changes in and
Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  None. 
  40 


Table of Contents
Item  9A.     Controls and
Procedures  Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures over Financial Reporting 
We have established disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material information relating to the Company is made known to the officers who
certify our financial reports and to the members of our senior management and board of directors.  Based on management’s evaluation as of
January 28, 2012, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) are effective to ensure
that the information required to be disclosed by us in our reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure.  Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company. Internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of the principal executive officer and principal financial officer and effected by the board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 
Under the supervision and with the participation of our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer, management evaluated the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2012, based on the criteria established in “Internal Control — Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were effective as of January 28, 2012. Ernst & Young
LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited our financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, has audited the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2012 and
has issued the attestation report included in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Changes in Internal Control over Financial
Reporting  There were no changes to our internal controls over financial reporting during the three months ended January 28, 2012 that
have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal controls over financial reporting.   


Item 9B.
Other Information  None. 
  41 


Table of Contents
Part III 
 


Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
The information required by this item with respect to our executive officers is set forth after Part I, Item 4 of this report under the caption
“Executive Officers of the Registrant.” The additional information required by this item is incorporated by reference to our definitive proxy statement to be filed within 120 days after our fiscal year ended January 28, 2012 pursuant
to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act in connection with our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders.   


Item 11.
Executive Compensation  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to our definitive proxy statement to be filed within 120 days after our fiscal year ended January 28, 2012 pursuant to Regulation
14A under the Exchange Act in connection with our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders.   


Item 12.
Security Ownership and Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
 The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to our definitive proxy statement to be filed within 120
days after our fiscal year ended January 28, 2012 pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act in connection with our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders.   


Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to our definitive proxy statement to be filed within 120 days after our fiscal year
ended January 28, 2012 pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act in connection with our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders.   


Item 14.
Principal Accountant Fees and Services  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to our definitive proxy statement to be filed within 120 days after our fiscal year ended January 28, 2012 pursuant to Regulation
14A under the Exchange Act in connection with our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders. 
  42 


Table of Contents
Part IV 
 


Item 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   


(a)
The following documents are filed as a part of this Form 10-K:   








 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
44
  

 Balance Sheets
  
 
46
  

 Statements of Income
  
 
47
  

 Statements of Cash Flows
  
 
48
  

 Statements of Stockholders’ Equity
  
 
49
  

 Notes to Financial Statements
  
 
50
  

 Exhibits
  
 
63
  
 The schedules required by Form 10-K have been omitted because they were inapplicable, included in the notes to the
financial statements, or otherwise not required under the instructions contained in Regulation S-X. 
  43 


Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 The Board of Directors and Stockholders  Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc.  We have audited the accompanying balance sheets
of Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. (the Company) as of January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, and the related statements of income, cash flows, and stockholders’ equity for each of the three years in the period ended
January 28, 2012. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for
our opinion.  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. at January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 28, 2012, in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated March 28, 2012, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.  /s/ Ernst & Young LLP  Chicago, Illinois 
March 28, 2012 
  44 


Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders  Ulta
Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc.  We have audited Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc.’s internal control over
financial reporting as of January 28, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Ulta Salon,
Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc.’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the
accompanying Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  A company’s internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  In our opinion, Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. maintained, in
all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2012, based on the COSO criteria.  We also
have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the balance sheets of Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. as of January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, and the
related statements of income, cash flows and stockholders’ equity for each of the three years in the period ended January 28, 2012 and our report dated March 28, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP  Chicago,
Illinois  March 28, 2012 
  45 


Table of Contents
Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. 
Balance Sheets 
 












 
  
January 28,
 
 
January 29,
 

 (In thousands, except per share data)
  
2012
 
 
2011
 

 Assets
   

 Current assets:
  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
253,738
  
 
$
111,185
  

 Receivables, net
  
 
26,153
  
 
 
22,292
  

 Merchandise inventories, net
  
 
244,647
  
 
 
218,516
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
 
43,430
  
 
 
32,790
  

 Prepaid income taxes
  
 
 — 
  
 
 
10,684
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
12,264
  
 
 
8,922
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
580,232
  
 
 
404,389
  

 Property and equipment, net
  
 
376,985
  
 
 
326,099
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
957,217
  
 
$
730,488
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 



 Liabilities and stockholders’ equity
   

 Current liabilities:
  



 




 Accounts payable
  
$
86,442
  
 
$
87,093
  

 Accrued liabilities
  
 
74,411
  
 
 
76,264
  

 Accrued income taxes
  
 
4,002
  
 
 
 — 
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
164,855
  
 
 
163,357
  

 Deferred rent
  
 
163,463
  
 
 
134,572
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
44,195
  
 
 
30,026
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
372,513
  
 
 
327,955
  

 Commitments and contingencies (note 4)
  



 




 Stockholders’ equity:
  



 




 Common stock, $.01 par value, 400,000 shares authorized; 62,764 and 60,707 shares issued; 62,209 and 60,202 shares outstanding;
at January 28, 2012, and January 29, 2011, respectively
  
 
627
  
 
 
606
  

 Treasury stock-common, at cost
  
 
(7,415
) 
 
 
(4,179
) 

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
404,698
  
 
 
339,576
  

 Retained earnings
  
 
186,794
  
 
 
66,530
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total stockholders’ equity
  
 
584,704
  
 
 
402,533
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity
  
$
957,217
  
 
$
730,488
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
  46 


Table of Contents
Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. 
Statements of Income 
 
















 
  
Fiscal year ended
 

 (In thousands, except per share data)
  
January 28,2012
 
  
January 29,2011
 
  
January 30,2010
 

 Net sales
  
$
1,776,151
  
  
$
1,454,838
  
  
$
1,222,771
  

 Cost of sales
  
 
1,159,311
  
  
 
970,753
  
  
 
846,202
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
616,840
  
  
 
484,085
  
  
 
376,569
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
410,658
  
  
 
358,106
  
  
 
302,413
  

 Pre-opening expenses
  
 
9,987
  
  
 
7,095
  
  
 
6,003
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Operating income
  
 
196,195
  
  
 
118,884
  
  
 
68,153
  

 Interest expense
  
 
587
  
  
 
755
  
  
 
2,202
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
 
195,608
  
  
 
118,129
  
  
 
65,951
  

 Income tax expense
  
 
75,344
  
  
 
47,099
  
  
 
26,595
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
120,264
  
  
$
71,030
  
  
$
39,356
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income per common share:
  



  



  




 Basic
  
$
1.96
  
  
$
1.20
  
  
$
0.68
  

 Diluted
  
$
1.90
  
  
$
1.16
  
  
$
0.66
  

 Weighted average common shares outstanding:
  



  



  




 Basic
  
 
61,259
  
  
 
58,959
  
  
 
57,915
  

 Diluted
  
 
63,334
  
  
 
61,288
  
  
 
59,237
  

  See accompanying notes to financial statements.

  47 


Table of Contents
Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. 
Statements of Cash Flows 
 
















 
  
Fiscal year ended
 

 
  
January 28,
 
 
January 29,
 
 
January 30,
 

 (In thousands)
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Operating activities
  



 



 




 Net income
  
$
120,264
  
 
$
71,030
  
 
$
39,356
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
  



 



 




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
75,931
  
 
 
64,936
  
 
 
62,166
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
10,827
  
 
 
7,741
  
 
 
3,143
  

 Non-cash stock compensation charges
  
 
11,605
  
 
 
11,155
  
 
 
5,949
  

 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation
  
 
(25,899
) 
 
 
(10,640
) 
 
 
(476
) 

 Loss (gain) on disposal of property and equipment
  
 
1,324
  
 
 
(519
) 
 
 
(51
) 

 Change in operating assets and liabilities:
  



 



 




 Receivables
  
 
(3,861
) 
 
 
(8,815
) 
 
 
4,791
  

 Merchandise inventories
  
 
(26,131
) 
 
 
(11,568
) 
 
 
6,654
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
 
(10,640
) 
 
 
(2,518
) 
 
 
(5,978
) 

 Income taxes
  
 
40,585
  
 
 
(10,354
) 
 
 
19,885
  

 Accounts payable
  
 
(651
) 
 
 
30,706
  
 
 
8,576
  

 Accrued liabilities
  
 
(1,358
) 
 
 
14,535
  
 
 
16,382
  

 Deferred rent
  
 
28,891
  
 
 
20,854
  
 
 
12,430
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
 
220,887
  
 
 
176,543
  
 
 
172,827
  

 Investing activities
  



 



 




 Purchases of property and equipment
  
 
(128,636
) 
 
 
(97,115
) 
 
 
(68,105
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
  
 
(128,636
) 
 
 
(97,115
) 
 
 
(68,105
) 

 Financing activities
  



 



 




 Stock options exercised
  
 
27,639
  
 
 
17,100
  
 
 
1,228
  

 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation
  
 
25,899
  
 
 
10,640
  
 
 
476
  

 Common stock repurchased
  
 
(3,236
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Proceeds on long-term borrowings
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,161,673
  

 Payments on long-term borrowings
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,267,720
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
  
 
50,302
  
 
 
27,740
  
 
 
(104,343
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
142,553
  
 
 
107,168
  
 
 
379
  

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
  
 
111,185
  
 
 
4,017
  
 
 
3,638
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
  
$
253,738
  
 
$
111,185
  
 
$
4,017
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental cash flow information
  



 



 




 Cash paid for interest
  
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
2,440
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash paid for income taxes (net of refunds)
  
$
24,162
  
 
$
49,871
  
 
$
3,706
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Noncash investing and financing activities:
  



 



 




 Change in property and equipment included in accrued liabilities
  
$
(495
) 
 
$
2,540
  
 
$
(7,353
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrealized gain on interest rate swap hedge, net of tax
  
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
631
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
  48 


Table of Contents
Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. 
Statements of Stockholders’ Equity 
 




































 
  
Common Stock
 
  
Treasury -Common Stock
 
 
AdditionalPaid-InCapital

 
  
RetainedEarnings
/(Accumulated(Deficit)
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensive
Income (Loss)
 
 
TotalStockholders’Equity

 

 (In thousands)
  
IssuedShares
 
  
Amount
 
  
TreasuryShares
 
 
Amount
 
 
  
 
 

 Balance — January 31, 2009
  
 
58,245
  
  
$
582
  
  
 
(505
) 
 
$
(4,179
) 
 
$
293,052
  
  
$
(43,856
) 
 
$
(631
) 
 
$
244,968
  

 Stock options exercised
  
 
429
  
  
 
4—
  
  



 
 
—
  
 
 
1,224
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,228
  

 Unrealized gain on interest rate swap hedge, net of $411 income tax
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
631
  
 
 
631
  

 Net income
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
39,356
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
39,356
  


  



  



  



 



 



  



 



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
39,987
  

 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
476
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
476
  

 Stock compensation charge
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,949
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,949
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance — January 30, 2010
  
 
58,674
  
  
$
586
  
  
 
(505
) 
 
$
(4,179
) 
 
$
300,701
  
  
$
(4,500
) 
 
$
—
  
 
$
292,608
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Stock options exercised
  
 
2,033
  
  
 
20
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
17,080
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
17,100
  

 Net income
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
71,030
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
71,030
  


  



  



  



 



 



  



 



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
71,030
  

 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
10,640
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
10,640
  

 Stock compensation charge
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
11,155
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
11,155
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance — January 29, 2011
  
 
60,707
  
  
$
606
  
  
 
(505
) 
 
$
(4,179
) 
 
$
339,576
  
  
$
66,530
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
402,533
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Stock options exercised and other awards
  
 
2,057
  
  
 
21
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
27,618
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
27,639
  

 Common stock repurchased
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
(50
) 
 
 
(3,236
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3,236
) 

 Net income
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
120,264
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
120,264
  


  



  



  



 



 



  



 



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
120,264
  

 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
25,899
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
25,899
  

 Stock compensation charge
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
11,605
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
11,605
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance — January 28, 2012
  
 
62,764
  
  
$
627
  
  
 
(555
) 
 
$
(7,415
) 
 
$
404,698
  
  
$
186,794
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
584,704
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
  49 


Table of Contents
Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. 
Notes to Financial Statements 
(In thousands, except per share data) 
1.    Business and basis of presentation 
Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. (Company or Ulta) was incorporated in the state of Delaware on January 9, 1990,
to operate specialty retail stores selling cosmetics, fragrance, haircare and skincare products, and related accessories and services. The stores also feature full-service salons. As of January 28, 2012, the Company operated 449 stores in 43
states. All amounts are stated in thousands, with the exception of per share amounts and number of stores.  The Company has determined its
operating segments on the same basis that it uses to internally evaluate performance. The Company has combined its three operating segments: retail stores, salon services and e-commerce, into one reportable segment because they have a similar class
of consumer, economic characteristics, nature of products and distribution methods. 
2.    Summary of significant accounting policies 
Fiscal year  The Company’s fiscal year is the 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Saturday closest to January 31. The Company’s fiscal years ended January 28, 2012 (fiscal 2011), January 29,
2011 (fiscal 2010) and January 30, 2010 (fiscal 2009) were 52 week years. 
Use of estimates  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the accounting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 
Cash and cash equivalents  Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase. Cash equivalents include amounts due from third-party credit
card receivables because such amounts generally convert to cash within one to three days with little or no default risk. 
Receivables  Receivables consist principally of amounts receivable from vendors related to allowances earned but not yet received. These receivables are computed based on provisions of the vendor agreements in place
and the Company’s completed performance. The Company’s vendors are primarily U.S.-based producers of consumer products. The Company does not require collateral on its receivables and does not accrue interest. Credit risk with respect to
receivables is limited due to the diversity of vendors comprising the Company’s vendor base. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its vendors and evaluates the collectability of its receivables based on the length of time the
receivable is past due and historical experience. The allowance for receivables totaled $556 and $257 as of January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively. 
Merchandise inventories  Merchandise inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the weighted-average cost method and includes costs incurred to purchase and distribute goods. Inventory cost
also includes vendor allowances related to co-op advertising, markdowns, and volume discounts. The Company maintains reserves for lower of cost or market and shrinkage. 
  50 


Table of Contents
Fair value of financial instruments 
The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and accounts payable approximates their estimated fair values due to the short
maturities of these instruments. The Company had no outstanding debt as of January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011. 
Derivative financial instruments 
The Company had an interest rate swap that expired on January 31, 2010. This derivative financial instrument was designated and qualified as a cash
flow hedge. Accordingly, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative instrument was reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and reclassified into interest expense in the same period or periods during
which the hedged transaction affects earnings. The remaining gain or loss, the ineffective portion, on the derivative instrument, if other than inconsequential, was recognized in interest expense during the period of change. This derivative, which
was immaterial, was recorded in the January 30, 2010 balance sheet at fair value. 
Property and equipment  The Company’s property and equipment are stated at cost net of accumulated depreciation and amortization. Maintenance and repairs are charged to operating expense as incurred. The Company’s
assets are depreciated or amortized using the straight-line method, over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the expected lease term as follows:   
 






 Equipment and fixtures
  
3 to 10 years

 Leasehold improvements
  
10 years

 Electronic equipment and software
  
3 to 5 years

The Company capitalizes costs incurred during the application development stage in developing or obtaining internal use software. These
costs are amortized over the estimated useful life of the software.  The Company periodically evaluates whether changes have occurred that
would require revision of the remaining useful life of equipment and leasehold improvements or render them not recoverable. If such circumstances arise, the Company uses an estimate of the undiscounted sum of expected future operating cash flows
during their holding period to determine whether the long-lived assets are impaired. If the aggregate undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the assets, the resulting impairment charges to be recorded are calculated based on
the excess of the carrying value of the assets over the fair value of such assets, with the fair value determined based on an estimate of discounted future cash flows. 
Customer loyalty program  The Company maintains two customer loyalty programs. The Company’s national certificate program provides reward point certificates for free beauty products. Customers earn purchase-based reward
points and redeem the related reward certificate during specific promotional periods during the year. The Company is also rolling out its ULTAmate Rewards program in which customers earn purchase-based points on an annual basis which can be redeemed
at any time. The Company accrues the cost of anticipated redemptions related to these programs at the time of the initial purchase based on historical experience. The accrued liability related to both of the loyalty programs at January 28, 2012
and January 29, 2011 was $6,207 and $4,883, respectively. The cost of these programs, which was $17,200, $12,942 and $10,015 in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, is included in cost of sales in the statements of income. 
Deferred rent  Many of the Company’s operating leases contain predetermined fixed increases of the minimum rental rate during the lease. For these leases, the Company recognizes the related rental expense on a
straight-line basis over the expected lease term, including cancelable option periods where failure to exercise such options would result in an economic penalty, and records the difference between the amounts charged to expense and the rent paid as
deferred rent. The lease term commences on the earlier of the date when the Company becomes legally obligated for rent payments or the date the Company takes possession of the leased space. 
  51 


Table of Contents
As part of many lease agreements, the Company receives construction allowances from landlords for tenant
improvements. These leasehold improvements made by the Company are capitalized and amortized over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the lease term. The construction allowances are recorded as deferred rent and amortized on a
straight-line basis over the lease term as a reduction of rent expense. 
Revenue recognition  Net sales include merchandise sales and salon service revenue. Revenue from merchandise sales at stores is recognized at the time of sale, net of estimated returns. The Company provides refunds for
product returns within 60 days from the original purchase date. Salon revenue is recognized when services are rendered. Salon service revenue amounted to $98,479, $86,484 and $76,627 for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Company coupons and
other incentives are recorded as a reduction of net sales. State sales taxes are presented on a net basis as the Company considers itself a pass-through conduit for collecting and remitting state sales tax. E-commerce sales are recorded at the time
of shipment.  The Company’s gift card sales are deferred and recognized in net sales when the gift card is redeemed for product or
services. The Company’s gift cards do not expire and do not include service fees that decrease customer balances. The Company has maintained Company-specific, historical data related to its large pool of similar gift card transactions sold and
redeemed over a significant time frame. During fiscal 2010, there was a change in facts and circumstances which resulted in the Company recognizing approximately $2.0 million of gift card breakage income which related primarily to gift cards sold in
prior years. The Company recognizes gift card breakage to the extent there is no requirement for remitting balances to governmental agencies under unclaimed property laws. Gift card breakage is recognized over the same performance period, and in the
same proportion, that the Company’s data has demonstrated that gift cards are redeemed. Gift card breakage is recorded as a decrease in selling, general and administrative expense in the statements of income. Deferred gift card revenue was
$10,573 and $7,591 at January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively, and is included in accrued liabilities – accrued customer liabilities (Note 5). 
Vendor allowances  The Company receives allowances from vendors in the normal course of business including advertising and markdown allowances, purchase volume discounts and rebates, and reimbursement for defective
merchandise, and certain selling and display expenses. Substantially all vendor allowances are recorded as a reduction of the vendor’s product cost and are recognized in cost of sales as the product is sold. 
Advertising  Advertising expense consists principally of paper, print, and distribution costs related to the Company’s advertising circulars. The Company expenses the production and distribution costs related to
its advertising circulars in the period the related promotional event occurs. Total advertising costs, exclusive of incentives from vendors and start-up advertising expense, amounted to $99,446, $84,796 and $76,811 for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. Prepaid advertising costs included in prepaid expenses and other current assets were $4,721 and $3,804 as of January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively. 
Pre-opening expenses  Non-capital expenditures incurred prior to the grand opening of a new, remodeled or relocated store are charged against earnings as incurred. 
Cost of sales  Cost of sales includes the cost of merchandise sold including all vendor allowances, which are treated as a reduction of merchandise costs; warehousing and distribution costs including labor and related
benefits, freight, rent, depreciation and amortization, real estate taxes, utilities, and insurance; shipping and handling costs; store occupancy costs including rent, depreciation and amortization, real estate taxes, utilities, repairs and
maintenance, insurance, licenses, and cleaning expenses; salon payroll and benefits; customer loyalty program expense; and shrink and inventory valuation reserves. 
  52 


Table of Contents
Selling, general and administrative expenses 
Selling, general and administrative expenses includes payroll, bonus, and benefit costs for retail and corporate employees; advertising and marketing
costs; occupancy costs related to our corporate office facilities; public company expense including Sarbanes-Oxley compliance expenses; stock-based compensation expense; depreciation and amortization for all assets except those related to our retail
and warehouse operations which are included in cost of sales; and legal, finance, information systems and other corporate overhead costs. 
Income taxes  Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities used for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax
purposes and the amounts reported were derived using the enacted tax rates in effect for the year the differences are expected to reverse. 
Income tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions are recognized only when it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on
examination by the taxing authorities. The determination is based on the technical merits of the position and presumes that each uncertain tax position will be examined by the relevant taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant
information. Penalties and interest related to unrecognized tax positions are recorded in income tax expense. 
Share-based compensation 
The Company accounts for share-based compensation in accordance with the Accounting Standards CodificationTM (ASC) rules for stock compensation. Share-based compensation cost is
measured at grant date, based on the fair value of the award, and is recognized on a straight-line method over the requisite service period for awards expected to vest. The Company recorded stock compensation expense of $11,605, $11,155 and $5,949
for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively (see Note 10, “Share-based awards”). 
Insurance expense  The Company has insurance programs with third party insurers for employee health, workers compensation and general liability, among others, to limit the Company’s liability exposure. The insurance
programs are premium based and include retentions, deductibles and stop loss coverage. Current stop loss coverage is $150 for employee health claims, $100 for general liability claims and $250 for workers compensation claims. The Company makes
collateral and premium payments during the plan year and accrues expenses in the event additional premium is due from the Company based on actual claim results. 
Net income per common share  Basic net income per common share is computed by dividing income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted net income
per share includes dilutive common stock equivalents, using the treasury stock method (see Note 11, “Net income per common share”). 
  53 


Table of Contents
3.    Property and equipment 
Property and equipment consist of the following:   
 












 
  
January 28,2012
 
 
January 29,2011
 

 Equipment and fixtures
  
$
256,479
  
 
$
223,663
  

 Leasehold improvements
  
 
256,487
  
 
 
233,997
  

 Electronic equipment and software
  
 
126,790
  
 
 
105,808
  

 Construction-in-progress
  
 
33,598
  
 
 
16,331
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
673,354
  
 
 
579,799
  

 Less accumulated depreciation and amortization
  
 
(296,369
) 
 
 
(253,700
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property and equipment, net
  
$
376,985
  
 
$
326,099
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The Company had no capitalized interest for fiscal 2011 and 2010 as a result of not utilizing the credit facility during the year.

4.    Commitments and contingencies 
Leases — The Company leases retail stores, distribution and office facilities, and certain
equipment. Original non-cancelable lease terms range from three to ten years, and store leases generally contain renewal options for additional years. A number of the Company’s store leases provide for contingent rentals based upon sales.
Contingent rent amounts were insignificant in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009. Total rent expense under operating leases was $94,175, $82,365 and $73,228 for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Future minimum lease payments under operating leases
as of January 28, 2012, are as follows:     








 
  
Operating
 

 Fiscal year
  
Leases
 

 2012
  
$
123,945
  

 2013
  
 
128,415
  

 2014
  
 
123,821
  

 2015
  
 
115,413
  

 2016
  
 
106,138
  

 2017 and thereafter
  
 
338,177
  


  
  
  
 

 Total minimum lease payments
  
$
935,909
  


  
  
  
 

Included in the operating lease schedule above is $132,028 of minimum lease payments for stores that will open in fiscal 2012. Also
included in the schedule above is the Chambersburg, Pennsylvania distribution center which is expected to open in fiscal 2012.  General
litigation — In May 2010, a putative employment class action lawsuit was filed against the Company and certain unnamed defendants in state court in California. The plaintiff and members of the proposed class are alleged to be (or have been)
non-exempt hourly employees. The suit alleges that Ulta violated various provisions of the California labor laws and failed to provide plaintiff and members of the proposed class with full meal periods, paid rest breaks, certain wages, overtime
compensation and premium pay. The suit seeks to recover damages and penalties as a result of these alleged practices. On June 21, 2010, the Company filed its answer to the lawsuit. On January 12, 2011, the Company and plaintiffs
engaged in a voluntary mediation. Although the Company continues to deny plaintiffs’ allegations, in the interest of putting certain of the claims behind it, the Company agreed in principle to settle all claims of the putative class
consisting of non-exempt hourly hair designers in the salon department within the California retail stores. The settlement, which is not an admission of liability, is subject to final documentation and Court approval. Counsel for the
plaintiffs has agreed to dismiss without prejudice the claims of all other putative class members. The proposed settlement was approved and became final in January 2012. The settlement amount was not material. 
  54 


Table of Contents
On March 2, 2012, a putative employment class action lawsuit was filed against us and certain unnamed
defendants in state court in Los Angeles County, California. The plaintiff and members of the proposed class are alleged to be (or to have been) non-exempt hourly employees. The suit alleges that Ulta violated various provisions of the California
labor laws and failed to provide plaintiff and members of the proposed class with full meal periods, paid rest breaks, certain wages, overtime compensation and premium pay. The suit seeks to recover damages and penalties as a result of these alleged
practices. The Company denies plaintiff’s allegations and intends to vigorously defend the matter.  The Company is also involved in
various legal proceedings that are incidental to the conduct of our business. In the opinion of management, the amount of any liability with respect to these proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, will not be material. 
5.    Accrued liabilities 
Accrued liabilities consist of the following:   
 












 
  
January 28,2012
 
  
January 29,2011
 

 Accrued vendor liabilities (including accrued property and equipment costs)
  
$
10,868
  
  
$
12,994
  

 Accrued customer liabilities
  
 
17,978
  
  
 
16,543
  

 Accrued payroll, bonus and employee benefits
  
 
24,449
  
  
 
25,221
  

 Accrued taxes, other
  
 
7,619
  
  
 
8,843
  

 Other accrued liabilities
  
 
13,497
  
  
 
12,663
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Accrued liabilities
  
$
74,411
  
  
$
76,264
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

6.    Income taxes 
The provision for income taxes consists of the following: 
   
















 
  
Fiscal2011
 
  
Fiscal2010
 
 
Fiscal2009
 

 Current:
  



  



 




 Federal
  
$
53,495
  
  
$
32,288
  
 
$
20,296
  

 State
  
 
11,022
  
  
 
7,070
  
 
 
2,744
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current
  
 
64,517
  
  
 
39,358
  
 
 
23,040
  

 Deferred:
  



  



 




 Federal
  
 
10,796
  
  
 
8,076
  
 
 
3,237
  

 State
  
 
31
  
  
 
(335
) 
 
 
318
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred
  
 
10,827
  
  
 
7,741
  
 
 
3,555
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Provision for income taxes
  
$
75,344
  
  
$
47,099
  
 
$
26,595
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

A reconciliation of the federal statutory rate to the Company’s effective tax rate is as follows: 
   
















 
  
Fiscal2011
 
 
Fiscal2010
 
 
Fiscal2009
 

 Federal statutory rate
  
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 

 State effective rate, net of federal tax benefit
  
 
3.7
% 
 
 
3.7
% 
 
 
3.0
% 

 Other
  
 
(0.2
%) 
 
 
1.2
% 
 
 
2.3
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effective tax rate
  
 
38.5
% 
 
 
39.9
% 
 
 
40.3
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  55 


Table of Contents
Significant components of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows: 
   












 
  
January 28,2012
 
 
January 29,2011
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  



 




 Reserves not currently deductible
  
$
13,207
  
 
$
10,433
  

 Employee benefits
  
 
4,970
  
 
 
5,327
  

 Net operating loss carryforwards
  
 
179
  
 
 
334
  

 Accrued liabilities
  
 
3,499
  
 
 
3,202
  

 Inventory valuation
  
 
1,570
  
 
 
311
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax assets
  
 
23,425
  
 
 
19,607
  

 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



 




 Property and equipment
  
 
32,414
  
 
 
23,321
  

 Deferred rent obligation
  
 
16,572
  
 
 
12,050
  

 Prepaid expenses
  
 
6,370
  
 
 
5,340
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax liabilities
  
 
55,356
  
 
 
40,711
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax liability
  
$
(31,931
) 
 
$
(21,104
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

At January 28, 2012, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs) for federal income tax purposes of approximately $513,
which expire between 2012 and 2014. Based on Internal Revenue Code Section 382 relating to changes in ownership of the Company, utilization of the federal NOLs is subject to an annual limitation of $440 for federal NOLs created prior to
April 1, 1997.  The Company accounts for uncertainty in income taxes in accordance with the ASC rules for income taxes. The reserve for
uncertain tax positions was $930 at January 29, 2011. There was no reserve for uncertain tax positions at January 28, 2012. The balance is the Company’s best estimate of the potential liability for uncertain tax positions. The
decrease in the liability for income taxes associated with uncertain tax positions relates to a change in prior period position during fiscal 2011. A reconciliation of the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest and penalties,
is as follows:     












 
  
January 28,2012
 
 
January 29,2011
 

 Balance at beginning of the period
  
$
862
  
 
$
5,110
  

 Decrease in a change to a prior period position
  
 
(862
) 
 
 
—
  

 Decrease attributable to audit settlements during the current period
  
 
—
  
 
 
(4,248
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at the end of the period
  
$
—
  
 
$
862
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The Company acknowledges that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits may change in the next twelve months. However, it does not expect
the change to have a significant impact on its financial statements. Income tax-related interest and penalties were insignificant for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009.  The Company files tax returns in the U.S. Federal and State jurisdictions. The Company is no longer subject to U.S. Federal examinations by the Internal Revenue Services for the years before 2009 and,
this applies to examinations by the State authorities before 2007. 
7.    Notes payable 
On August 31, 2010, the Company terminated its credit facility with Bank of America and entered into a new credit facility
pursuant to a Loan and Security Agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent and a Lender thereunder, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as a Lender, and PNC Bank, National Association, as a Lender.

  56 


Table of Contents
On October 19, 2011, the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the
Loan Agreement) with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent and a Lender thereunder, Wells Fargo Capital Finance LLC as a Lender, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC as a Lender, JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. as a
Lender and PNC Bank, National Association, as a Lender. The Loan Agreement amended and restated the Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of August 31, 2010, by and among the lenders. The Loan Agreement extends the maturity of the Company’s
credit facility to October 2016, provides maximum revolving loans equal to the lesser of $200,000 or a percentage of eligible owned inventory, contains a $10,000 subfacility for letters of credit and allows the Company to increase the revolving
facility by an additional $50,000, subject to consent by each lender and other conditions. The Loan Agreement contains a requirement to maintain a minimum amount of excess borrowing availability at all times. Substantially all of the Company’s
assets are pledged as collateral for outstanding borrowings under the facility. Outstanding borrowings will bear interest at the prime rate or Libor plus 1.50% and the unused line fee is 0.225%. As of January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011,
the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the new credit facility. 
8.    Financial instruments 
The Company is exposed to certain risks relating to its ongoing business operations. The primary risk managed by using derivative
instruments is interest rate risk. Interest rate swaps are entered into to manage interest rate risk associated with the Company’s variable-rate borrowings. The Company accounts for derivative financial instruments in accordance with the ASC
rules for derivatives and hedging activities.  On February 1, 2009, the Company adopted the ASC disclosure requirements for derivatives
and hedging activities. The adoption had no impact on amounts recognized in the Company’s financial statements. The new rules are intended to help investors better understand how derivative instruments and hedging activities affect an
entity’s financial position, financial performance and cash flows through enhanced disclosure requirements. The enhanced disclosures primarily surround disclosing the objectives and strategies for using derivative instruments by their
underlying risk as well as a tabular format of the fair values of the derivative instruments and their gains and losses.  The Company had an
interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $25 million which was designated as a cash flow hedge. The agreement expired on January 31, 2010. The interest rate swap was recorded at fair value in fiscal 2009 and changes in market
value related to the effective portion of the cash flow hedge were recorded as unrecognized gains or losses in the accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) section of the stockholders’ equity in the balance sheets. 
The Company did not utilize its credit facility during fiscal 2011 or 2010. 
9.    Fair value measurements 
The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and accounts payable approximates their estimated fair values due
to the short maturities of these instruments.  On February 3, 2008, the Company adopted the ASC rules for fair value measurements and
disclosures. The adoption had no impact on the Company’s financial statements. The new rules established a three-tier hierarchy for fair value measurements, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value as follows: 
a. Level 1 — observable inputs such as quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. 
b. Level 2 — inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are observable either directly or indirectly through
corroboration with observable market data.  c. Level 3 — unobservable inputs in which there is little or no market data,
which would require the Company to develop its own assumptions.  As of January 28, 2012, the Company held financial liabilities of $1,855
related to its non-qualified deferred compensation plan. The liabilities have been categorized as Level 2 as they are based on third-party reported net asset values which are based primarily on quoted market prices of underlying assets of the funds
within the plan. 
  57 


Table of Contents
10.    Share-based awards 
Equity Incentive Plans  The Company has had a number of equity incentive plans over the years. The plans were adopted in order to attract and retain the best available personnel for positions of substantial authority and to
provide additional incentive to employees, directors, and consultants to promote the success of the Company’s business. Incentive compensation was awarded under the Amended and Restated Restricted Stock Option Plan until April 2002 and under
the 2002 Equity Incentive Plan through July 2007, at which time the 2007 Incentive Award Plan was adopted. All of the plans generally provided for the grant of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock
units, stock appreciation rights, and other types of awards to employees, consultants, and directors. Unless provided otherwise by the administrator of the plan, options vested over four years at the rate of 25% per year from the date of grant
and most must be exercised within ten years. Options were granted with the exercise price equal to the fair value of the underlying stock on the date of grant.  2011 Incentive Award Plan  In June 2011, the Company adopted the 2011 Incentive
Award Plan (the 2011 Plan). The 2011 Plan provides for the grant of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance awards, dividend equivalent rights, stock
payments, deferred stock and cash-based awards to employees, consultants, and directors. Following its adoption, awards are only being made under the 2011 Plan, and no further awards will be made under any prior plan. The 2011 Plan reserves for the
issuance upon grant or exercise of awards up to 4,750 shares of the Company’s common stock plus 746 shares that were not issued under prior plans.  The Company measures share-based compensation cost on the grant date, based on the fair value of the award, and recognizes the expense on a straight-line method over the requisite service period for
awards expected to vest. The Company estimated the grant date fair value of stock options using a Black-Scholes valuation model using the following weighted-average assumptions: 
   
















 
  
Fiscal2011
 
 
Fiscal2010
 
 
Fiscal2009
 

 Volatility rate
  
 
54.0
% 
 
 
56.9
% 
 
 
60.6
% 

 Average risk-free interest rate
  
 
1.5
% 
 
 
2.2
% 
 
 
2.5
% 

 Average expected life (in years)
  
 
6.3
  
 
 
5.6
  
 
 
5.3
  

 Dividend yield
  
 
None
  
 
 
None
  
 
 
None
  

The expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of a peer group of publicly-traded companies. The risk free interest rate
is based on the United States Treasury yield curve in effect on the date of grant for the respective expected life of the option. The expected life represents the time the options granted are expected to be outstanding. We have limited historical
data related to exercise behavior since our initial public offering on October 30, 2007. As a result, the Company has elected to generally use the shortcut approach to determine the expected life in accordance with the SEC Staff Accounting
Bulletin on share-based payments. The Company does not currently pay a regular dividend.  The Company granted 621 stock options during fiscal
2011. The compensation cost that has been charged against income was $9,731, $9,918, and $5,949 for fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The weighted-average grant date fair value of options granted in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $34.81,
$13.58 and $6.64, respectively. At January 28, 2012, there was approximately $32,156 of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested stock options. The unrecognized compensation expense is expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of approximately two years.  The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $86,030, $42,118 and $4,783 in fiscal
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  58 


Table of Contents
Restricted stock awards  During fiscal 2010, the Company granted restricted common shares to its newly appointed President and Chief Executive Officer. Restricted shares cannot be sold or otherwise transferred during the vesting
period. The award cliff vested on December 29, 2011. The award was expensed on a straight-line basis over the 20 month vesting period. During fiscal 2011 the Company issued restricted stock to certain employees and its board of directors.
Employee grants will vest over four years at the rate of 25% per year from the date of grant and director grants will generally cliff vest within one year. The compensation expense recorded in fiscal 2011 and 2010 was $1,874 and $1,237,
respectively. At January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock awards was $935 and $1,543, respectively.  A summary of the status of the Company’s stock option activity is presented in the following tables:   
 




























 
  
Fiscal 2011
 
  
Fiscal 2010
 
  
Fiscal 2009
 

 
  
Shares
 
 
Weighted-AverageExercise Price
 
  
Shares
 
 
Weighted-AverageExercise Price
 
  
Shares
 
 
Weighted-AverageExercise Price
 

 Common Stock Options Outstanding
  



 



  



 



  



 




 Beginning of year
  
 
5,036
  
 
$
16.55
  
  
 
5,791
  
 
$
11.18
  
  
 
5,300
  
 
$
10.27
  

 Granted
  
 
621
  
 
 
66.58
  
  
 
1,521
  
 
 
26.12
  
  
 
977
  
 
 
12.44
  

 Exercised
  
 
(1,936
) 
 
 
14.28
  
  
 
(2,033
) 
 
 
8.41
  
  
 
(429
) 
 
 
2.86
  

 Canceled
  
 
(162
) 
 
 
17.75
  
  
 
(243
) 
 
 
16.73
  
  
 
(57
) 
 
 
10.46
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 End of year
  
 
3,559
  
 
$
26.46
  
  
 
5,036
  
 
$
16.55
  
  
 
5,791
  
 
$
11.18
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Exercisable at end of year
  
 
1,437
  
 
 
14.27
  
  
 
2,272
  
 
$
12.38
  
  
 
2,971
  
 
$
8.99
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Restricted Stock Outstanding
  



 



  



 



  



 




 Beginning of year
  
 
128
  
 
$
24.29
  
  
 
—
  
 
$
—
  
  



 




 Granted
  
 
15
  
 
 
63.38
  
  
 
128
  
 
 
24.29
  
  



 




 Vested
  
 
(71
) 
 
 
23.62
  
  
 
 —
  
 
 
 — 
  
  



 




 Repuchased
  
 
(50
) 
 
 
23.52
  
  
 
 —
  
 
 
 — 
  
  



 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  



 




 End of year
  
 
22
  
 
$
55.72
  
  
 
128
  
 
$
24.29
  
  



 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  



 




The Company completed an initial public offering during fiscal 2007 which resulted in compensation expense related to performance based
grants of $425 and $637 in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. There was no compensation expense related to performance based grants in 2011. No performance-based options were granted during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
Cash received from option exercises under all share-based payment arrangements for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $27,639, $17,100 and $1,228,
respectively. The total income tax benefit recognized in the income statement for the share-based compensation arrangements was $3,545, $3,300 and $1,464 for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax
deductions from option exercise and restricted stock vesting of the share-based payment arrangements totaled $29,439, $13,373 and $630, respectively, for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
  59 


Table of Contents
The following table presents information related to options outstanding and options exercisable at
January 28, 2012, under the Company’s stock option plans based on ranges of exercise prices:   
 




























 
  
Options outstanding
 
  
Options exercisable
 

 Options outstanding
  
Number ofoptions
 
  
Weighted-averageremainingcontractual life(years)
 
  
Weighted-averageexercise price
 
  
Numberof options
 
  
Weighted-averageremainingcontractual life(years)
 
  
Weighted-averageexercise price
 

 $   0.02 - 0.17
  
 
6
  
  
 
1
  
  
$
.17
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
1
  
  
$
.17
  

      0.18 - 1.11
  
 
16
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
1.11
  
  
 
16
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
1.11
  

      1.12 - 2.62
  
 
138
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
2.49
  
  
 
138
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
2.49
  

      2.63 - 4.12
  
 
67
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
3.72
  
  
 
67
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
3.72
  

      4.13 - 9.18
  
 
111
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
7.93
  
  
 
73
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
8.79
  

     9.19 - 15.81
  
 
1,292
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
13.51
  
  
 
777
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
13.76
  

   15.82 - 37.85
  
 
1,308
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
25.89
  
  
 
360
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
23.78
  

   37.86 - 69.96
  
 
621
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
66.58
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

   End of year
  
 
3,559
  
  
 
8
  
  
$
26.46
  
  
 
1,437
  
  
 
7
  
  
$
14.27
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

The aggregate intrinsic value of outstanding and exercisable options as of January 28, 2012 was $180,995 and $90,599,
respectively. The last reported sale price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on January 28, 2012 was $77.31 per share. 
11.     Net income per common share 
The following is a reconciliation of net income and the number of shares of common stock used in the computation of net income per
basic and diluted share:     
















 
  
Fiscal year ended
 

 
  
January 28,2012
 
  
January 29,2011
 
  
January 30,2010
 

 Numerator for diluted net income per share — net income
  
$
120,264
  
  
$
71,030
  
  
$
39,356
  

 Denominator for basic net income per share — weighted-average common shares
  
 
61,259
  
  
 
58,959
  
  
 
57,915
  

 Dilutive effect of stock options and non-vested stock
  
 
2,075
  
  
 
2,329
  
  
 
1,322
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Denominator for diluted net income per share
  
 
63,334
  
  
 
61,288
  
  
 
59,237
  

 Net income per common share:
  



  



  




 Basic
  
$
1.96
  
  
$
1.20
  
  
$
0.68
  

 Diluted
  
$
1.90
  
  
$
1.16
  
  
$
0.66
  

The denominator for diluted net income per common share for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009 exclude 621, 1,263 and 3,809 employee
options, respectively, due to their anti-dilutive effects. 
12.    Employee benefit plans 
The Company provides a 401(k) retirement plan covering all employees who qualify as to age and length of service. The plan is funded
through employee contributions and a Company match. In fiscal 2011 and 2010, the Company match was 100% of the first 2.5% and 2%, respectively, of eligible compensation. In fiscal 2009, the Company match was between 40% and 50% of the first 3% of
eligible compensation. For fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company match was $2,146, $1,106 and $600, respectively.  On January 1,
2009, the Company established a non-qualified deferred compensation plan for highly compensated employees whose contributions are limited under qualified defined contribution plans. Amounts contributed and deferred under the plan are credited or
charged with the performance of investment options 
  60 


Table of Contents

offered under the plan as elected by the participants. In the event of bankruptcy, the assets of this plan are available to satisfy the claims of general creditors. The liability for compensation
deferred under the Company’s plan included in accrued liabilities was $1,855 and $1,233 as of January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively. Total expense recorded under this plan is included in selling, general and
administrative expenses and was insignificant during fiscal 2011 and 2010. The Company manages the risk of changes in the fair value of the liability for deferred compensation by electing to match its liability under the plan with investment
vehicles that offset a substantial portion of its exposure. The cash value of the investment vehicles included in prepaid expense and other current assets was $1,968 and $1,232 as of January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively.

13.    Valuation and qualifying accounts 
   




















 Description
  
Balance atbeginningof period
 
 
Charged tocosts andexpenses
 
  
Deductions
 
 
Balance atend ofperiod
 

 Fiscal 2011
  



 



  



 




 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
$
257
  
 
$
607
  
  
$
(308
)(a) 
 
$
556
  

 Shrink reserve
  
 
2,300
  
 
 
5,535
  
  
 
(5,390
) 
 
 
2,445
  

 Inventory — lower of cost or market reserve
  
 
3,316
  
 
 
870
  
  
 
(2,116
) 
 
 
2,070
  

 Insurance:
  



 



  



 




 Workers Comp / General Liability Prepaid Assset
  
 
(970
)(b) 
 
 
4,495
  
  
 
(5,609
) 
 
 
(2,084
) 

 Employee Health Care Accrued Liability
  
 
1,608
  
 
 
21,036
  
  
 
(20,715
) 
 
 
1,929
  

 Fiscal 2010
  



 



  



 




 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
$
489
  
 
$
189
  
  
$
(421
)(a) 
 
$
257
  

 Shrink reserve
  
 
1,869
  
 
 
5,191
  
  
 
(4,760
) 
 
 
2,300
  

 Inventory — lower of cost or market reserve
  
 
4,014
  
 
 
881
  
  
 
(1,579
) 
 
 
3,316
  

 Insurance:
  



 



  



 




 Workers Comp / General Liability Prepaid Assset
  
 
(1,181
)(b) 
 
 
4,320
  
  
 
(4,109
) 
 
 
(970
) 

 Employee Health Care Accrued Liability
  
 
1,579
  
 
 
17,601
  
  
 
(17,572
) 
 
 
1,608
  

 Fiscal 2009
  



 



  



 




 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
$
296
  
 
$
432
  
  
$
(239
)(a) 
 
$
489
  

 Shrink reserve
  
 
2,005
  
 
 
4,590
  
  
 
(4,726
) 
 
 
1,869
  

 Inventory — lower of cost or market reserve
  
 
2,364
  
 
 
2,481
  
  
 
(831
) 
 
 
4,014
  

 Insurance:
  



 



  



 




 Workers Comp / General Liability Prepaid Assset
  
 
(369
)(b) 
 
 
2,720
  
  
 
(3,532
) 
 
 
(1,181
) 

 Employee Health Care Accrued Liability
  
 
1,803
  
 
 
16,710
  
  
 
(16,934
) 
 
 
1,579
  
    
 


(a)
Represents writeoff of uncollectible accounts.   


(b)
Represents prepaid insurance 
  61 


Table of Contents
14.     Selected quarterly financial data (unaudited) 
The following tables set forth the Company’s unaudited quarterly results of operations for each of the quarters in fiscal 2011 and
fiscal 2010. The Company uses a 13 week fiscal quarter ending on the last Saturday of the quarter.     




































 
 
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
 
First
 
 
Second
 
 
Third
 
  
Fourth
 
  
First
 
  
Second
 
  
Third
 
  
Fourth
 

 Net sales
 
$
386,006
  
 
$
394,567
  
 
$
413,067
  
  
$
582,511
  
  
$
320,196
  
  
$
321,804
  
  
$
339,179
  
  
$
473,659
  

 Cost of sales
 
 
251,101
  
 
 
260,280
  
 
 
263,884
  
  
 
384,046
  
  
 
215,661
  
  
 
217,846
  
  
 
220,273
  
  
 
316,973
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Gross profit
 
 
134,905
  
 
 
134,287
  
 
 
149,183
  
  
 
198,465
  
  
 
104,535
  
  
 
103,958
  
  
 
118,906
  
  
 
156,686
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
 
 
94,615
  
 
 
90,811
  
 
 
100,997
  
  
 
124,235
  
  
 
80,729
  
  
 
79,909
  
  
 
90,309
  
  
 
107,159
  

 Pre-opening expenses
 
 
1,230
  
 
 
3,816
  
 
 
3,958
  
  
 
983
  
  
 
474
  
  
 
1,793
  
  
 
4,305
  
  
 
523
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Operating income
 
 
39,060
  
 
 
39,660
  
 
 
44,228
  
  
 
73,247
  
  
 
23,332
  
  
 
22,256
  
  
 
24,292
  
  
 
49,004
  

 Interest expense
 
 
173
  
 
 
147
  
 
 
176
  
  
 
91
  
  
 
118
  
  
 
214
  
  
 
244
  
  
 
179
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
 
 
38,887
  
 
 
39,513
  
 
 
44,052
  
  
 
73,156
  
  
 
23,214
  
  
 
22,042
  
  
 
24,048
  
  
 
48,825
  

 Income tax expense
 
 
15,591
  
 
 
15,608
  
 
 
17,284
  
  
 
26,861
  
  
 
9,553
  
  
 
8,980
  
  
 
9,845
  
  
 
18,721
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income
 
$
23,296
  
 
$
23,905
  
 
$
26,768
  
  
$
46,295
  
  
$
13,661
  
  
$
13,062
  
  
$
14,203
  
  
$
30,104
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income per common share:
 



 



 



  



  



  



  



  




 Basic
 
$
0.38
  
 
$
0.39
  
 
$
0.44
  
  
$
0.75
  
  
$
0.23
  
  
$
0.22
  
  
$
0.24
  
  
$
0.50
  

 Diluted
 
$
0.37
  
 
$
0.38
  
 
$
0.42
  
  
$
0.73
  
  
$
0.23
  
  
$
0.22
  
  
$
0.23
  
  
$
0.49
  

The sum of the quarterly net income per common share may not equal the annual total due to quarterly changes in the weighted average
shares and share equivalents outstanding. 
15.     Subsequent event 
On March 8, 2012, we announced that our Board of Directors had declared a $1.00 per share special cash dividend to shareholders of
record as of the close of business on March 20, 2012. The special cash dividend, which totals approximately $62 million, will be payable on May 15, 2012.  On March 8, 2012, we also announced the implementation of a Chief Financial Officer succession plan after our current CFO, Gregg R. Bodnar, advised us that due to a family health issue he will be
required to relocate to Michigan and as a result intends to step down from his current position at such time as a suitable successor CFO can be identified. In order to facilitate an orderly transition, Mr. Bodnar plans to remain in his present
position pending the appointment of his successor and is expected to assist in the transition of his successor. 
  62 


Table of Contents
Exhibits 
 
























 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
Incorporated by Reference
 

 ExhibitNumber
 
 Description of document
  
 FiledHerewith
  
 Form
 
  
 ExhibitNumber
 
 
 File
Number
 
  
 Filing
Date
 









3.1
 
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation
  

  
 
S-1
  
  
 
3.1
  
 
 
333-144405
  
  
 
8/17/2007
  









3.2
 
Amended and Restated Bylaws
  

  
 
S-1
  
  
 
3.2
  
 
 
333-144405
  
  
 
8/17/2007
  









4.1
 
Specimen Common Stock Certificate
  

  
 
S-1
  
  
 
4.1
  
 
 
333-144405
  
  
 
10/11/2007
  









4.2
 
Third Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement between Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. and the stockholders party thereto
  

  
 
S-1
  
  
 
4.2
  
 
 
333-144405
  
  
 
8/17/2007
  









4.3
 
Stockholder Rights Agreement
  

  
 
S-1
  
  
 
4.4
  
 
 
333-144405
  
  
 
8/17/2007
  









10.1
 
Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. Second Amended and Restated Restricted Stock Option Plan
  

  
 
S-1
  
  
 
10.7
  
 
 
333-144405
  
  
 
8/17/2007
  









10.1(a)
 
Amendment to Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. Second Amended and Restated Restricted Stock Option Plan
  

  
 
S-1
  
  
 
10.7
(a) 
 
 
333-144405
  
  
 
8/17/2007
  









10.2
 
Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. 2002 Equity Incentive Plan
  

  
 
S-1
  
  
 
10.9
  
 
 
333-144405
  
  
 
8/17/2007
  









10.3
 
Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. 2007 Incentive Award Plan
  

  
 
S-1
  
  
 
10.10
  
 
 
333-144405
  
  
 
9/27/2007
  









10.4
 
Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan
  

  
 
10-K
  
  
 
10.17
  
 
 
001-33764
  
  
 
4/2/2009
  









10.5
 
Office Lease, dated as of April 17, 2007, between Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. and Bolingbrook Investors, LLC
  

  
 
S-1
  
  
 
10.13
  
 
 
333-144405
  
  
 
8/17/2007
  









10.5(a)
 
Amendment to Lease, dated as of November 2007, by and between Bolingbrook Investors, LLC and Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc.
  

  
 
10-K
  
  
 
10.5
(a) 
 
 
001-33764
  
  
 
3/30/2010
  









10.5(b)
 
Second Amendment to Lease, dated February 20, 2008, by and between Bolingbrook Investors, LLC and Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc.
  

  
 
10-Q
  
  
 
10.1
  
 
 
001-33764
  
  
 
6/17/2008
  









10.5(c)
 
Third Amendment to Lease, dated as of March 2008, by and between Bolingbrook Investors, LLC and Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc.
  

  
 
10-K
  
  
 
10.5
(c) 
 
 
001-33764
  
  
 
3/30/2010
  









10.5(d)
 
Fourth Amendment to Lease, dated as of May 3, 2010, by and between Bolingbrook Investors, LLC and Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc.
  

  
 
10-K
  
  
 
10.5
(d) 
 
 
001-33764
  
  
 
3/30/2011
  









10.6*
 
Lease, effective as of June 21, 2007, by and between Southwest Valley Partners, LLC and Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc.
  

  
 
S-1
  
  
 
10.15
  
 
 
333-144405
  
  
 
9/27/2007
  

  63 


Table of Contents
























 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
Incorporated by Reference
 

 ExhibitNumber
 
 Description of document
  
 FiledHerewith
  
 Form
 
  
 ExhibitNumber
 
 
 File
Number
 
  
 Filing
Date
 









10.6(a)
 
First Amendment to Lease, dated October 23, 2007, by and between Southwest Valley Partners, LLC and Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc.
  

  
 
10-K
  
  
 
10.6
(a) 
 
 
001-33764
  
  
 
3/30/2010
  









10.6(b)*
 
Second Amendment to Lease, dated March 17, 2008, by and between Southwest Valley Partners, LLC and Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc.
  

  
 
10-Q
  
  
 
10.2
  
 
 
001-33764
  
  
 
6/17/2008
  









10.6(c)
 
Third Amendment to Lease, dated as of August 27, 2010, by and between The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company and Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc.
  

  
 
10-K
  
  
 
10.6
(c) 
 
 
001-33764
  
  
 
3/30/2011
  









10.7*
 
Acceptance Letter and Commencement Date Agreement, dated March 24, 2008, by and between Southwest Valley Partners, LLC and Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance,
Inc.
  

  
 
10-Q
  
  
 
10.3
  
 
 
001-33764
  
  
 
6/17/2008
  









10.8
 
Lease Agreement, dated June 22, 1999, between ULTA3 Cosmetics & Salon, Inc. and 1135 Arbor Drive Investors LLC
  

  
 
S-1
  
  
 
10.10
  
 
 
333-144405
  
  
 
8/17/2007
  









10.8(a)
 
First Amendment to Lease Agreement, dated as of November 1, 2000, between Aetna Life Insurance Company c/o UBS Realty Investors, LLC and Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance,
Inc.
  

  
 
10-K
  
  
 
10.8
(a) 
 
 
001-33764
  
  
 
3/30/2010
  









10.8(b)
 
 Second Amendment to Office/Showroom/ Warehouse Lease, dated as of April 27, 2009, between 1135 Arbor Drive Investors LLC and Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc.
  

  
 
10-K
  
  
 
10.8
(b) 
 
 
001-33764
  
  
 
3/30/2010
  









10.8(c)
 
Third Amendment to Lease, dated November 10, 2009, by and between 1135 Arbor Drive Investors LLC and Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc.
  

  
 
10-K
  
  
 
10.8
(c) 
 
 
001-33764
  
  
 
3/30/2010
  









10.9
 
Amendment to Option Agreement with Grant Date March 24, 2008, by and between Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. and Lyn Kirby
  

  
 
10-K
  
  
 
10.16
(a) 
 
 
001-33764
  
  
 
4/2/2009
  









10.10
 
Succession agreement, dated as of April 23, 2010, by and between Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. and Lyn Kirby.
  

  
 
8-K
  
  
 
10.1
  
 
 
001-33764
  
  
 
4/27/2010
  









10.11
 
Employment Agreement, dated as of April 12, 2010, by and between Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. and Carl Rubin.
  

  
 
8-K
  
  
 
10.2
  
 
 
001-33764
  
  
 
4/27/2010
  

  64 


Table of Contents


























 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
Incorporated by Reference
 

 ExhibitNumber
 
 Description of document
  
 FiledHerewith
 
  
 Form
 
  
 ExhibitNumber
 
 
 File
Number
 
  
 Filing
Date
 









10.12
 
First Amendment to Carl Rubin Employment Agreement, dated April 28, 2010.
  



  
 
10-Q
  
  
 
10.2
(a) 
 
 
001-33764
  
  
 
6/3/2010
  









10.13
 
Restricted Stock Award Agreement, dated May 10, 2010, by and between Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. and Carl Rubin.
  



  
 
8-K
  
  
 
10.3
  
 
 
001-33764
  
  
 
4/27/2010
  









10.14
 
Option Agreement, dated May 10, 2010, by and between Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. and Carl Rubin.
  



  
 
8-K
  
  
 
10.4
  
 
 
001-33764
  
  
 
4/27/2010
  









10.15
 
Loan and Security Agreement, dated August 31, 2010, by and between Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, JP Morgan Chase Bank,
N.A., and PNC Bank, National Association.
  



  
 
8-K
  
  
 
10.9.B
  
 
 
001-33764
  
  
 
9/7/2010
  









10.16
 
Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement, dated October 19, 2011, by and among Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc., Wells Fargo Bank, National Association,
Wells Fargo Capital Finance, LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and PNC Bank, National Association
  



  
 
8-K
  
  
 
10.1
  
 
 
001-33764
  
  
 
10/25/2011
  









23.1
 
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
X
  
  



  



 



  












31.1
 
Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
  
 
X
  
  



  



 



  












31.2
 
Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
  
 
X
  
  



  



 



  












32.1
 
Certification of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002
  
 
X
  
  



  



 



  












101.INS **
 
XBRL Instance
  
 
X
  
  



  



 



  












101.SCH**
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema
  
 
X
  
  



  



 



  












101.CAL **
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation
  
 
X
  
  



  



 



  




  65 


Table of Contents


















 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
Incorporated by Reference

 ExhibitNumber
 
 Description of document
  
 FiledHerewith
 
  
 Form
  
 ExhibitNumber
  
 File
Number
  
 FilingDate









101.LAB **
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Labels
  
 
X
  
  

  

  

  










101.PRE **
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation
  
 
X
  
  

  

  

  










101.DEF **
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition
  
 
X
  
  

  

  

  

    
 


*
Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to certain portions of this Exhibit pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act. Omitted portions
have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission.   


**
In accordance with Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, the Interactive Data Files in Exhibit 101 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K shall be deemed “furnished” and
not “filed.” 
  66 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized, in the City of Chicago, State of Illinois, on March 28, 2012.   






ULTA SALON, COSMETICS & FRAGRANCE, INC.




 By:  
 
 /s/ Gregg R. Bodnar  


 
Gregg R. Bodnar


 
Chief Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:   








 Signatures
  
 Title
 
 Date





 /s/ Carl S. Rubin Carl S. Rubin
  
 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer)
 
March 28, 2012





 /s/ Gregg R. Bodnar
Gregg R. Bodnar
  
 Chief Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary (Principal Financial and Accounting
Officer)
 
March 28, 2012





 /s/ Robert F. DiRomualdo
Robert F. DiRomualdo
  
 Director
 
March 28, 2012





 /s/ Dennis K. Eck Dennis K. Eck
  
 Chairman of the Board of Directors
 
March 28, 2012





 /s/ Catherine Halligan
Catherine Halligan
  
 Director
 
March 28, 2012





 /s/ Charles Heilbronn
Charles Heilbronn
  
 Director
 
March 28, 2012





 /s/ Lorna E. Nagler
Lorna E. Nagler
  
 Director
 
March 28, 2012





 /s/ Charles J. Philippin
Charles J. Philippin
  
 Director
 
March 28, 2012





 /s/ Kenneth T. Stevens
Kenneth T. Stevens
  
 Director
 
March 28, 2012

  67 



