
10-K
1
d273263d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549  FORM 10-K  (Mark one) 
 






       þ
  
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 
or   






       ¨
  
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
   For the transition period from
             to               Commission file number: 001-33801  APPROACH RESOURCES INC.
 (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
 






Delaware
 
51-0424817

 (State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
 
 (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)




 One Ridgmar Centre 6500 West Freeway, Suite 800 Fort Worth, Texas
 
76116

(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(Zip Code)
 Registrant’s telephone number, including area code 
(817) 989-9000  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   






 Title of each class
 
 Name of each exchange on which registered

Common stock, par value $0.01 per share
 
NASDAQ Global Select Market
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes  þ    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes  ¨    No  þ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
    Yes  þ    No  ¨  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule
405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes  þ    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    þ  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
  










Large accelerated filer  ¨
 
Accelerated filer  þ
 
Non-accelerated filer  ¨
 
Smaller reporting company  ¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2).
    Yes  ¨    No  þ  The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates (excluding voting shares held by officers and directors) as of June 30, 2011 was $529.7 million. This
amount is based on the closing price of the registrant’s common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on that date. 
The number of shares of the registrant’s common stock, par value $0.01, outstanding as of March 9, 2012 was 33,308,502.
 DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  Portions of the registrant’s proxy statement for its 2012 annual meeting of stockholders are incorporated by reference in Part III, Items 10-14 of this report. 
Certain exhibits previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission are incorporated by reference into Part IV of this report.
    
 


Table of Contents
APPROACH RESOURCES INC. 
Unless the context otherwise indicates, all references in this report to “Approach,” the “Company,”
“we,” “us,” “our” or “ours” are to Approach Resources Inc. and its subsidiaries. Unless otherwise noted, (i) all information in this report relating to oil and natural gas reserves and the estimated
future net cash flows attributable to reserves is based on estimates and is net to our interest, and (ii) all information in this report relating to oil and natural gas production is net to our interest. Natural gas is converted throughout this
report at a rate of six Mcf of gas to one barrel of oil equivalent (“Boe”). NGLs are converted throughout this report at a rate of one barrel of NGLs to one Boe. The ratios of six Mcf of gas to one Boe and one barrel of NGLs to one Boe do
not assume price equivalency and, given price differentials, the price for a Boe of natural gas or NGLs may differ significantly from the price of a barrel of oil. If you are not familiar with the oil and gas terms or abbreviations used in this
report, please refer to the definitions of these terms and abbreviations under the caption “Glossary” at the end of Item 15 of this report.  TABLE OF CONTENTS   













 
 
 
  
Page
 

PART I
  

 Item 1.
 
Business
  
 
1
  

 Item 1A.
 
Risk Factors
  
 
14
  

 Item 1B.
 
Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
25
  

 Item 2.
 
Properties
  
 
26
  

 Item 3.
 
Legal Proceedings
  
 
34
  

 Item 4.
 
Mine Safety Disclosures
  
 
34
  



PART II
  

 Item 5.
 
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
  
 
35
  

 Item 6.
 
Selected Financial Data
  
 
39
  

 Item 7.
 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  
 
40
  

 Item 7A.
 
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
  
 
57
  

 Item 8.
 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
60
  

 Item 9.
 
Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
 
61
  

 Item 9A.
 
Controls and Procedures
  
 
61
  

 Item 9B.
 
Other Information
  
 
61
  



PART III
  

 Item 10.
 
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
62
  

 Item 11.
 
Executive Compensation
  
 
62
  

 Item 12.
 
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
  
 
62
  

 Item 13.
 
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
62
  

 Item 14.
 
Principal Accounting Fees and Services
  
 
62
  



PART IV
  

 Item 15.
 
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 
  
 
63
  

 Signatures
  
 
69
  

 Index to Financial Statements of Approach Resources Inc.
  
 
F-1
  

 Index to Exhibits
  
 
70
  

  ii 


Table of Contents
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 
Various statements in this report, including those that express a belief, expectation or intention, as well as those that are not
statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
(the “Exchange Act”). The forward-looking statements may include projections and estimates concerning the timing and success of specific projects, typical well economics and our future reserves, production, revenues, costs, income, capital
spending, 3-D seismic operations, interpretation and results and obtaining permits and regulatory approvals. When used in this report, the words “will,” “believe,” “intend,” “expect,” “may,”
“should,” “anticipate,” “could,” “estimate,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “potential” or their negatives, other similar expressions or the statements that include those
words, are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain such identifying words.  These forward-looking statements are largely based on our expectations, which reflect estimates and assumptions made by our management. These estimates and assumptions reflect our best judgment based on
currently known market conditions and other factors. Although we believe such estimates and assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently uncertain and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that are beyond our control. In addition,
management’s assumptions about future events may prove to be inaccurate. We caution all readers that the forward-looking statements contained in this report are not guarantees of future performance, and we cannot assure any reader that such
statements will be realized or the forward-looking events and circumstances will occur. Actual results may differ materially from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements due to the factors listed in the “Risk
Factors” section and elsewhere in this report. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. We expressly disclaim all responsibility to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise. These cautionary statements qualify all forward-looking statements attributable to us, or persons acting on our behalf. The risks, contingencies and uncertainties relate to, among other matters, the
following:   


 
•
 
 uncertainties in drilling and exploring for and producing oil and gas; 
 


 
•
 
 uncertainty of commodity prices in oil, NGLs and gas; 
 


 
•
 
 overall United States and global economic and financial market conditions; 
 


 
•
 
 domestic and foreign demand and supply for oil, NGLs, gas and the products derived from such hydrocarbons; 
 


 
•
 
 our inability to obtain additional financing necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures and to meet our other obligations;
  


 
•
 
 disruption of credit and capital markets;   


 
•
 
 our financial position;   


 
•
 
 our cash flow and liquidity;   


 
•
 
 disruptions to, capacity constraints in or other limitations on the pipeline systems that deliver our gas and NGLs and other processing and
transportation considerations, including limited availability of oil hauling trucks in the Permian Basin, our primary operation;   


 
•
 
 marketing of oil, NGLs and gas;   


 
•
 
 high costs, shortages, delivery delays or unavailability of drilling and completion equipment, materials, labor or other services;
  


 
•
 
 competition in the oil and gas industry;   


 
•
 
 the effects of government regulation and permitting and other legal requirements; 
 


 
•
 
 uncertainty regarding our future operating results; 
  iii



Table of Contents


 
•
 
 interpretation of 3-D seismic data;   


 
•
 
 replacing our oil and gas reserves;   


 
•
 
 our inability to retain and attract key personnel;   


 
•
 
 our business strategy, including our ability to recover oil and gas in place associated with our Wolffork oil resource play in the Permian Basin;
  


 
•
 
 development of our current asset base or property acquisitions; 
 


 
•
 
 estimated quantities of oil, NGL and gas reserves;   


 
•
 
 plans, objectives, expectations and intentions contained in this report that are not historical; and 
 


 
•
 
 other factors discussed under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this report. 
  iv 


Table of Contents
PART I  ITEM 1.    BUSINESS 
General  Approach
Resources Inc. is an independent energy company engaged in the exploration, development, production and acquisition of oil and gas properties. We focus on oil and gas reserves in oil shale and tight gas sands in the Permian Basin in West Texas
(Clearfork, Wolfcamp Shale, Canyon Sands, Strawn and Ellenburger), where we lease approximately 145,000 net acres. Our management and technical team have a proven track record of finding and developing reserves through advanced completion,
fracturing and drilling techniques. As the operator of all of our estimated proved reserves and production, we have a high degree of control over capital expenditures and other operating matters. 
At December 31, 2011, our estimated proved reserves were 77.0 million barrels of oil equivalent (“MMBoe”). At such
date, approximately 99.7% of our proved reserves were located in the Permian Basin in Crockett and Schleicher Counties, Texas. The remainder of our proved reserves is located in the East Texas Basin in Limestone County, Texas. Important
characteristics of our proved reserves at December 31, 2011, include:   


 
•
 
 61% oil and NGLs and 39% natural gas;   


 
•
 
 44% proved developed;   


 
•
 
 100% operated;   


 
•
 
 Reserve life of over 33 years based on 2011 production of 2.3 MMBoe; 
 


 
•
 
 Standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows (“Standardized Measure”) of $414.4 million; and 
 


 
•
 
 PV-10 of $679.1 million.  PV-10 is our estimate of the present value of future net revenues from proved oil and gas reserves after deducting estimated production and ad valorem taxes, future capital costs and operating expenses,
but before deducting any estimates for future income taxes. Estimated future net revenues are discounted at an annual rate of 10% to determine their present value. PV-10 is a financial measure that is not determined in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”), and generally differs from the Standardized Measure, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, because it does not include the effects of income taxes on future cash
flows. PV-10 should not be considered as an alternative to the Standardized Measure, as computed under GAAP. See Item 2. “Properties — Proved Oil and Gas Reserves” for a reconciliation of PV-10 to the Standardized Measure.
 At December 31, 2011, we owned working interests in 638 producing oil and gas wells in the Permian Basin, and we had an
estimated 3,000 potential drilling locations, of which 395 were proved. We also had an estimated 190 potential Wolffork recompletion opportunities in the Permian Basin, of which four were proved. We also owned working interests in nine
producing gas wells in the East Texas Basin.  We were incorporated in 2002. Our common stock began trading on the NASDAQ
Global Market in the United States under the symbol “AREX” on November 8, 2007, and is now listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (“NASDAQ”). Our principal executive offices are located at One Ridgmar Centre, 6500 West
Freeway, Suite 800, Fort Worth, Texas 76116. Our telephone number is (817) 989-9000. 
  1 


Table of Contents
Business Strategy  Our goal is to build long-term stockholder value by growing reserves and production in a cost-efficient manner. To accomplish our goal, we plan to carry out a balanced program of (1) developing our
core Permian Basin drilling inventory, (2) evaluating and developing our Wolffork oil shale resource play, (3) operating as a low-cost producer, (4) completing strategic, complementary acquisitions and (5) maintaining financial
flexibility. The following are key elements of our strategy:   


 
•
 
 Continue to develop our low risk, multi-year drilling inventory.    We believe we have a large inventory of low-risk
drilling locations that provide us the ability to continue to increase production and reserves at a competitive cost. Since 2004, we have been operating in the Permian Basin, where we have drilled more than 595 wells and, as of
December 31, 2011, lease approximately 145,000 net acres. Focusing on our Permian Basin properties allows us to develop operating, technical and regional expertise important to interpreting geological and operating trends, enhancing
production rates, maximizing well recovery and building a low-risk, multi-year drilling inventory.   


 
•
 
 Evaluate and develop our Wolffork oil shale resource play.    We will dedicate substantially all of our 2012 exploration and
development drilling budget to the Wolffork oil shale resource play. For 2012, we expect to drill 21 horizontal wells targeting the Wolfcamp Shale and 28 vertical wells targeting the Wolffork and Canyon Sands and recomplete 24 to 48 wells. We have
identified approximately 2,955 potential Wolffork drilling and recompletion locations, including:   


 
•
 
 500 potential horizontal Wolfcamp locations;   


 
•
 
 1,825 potential vertical Wolffork locations;   


 
•
 
 440 potential vertical Canyon Wolffork locations; and 
 


 
•
 
 190 potential Wolffork recompletions.  In addition to publicly available well data, we used internal information from cores, 3-D seismic, microseismic, open-hole logging and reservoir engineering to define the extent of targeted intervals, the
ability of such intervals to produce commercial quantities of hydrocarbons and the number of potential locations. The timing of drilling our identified potential locations is subject to a number of uncertainties and will be influenced by several
factors, including commodity prices, capital requirements, well-spacing requirements and a continuation of the positive results from both our vertical and horizontal drilling program. 
 


 
•
 
 Operate our properties as a low-cost producer.    We try to minimize our operating costs by concentrating our assets within
geographic areas where we can consolidate operating control and thus create operating efficiencies. We operate 100% of our reserve base and plan to continue to operate a substantial portion of our producing properties in the future. We believe
operating control allows us to better manage timing and risk as well as the cost of exploration and development, drilling and ongoing operations.   


 
•
 
 Acquire strategic, complementary assets.    We continually review opportunities to acquire producing properties, undeveloped
acreage and drilling prospects in our existing core area in the Permian Basin. We focus particularly on opportunities where we believe our operational efficiency, reservoir management and geological expertise in unconventional oil and gas properties
will enhance value and performance. We remain focused on unconventional resource opportunities, but will also look at conventional opportunities based on individual project economics. 
 


 
•
 
 Maintain financial flexibility.    We believe that a strong balance sheet and liquidity provide us with significant
financial flexibility to pursue our strategic and financial objectives. Also, we may from time to time enter into commodity price swaps and collars to partially mitigate the risk of commodity price volatility. Furthermore, during times of severe
price declines, we may from time to time reduce capital expenditures and curtail drilling to preserve our financial flexibility and the net asset value of our existing proved reserves. 
  2 


Table of Contents
2011 Activity  Our operations are focused on the Permian Basin, where our leasehold position is characterized by multiple oil and liquids-rich formations. Historically, we have focused our drilling on tight gas sands
(Canyon Sands) and the Strawn and Ellenburger formations in the Permian Basin. Data from drilling vertical Canyon, Strawn and Ellenburger wells, combined with a detailed geological and petrophysical study, led to our decision to begin to develop the
shallower Clearfork and Wolfcamp formations in late 2010. We sometimes refer to the Clearfork and Wolfcamp zones together as the “Wolffork” oil shale resource play, and our drilling program in the Permian Basin as “Project
Pangea” and “Pangea West.”  Proved Reserves and Production Growth 
In 2011, our estimated proved reserves increased 52%, or 26.3 MMBoe, to 77.0 MMBoe from 50.7 MMBoe. Reserve growth in 2011 was driven by
results in our Wolffork oil shale resource play as well as the acquisition of additional working interest in northwest Project Pangea.  Production for 2011 totaled 2.3 MMBoe (6.4 MBoe/d), compared to 1.6 MMBoe (4.3 MBoe/d) in 2010, a 50% increase. Production for 2011 was 21% oil, 34% NGLs and 45% natural gas. After the expiration of our
prior gas sales contract in April 2011, we began realizing NGL revenues from the liquids-rich gas stream in southeast Project Pangea and our NGL production increased 206% in 2011, compared to 2010. In addition, our continued development of Project
Pangea increased oil production 96% in 2011, compared to 2010. On average, we operated two vertical rigs and one horizontal rig in 2011, and drilled a total of 71 gross (66.2 net) wells, of which 18 gross (18 net) were waiting on completion at
December 31, 2011. We also recompleted 10 gross (10 net) wells in the Wolffork in 2011.  Liquids-Weighted Reserve
Profile  Our proved reserve profile at year end 2011 was 61% oil and NGLs and 39% natural gas, compared to 51% oil and
NGLs and 49% natural gas at year end 2010. During 2011, our proved oil and NGL reserves increased 21.6 MMBbls, or 84%, to 47.2 MMBbls from 25.6 MMBbls in 2010. Our increase in proved oil and NGL reserves is primarily due to the liquids-rich
production and reserve profile of the Wolffork oil shale resource play and processing upgrades in southeast Project Pangea. On April 1, 2011, we began realizing NGL revenues from the liquids-rich gas stream in southeast Project Pangea.
 Working Interest Acquisition  In February 2011, we acquired the remaining 38% working interest in northwest Project Pangea from two non-operating partners for $70.8 million, after customary post-closing adjustments (the “Working
Interest Acquisition”). The Working Interest Acquisition was funded with cash on hand and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. As a result of the Working Interest Acquisition, our working and net revenue interests in Project Pangea
are approximately 100% and 76%, respectively.  Acquisition of Acreage 
We acquired approximately 43,000 net acres in the Permian Basin in Crockett and Schleicher Counties, Texas, during 2011. The acreage
acquisitions increased our exposure to the Wolffork oil shale resource play.  2011 Equity Offering 
In November 2011, we sold 4.6 million shares of common stock in an underwritten public equity offering at $28 per share (the
“2011 Offering”). After deducting underwriting discounts and transaction costs of approximately $6.6 million, we received net proceeds of approximately $122.2 million. We intend to use the

  3 


Table of Contents

proceeds to fund our capital expenditures for the Wolffork oil shale resource play, working interest and leasehold acquisitions in the Permian Basin and general working capital needs. Pending
these uses, we used the proceeds of the 2011 Offering to repay outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility.  Plans for 2012
 In November 2011, we announced a drilling program that included two rigs to drill vertical wells targeting the Wolffork
and Canyon Sands and one rig to drill horizontal wells targeting the Wolfcamp. Due to continued, strong results from our horizontal Wolfcamp drilling program, we replaced one of our vertical drilling rigs with a second horizontal rig in Project
Pangea in March 2012. In connection with the expansion of our horizontal Wolfcamp drilling program, our Board of Directors approved a $30 million increase in our 2012 capital budget to $190 million. We also expect to recomplete two to four wells per
month in the Wolffork in 2012. Our objectives for 2012 include advancing our understanding of optimal well spacing, testing multi-zone potential and refining recompletion techniques to enhance hydrocarbon recovery in our Wolffork targets and
improving our cost structure.  Our 2012 capital budget is subject to change depending upon a number of factors, including
additional data on our Wolffork oil shale resource play, results of Wolfcamp Shale and Wolffork drilling and recompletions, economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, prevailing and anticipated prices for oil, NGLs and gas, the
availability of sufficient capital resources for drilling prospects, our financial results and the availability of lease extensions and renewals on reasonable terms.  Markets and Customers  The revenues generated by our operations are highly
dependent upon the prices of, and supply and demand for, oil, NGLs and gas. The price we receive for our oil and gas production depends on numerous factors beyond our control, including seasonality, the condition of the domestic and global
economies, particularly in the manufacturing sectors, political conditions in other oil and gas producing countries, the extent of domestic production and imports of oil and gas, the proximity and capacity of gas pipelines and other transportation
facilities, supply and demand for oil and gas, the marketing of competitive fuels and the effects of federal, state and local regulation. The oil and gas industry also competes with other industries in supplying the energy and fuel requirements of
industrial, commercial and individual consumers.  The following table summarizes the top five purchasers of our oil, NGL and
gas sales for 2011, excluding realized commodity derivative settlements.   








 Purchaser
  
Percent of Oil, NGLand Gas Sales
 

 Belvan Partners, LP (“WTG”)
  
 
              34.5
% 

 Shell Trading (US) Company (“Shell”)
  
 
25.0
  

 DCP Midstream, LLC (“DCP”)
  
 
22.0
  

 Eastex Crude Co. (“Eastex”)
  
 
6.0
  

 BML, Inc. (“BML”)
  
 
5.6
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
93.1
% 


  
  
  
 
 Commodity Derivative Activity  We enter into financial swaps and options to mitigate portions of the risk of market price fluctuations related to future oil and gas production. All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance
sheet at fair value. Changes in the derivative’s fair value are currently recognized in the statement of operations unless specific commodity derivative accounting criteria are met and contracts have been designated as cash flow hedge
instruments. For qualifying cash-flow commodity derivatives, the gain or loss on the derivative is deferred in 
  4 


Table of Contents

accumulated other comprehensive income to the extent the commodity derivative is effective. The ineffective portion of the commodity derivative is recognized immediately in the statement of
operations. Gains and losses on commodity derivative instruments included in accumulated other comprehensive income are reclassified to oil and gas sales revenue in the period that the related production is delivered. Derivative contracts that do
not qualify for commodity derivative accounting treatment are recorded as derivative assets and liabilities at fair value in the balance sheet, and the associated unrealized gains and losses are recorded as current income or expense in the statement
of operations.  Historically, we have not designated our derivative instruments as cash-flow commodity derivatives. We record
our open derivative instruments at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets as either unrealized gains or losses on commodity derivatives. We record changes in such fair value in earnings on our consolidated statements of operations under the
caption entitled “unrealized (loss) gain on commodity derivatives.”  Title to Properties 
Our properties are subject to customary royalty interests, liens incident to operating agreements, liens for current taxes and other
burdens, including other mineral encumbrances and restrictions. We do not believe that any of these burdens materially interfere with our use of the properties in the operation of our business. 
We believe that we have generally satisfactory title to or rights in all of our producing properties. As is customary in the oil and gas
industry, we make a general investigation of title at the time we acquire undeveloped properties. We receive title opinions of counsel before we commence drilling operations. We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our other assets.
Although title to our properties is subject to encumbrances in certain cases, we believe that none of these burdens will materially detract from the value of our properties or from our interest therein or will materially interfere with our use of
the properties in the operation of our business.  Oil and Gas Leases 
The typical oil and natural gas lease agreement covering our properties provides for the payment of royalties to the mineral owner for all
oil and natural gas produced from any wells drilled on the leased premises. The lessor royalties and other leasehold burdens on our properties generally range from 20% to 25%, resulting in a net revenue interest to us generally ranging from 80% to
75%.  Seasonality  Demand for oil and natural gas generally decreases during the spring and fall months and increases during the summer and winter months. However, seasonal anomalies such as mild winters or mild summers
sometimes lessen this fluctuation. In addition, certain natural gas users utilize storage facilities and purchase some of their anticipated winter requirements during the summer. This can also lessen seasonal demand fluctuations. These seasonal
anomalies can increase competition for equipment, supplies and personnel during the spring and summer months, which could lead to shortages and increase costs or delay our operations.  Competition  The oil and gas industry is highly competitive, and we compete
for prospective properties, producing properties, personnel and services with a substantial number of other companies that have greater resources. Many of these companies explore for, produce and market oil and gas, carry on refining operations and
market the end products on a worldwide basis. The primary areas in which we encounter substantial competition are in locating and acquiring desirable leasehold acreage for our drilling and development operations, locating and acquiring attractive
producing oil and gas properties, attracting highly-skilled personnel and obtaining purchasers and transporters of the oil and gas we produce. We also face competition from alternative fuel sources, including

  5 


Table of Contents

coal, heating oil, imported LNG, nuclear and other nonrenewable fuel sources, and renewable fuel sources such as wind, solar, geothermal, hydropower and biomass. Competitive conditions may also
be substantially affected by various forms of energy legislation and/or regulation considered from time to time by the United States government. It is not possible to predict whether such legislation or regulation may ultimately be adopted or its
precise effects upon our future operations. Such laws and regulations may, however, substantially increase the costs of exploring for, developing or producing oil and gas and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuation of our operations.
 Hydraulic Fracturing  Hydraulic fracturing is an important process and has been commonly used in the completion of unconventional oil and gas wells in shale and tight sand formations since the 1950’s. Hydraulic fracturing
involves the injection of water, sand and chemical additives under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and gas production. It is important to us because we believe it maximizes the productivity of our oil and gas wells. 
We are currently using hydraulic fracturing to complete both vertical and horizontal wells in the Permian Basin. We engage third parties
to provide hydraulic fracturing services to us for completion of these wells. While hydraulic fracturing is not required to maintain our leasehold acreage that is currently held by production from existing wells, it will be required in the future to
develop the proved non-producing and proved undeveloped reserves associated with this acreage. Nearly all of our proved non-producing and proved undeveloped reserves associated with future drilling, completion and recompletion projects, or
approximately 62% of our total estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2011, require hydraulic fracturing.  We
believe we have followed, and intend to continue to follow, applicable industry standard practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in our operations that are subject to supervision by state regulators. These protective measures
include setting surface casing at a depth sufficient to protect fresh water zones as determined by applicable state regulatory agencies, and cementing the well to create a permanent isolating barrier between the casing pipe and surrounding
geological formations. This aspect of well design is intended to prevent contact between the fracturing fluid and any aquifers during the hydraulic fracturing operations. For recompletions of existing wells, the production casing is pressure tested
prior to perforating the new completion interval.  Injection rates and pressures are monitored at the surface during our
hydraulic fracturing operations. Pressure is monitored on both the injection string and the immediate annulus to the injection string. We believe we have adequate procedures in place to address abrupt changes to the injection pressure or annular
pressure.  Texas regulations currently require disclosure of the components in the solutions used in hydraulic fracturing
operations. Over 99% (by mass) of the ingredients we use in hydraulic fracturing are water and sand. The remainder of the ingredients are chemical additives that are managed and used in accordance with applicable requirements. 
Hydraulic fracturing requires the use of a significant amount of water. Upon flowback of the water, we dispose of it in a way that we
believe minimizes the impact to nearby surface water by disposing into approved disposal facilities or injection wells. We currently are exploring ways to reuse water in our hydraulic fracturing operations. 
For information regarding existing and proposed governmental regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing and related environmental
matters, please read “Business — Regulation — Environmental Regulation” and “Business — Regulation — Hydraulic Fracturing.” For related risks to our stockholders, please read “Risk Factors — Federal
and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could stop or delay drilling projects and result in materially increased costs and additional operating restrictions.” 
  6 


Table of Contents
Regulation  The oil and gas industry in the United States is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local authorities. At the federal level, various federal rules, regulations and procedures apply,
including those issued by the U.S. Department of Interior, the U.S. Department of Transportation (the “DOT”) (Office of Pipeline Safety) and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”). At the state and local level,
various agencies and commissions regulate drilling, production and midstream activities. These federal, state and local authorities have various permitting, licensing and bonding requirements. Various remedies are available for enforcement of these
federal, state and local rules, regulations and procedures, including fines, penalties, revocation of permits and licenses, actions affecting the value of leases, wells or other assets, and suspension of production. As a result, there can be no
assurance that we will not incur liability for fines, penalties or other remedies that are available to these federal, state and local authorities. However, we believe that we are currently in material compliance with federal, state and local rules,
regulations and procedures, and that continued substantial compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. 
Transportation and Sale of Oil  Sales of crude oil, condensate and NGLs are not currently regulated and are made at negotiated prices. Our sales of crude oil are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. Interstate
transportation of oil by pipeline is regulated by the Federal Energy Regulation Commission (“FERC”) pursuant to the Interstate Commerce Act (“ICA”), Energy Policy Act of 1992 (“EPAct 1992”), and the rules and
regulations promulgated under those laws. The ICA and its regulations require that tariff rates for interstate service on oil pipelines, including interstate pipelines that transport crude oil and refined products (“petroleum pipelines”),
be just and reasonable and non-discriminatory and that such rates and terms and conditions of service be filed with FERC. 
Intrastate oil pipeline transportation rates are also subject to regulation by state regulatory commissions. The basis for intrastate oil
pipeline regulation, and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate oil pipeline rates, varies from state to state. Insofar as effective interstate and intrastate rates are equally applicable to all comparable shippers, we
believe that the regulation of oil transportation rates will not affect our operations in any way that is of material difference from those of our competitors who are similarly situated. 
Further, interstate and intrastate common carrier oil pipelines must provide service on a non-discriminatory basis. Under this open
access standard, common carriers must offer service to all similarly situated shippers requesting service on the same terms and under the same rates. When oil pipelines operate at full capacity, access is governed by prorationing provisions set
forth in the pipelines’ published tariffs. Accordingly, we believe that access to oil pipeline transportation services generally will be available to us to the same extent as to our similarly situated competitors. 
The transportation of oil by truck is also subject to federal, state and local rules and regulations, including the Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Act and the Homeland Security Act of 2002. Regulations under these statutes cover the security and transportation of hazardous materials and are administered by the DOT. 
Transportation and Sale of Natural Gas  FERC regulates interstate gas pipeline transportation rates and service conditions under the Natural Gas Act of 1938, the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 and regulations issued under those statutes.
Although FERC does not regulate oil and gas producers such as us, FERC’s actions are intended to facilitate increased competition within all phases of the oil and gas industry and its regulation of third-party pipelines and facilities could
indirectly affect our ability to transport or market our production. To date, FERC’s policies have not materially affected our business or operations. 
  7 


Table of Contents
Regulation of Production 
Oil and gas production is regulated under a wide range of federal and state statutes, rules, orders and regulations. State and federal
statutes and regulations require permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds and reports concerning operations. The state in which we operate, Texas, has regulations governing conservation matters, including provisions for the unitization or
pooling of oil and gas properties, the establishment of maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, the regulation of spacing, and requirements for plugging and abandonment of wells. Also, Texas imposes a severance tax on production and
sales of oil, NGLs and gas within its jurisdiction. The failure to comply with these rules and regulations can result in substantial penalties. Our competitors in the oil and natural gas industry are subject to the same regulatory requirements and
restrictions that affect our operations.  Environmental Laws and Regulations 
In the United States, the exploration for and development of oil and gas and the drilling and operation of wells, fields and gathering
systems are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection as well as discharge of materials into the environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things: 
 


 
•
 
 require the acquisition of various permits before drilling begins; 
 


 
•
 
 require the installation of expensive pollution controls or emissions monitoring equipment; 
 


 
•
 
 restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with oil and gas
drilling, completion, production, transportation and processing activities;   


 
•
 
 suspend, limit or prohibit construction, drilling and other activities in certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas;
and   


 
•
 
 require remedial measures to mitigate and remediate pollution from historical and ongoing operations, such as the closure of waste pits and plugging of
abandoned wells.  These laws, rules and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and gas production
below the rate that would otherwise be possible. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. 
Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with environmental laws, regulations and permits, and violations are
subject to injunction, as well as administrative, civil and criminal penalties. The effects of existing and future laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The clear
trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment. Any changes in environmental laws and regulations or re-interpretations of enforcement policies that result in more
stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal, or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be unable to pass on such increased compliance
costs to our customers. Moreover, accidental releases or spills may occur in the course of our operations, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of such releases or spills, including any third
party claims for damage to property, natural resources or persons. We maintain insurance against costs of clean-up operations, but we are not fully insured against all such risks. While we believe that we are in substantial compliance with existing
environmental laws and regulations and that continued compliance with current requirements would not have a material adverse effect on us, there is no assurance that this will continue in the future. 
  8 


Table of Contents
The following is a summary of some of the existing environmental laws, rules and regulations
that apply to our business operations.  Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
 The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (“CERCLA”), also known as the
Superfund law, and comparable state statutes impose strict liability, and under certain circumstances, joint and several liability, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the
environment. These persons include the owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to strict,
joint and several liabilities for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. In addition, it is not uncommon for
neighboring landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. While we generate materials in the course of our operations that may be
regulated as hazardous substances, we have not received notification that we may be potentially responsible for cleanup costs under CERCLA.  Waste Handling  The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
(“RCRA”) and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Under the auspices of the EPA, the individual states administer some or all of
the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. Drilling fluids, produced water and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of oil or gas are currently
regulated under RCRA’s non-hazardous waste provisions. However, it is possible that certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. Any such change
could increase our operating expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  We currently own or lease properties that for many years have been used for oil and gas exploration, production and development activities. Although we used operating and disposal practices that were
standard in the industry at the time, petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes may have been disposed of or released on, under or from the properties owned or leased by us or on, under or from other locations where such wastes have been taken for disposal.
In addition, some of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes was not under our control. These properties and the materials disposed or released on, at, under
or from them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under such laws, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or contamination, or to perform remedial activities to prevent future contamination.
 Air Emissions  The federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and other requirements. In addition, the EPA has developed, and
continues to develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. In particular, on August 23, 2011, pursuant to a court-ordered consent decree, the EPA published a proposed rule establishing new
emissions standards to reduce volatile organic compounds (“VOCs”) from new sources (“New Source Performance Standards”) and sulfur dioxide emissions from several types of processes and equipment used in the oil and gas industry.
The proposed rule includes reduced emissions from completions of new, hydraulically fractured gas wells, a 95% reduction in VOCs emitted from some newly constructed or modified oil and condensate vessels, vent rate limits for new or replaced
pneumatic devices and part replacement schedules for newly installed natural gas compressors. New Source Performance Standards apply to individual components or 
  9 


Table of Contents

facilities, regardless of whether permitting requirements apply. The consent decree requires the EPA to take final action by April 3, 2012. These proposed standards, should they be adopted,
as well as any future laws and their implementing regulations, may require us to obtain pre-approval for the expansion or modification of existing facilities or the construction of new facilities expected to produce air emissions, impose stringent
air permit requirements or use specific equipment or technologies to control emissions. Our failure to comply with these requirements could subject us to monetary penalties, injunctions, conditions or restrictions on operations and, potentially,
criminal enforcement actions.  We may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the next few years for air
pollution control equipment in connection with maintaining or obtaining operating permits addressing other air emission related issues, which could adversely impact our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Obtaining
permits also has the potential to delay the development of oil and gas projects. We believe that we currently are in substantial compliance with all air emissions regulations and that we hold all necessary and valid construction and operating
permits for our current operations.  Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
In February 2005, the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (the “Protocol”) became
effective. Pursuant to the Protocol, adopting countries are required to implement national programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gasses (“GHGs”), which are suspected of contributing to global warming. The United States is not
currently a participant in the Protocol; however, the Protocol has resulted in significant political pressure on the U.S. to take responsive action.  Congress has, from time to time, considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs. One bill approved by the House of Representatives in June 2009, known as the American Clean Energy and Security Act of
2009, would have required an 80% reduction in emissions of GHGs from sources within the U.S. between 2012 and 2050, but it was not approved by the U.S. Senate. Congress is likely to continue to consider similar bills. Moreover, almost half of the
states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs or other mechanisms. Most cap and trade programs work by requiring major
sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances corresponding with their annual emissions of GHGs. The number of allowances
available for purchase is reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. As the number of GHG emission allowances declines each year, the cost or value of allowances is expected to escalate significantly. Many states
have enacted renewable portfolio standards, which require utilities to purchase a certain percentage of their energy from renewable fuel sources.  In addition, in December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to human health and the environment, because emissions of such gases are,
according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of
the federal Clean Air Act. In response to its endangerment finding, the EPA has adopted two sets of rules regarding possible future regulation of GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act, one of which purports to regulate emissions of GHGs from motor
vehicles and the other of which would regulate emissions of GHGs from large stationary sources of emissions such as power plants or industrial facilities. The motor vehicle rule was finalized in April 2010 and became effective in January 2011, but
it does not require immediate reductions in GHG emissions. The stationary source rule was adopted in May 2010, became effective in January 2011 and is the subject of several pending lawsuits filed by industry groups. The EPA also plans to implement
GHG emissions standards for power plants in May 2012 and for refineries in November 2012.  In December 2010, the EPA enacted
final rules on mandatory reporting of GHGs. Under the final rules, owners or operators of facilities that contain petroleum and natural gas systems and emit 25,000 metric tons or 
  10 


Table of Contents

more of GHGs per year (expressed as carbon dioxide equivalent or
CO2E) would have been required to report carbon dioxide,
methane and nitrous oxide emissions, beginning on March 31, 2012. However, in November and December 2011, the EPA published amendments to the rule containing technical and clarifying changes to certain GHG reporting requirements and a six-month
extension for reporting GHG emissions from petroleum and natural gas industry sources. Under the amended rule certain onshore oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities are required to report their
GHG emissions on an annual basis beginning on September 28, 2012, for emissions occurring in 2011. Our operations in the Permian Basin will be subject to the EPA’s mandatory reporting rules. 
The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to monitor or reduce GHG emissions could require us to incur increased operating
costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory requirements. Any GHG emissions legislation or regulatory programs applicable to power plants or refineries could also
increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could have an adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and
results of operations.  Water Discharges  The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (the “Clean Water Act”) and analogous state laws, impose restrictions and strict controls on the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of
oil and other substances into regulated waters, including wetlands. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the EPA or an analogous state agency. Federal and state
regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the Clean Water Act and analogous state laws and regulations. 
In October 2011, the EPA announced that it intends to develop national standards for wastewater discharges produced by natural gas
extraction from shale and coalbed methane formations. For shale gas wastewater, the EPA will consider imposing pre-treatment standards for discharges to a wastewater treatment facility. Produced and other flowback water from our current operations
in the Permian Basin is typically re-injected into underground formations that do not contain potable water. To the extent that re-injection is not available for our operations and discharge to wastewater treatment facilities is required, new
standards from the EPA could increase the cost of disposing wastewater in connection with our operations.  The Safe
Drinking Water Act, Groundwater Protection and the Underground Injection Control Program  The federal Safe Drinking Water
Act (“SDWA”) and the Underground Injection Control program (the “UIC program”) promulgated under the SDWA and state programs regulate the drilling and operation of salt water disposal wells. The EPA has delegated administration
of the UIC program in Texas to the RRC. Permits must be obtained before drilling salt water disposal wells, and casing integrity monitoring must be conducted periodically to ensure the casing is not leaking saltwater to groundwater. Contamination of
groundwater by oil and gas drilling, production and related operations may result in fines, penalties and remediation costs, among other sanctions and liabilities under the SDWA and state laws. In addition, third party claims may be filed by
landowners and other parties claiming damages for alternative water supplies, property damages and bodily injury. 
Hydraulic Fracturing  Hydraulic fracturing is a practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations, such as shale rock. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemical additives
under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate oil and gas production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but Congress and the EPA have, from time to time, proposed actions to
regulate hydraulic fracturing at the federal level. 
  11 


Table of Contents
The Energy Policy Act of 2005, which exempts hydraulic fracturing from regulation under the
SDWA, prohibits the use of diesel fuel in the fracturing process without a UIC permit. In the past, legislation has been introduced in, but not passed by, Congress that would amend the SDWA to repeal this exemption. If similar legislation were
enacted, it could require hydraulic fracturing operations to meet permitting and financial assurance requirements, adhere to certain construction specifications, fulfill monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping obligations and meet plugging and
abandonment requirements. Future federal legislation could also require the reporting and public disclosure of chemical additives used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process
to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemical additives used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. If federal legislation regulating hydraulic fracturing is adopted in the future, it could lead to
operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. 
In 2010, the EPA asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel additives under the UIC program by
posting a requirement on its website that requires facilities to obtain permits to use diesel fuel in hydraulic fracturing operations. Industry groups filed suit challenging the EPA’s decision as a “final agency action” and,
therefore, in violation of the notice-and-comment rulemaking procedures of the Administrative Procedures Act. In February 2012, the EPA and industry reached a settlement under which EPA will modify the informal policy posted on its website
concerning the need for permits under the UIC program. However, the settlement does not reflect agreement on the issue of regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA, and the EPA’s continued assertion of its regulatory authority under the
SDWA could result in extensive requirements that could cause additional costs and delays in the hydraulic fracturing process. 
In addition to the above actions of the EPA, certain members of the Congress have called upon (i) the Government Accountability
Office to investigate how hydraulic fracturing might adversely affect water resources; (ii) the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) to investigate the natural gas industry and any possible misleading of investors or the
public regarding the economic feasibility of pursuing natural gas deposits in shales by means of hydraulic fracturing; and (iii) the Energy Information Administration to provide a better understanding of that agency’s estimates regarding
natural gas reserves, including reserves from shale formations, as well as uncertainties associated with those estimates. The SEC has issued subpoenas to certain shale producers requesting information on proved reserve estimates from shale gas wells
and the actual productivity of producing shale wells. The media has also reported that the New York attorney general has issued subpoenas to certain oil and gas companies seeking information regarding shale gas wells. 
There are also certain governmental reviews either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic
fracturing. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing, and a committee of the United States House of Representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic fracturing.
Furthermore, a number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. The EPA has also begun a study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic
fracturing, with initial results of the study expected in late 2012 and final results expected in 2014. In addition, the U.S. Department of Energy is conducting an investigation into practices the agency could recommend to better protect the
environment from using hydraulic fracturing. The Shale Gas Subcommittee of the Secretary of Energy Advisory Board released its first and second “90-day” reports on August 18, 2011, and November 18, 2011, respectively, proposing
recommendations to reduce the potential environmental impacts from shale gas production. Also, the U.S. Department of the Interior is considering disclosure requirements or other mandates for hydraulic fracturing on federal lands. These ongoing or
proposed investigations and studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing.  Some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances or otherwise require the public disclosure of chemicals
used in hydraulic 
  12 


Table of Contents

fracturing. For example, pursuant to legislation adopted by the State of Texas in June 2011, the RRC enacted a rule in December 2011, requiring disclosure to the RRC and the public of certain
information regarding additives, chemical ingredients, concentrations and water volumes used in hydraulic fracturing. In addition to state law, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit the performance of well
drilling in general and hydraulic fracturing in particular.  If these or any other new laws or regulations that significantly
restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, it could become more difficult or costly for us to drill and produce oil and gas from tight formations and become easier for third parties opposing hydraulic fracturing to initiate legal proceedings. In
addition, if hydraulic fracturing is regulated at the federal level, fracturing activities could become subject to delays, additional permitting and financial assurance requirements, more stringent construction specifications, increased monitoring,
reporting and recordkeeping obligations, plugging and abandonment requirements and higher costs. These new laws or regulations could cause us to incur substantial delays or suspensions of operations and compliance costs, and could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Compliance 
We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all existing environmental laws and regulations that apply to our current operations
and that our ongoing compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We did not incur any material capital expenditures for remediation or pollution control
activities for the year ended December 31, 2011. In addition, as of the date of this report, we are not aware of any environmental issues or claims that will require material capital or operating expenditures during 2012. However, the passage
of additional or more stringent laws or regulations in the future could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to develop our undeveloped acreage. 
Threatened and Endangered Species, Migratory Birds and Natural Resources 
Various state and federal statues prohibit certain actions that adversely affect endangered or threatened species and their habitat,
migratory birds, wetlands and natural resources. These statutes include the Endangered Species Act, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, the Clean Water Act and CERCLA. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service may designate critical habitat and
suitable habitat areas that it believes are necessary for survival of threatened or endangered species. A critical habitat or suitable habitat designation could result in further material restrictions to federal land use and private land use and
could delay or prohibit land access or development. Where takings of or harm to species or damages to wetlands, habitat or natural resources occur or may occur, government entities or at times private parties may act to prevent oil and gas
exploration activities or seek damages for harm to species, habitat or natural resources resulting from drilling or construction or releases of oil, wastes, hazardous substances or other regulated materials, and may seek natural resources damages
and, in some cases, criminal penalties.  OSHA and Other Laws and Regulations 
We are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act (“OSHA”) and comparable state statutes. The
OSHA hazard communication standard, the EPA community right-to-know regulations under Title III of CERCLA and similar state statutes require that we organize and/or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations.
We believe that we are in substantial compliance with these applicable requirements and with other OSHA and comparable requirements. 
Employees  At
February 29, 2012, we had 81 full-time employees, 45 of whom are field personnel. We regularly use independent contractors and consultants to perform various field and other services. None of our employees are

  13 


Table of Contents

represented by a labor union or covered by any collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relations with our employees are excellent. 
Insurance Matters  As is
common in the oil and gas industry, we will not insure fully against all risks associated with our business either because such insurance is not available or because premium costs are considered prohibitive. A loss not fully covered by insurance
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Available Information 
We maintain an internet website under the name www.approachresources.com. The information on our website is not a part of this
report. We make available, free of charge, on our website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after providing such reports to
the SEC. Also, the charters of our Audit Committee and Compensation and Nominating Committee, and our Code of Conduct, are available on our website and in print to any stockholder who provides a written request to the Corporate Secretary at One
Ridgmar Centre, 6500 West Freeway, Suite 800, Fort Worth, Texas 76116.  We file annual reports on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Exchange Act. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information
statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Approach, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any document we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Information contained on or connected to our website is
not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report or any other filing that we make with the SEC.  ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS  You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this report before investing in our common stock. Any of the following risks could materially
and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In such a case, you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known
to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Risks Related to the Oil and Gas Industry and Our Business  Drilling,
exploring for and producing oil and gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our drilling, exploration and production
activities. These activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in economic oil and gas production or increases in reserves. Many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled
drilling projects, including:   


 
•
 
 decline in oil and gas prices;   


 
•
 
 inadequate capital resources; 
  14 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 limited transportation services and infrastructure to deliver the oil and gas we produce to market; 
 


 
•
 
 unavailability or high cost of drilling and completion equipment, services or materials, including water, sand or other materials needed for hydraulic
fracturing;   


 
•
 
 compliance with governmental regulations, which may include limitations on hydraulic fracturing or the discharge of greenhouse gases;
  


 
•
 
 inability to attract and retain qualified personnel;   


 
•
 
 unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents; 
 


 
•
 
 lack of acceptable prospective acreage;   


 
•
 
 adverse weather conditions;   


 
•
 
 surface access restrictions;   


 
•
 
 title problems; and   


 
•
 
 mechanical difficulties.  Oil and gas prices are volatile, and a decline in oil or gas prices could significantly affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our capital
expenditure requirements and financial commitments.  Our revenues, profitability and cash flow depend substantially
upon the prices and demand for oil and gas. The markets for these commodities are volatile, and even relatively modest drops in prices can affect significantly our financial results and impede our growth. Prices for oil and gas fluctuate widely in
response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as:   


 
•
 
 domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas;   


 
•
 
 domestic and foreign consumer demand for oil and gas; 
 


 
•
 
 overall United States and global economic conditions; 
 


 
•
 
 commodity processing, gathering and transportation availability and the availability of refining capacity; 
 


 
•
 
 price and availability of alternative fuels;   


 
•
 
 price and quantity of foreign imports;   


 
•
 
 domestic and foreign governmental regulations;   


 
•
 
 political conditions in or affecting other gas producing and oil producing countries; 
 


 
•
 
 the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls;
  


 
•
 
 weather conditions, including unseasonably warm winter weather and tropical storms; and 
 


 
•
 
 technological advances affecting oil and gas consumption.  Further, oil and gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relationship to each other. Because 39% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2011, were gas reserves, our financial
results are also sensitive to movements in gas prices. Recent gas prices have been low, and we expect low gas prices to continue. In 2011, NYMEX natural gas prices dropped from a high of $4.85 per MMBtu to a low of $2.99 per MMBtu. 
  15 


Table of Contents
The results of higher investment in the exploration for and production of oil and gas and
other factors, such as global economic and financial conditions discussed below, may cause the price of oil and gas to fall. Lower oil and gas prices may not only cause our revenues to decrease but also may reduce the amount of oil and gas that we
can produce economically. Substantial decreases in oil and gas prices would render uneconomic some or all of our drilling locations. This may result in our having to impair our estimated proved reserves and could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, if oil, NGL or gas prices significantly decline for an extended period of time, we may, among other things, be unable to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, repay current
or future debt or obtain additional capital on attractive terms, all of which can affect the value of our common stock. 
Future economic conditions in the U.S. and international markets could materially and adversely affect our business, financial
condition and results of operations.  The U.S. and other world economies continue to experience the effects of a global
recession and credit market crisis. More volatility may occur before a sustainable growth rate is achieved either domestically or globally. Even if such growth rate is achieved, such a rate may be lower than the U.S. and international economies have
experienced in the past. Global economic growth drives demand for energy from all sources, including fossil fuels. A lower, future economic growth rate will result in decreased demand for our oil, NGL and gas production and lower commodity prices,
which will reduce our revenues, cash flows from operations and our profitability.  Our future reserve and production
growth is highly dependent on the success of our Wolffork oil shale resource play, which has a limited operational history and is subject to change.  We began drilling wells in the Wolffork play only recently. The wells that have been drilled or recompleted in these areas represent a very small sample of our large acreage position, and we cannot assure
you that our new horizontal or vertical wells or recompletions of existing wells will be successful. As of December 31, 2011, we had proved reserves of 24.2 MMBoe attributable to this play. Accordingly, we have limited information on the amount
of reserves that will ultimately be recovered from our Wolffork wells. Our drilling plans in the Wolffork are flexible and depend on a number of factors, including the extent to which our initial pilot wells are successful. The determination of
whether we continue to drill prospects in the Wolffork will, among other things, depend on any one or a combination of the following factors:   


 
•
 
 our ability to determine the most effective and economic fracture stimulation for the Wolffork play; 
 


 
•
 
 the extent of our success in drilling and completing horizontal wells; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to control costs and manage drilling and completion risks; and 
 


 
•
 
 the costs and availability of drilling and completion services and equipment, particularly fracture stimulation services, equipment and materials.
 We continue to gather data about our prospects in the Wolffork play, and it is possible that additional
information may cause us to change our drilling schedule or determine that prospects in some portion of our acreage position should not be developed at all.  Our business requires significant capital expenditures and we may not be able to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all. 
Our exploration, development and acquisition activities require substantial capital expenditures. For example, according to our year-end
2011 reserve report, the estimated capital required to develop our current proved oil and gas reserves is $626 million. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flows from operations, borrowings under our
credit facility and public equity financings. Future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, including the production from existing wells, prices of oil, 
  16 


Table of Contents

gas and NGLs and our success in developing and producing new reserves. We do not expect our cash flow from operations to be sufficient to cover our current expected capital expenditure budget and
we may have limited ability to obtain the additional capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. We may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on favorable terms or at all. The failure to obtain additional financing could
cause us to scale back our exploration and development operations, which in turn could lead to a decline in our oil and gas production and reserves, and in some areas a loss of properties. 
Market conditions or transportation impediments may hinder our access to oil, NGL and gas markets or delay our production or sales.
 Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and gas processing and transportation services may hinder
our access to oil and gas markets or delay our production or sales. Although currently we control the gathering systems for our operations in the Permian Basin, we do not have such control over the regional or downstream pipelines in and out of the
Permian Basin. The availability of a ready market for our oil, NGL and gas production depends on a number of factors, including market demand and the proximity of our reserves to pipelines or trucking and terminal facilities. In addition, the amount
of oil, NGLs and gas that can be produced and sold is subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to maintenance, excessive pressure, ability of downstream processing facilities to accept unprocessed gas,
physical damage to the gathering or transportation system or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months, and in many cases we are provided
with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. As a result, we may not be able to sell, or may have to transport by more expensive means, the oil, NGL and gas that we produce, or we may be required to shut
in oil or gas wells or delay initial production until the necessary gathering and transportation systems are available. Any significant curtailment in gathering system, transportation, pipeline capacity or significant delay in construction of
necessary gathering and transportation facilities, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, materials, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our drilling and development plans on a timely
basis and within our budget.  Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs,
equipment, supplies or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of equipment, oilfield services and supplies are substantially greater. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling and completion
crews rise as the number of active rigs in service increases. Increasing levels of exploration and production will increase the demand for oilfield services, and the costs of these services may increase, while the quality of these services may
suffer. Our primary area of operation, the Permian Basin, continues to experience increased demand for drilling rigs, fracture stimulation crews, materials and services, and the availability of such crews, materials and services has been severely
restricted. If the availability of equipment, crews, materials and services in the Permian Basin remains particularly severe, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected because our
operations and properties are concentrated in the Permian Basin.  Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense,
and many of our competitors have resources that are greater than ours.  We operate in a highly competitive environment
for acquiring prospects and productive properties, marketing oil and gas and securing equipment and trained personnel. Many of our competitors are major and large independent oil and gas companies that possess and employ financial, technical and
personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to develop and acquire more prospects and productive properties than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and
discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties, 
  17 


Table of Contents

consummate transactions and hire and retain qualified personnel in a highly competitive environment. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and gas
industry. Larger competitors may be better able to withstand sustained periods of unsuccessful drilling and absorb the burden of changes in laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. We may
not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing oil, NGLs and gas, attracting and retaining qualified personnel and raising additional capital. 
We are subject to complex governmental laws and regulations that may adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing
business.  Our oil and gas drilling, production and gathering operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and
regulations. To operate in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order
to comply with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations apply to our operations. Such costs could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our operations, including any evolving interpretation and enforcement by government authorities, could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Business — Regulation” for a further description of the laws and regulations that affect us. 
Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could stop or delay drilling projects and
result in materially increased costs and additional operating restrictions.  Hydraulic fracturing is a practice that is
used to stimulate production of oil and gas from tight formations, such as shale rock. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemical additives under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate
production. Nearly all of our proved non-producing and proved undeveloped reserves associated with future drilling and recompletion projects, or approximately 62% of our total estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2011, will require
hydraulic fracturing. See Item 1. “ Business — Hydraulic Fracturing” for a discussion of the importance of hydraulic fracturing to our business, and Item 1. “ Business — Regulation — Hydraulic Fracturing” for a
discussion of regulatory developments regarding hydraulic fracturing. If these or any other new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to drill and
produce from as well as make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing is regulated at the federal level, fracturing activities could become subject to
additional permitting and financial assurance requirements, more stringent construction specifications, increased monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping obligations, plugging and abandonment requirements and also to permitting delays and increases
in costs. These developments, as well as new laws or regulations, could cause us to incur substantial compliance costs, and compliance or the consequences of failure to comply by us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to use hydraulic fracturing in completing our wells or the hydraulic fracturing process becomes prohibited or significantly regulated or restricted, we could lose the ability to drill and complete
the projects for our proved reserves, and maintain our current leasehold acreage, which would have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and operating results. 
Our ability to produce oil and gas economically and in commercial quantities could be impaired if we are unable to acquire adequate
supplies of water for our hydraulic fracturing operations or are unable to dispose of or recycle the water we use at a reasonable cost and in accordance with applicable environmental laws, rules and regulations. 
The hydraulic fracturing process that we use to produce oil and gas from the Wolffork oil shale play in the Permian Basin requires the use
and disposal of significant quantities of water. Our inability to secure sufficient 
  18 


Table of Contents

amounts of water, or to dispose of or recycle the water used in our operations, could adversely impact our operations in this region. Moreover, new environmental initiatives and regulations could
include restrictions on disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of oil and gas. Compliance with environmental regulations and
permit requirements for the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of our wells may increase our operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or cessation of our operations, the extent of
which cannot be predicted, and all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and gas we produce. 
Both houses of Congress have actively considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and some states have already taken measures to
reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs require either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to
acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. These allowances are expected to escalate significantly in cost over time.
 In addition, in December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an
endangerment to human health and the environment, because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed
with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. In response to its endangerment finding, the EPA recently adopted two sets of rules regarding possible
future regulation of GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act, one of which purports to regulate emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and the other of which would regulate emissions of GHGs from large stationary sources of emissions such as power
plants or industrial facilities. The motor vehicle rule was finalized in April 2010 and became effective in January 2011 but it does not require immediate reductions in GHG emissions. The stationary source rule was adopted in May 2010 and also
became effective January 2011 and is the subject of several pending lawsuits filed by industry groups. The EPA also plans to implement GHG emissions standards for power plants in May 2012 and for refineries in November 2012. 
The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as
costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory requirements. Any GHG emissions legislation or regulatory programs applicable to power plants or refineries could also increase
the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
of operations.  Environmental laws and regulations may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.
 There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in our oil and gas operations due
to the handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and generated wastes, the occurrence of air emissions and water discharges from work-related activities and the legacy of pollution from historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. We may
incur joint and several or strict liability under these environmental laws and regulations in connection with spills, leaks or releases of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes on, under or from our properties and facilities, many of which have been
used for exploration, production or development activities for many years, often by third parties not under our control. Private parties, including the owners of properties where we conduct drilling and production activities as well as facilities
where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for

  19 


Table of Contents

personal injury or property damage. In addition, changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any such changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling,
storage, transport, disposal or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. 
Our identified potential drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties
that could prevent them from being drilled or delay their drilling. In certain instances, this could prevent drilling and production before the expiration date of leases for such locations. 
Our management team has identified potential drilling locations as an estimation of our future drilling activities on our existing
acreage. These potential drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these potential drilling locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil and gas prices, the availability
and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system, marketing and transportation constraints, regulatory approvals and other factors. Because of
these uncertain factors, we do not know if the potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. In addition, unless production is
established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the potential locations are obtained, the leases for such acreage will expire. Therefore, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently
identified.  The use of geoscientific, petrophysical and engineering analyses and other technical or operating data to
evaluate drilling prospects is uncertain and does not guarantee drilling success or recovery of economically producible reserves.  Our decisions to explore, develop and acquire prospects or properties targeting Wolffork and other zones in the Permian Basin and other areas depend on data obtained through geoscientific, petrophysical
and engineering analyses, the results of which can be uncertain. Even when properly used and interpreted, data from whole cores, regional well log analyses and 3-D seismic only assist our technical team in identifying hydrocarbon indicators and
subsurface structures and estimating hydrocarbons in place. They do not allow us to know conclusively the amount of hydrocarbons in place and if those hydrocarbons are producible economically. In addition, the use of advanced drilling and completion
technologies for our Wolffork development, such as horizontal drilling and multi-stage fracture stimulations, requires greater expenditures than our traditional development drilling strategies. Our ability to commercially recover and produce the
hydrocarbons that we believe are in place and attributable to the Wolffork and other zones will depend on the effective use of advanced drilling and completion techniques, the scope of our drilling program (which will be directly affected by the
availability of capital), drilling and production costs, availability of drilling and completion services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, regulatory approval and geological and mechanical factors affecting recovery rates. Our
estimates of unproved reserves, estimated ultimate recoveries per well, hydrocarbons in place and resource potential may change significantly as development of our oil and gas assets provides additional data. 
Unless we replace our oil and gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline. 
Our future oil and gas production depends on our success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. If we fail to replace reserves
through drilling or acquisitions, our production, revenues and cash flows will be adversely affected. In general, production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir
characteristics. Our total proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced unless we conduct other successful exploration and development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. Our ability to make the necessary
capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of oil and gas reserves would be limited to the extent cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. We may not be successful in exploring
for, developing or acquiring additional reserves. 
  20 


Table of Contents
We have leases and options for undeveloped acreage that may expire in the near future.
 As of December 31, 2011, we held mineral leases or options in each of our areas of operations that are still
within their original lease term and are not currently held by production. Unless we establish commercial production on the properties subject to these leases, most of these leases will expire between 2012 and 2016. If these leases or options
expire, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. See Item 2. “Properties —Undeveloped Acreage Expirations” for a table summarizing the expiration schedule of our undeveloped acreage over the next three years.
 Our actual production, revenues and expenditures related to our reserves are likely to differ from our estimates of our
proved reserves. We may experience production that is less than estimated and drilling costs that are greater than estimated in our reserve reports. These differences may be material. 
The proved oil, NGL and gas reserves data included in this report are estimates. Petroleum engineering is a subjective process of
estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil, NGL and gas reserves and of future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and
assumptions, including:   


 
•
 
 historical production from the area compared with production from other similar producing areas; 
 


 
•
 
 the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies; 
 


 
•
 
 assumptions concerning future oil, NGL and gas prices; and 
 


 
•
 
 assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and workover and remedial costs.
 Because all reserves estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ
materially from those assumed in estimating proved reserves:   


 
•
 
 the quantities of oil, NGL and gas that are ultimately recovered; 
 


 
•
 
 the production and operating costs incurred;   


 
•
 
 the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and 
 


 
•
 
 future oil, NGL and gas prices.  As of December 31, 2011, approximately 56% of our proved reserves were proved undeveloped. Estimates of proved undeveloped reserves are even less reliable than estimates of proved developed reserves.
Furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and future net revenues based on the same available data. Our actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to reserves will likely be different from
estimates and the differences may be material.  The PV-10 included in this report should not be considered as the
current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to our properties.  PV-10 is based on the
average of the closing price on the first day of the month for the 12-month period prior to fiscal year end, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. If oil, NGL and gas prices decline by 10% from $96.22 per Bbl of
oil, $49.63 per Bbl of NGLs and $4.12 per MMBtu of gas, to $86.60 per Bbl of oil, $44.67 per Bbl of NGLs and $3.71 per MMBtu of gas, then our PV-10 as of December 31, 2011, would decrease from $679.1 million to $537.3 million. The average
market price received for our production for the month of December 2011 was $90.35 per Bbl of oil, $50.01 per Bbl of NGLs and $3.11 per Mcf of gas (after basis differential and Btu adjustments). Actual future net revenues also will be affected by
factors such as the amount and timing of actual production, supply and demand for oil and gas, increases or decreases in consumption and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. 
  21 


Table of Contents
We depend on our management team and other key personnel. Accordingly, the loss of any
of these individuals could adversely affect our business, financial condition and the results of operations and future growth.  Our success largely depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our management team and other key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team or of our
other employees with critical skills needed to operate our business could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth. In January 2011, we entered into amended and restated employment
agreements with J. Ross Craft, P.E., our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Steven P. Smart, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and new employment agreements with Qingming Yang, our Executive Vice President —
Business Development and Geosciences; J. Curtis Henderson, our Executive Vice President and General Counsel; and Ralph P. Manoushagian, our Executive Vice President — Land. If any of these officers or other key personnel resign or become unable
to continue in their present roles and are not adequately replaced, our business operations could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to manage our growth, if any, will require us to continue to train, motivate and manage our employees and
to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified personnel. Competition for these types of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business
profitably.  If gas prices remain low or decline further, or if oil and NGL prices decline, we may be required to write
down the carrying values of our properties. Current SEC rules also could require us to write down our proved undeveloped reserves in the future.  Accounting rules require that we periodically review the carrying value of our properties for possible impairment. Based on prevailing commodity prices and specific market factors and circumstances at the
time of impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our properties. A write-down is a non-cash charge to earnings. We
may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken. In addition, current SEC rules require that, subject to limited exceptions, proved
undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years. Such a write-down could result in a non-cash charge to earnings that could be material to our results of operations for the period in which
the charge is taken. This rule may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program. Moreover, we may be required to write down our proved undeveloped reserves if we do not drill those wells within
the required timeframe.  Changes in the differential between NYMEX or other benchmark prices of oil and gas and the
reference or regional index price used to price our actual oil and gas sales could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  The reference or regional index prices that we use to price our oil and gas sales sometimes reflect a discount to the relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX. The difference between the benchmark price
and the price we reference in our sales contracts is called a differential. We cannot accurately predict oil and gas differentials. Changes in differentials between the benchmark price for oil and gas and the reference or regional index price we
reference in our sales contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 
Our lenders can limit our borrowing capabilities, which may materially impact our operations. 
At December 31, 2011, we had $43.8 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility, and our borrowing base was
$260 million. The borrowing base under our revolving credit facility is redetermined semi-annually based upon a number of factors, including commodity prices and reserve levels. In addition to such

  22 


Table of Contents

semi-annual redeterminations, our lenders may request one additional redetermination during any 12-month period. Upon a redetermination, our borrowing base could be substantially reduced, and if
the amount outstanding under our credit facility at any time exceeds the borrowing base at such time, we may be required to repay a portion of our outstanding borrowings. We use cash flow from operations and bank borrowings to fund our exploration,
development and acquisition activities. A reduction in our borrowing base could limit those activities. In addition, we may significantly change our capital structure to make future acquisitions or develop our properties. Changes in capital
structure may significantly increase our debt. If we incur additional debt for these or other purposes, the related risks that we now face could intensify. A higher level of debt also increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations.
Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of debt depends on our future performance, which is affected by general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. 
We engage in commodity derivative transactions which involve risks that can harm our business. 
To manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our production, we enter into oil, NGL and gas price and basis differential
commodity derivative agreements. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile commodity prices and basis differentials, such transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses if commodity prices were to rise
substantially over the price established by the commodity derivative, or if the basis spread changes substantially from the basis differential established by the commodity derivative. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of loss
in certain circumstances, including instances in which our production is less than expected, there is change of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the commodity derivative arrangement or
the counterparties to the commodity derivative agreements fail to perform under the contracts.  The derivatives reform
legislation adopted by Congress could have a material adverse impact on our ability to hedge commodity price risks associated with our business.  Congress adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that
market. The new legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”), was signed into law on July 21, 2010, and requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”)
and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment, though final rules have yet to be issued. In its rulemaking under Dodd-Frank, the CFTC has proposed regulations to set
position limits for certain futures and options contracts and swaps in the major energy markets. Certain bona fide hedging transactions or positions would be exempt from these position limits. In December 2011, the CFTC extended the potential
expiration date of the exemptive relief to July 16, 2012. It is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will finalize these regulations. Dodd-Frank may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and
trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivatives activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. Dodd-Frank may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some
of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivatives contracts (including requirements to
post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivatives contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against commodity price risks, reduce our ability to monetize or
restructure our existing derivatives contracts and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of Dodd-Frank and its regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and
our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of Dodd-Frank and its regulations is to lower our
realized commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  23 


Table of Contents
Changes in tax laws may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.
 The President’s proposed budget for fiscal year 2013 contains proposed legislation that would, if enacted into
law, make significant changes to U.S. tax laws, including the elimination of certain key United States federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not
limited to, (i) repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties; (ii) elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling costs; (iii) elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities;
and (iv) extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a
result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or otherwise limit certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such
change could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.  Currently, substantially all of our
producing properties are located in two counties in Texas, making us vulnerable to risks associated with having our production concentrated in a small area.  Substantially all of our producing properties and estimated proved reserves are concentrated in two counties in Texas, Crockett and Schleicher. As a result of this concentration, we are disproportionately
exposed to the natural decline of production from these fields as well as the impact of delays or interruptions of production from these wells caused by significant governmental regulation, transportation capacity constraints, curtailments of
production, service delays, natural disasters or other events that impact this area.  Our customer base is concentrated,
and the loss of our key customers could, therefore, adversely affect our financial results.  In 2011, WTG, Shell, DCP,
Eastex and BML collectively accounted for 93.1% of our total oil, NGL and gas sales, excluding realized commodity derivative settlements. To the extent that any of our major purchasers reduces their purchases of oil, NGLs or gas or defaults on their
obligations to us, we would be adversely affected unless we were able to make comparably favorable arrangements with other purchasers. These purchasers’ default or non-performance could be caused by factors beyond our control. A default could
occur as a result of circumstances relating directly to one or more of these customers, or due to circumstances related to other market participants with which the customer has a direct or indirect relationship. 
Severe weather could have a material adverse impact on our business. 
Our business could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include:
  


 
•
 
 curtailment of services;   


 
•
 
 weather-related damage to drilling rigs, resulting in suspension of operations; 
 


 
•
 
 weather-related damage to our producing wells or facilities; 
 


 
•
 
 inability to deliver materials to jobsites in accordance with contract schedules; and 
 


 
•
 
 loss of production.  Operating hazards or other interruptions of our operations could result in potential liabilities, which may not be fully covered by our insurance. 
The oil and gas business involves certain operating hazards such as well blowouts, cratering, explosions, uncontrollable flows of gas, oil
or well fluids, fires, pollution and releases of toxic gas. The occurrence of one of 
  24 


Table of Contents

the above may result in injury, loss of life, suspension of operations, environmental damage and remediation and/or governmental investigations and penalties. Consistent with insurance coverage
generally available to the industry, our insurance policies provide limited coverage for losses or liabilities relating to pollution, with broader coverage for sudden and accidental occurrences. Our insurance might be inadequate to cover our
liabilities. The insurance market in general and the energy insurance market in particular have been difficult markets over the past several years. Insurance costs are expected to continue to increase over the next few years and we may decrease
coverage and retain more risk to mitigate future cost increases. If we incur substantial liability and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, or if we incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain
liability insurance, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 
Our results are subject to quarterly and seasonal fluctuations. 
Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and could be negatively impacted in the future as a result of a number of
factors, including seasonal variations in oil, NGL and gas prices, variations in levels of production and the completion of exploration and production projects.  We have renounced any interest in specified business opportunities, and certain members of our board of directors and certain of our stockholders generally have no obligation to offer us those
opportunities.  In accordance with Delaware law, we have renounced any interest or expectancy in any business
opportunity, transaction or other matter in which our outside directors and certain of our stockholders, each referred to as a Designated Party, participates or desires to participate in that involves any aspect of the exploration and production
business in the oil and gas industry. If any such business opportunity is presented to a Designated Party who also serves as a member of our board of directors, the Designated Party has no obligation to communicate or offer that opportunity to us,
and the Designated Party may pursue the opportunity as he sees fit, unless:   


 
•
 
 it was presented to the Designated Party solely in that person’s capacity as a director of our company and with respect to which, at the time of
such presentment, no other Designated Party has independently received notice of or otherwise identified the business opportunity; or   


 
•
 
 the opportunity was identified by the Designated Party solely through the disclosure of information by or on behalf of us.
 As a result of this renunciation, our outside directors should not be deemed to have breached any fiduciary
duty to us if they or their affiliates or associates pursue opportunities as described above and our future competitive position and growth potential could be adversely affected.  ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  As of the date of this filing, we have no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC. 
  25 


Table of Contents
ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES
 The following map is an overview of our operating areas and the geologic basins where we operated in Texas at
December 31, 2011.    

 The following table is a summary of data for our operating areas for the year ended December 31,
2011.   
























 Operating Area
  
AverageDailyProduction(Boe/d)
 
  
TotalProduction(MBoe)
 
  
PercentageofProduction
 
 
ProvedReserves(MBoe)
 
  
Percentageof ProvedReserves
 

 Permian Basin
  
 
6,335
  
  
 
2,313
  
  
 
99
% 
 
 
76,763
  
  
 
99.7
% 

 East Texas Basin
  
 
69
  
  
 
25
  
  
 
1
% 
 
 
212
  
  
 
0.3
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
6,404
  
  
 
2,338
  
  
 
100
% 
 
 
76,975
  
  
 
100
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Permian Basin — Project Pangea and Pangea West 
Clearfork, Wolfcamp, Canyon Sands, Strawn and Ellenburger 
Our properties in the Permian Basin are located in Crockett and Schleicher Counties, Texas. We began operations in the Permian Basin
through a farm-in agreement for 27,000 net acres in 2004, and have since increased our total acreage position to approximately 165,700 gross (145,000 net) acres as of year end 2011. At December 31, 2011, we owned interests in approximately 638
gross (626 net) wells, all of which we operate. As of December 31, 2011, we had working and net revenue interests of approximately 100% and 76%, respectively, across Project Pangea and Pangea West. 
Since we began drilling our Permian Basin properties in 2004, we have primarily produced our reserves from the Canyon Sands, Strawn and
Ellenburger formations at depths ranging from 7,250 feet to 8,900 feet. The Canyon Sands were deposited in submarine fan and are tight sandstone reservoirs characterized by low 
  26 


Table of Contents

permeability. We use a specialized foamed fracture stimulation treatment to increase permeability, which enhances production rates and well recovery. The Strawn formation is a fractured carbonate
reservoir between the Canyon Sands and Ellenburger zones. The Ellenburger formation is a fractured carbonate and dolomite reservoir that does not require a specialized fracture stimulation treatment. 
As of December 31, 2011, we had estimated proved reserves of 76.8 MMBoe in the Permian Basin, made up of 61% oil and NGLs and 39%
natural gas. Our Permian proved reserves increased 59%, and oil and NGL proved reserves increased 84%, over year-end 2010. Reserve growth in 2011 was driven by results in our Wolffork oil shale resource play as well as the acquisition of additional
working interest in northwest Project Pangea.  During 2011 in the Permian Basin, we incurred $192 million to drill 71 gross
(66.2 net) wells, of which 18 gross (18 net) wells were waiting on completion at December 31, 2011.  Wolffork Oil
Shale Resource Play  As mentioned above, since we began drilling our Permian Basin properties in 2004, we have
primarily produced our reserves from the Canyon Sands, Strawn and Ellenburger formations at depths ranging from 7,250 feet to 8,900 feet. While we targeted these deeper zones, we collected log data, including mud logs that indicated the presence of
hydrocarbons in the Clearfork and Wolfcamp Shale formations, or “Wolffork,” above the Canyon Sands, Strawn and Ellenburger zones.  In 2010, we performed a detailed geological and petrophysical evaluation of the Wolffork formations using logs, 3-D seismic, whole core data and regional mapping. The Wolffork is made up of three stacked
pay zones, the Clearfork, Dean and Wolfcamp Shale formations with combined gross pay thickness of approximately 2,500 feet. We believe Wolfcamp Shale is a source rock with significant potential for hydrocarbons, located in the oil-to-wet gas window
across our Permian acreage position, and is naturally fractured due to its proximity to the Ouachita-Marathon thrust belt and mineralogy, specifically the carbonate and quartz minerals. The Wolfcamp Shale has gross pay thickness of approximately
1,000 feet across our acreage position. The Clearfork formation across our acreage position is a siltstone, shale and carbonate reservoir approximately 1,400 feet thick. Similarly, the Dean formation, which is approximately 150 feet thick, is a
siltstone, shale and carbonate reservoir. The Wolffork formations were deposited across Project Pangea and Pangea West by a combination of suspension, debris flow and turbidite processes. 
We have identified approximately 2,955 potential drilling and recompletion locations targeting the Wolffork zones, 106 of which are
proved, including:   


 
•
 
 500 potential horizontal Wolfcamp locations;   


 
•
 
 1,825 potential vertical Wolffork locations;   


 
•
 
 440 potential vertical Canyon Wolffork locations; and 
 


 
•
 
 190 potential Wolffork recompletions.  We also have identified 293 proved drilling locations targeting the Canyon Sands and deeper zones. The timing of drilling our identified potential locations is subject to a number of uncertainties and
will be influenced by several factors, including commodity prices, capital requirements, well-spacing requirements and a continuation of the positive results from both our vertical and horizontal drilling program. 
In the Permian Basin, we consider the Wolffork interval (made up of multiple producing formations, including the Wolfcamp formation) to
be a resource play. As such, the mapping of the gross interval for each of the producing formations under our acreage position is the main factor we considered in identifying our potential locations. In the general region and immediately around our
acreage position, publicly available well data exists from a large number of vertical wells that have allowed us to define the areal extent of each of the producing intervals, whether the whole vertical Wolffork section or the targeted Clearfork and
Wolfcamp Shales. In addition to this publicly available well data, we have also used internally generated information from cores, 
  27 


Table of Contents

3-D seismic, open-hole logging and reservoir engineering to estimate the extent of the targeted intervals, the ability of such intervals to produce commercial quantities of hydrocarbons and the
viability of the potential locations. The timing of drilling the identified potential Permian locations will be influenced by several factors, including commodity prices, capital requirements, RRC well-spacing requirements and a continuation of the
positive results from both our horizontal and vertical drilling programs.  East Texas Basin — North Bald Prairie 
Cotton Valley Sands and Cotton Valley Lime  In July 2007, we entered into a joint drilling venture with EnCana Oil & Gas (USA) Inc. (“EnCana”) in Limestone and Robertson Counties, Texas, in the East Texas Cotton Valley trend. We
began drilling operations in August 2007. We have drilled and completed 11 gross wells, including one well completed as a saltwater disposal well. We have a 50% working interest and approximately 40% net revenue interest in the approximately 7,200
gross (4,500 net) acre project. As of December 31, 2011, we had estimated proved reserves of 1.3 Bcf in North Bald Prairie. Average daily production in 2011 was 0.4 MMcf/d, or a total of 151 MMcf. 
Our primary targets in North Bald Prairie are the Cotton Valley Sands and Cotton Valley Lime. These are unconventional tight gas
formations where we believe we can apply our geological, technical and operational expertise to improve production and recovery rates. Secondary targets include the shallower Rodessa, Pettit and Travis Peak formations. We currently have no rigs
running in North Bald Prairie.  Due to low natural gas prices, we continue to direct our capital expenditures to our assets in
the Permian Basin, where we target multiple, liquids-rich zones. As a result, at December 31, 2011, we did not expect to develop the proved undeveloped reserves in North Bald Prairie by year end 2013. Therefore, we reclassified approximately
12.8 Bcf of proved undeveloped reserves as probable undeveloped. We also recorded a non-cash impairment charge to our proved properties in the East Texas Basin of $15.2 million in 2011. At December 31, 2011, we had $2.7 million recorded for our
proved properties in the East Texas Basin, which is the estimated fair value at December 31, 2011.  Proved Oil and Gas Reserves
 The following table sets forth summary information regarding our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2011.
See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements in this report for additional information. Our estimated total proved reserves of oil, NGLs and natural gas as of December 31, 2011, were 77.0 MMBoe, made up of 61% oil and NGLs and 39%
natural gas. The proved developed portion of total proved reserves at year end 2011 was 44%. Natural gas is converted at a rate of six Mcf of gas to one barrel of oil equivalent (“Boe”). NGLs are converted at a rate of one barrel of NGLs
to one Boe. The ratios of six Mcf of gas to one Boe and one barrel of NGLs to one Boe do not assume price equivalency and, given price differentials, the price for a Boe of natural gas or NGLs may differ significantly from the price of a barrel of
oil.  Summary of Oil and Gas Reserves as of Fiscal-Year End 
Based on Average Fiscal-Year Prices   
























 
  
Reserves
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 Reserves Category
  
Oil(MBbls)
 
  
NGLs(MBbls)
 
  
NaturalGas(MMcf)
 
  
Total(MBoe)
 
  
Percent(%)
 

 Proved Developed
  



  



  



  



  




 Permian Basin
  
 
5,542
  
  
 
13,945
  
  
 
83,469
  
  
 
33,399
  
  
 
43.4
% 

 East Texas Basin
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,274
  
  
 
212
  
  
 
0.3
  

 Proved Undeveloped
  



  



  



  



  




 Permian Basin
  
 
12,509
  
  
 
15,178
  
  
 
94,064
  
  
 
43,364
  
  
 
56.3
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Proved Reserves
  
 
18,051
  
  
 
29,123
  
  
 
178,807
  
  
 
76,975
  
  
 
100.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  28 


Table of Contents
The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves, PV-10 and a reconciliation of
PV-10 to the Standardized Measure at December 31, 2011. Our reserve estimates and our calculation of Standardized Measure and PV-10 are based on the 12-month average of the first-day-of-the-month pricing of $96.22 per Bbl West Texas
Intermediate posted oil price, $49.63 per Bbl received for NGLs and $4.12 per MMBtu Henry Hub spot natural gas price during 2011. All prices were adjusted for energy content, quality and basis differentials by area and were held constant through the
lives of the properties.   
























 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 Operating Area
  
Oil(MBbls)
 
  
NGLs(MBbls)
 
  
NaturalGas(MMcf)
 
  
Total(MBoe)
 
  
PV-10
 

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
(in millions)
 

 Permian Basin
  
 
18,051
  
  
 
29,123
  
  
 
177,533
  
  
 
76,763
  
  
$
677,648
  

 East Texas Basin
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,274
  
  
 
212
  
  
 
1,476
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
18,051
  
  
 
29,123
  
  
 
178,807
  
  
 
76,975
  
  
 
679,124
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Present value of future income tax discounted at 10%
   
  
 
(264,743
) 


  



  



  



  



  
  
  
 

 Standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows
   
  
$
414,381
  


  



  



  



  



  
  
  
 
 PV-10 is our estimate of the present value of future net revenues from proved oil and gas reserves after
deducting estimated production and ad valorem taxes, future capital costs and operating expenses, but before deducting any estimates of future income taxes. PV-10 is a non-GAAP, financial measure and generally differs from the Standardized Measure,
the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, because it does not include the effects of income taxes on future cash flows. PV-10 should not be considered as an alternative to the Standardized Measure as computed under GAAP. 
We believe PV-10 to be an important measure for evaluating the relative significance of our oil and gas properties and that the
presentation of PV-10 provides useful information to investors because it is widely used by professional analysts and sophisticated investors in evaluating oil and gas companies. Because there are many unique factors that can impact an individual
company when estimating the amount of future income taxes to be paid, we believe the use of a pre-tax measure is valuable for evaluating our company. We believe that most other companies in the oil and gas industry calculate PV-10 on the same basis.
 Changes to Proved Reserves  The following table sets forth the changes in our proved reserve volumes by operating area during the year ended December 31, 2011 (in MBoe). 
 




















 Operating Area
  
Production
 
 
ExtensionsandDiscoveries
 
  
Purchasesof Mineralsin Place
 
  
Revisions toPreviousEstimates
 

 Permian Basin
  
 
(2,313
) 
 
 
25,548
  
  
 
10,498
  
  
 
(5,248
) 

 East Texas Basin
  
 
(25
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
(2,200
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
(2,338
) 
 
 
25,548
  
  
 
10,498
  
  
 
(7,448
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 We produced 2.3 MMBoe during 2011, 99% of which is attributable to our assets in the Permian Basin.
Extensions and discoveries for 2011 of 25.5 MMBoe include 24.2 MMBoe attributable to our Wolffork oil shale resource play in the Permian Basin. During 2011, we purchased approximately 10.5 MMBoe of proved reserves through the Working Interest
Acquisition. We also recorded downward revisions in 2011 of 7.5 MMBoe, including 5.6 MMBoe in southeast Project Pangea and 2.2 MMBoe in East Texas, partially offset by 0.3 MMBoe of positive oil and NGL price revisions. 
  29 


Table of Contents
Preparation of Proved Reserves Estimates 
Internal Controls Over Preparation of Proved Reserves Estimates 
Our policies regarding internal controls over the recording of reserve estimates require reserve estimates to be in compliance with SEC
rules, regulations and guidance and prepared in accordance with “Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information (Revision as of February 19, 2007)” promulgated by the Society of Petroleum
Engineers (“SPE standards”). Our proved reserves are estimated at the property level and compiled for reporting purposes by our corporate reservoir engineering staff, all of whom are independent of our operations team. We maintain our
internal evaluations of our reserves in a secure reserve engineering database. The corporate reservoir engineering staff interacts with our internal staff of operations engineers and geoscience professionals and with accounting employees to obtain
the necessary data for the reserves estimation process. Our internal professional staff works closely with our external engineers to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of data that is furnished to them for their reserve estimation
process. All of the reserve information maintained in our secure reserve engineering database is provided to the external engineers. In addition, other pertinent data is provided such as seismic information, geologic maps, well logs, production
tests, material balance calculations, well performance data, operating procedures and relevant economic criteria. We make available all information requested, including our pertinent personnel, to the external engineers as part of their evaluation
of our reserves.  Our Director of Reservoir Engineering, Mike E. Williams, is the individual responsible for overseeing the
preparation of our reserve estimates and for internal compliance of our reserve estimates with SEC rules, regulations and SPE standards. Mr. Williams has a Bachelor of Science degree in Chemical Engineering from University of Mississippi and
over 10 years of industry experience. Mr. Williams reports directly to our Chief Executive Officer. Our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, reviews our reserves estimates before these estimates
are finalized and disclosed in a public filing or presentation. Our Chief Executive Officer, J. Ross Craft, P.E., is a licensed Professional Engineer with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Petroleum Engineering from Texas A&M University and over
30 years of industry experience. Our Chief Financial Officer, Steven P. Smart, is a licensed Certified Public Accountant with over 30 years of industry experience.  For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, we engaged DeGolyer and MacNaughton, independent petroleum engineers, to prepare independent estimates of the extent and value of the proved
reserves associated with certain of our oil and gas properties. In 2011, DeGolyer and MacNaughton reported to the Reserves Subcommittee of the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and to our Director of Reservoir Engineering. The Reserves
Subcommittee meets with the independent engineering firm before the preparation of the firm’s final report to, among other things, review and consider the processes used by the engineers in the preparation of the report and any matters of
importance that arose in the preparation of the report, including whether the independent engineering firm encountered any material problems or difficulties in the preparation of their report. The Reserves Subcommittee’s review specifically
includes difficulties with the scope or timeliness of the information furnished to them by the Company or any restrictions or access to information placed upon them by any Company personnel, any other difficulties in dealing with any Company
personnel in the preparation of the report and any other matters of concern relating to the preparation of the report. The Reserves Subcommittee also determines whether the Company or its management or senior engineering personnel had similar or
other problems or concerns regarding the independent engineering firm and the preparation of their report. See Third Party Reports below for further information regarding DeGolyer and MacNaughton’s report. 
Technologies Used in Preparation of Proved Reserves Estimates 
Estimates of reserves were prepared in compliance with SEC rules, regulations and guidance and SPE standards. The method or combination of
methods used in the analysis of each reservoir was tempered by experience with similar reservoirs, stage of development, quality and completeness of basic data and production history. For our properties, structure and isopach maps were constructed
to delineate each reservoir. Electrical logs, radioactivity logs, seismic data and other available data were used to prepare these maps. Parameters of 
  30 


Table of Contents

area, porosity, and water saturation were estimated and applied to the isopach maps to obtain estimates of original oil in place or original gas in place. For developed producing wells whose
performance disclosed a reliable decline in producing-rate trends or other diagnostic characteristics, reserves were determined using decline curve analysis. Reserves for producing wells whose performance was not yet established and for undeveloped
locations were estimated using type curves. The parameters needed to develop these type curves such as initial decline rate, “b” factor and final decline rate were based on nearby wells producing from the same reservoir and of similar
completion for which more data were available.  Reporting of Natural Gas Liquids (“NGLs”) 
We produce NGLs as part of the processing of our natural gas. The extraction of NGLs in the processing of natural gas reduces the volume
of natural gas available for sale. At December 31, 2011, NGLs represented approximately 38% of our total proved reserves on a Boe basis. NGLs are products sold by the gallon. In reporting proved reserves and production of NGLs, we include these
volumes and production as Boe. The prices we received for a standard barrel of NGLs in 2011 averaged approximately 42% lower than the average prices for equivalent volumes of oil. We report all production information related to natural gas net of
the effect of any reduction in natural gas volumes resulting from the processing of NGLs.  Third Party Reports
 For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, we engaged DeGolyer and MacNaughton, independent,
third-party reserves engineers, to prepare estimates of the extent and value of the proved reserves of certain of our oil and gas properties, including 100% of our total reported proved reserves. DeGolyer and MacNaughton’s report for 2011 is
included as Exhibit 99.1 to this annual report on Form 10-K.  Proved Undeveloped Reserves 
As of December 31, 2011, we had 43.4 MMBoe of proved undeveloped reserves (“PUDs”), which is an increase of 18.5
MMBoe or 74%, compared with 24.9 MMBoe of PUDs at December 31, 2010. At year end 2011, we reclassified 2.2 MMBoe of PUDs as probable undeveloped in the East Texas Basin that, given low natural gas prices, we do not expect to develop by year-end
2013. As a result, all of our PUDs at December 31, 2011, were associated with our core development properties in the Permian Basin. As a percent of our total proved reserves, our PUDs increased from 49% in 2010 to 56% in 2011 due to our ongoing
development of our Wolffork oil shale resource play.  The following table sets forth our PUDs converted to proved
developed reserves during 2011, 2010 and 2009 and the net investment required to convert PUDs to proved developed reserves during the year (dollars in thousands).   




























 
  
Proved Undeveloped ReservesConverted to Proved DevelopedReserves
 
  
 
 
 
Investment inConversion of ProvedUndeveloped Reservesto Proved
DevelopedReserves
 

 Year Ended December 31,
  
Oil(MBbls)
 
  
NGLs(MBbls)
 
  
NaturalGas(MMcf)
 
  
Total(MBoe)
 
  
Percent ofTotal PUDsConverted
 
 

 2009
  
 
60
  
  
 
60
  
  
 
1,131
  
  
 
308
  
  
 
1.7
% 
 
$
4,314
  

 2010
  
 
589
  
  
 
2,134
  
  
 
12,728
  
  
 
4,845
  
  
 
23.2
  
 
 
37,070
  

 2011
  
 
263
  
  
 
660
  
  
 
3,583
  
  
 
1,520
  
  
 
6.1
  
 
 
33,783
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
912
  
  
 
2,854
  
  
 
17,442
  
  
 
6,673
  
  
 
36.8
% 
 
$
75,167
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Estimated future development costs relating to the development of PUDs are projected to be approximately
$159 million in 2012, $215 million in 2013 and $102 million in 2014. We monitor fluctuations in commodity 
  31 


Table of Contents

prices, drilling and completion costs, operating expenses and drilling success to determine adjustments to our drilling and development program. Based on current expectations for cash flows,
commodity prices and operating costs and expenses, all PUDs are scheduled to be drilled before the end of 2016.  We have 8.9
MMBoe of PUDs, or approximately 11.6% of our total proved reserves, that have been booked for five years or longer. These reserves are located in southeast Project Pangea, where we drilled five gross (five net) wells in 2011 and plan to recomplete
six gross (six net) vertical wells targeting the Wolffork in 2012. Despite the continued development drilling in southeast Project Pangea in 2011 and 2012, the volume of PUDs in southeast Project Pangea that will have been booked for five years or
longer at December 31, 2012, may increase from December 31, 2011, and, depending on the timing and selection of locations to be drilled in southeast Project Pangea in 2012, such increase might be material. We have a history of significant
development activity in southeast Project Pangea, as we have drilled approximately 350 gross (330 net) wells there since our first well in February 2004, and we intend to continue the development of PUDs in southeast Project Pangea over time.
 Oil and Gas Production, Production Prices and Production Costs 
The following table sets forth summary information regarding oil, NGL and gas production, average sales prices and average production
costs for the last three years. We determined the Boe using the ratio of six Mcf of natural gas to one Boe, and one barrel of NGLs to one Boe. The ratios of six Mcf of natural gas to one Boe and one barrel of NGLs to one Boe do not assume price
equivalency and, given price differentials, the price for a Boe for natural gas or NGLs may differ significantly from the price for a barrel of oil.   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

  
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Production
  



  



  




 Oil (MBbls)
  
 
482
  
  
 
246
  
  
 
206
  

 NGLs (MBbls)
  
 
798
  
  
 
261
  
  
 
209
  

 Gas (MMcf)
  
 
6,345
  
  
 
6,290
  
  
 
6,320
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total (MBoe)
  
 
2,338
  
  
 
1,556
  
  
 
1,468
  

 Total (MBoe/d)
  
 
6.4
  
  
 
4.3
  
  
 
4.0
  

 Average prices
  



  



  




 Oil (per Bbl)
  
$
88.18
  
  
$
75.67
  
  
$
54.97
  

 NGLs (per Bbl)
  
 
51.39
  
  
 
41.19
  
  
 
28.32
  

 Gas (per Mcf)
  
 
3.92
  
  
 
4.48
  
  
 
3.70
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total (per Boe)
  
 
46.37
  
  
 
37.00
  
  
 
27.69
  

 Realized gain on commodity derivatives (per Boe)
  
 
1.44
  
  
 
3.72
  
  
 
9.99
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total including derivative impact (per Boe)
  
$
47.81
  
  
$
40.72
  
  
$
37.68
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Production costs (per Boe)(1)
  
$
4.57
  
  
$
4.25
  
  
$
4.20
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Production cost per Boe is made up of lease operating expenses, excluding ad valorem taxes. Production cost per Boe also excludes severance and production taxes.

  32 


Table of Contents
Drilling Activity — Prior Three Years 
The following table sets forth information on our drilling activity for the last three years. The information should not be considered
indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled, quantities of reserves found or economic value. 
 




























 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
Gross
 
  
Net
 
  
Gross
 
  
Net
 
  
Gross
 
  
Net
 

 Development wells:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Productive
  
 
69.0
  
  
 
64.2
  
  
 
91.0
  
  
 
56.2
  
  
 
28.0
  
  
 
16.0
  

 Dry
  
 
2.0
  
  
 
2.0
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
4.0
  
  
 
2.0
  

 Exploratory wells:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Productive
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Dry
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Total wells:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Productive
  
 
69.0
  
  
 
64.2
  
  
 
91.0
  
  
 
56.2
  
  
 
28.0
  
  
 
16.0
  

 Dry
  
 
2.0
  
  
 
2.0
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
4.0
  
  
 
2.0
  
 Of the 71 gross (66.2 net) wells drilled in 2011, 18 gross (18 net) wells were waiting on completion at
December 31, 2011. Of the two gross (two net) dry wells drilled in 2011, one was completed as a salt water disposal well and one was drilled as replacement well during the first three months of 2012. 
Although a well may be classified as productive upon completion, future changes in oil and gas prices, operating costs and production may
result in the well becoming uneconomical.  Drilling Activity — Current 
As of the date of this report, we had three rigs running in the Permian Basin targeting the Wolffork and Canyon Sands formations,
including two rigs drilling horizontal Wolfcamp wells.  Delivery Commitments 
We are not committed to provide a fixed and determinable quantity of oil, NGLs or gas in the near future under existing agreements.
 Producing Wells  The following table sets forth the number of producing wells in which we owned a working interest at December 31, 2011. Wells are classified as natural gas or oil according to their predominant
production stream.   
































 
  
Natural GasWells
 
  
OilWells
 
  
TotalWells
 
  
AverageWorkingInterest

 

 
  
Gross
 
  
Net
 
  
Gross
 
  
Net
 
  
Gross
 
  
Net
 
  

 Permian Basin
  
 
603.0
  
  
 
590.9
  
  
 
35.0
  
  
 
35.0
  
  
 
638.0
  
  
 
625.7
  
  
 
98.1
% 

 East Texas Basin
  
 
9.0
  
  
 
4.5
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
9.0
  
  
 
4.5
  
  
 
50.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
612.0
  
  
 
595.4
  
  
 
35.0
  
  
 
35.0
  
  
 
647.0
  
  
 
630.2
  
  
 
97.4
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  33 


Table of Contents
Acreage  The following table summarizes our developed and undeveloped acreage as of December 31, 2011.   




























 
  
Developed Acres
 
  
Undeveloped Acres
 
  
Total Acres
 

 
  
Gross
 
  
Net
 
  
Gross
 
  
Net
 
  
Gross
 
  
Net
 

 Permian Basin
  
 
66,370
  
  
 
56,810
  
  
 
99,280
  
  
 
88,226
  
  
 
165,650
  
  
 
145,036
  

 East Texas Basin
  
 
3,481
  
  
 
1,687
  
  
 
3,738
  
  
 
2,785
  
  
 
7,219
  
  
 
4,472
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
69,851
  
  
 
58,497
  
  
 
103,018
  
  
 
91,011
  
  
 
172,869
  
  
 
149,508
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Undeveloped Acreage Expirations  The following table sets forth the number of gross and net undeveloped acres as of December 31, 2011, that will expire over the next three years by project area unless production is established
before lease expiration dates. Net amounts may be more than gross amounts in a particular year due to timing of expirations.   




























 
  
2012
 
  
2013
 
  
2014
 

 
  
Gross
 
  
Net
 
  
Gross
 
  
Net
 
  
Gross
 
  
Net
 

 Permian Basin
  
 
5,641
  
  
 
8,705
  
  
 
18,636
  
  
 
15,943
  
  
 
41,523
  
  
 
32,438
  

 East Texas Basin
  
 
3,423
  
  
 
2,506
  
  
 
315
  
  
 
279
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
9,064
  
  
 
11,211
  
  
 
18,951
  
  
 
16,222
  
  
 
41,523
  
  
 
32,438
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
We are involved in various legal and regulatory proceedings arising in the normal course of business. While we cannot predict the
outcome of these proceedings with certainty, we do not believe that an adverse result in any pending legal or regulatory proceeding, individually or in the aggregate, would be material to our business, financial condition or cash flows. 
ITEM 4.    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
Not applicable. 
  34 


Table of Contents
PART II 
 


ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
Market Information  Our
common stock is traded on NASDAQ in the United States under the symbol “AREX.” During 2011, trading volume averaged 500,127 shares per day. The following table shows the quarterly high and low sale prices of our common stock as reported on
NASDAQ for the past two years.   












 
  
Price Per Share
 

 
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 2011
  



  




 First quarter
  
$
34.72
  
  
$
22.58
  

 Second quarter
  
 
34.93
  
  
 
19.13
  

 Third quarter
  
 
28.37
  
  
 
15.55
  

 Fourth quarter
  
 
33.48
  
  
 
14.14
  

 2010
  



  




 First quarter
  
$
9.65
  
  
$
7.57
  

 Second quarter
  
 
9.52
  
  
 
6.32
  

 Third quarter
  
 
11.81
  
  
 
6.12
  

 Fourth quarter
  
 
23.89
  
  
 
11.00
  
 Holders  As of February 29, 2012, there were 100 record holders of our common stock. In many instances, a record holder is a broker or other entity holding shares in street name for one or more customers who
beneficially own the shares.  Dividends  We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We do not expect to pay any cash or other dividends in the foreseeable future on our common stock, as we intend to reinvest cash flow generated by
operations in our business. Our revolving credit facility currently restricts our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock, and we may also enter into credit agreements or other borrowing arrangements in the future that restrict or limit
our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock. 
  35 


Table of Contents
Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans 
The following table sets forth information regarding securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans and individual
compensation arrangements as of December 31, 2011.   


















 Plan Category
  
Number ofSecurities to beIssued UponExercise
ofOutstandingOptions, Warrantsand Rights(a)
 
  
Weighted-Average ExercisePrice
ofOutstandingOptions,Warrants andRights(b)
 
  
Number of SecuritiesRemaining Available forFuture Issuance 
underEquity CompensationPlans (ExcludingSecurities Reflected inColumn (a))(1)(c)
 

 Equity compensation plans approved by stockholders
  
 
260,097
  
  
$
5.13
  
  

  
 
1,225,376
  

 Equity compensation plans not approved by stockholders
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
—
  
  


(1)
Under our 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the “2007 Plan”), and subject to adjustment for recapitalizations or reorganizations, the maximum number of shares of
common stock that may be available for grant of awards under the 2007 Plan is 10% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, as adjusted on the first business day of each calendar year, plus shares of common stock that remain available for grant
of awards under our prior plan. After adjustment for 10% of our outstanding shares of common stock on the first business day of 2012 as set forth in the 2007 Plan, we expect the number of shares remaining available for future issuance under the 2007
Plan under column (c) of above table to increase to 1,712,046. 
  36 


Table of Contents
Performance Graph  The following graph compares the cumulative return on a $100 investment in our common stock from November 8, 2007, through December 31, 2011, to that of the cumulative return on a $100
investment in the Standard & Poor’s 500 (“S&P 500”) index and the Dow Jones U.S. Exploration & Production Total Stock Market index for the same period. In calculating the cumulative return, reinvestment of
dividends, if any, is assumed. This graph is not “soliciting material,” is not deemed filed with the SEC and is not to be incorporated by reference in any of our filings under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, whether made before or
after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filing. This graph is included in accordance with the SEC’s disclosure rules. This historic stock performance is not indicative of future stock
performance.  COMPARISON OF 49 MONTH CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN 
Among Approach Resources Inc., the S&P 500 Index, and the Dow Jones U.S. Exploration & 
Production Total Stock Market Index   


  
































  
  
11/8/2007
 
  
12/31/2007
 
  
12/31/2008
 
  
12/31/2009
 
  
12/31/2010
 
  
  
 
  
12/31/2011
 

 Approach Resources Inc.
  
$
100.00
  
  
$
102.14
  
  
$
58.06
  
  
$
61.32
  
  
$
183.48
  
  
$
 
  
  
 
233.60
  

 S&P 500
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
95.15
  
  
 
59.95
  
  
 
75.81
  
  
 
87.23
  
  



  
 
89.07
  

 D J U.S. Exploration & Production
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
101.09
  
  
 
59.62
  
  
 
84.37
  
  
 
99.89
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
95.80
  

  37 


Table of Contents
Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities 
Our 2007 Plan allows us to withhold shares of common stock to pay withholding taxes payable upon vesting of a restricted stock grant. The
number of shares of common stock available for grants under the 2007 Plan is increased by the number of shares withheld as payment of such withholding taxes. The following table shows the number of shares of common stock withheld to satisfy the
income tax withholding obligations arising upon the vesting of restricted shares issued to employees under the 2007 Plan.   




















 Period
  
(a)TotalNumber 
ofSharesPurchased
 
  
(b)AveragePricePaid 
perShare
 
  
(c)Total Number
ofShares Purchasedas Part ofPubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs
 
  
(d)MaximumNumber
(orApproximateDollar Value) ofShares thatMay Yet BePurchased Underthe Plans orPrograms
 

 October 1, 2011 — October 31, 2011
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 November 1, 2011 — November 30, 2011
  
 
599
  
  
$
28.65
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 December 1, 2011 — December 31, 2011
  
 
1,993
  
  
$
32.88
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
2,592
  
  
$
31.90
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

  38 


Table of Contents


ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  The following table sets forth selected financial information for the five years ended December 31, 2011. All weighted average shares and per share data have been adjusted for the three-for-one stock
split and the stock issuance resulting from our combination with Approach Oil & Gas Inc. under a contribution agreement in November 2007. This information should be read in conjunction with Item 7 of this report,
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and our consolidated financial statements, related notes and other financial information included in this report. 
 
























 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 
  
(in thousands, except per-share data)
 

 Operating Results Data
  



 



 



 



 




 Revenues
  



 



 



 



 




 Oil, NGL and gas sales
  
$
108,387
  
 
$
57,581
  
 
$
40,648
  
 
$
79,869
  
 
$
39,114
  

 Expenses
  



 



 



 



 




 Lease operating
  
 
13,328
  
 
 
8,555
  
 
 
7,777
  
 
 
7,621
  
 
 
3,815
  

 Severance and production taxes
  
 
5,806
  
 
 
2,990
  
 
 
1,996
  
 
 
4,202
  
 
 
1,659
  

 Exploration
  
 
9,546
  
 
 
2,589
  
 
 
1,621
  
 
 
1,478
  
 
 
883
  

 Impairment
  
 
18,476
  
 
 
2,622
  
 
 
2,964
  
 
 
6,379
  
 
 
267
  

 General and administrative
  
 
17,900
  
 
 
11,422
  
 
 
10,617
  
 
 
8,881
  
 
 
12,667
  

 Depletion, depreciation and amortization
  
 
32,475
  
 
 
22,224
  
 
 
24,660
  
 
 
23,710
  
 
 
13,098
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expenses
  
 
97,531
  
 
 
50,402
  
 
 
49,635
  
 
 
52,271
  
 
 
32,389
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
10,856
  
 
 
7,179
  
 
 
(8,987
) 
 
 
27,598
  
 
 
6,725
  

 Other
  



 



 



 



 




 Impairment of investment
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(917
) 
 
 
—
  

 Interest expense, net
  
 
(3,402
) 
 
 
(2,189
) 
 
 
(1,787
) 
 
 
(1,269
) 
 
 
(5,219
) 

 Realized gain on commodity derivatives
  
 
3,375
  
 
 
5,784
  
 
 
14,659
  
 
 
2,936
  
 
 
4,732
  

 Unrealized (loss) gain on commodity derivatives
  
 
(347
) 
 
 
788
  
 
 
(9,899
) 
 
 
7,149
  
 
 
(3,637
) 

 Gain on sale of oil and gas properties, net of foreign currency transaction loss
  
 
248
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before provision (benefit) for income taxes
  
 
10,730
  
 
 
11,562
  
 
 
(6,014
) 
 
 
35,497
  
 
 
2,601
  

 Provision (benefit) for income taxes
  
 
3,488
  
 
 
4,100
  
 
 
(785
) 
 
 
12,111
  
 
 
(108
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
7,242
  
 
$
7,462
  
 
$
(5,229
) 
 
$
23,386
  
 
$
2,709
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per share
  



 



 



 



 




 Basic
  
$
0.25
  
 
$
0.34
  
 
$
(0.25
) 
 
$
1.13
  
 
$
0.25
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted
  
$
0.25
  
 
$
0.34
  
 
$
(0.25
) 
 
$
1.12
  
 
$
0.24
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Statement of Cash Flows Data
  



 



 



 



 




 Net cash provided by (used in)
  



 



 



 



 




 Operating activities
  
$
95,770
  
 
$
42,377
  
 
$
39,761
  
 
$
56,381
  
 
$
30,746
  

 Investing activities
  
 
(284,758
) 
 
 
(91,346
) 
 
 
(29,553
) 
 
 
(100,633
) 
 
 
(52,940
) 

 Financing activities
  
 
165,843
  
 
 
69,748
  
 
 
(11,618
) 
 
 
43,750
  
 
 
22,062
  

 Effect of Canadian exchange rate
  
 
(19
) 
 
 
1
  
 
 
18
  
 
 
(206
) 
 
 
6
  

 Balance Sheet Data
  



 



 



 



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
301
  
 
$
23,465
  
 
$
2,685
  
 
$
4,077
  
 
$
4,785
  

 Other current assets
  
 
11,085
  
 
 
17,865
  
 
 
9,318
  
 
 
30,760
  
 
 
12,021
  

 Property, equipment, net, successful efforts method
  
 
595,284
  
 
 
369,210
  
 
 
304,483
  
 
 
303,404
  
 
 
230,819
  

 Other assets
  
 
1,224
  
 
 
2,549
  
 
 
2,440
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,101
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
607,894
  
 
$
413,089
  
 
$
318,926
  
 
$
338,241
  
 
$
248,726
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Current liabilities
  
$
43,625
  
 
$
29,240
  
 
$
21,996
  
 
$
30,775
  
 
$
22,017
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
43,800
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
32,319
  
 
 
43,537
  
 
 
—
  

 Other long-term liabilities
  
 
53,020
  
 
 
50,903
  
 
 
44,115
  
 
 
40,116
  
 
 
26,890
  

 Stockholders’ equity
  
 
467,449
  
 
 
332,946
  
 
 
220,496
  
 
 
223,813
  
 
 
199,819
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity
  
$
607,894
  
 
$
413,089
  
 
$
318,926
  
 
$
338,241
  
 
$
248,726
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  39 


Table of Contents


ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
The following discussion is intended to assist in understanding our results of operations and our financial condition. Our consolidated
financial statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this report contain additional information that should be referred to when reviewing this material. Statements in this discussion may be forward-looking. These forward-looking
statements involve risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those expressed. See “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this report and “Risk Factors” in
Item 1A. for additional discussion of some of these factors and risks.  Overview 
Approach Resources Inc. is an independent energy company engaged in the exploration, development, production and acquisition of oil and
gas properties. We focus on oil and gas reserves in oil shale and tight gas sands in the Permian Basin in West Texas (Clearfork, Wolfcamp Shale, Canyon Sands, Strawn and Ellenburger), where we lease approximately 145,000 net acres. Our management
and technical team have a proven track record of finding and developing reserves through advanced completion, fracturing and drilling techniques. As the operator of all of our estimated proved reserves and production, we have a high degree of
control over capital expenditures and other operating matters.  At December 31, 2011, our estimated proved reserves were
77.0 MMBoe. At such date, approximately 99.7% of our proved reserves were located in the Permian Basin in Crockett and Schleicher Counties, Texas. Important characteristics of our proved reserves at December 31, 2011, include: 
 


 
•
 
 61% oil and NGLs and 39% natural gas;   


 
•
 
 44% proved developed;   


 
•
 
 100% operated;   


 
•
 
 Reserve life of over 33 years based on 2011 production of 2.3 MMBoe; 
 


 
•
 
 Standardized Measure of $414.4 million; and   


 
•
 
 PV-10 of $679.1 million.  PV-10 is our estimate of the present value of future net revenues from proved oil and gas reserves after deducting estimated production and ad valorem taxes, future capital costs and operating expenses,
but before deducting any estimates for future income taxes. Estimated future net revenues are discounted at an annual rate of 10% to determine their present value. PV-10 is a non-GAAP, financial measure and generally differs from the Standardized
Measure, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, because it does not include the effects of income taxes on future cash flows. PV-10 should not be considered as an alternative to the Standardized Measure as computed under GAAP. See
Item 2. “Properties — Proved Oil and Gas Reserves” for a reconciliation of PV-10 to the Standardized Measure.  At December 31, 2011, we owned working interests in 638 producing oil and gas wells in the Permian Basin, and we had an estimated 3,000 potential drilling locations, of which 395 were proved. We also
had an estimated 190 potential Wolffork recompletion opportunities in the Permian Basin, of which four were proved. We also owned working interests in nine producing gas wells in the East Texas Basin. 
2011 Activity  Our
operations are focused on the Permian Basin, where our leasehold position is characterized by multiple oil and liquids-rich formations. Historically, we have focused our drilling on tight gas sands (Canyon Sands) and

  40 


Table of Contents

the Strawn and Ellenburger formations in the Permian Basin. Data from drilling vertical Canyon, Strawn and Ellenburger wells, combined with a detailed geological and petrophysical study, led to
our decision to begin to develop the shallower Clearfork and Wolfcamp formations in late 2010. We sometimes refer to the Clearfork and Wolfcamp zones together as the “Wolffork” oil shale resource play, and our drilling program in the
Permian Basin as “Project Pangea” and “Pangea West.”  Proved Reserves and Production Growth
 In 2011, our estimated proved reserves increased 52%, or 26.3 MMBoe, to 77.0 MMBoe from 50.7 MMBoe. Reserve growth in
2011 was driven by results in our Wolffork oil shale resource play as well as the Working Interest Acquisition.  Production
for 2011 totaled 2.3 MMBoe (6.4 MBoe/d), compared to 1.6 MMBoe (4.3 MBoe/d) in 2010, a 50% increase. Production for 2011 was 21% oil, 34% NGLs and 45% natural gas. After the expiration of our prior gas sales contract in April 2011, we began
realizing NGL revenues from the liquids-rich gas stream in southeast Project Pangea, and our NGL production increased 206% in 2011, compared to 2010. In addition, our continued development of Project Pangea increased oil production 96% in 2011,
compared to 2010. On average, we operated two vertical rigs and one horizontal rig in 2011, and drilled a total of 71 gross (66.2 net) wells, of which 18 gross (18 net) were waiting on completion at December 31, 2011. We also recompleted 10
gross (10 net) wells in the Wolffork in 2011.  Liquids-Weighted Reserve Profile 
Our proved reserve profile at year end 2011 was 61% oil and NGLs and 39% natural gas, compared to 51% oil and NGLs and 49% natural gas at
year end 2010. During 2011, our proved oil and NGL reserves increased 21.6 MMBbls, or 84%, to 47.2 MMBbls from 25.6 MMBbls in 2010. Our increase in proved oil and NGL reserves is primarily due to the liquids-rich production and reserve profile of
the Wolffork oil shale resource play and processing upgrades in southeast Project Pangea. On April 1, 2011, we began realizing NGL revenues from the liquids-rich gas stream in southeast Project Pangea. 
Working Interest Acquisition  In February 2011, we closed the Working Interest Acquisition in northwest Project Pangea from two non-operating partners for $70.8 million, after customary post-closing adjustments. The Working Interest
Acquisition was funded with cash on hand and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. As a result of the Working Interest Acquisition, our working and net revenue interests in Project Pangea are approximately 100% and 76%, respectively.
 Acquisition of Acreage  We acquired approximately 43,000 net acres in the Permian Basin in Crockett and Schleicher Counties, Texas, during 2011. The acreage acquisitions increased our exposure to the Wolffork oil shale resource
play.  2011 Equity Offering  In November 2011, we completed the 2011 Offering and sold 4.6 million shares of common stock at $28 per share. After deducting underwriting discounts and transaction costs of approximately $6.6
million, we received net proceeds of approximately $122.2 million. We intend to use the proceeds to fund our capital expenditures for the Wolffork oil shale resource play, working interest and leasehold acquisitions in the Permian Basin and general
working capital needs. Pending these uses, we used the proceeds of the 2011 Offering to repay outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility. 
  41 


Table of Contents
Plans for 2012  In November 2011, we announced a drilling program that included two rigs to drill vertical wells targeting the Wolffork and Canyon Sands and one rig to drill horizontal wells targeting the Wolfcamp. Due
to continued strong results from our horizontal Wolfcamp drilling program, we replaced one of our vertical drilling rigs with a second horizontal rig in Project Pangea in March 2012. In connection with the expansion of our horizontal Wolfcamp
drilling program, our Board of Directors approved a $30 million increase in our 2012 capital budget to $190 million. We also expect to recomplete two to four wells per month in the Wolffork in 2012. Our objectives for 2012 include advancing our
understanding of optimal well spacing, testing multi-zone potential and refining completion techniques to enhance hydrocarbon recovery in our Wolffork targets and improving our cost structure. 
Our 2012 capital budget is subject to change depending upon a number of factors, including additional data on our Wolffork oil shale
resource play, results of Wolfcamp Shale and Wolffork drilling and recompletions, economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, prevailing and anticipated prices for oil, NGLs and gas, the availability of sufficient capital resources for
drilling prospects, our financial results and the availability of lease extensions and renewals on reasonable terms.  Critical Accounting
Policies and Estimates  The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our
consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect our reported results of operations and the amount
of reported assets, liabilities and proved oil and gas reserves. Some accounting policies involve judgments and uncertainties to such an extent that there is reasonable likelihood that materially different amounts could have been reported under
different conditions, or if different assumptions had been used. Actual results may differ from the estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Described below are the most significant policies we
apply in preparing our consolidated financial statements, some of which are subject to alternative treatments under GAAP. We also describe the most significant estimates and assumptions we make in applying these policies. See Note 1 to our
consolidated financial statements.  Segment reporting is not applicable to us as we have a single, company-wide management
team that administers all properties as a whole rather than by discrete operating segments. We track only basic operational data by area. We do not maintain complete separate financial statement information by area. We measure financial performance
as a single enterprise and not on an area-by-area basis. We use the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas activities.  Successful Efforts Method of Accounting  Accounting for oil and gas
activities is subject to special, unique rules. We use the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas activities. The significant principles for this method are: 
 


 
•
 
 geological and geophysical evaluation costs are expensed as incurred; 
 


 
•
 
 dry holes for exploratory wells are expensed, and dry holes for development wells are capitalized; and 
 


 
•
 
 capitalized costs related to proved oil and gas properties, including wells and related equipment and facilities, are evaluated for impairment based on
an analysis of undiscounted future net cash flows in accordance with ASC 360. If undiscounted cash flows are insufficient to recover the net capitalized costs related to proved properties, then we recognize an impairment charge in income from
operations equal to the difference between the net capitalized costs related to proved properties and their estimated fair values based on the present value of the related future net cash flows. 
  42 


Table of Contents
Proved Reserves 
On December 31, 2008, the SEC released a Final Rule, Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting (the “Final Rule”),
approving revisions designed to modernize oil and gas reserve reporting requirements. The Final Rule became effective for our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009, and our 2009 year-end proved reserve estimates. The most
significant revisions to the reporting requirements included:   


 
•
 
 Commodity prices.    Economic producibility of reserves is based on the unweighted, arithmetic average of the closing price
on the first day of the month for the 12-month period prior to fiscal year end, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements.   


 
•
 
 Undeveloped oil and gas reserves.    Reserves may be classified as “proved undeveloped” for undrilled areas beyond
one offsetting drilling unit from a producing well if there is reasonable certainty that the quantities will be recovered.   


 
•
 
 Reliable technology.    The Final Rule permits the use of new technologies to establish the reasonable certainty of proved
reserves if those technologies have been demonstrated empirically to lead to reliable conclusions about reserves volumes.   


 
•
 
 Unproved reserves.    Probable and possible reserves may be disclosed separately on a voluntary basis.
  


 
•
 
 Preparation of reserves estimates.    Disclosure is required regarding the internal controls used to assure objectivity in
the reserves estimation process and the qualifications of the technical person primarily responsible for preparing reserves estimates.   


 
•
 
 Third party reports.    We are required to file the report of any third party used to prepare or audit reserves our
estimates.  In addition, in January 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Accounting
Standards Update, or the Update, 2010-03, “Oil and Gas Reserve Estimation and Disclosures” (the “Update”) to provide consistency with the new reserve rules. The Update amends existing standards to align the reserves calculation
and disclosure requirements under GAAP with the requirements in the SEC’s reserve rules. We adopted the new standards effective December 31, 2009.  For the year ended December 31, 2011, we engaged DeGolyer and MacNaughton, independent petroleum engineers, to prepare independent estimates of the extent and value of 100% of our reported proved
reserves, in accordance with guidelines established by the SEC, including the Final Rule.  Estimates of proved oil and gas
reserves directly impact financial accounting estimates including depletion, depreciation and amortization expense, evaluation of impairment of properties and the calculation of plugging and abandonment liabilities. Proved oil and gas reserves are
those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic
conditions, operating methods and government regulations. The process of estimating quantities of proved reserves is very complex, requiring significant subjective decisions in the evaluation of all geological, engineering and economic data for each
reservoir. The data for any reservoir may change substantially over time due to results from operational activity. Proved reserve volumes at December 31, 2011, were estimated based on the average of the closing price on the first day of each
month for the 12-month period prior to December 31, 2011, for oil, NGLs and gas in accordance with the Final Rule. Changes in commodity prices and operations costs may increase or decrease estimates of proved oil, NGL and natural gas reserves.
Depletion expense for our oil and gas properties is determined using our estimates of proved oil, NGL and gas reserves. A hypothetical 10% decline in our December 31, 2011, estimated proved reserves would have increased our depletion expense by
approximately $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. 
  43 


Table of Contents
See also Item 2. “Properties — Proved Oil and Gas Reserves” and Note 10
to our consolidated financial statements in this report for additional information regarding our estimated proved reserves. 
Derivative Instruments and Commodity Derivative Activities 
Unrealized gains and losses, at fair value, are included on our consolidated balance sheets as current or non-current assets or
liabilities based on the anticipated timing of cash settlements under the related contracts. Changes in the fair value of our commodity derivative contracts are recorded in earnings as they occur and included in other income (expense) on our
consolidated statements of operations. We estimate the fair values of swap contracts based on the present value of the difference in exchange-quoted forward price curves and contractual settlement prices multiplied by notional quantities. We
internally valued the option contracts using industry-standard option pricing models and observable market inputs. We use our internal valuations to determine the fair values of the contracts that are reflected on our consolidated balance sheets.
Realized gains and losses are also included in other income (expense) on our consolidated statements of operations.  We are
exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties on our commodity derivatives positions and have considered the exposure in our internal valuations. However, we do not anticipate nonperformance by the counterparties over
the term of the commodity derivatives positions.  Changes in the derivative’s fair value are currently recognized in the
statement of operations unless specific commodity derivative hedge accounting criteria are met and such strategies are designated. For qualifying cash-flow commodity derivatives, the gain or loss on the derivative is deferred in accumulated other
comprehensive income to the extent the commodity derivative is effective. The ineffective portion of the commodity derivative is recognized immediately in the statement of operations. Gains and losses on commodity derivative instruments included in
accumulated other comprehensive income are reclassified to oil and gas sales revenue in the period that the related production is delivered. Derivative contracts that do not qualify for commodity derivative accounting treatment are recorded as
derivative assets and liabilities at fair value in the balance sheet, and the associated unrealized gains and losses are recorded as current income or expense in the statement of operations. 
Historically, we have not designated our derivative instruments as cash-flow hedges. We record our open derivative instruments at fair
value on our consolidated balance sheets as either unrealized gains or losses on commodity derivatives. We record changes in such fair value in earnings on our consolidated statements of operations under the caption entitled “unrealized gain
(loss) on commodity derivatives.”  Although we have not designated our derivative instruments as cash-flow hedges, we use
those instruments to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices related to our oil and gas production. Accordingly, we record realized gains and losses under those instruments in other revenues on our consolidated statements of
operations. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2009, we recognized an unrealized loss of $347,000 and $9.9 million, respectively, from the change in the fair value of commodity derivatives. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we
recognized an unrealized gain of $788,000 from the change in the fair value of commodity derivatives. A hypothetical 10% increase in the NYMEX floating prices would have resulted in a $1.4 million decrease in the December 31, 2011, fair
value recorded on our balance sheet, and a corresponding increase to the loss on commodity derivatives in our statement of operations.  Asset Retirement Obligation  Our asset retirement obligation
primarily represents the estimated present value of the amount we will incur to plug, abandon and remediate our producing properties at the end of their productive lives, in accordance with applicable federal, state and local laws. We determine our
asset retirement obligation by calculating the present value of estimated cash flows related to the liability. The retirement obligation is recorded as a liability at its estimated present value as of the asset’s inception, with an offsetting
increase to proved properties. Periodic accretion of discount of the estimated liability is recorded as an expense in the income statement. 
  44 


Table of Contents
Our liability is determined using significant assumptions, including current estimates of
plugging and abandonment costs, annual inflation of these costs, the productive lives of wells and our risk-adjusted interest rate. Changes in any of these assumptions can result in significant revisions to the estimated asset retirement obligation.
 Impairment of Long-Lived Assets  All of our long-lived assets are monitored for potential impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may be greater than its future net cash flows. The evaluations involve a
significant amount of judgment since the results are based on estimated future events, such as future sales prices for oil, NGLs and gas, future costs to produce these products, estimates of future oil and gas reserves to be recovered and the timing
thereof, the economic and regulatory climates and other factors. The need to test an asset for impairment may result from significant declines in commodity prices or downward revisions to estimated quantities of oil and gas reserves. Any assets held
for sale are reviewed for impairment when we approve the plan to sell. Estimates of anticipated sales prices are highly judgmental and subject to material revision in future periods. Because of the uncertainty inherent in these factors, we cannot
predict when or if future impairment charges will be recorded.  For 2011, we recorded an impairment expense of $18.5 million,
of which $15.2 million was attributable to our oil and gas properties in the East Texas Basin. At December 31, 2011, we had $2.7 million recorded for the East Texas Basin, which is the estimated fair value at December 31, 2011. We also
recorded an impairment expense of $3.3 million, related to all of our remaining carrying costs associated with our unproved properties in Northern New Mexico, which was the total carrying value we had recorded for the project. 
Provision for Income Taxes  We estimate our provision for income taxes using historical tax basis information from prior years’ income tax returns, along with the estimated changes to such bases from current period activity and
enacted tax rates. Additionally, we compare liabilities to actual settlements of such assets or liabilities during the current period to identify considerations that might affect the current period’s estimate. 
Valuation of Share-Based Compensation  Our 2007 Plan allows grants of stock and options to employees and outside directors. Granting of awards may increase our general and administrative expenses, subject to the size and timing of the grants.
See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements.  In accordance with GAAP, we calculate the fair value of share-based
compensation using various valuation methods. The valuation methods require the use of estimates to derive the inputs necessary to determine fair value. We use (i) the Black-Scholes option price model to measure the fair value of stock options,
(ii) the closing stock price on the date of grant for the fair value of restricted stock awards, including performance-based awards, and (iii) the Monte Carlo simulation method for the fair value of market-based awards. 
Effects of Inflation 
Inflation in the United States has been relatively low in recent years and did not have a material impact on our results of operations for
the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 or 2009. Although the impact of inflation has been insignificant in recent years, it is still a factor in the United States economy and may increase the cost to acquire or replace property and equipment.
It may also increase the cost of labor or supplies. 
  45 


Table of Contents
Results of Operations  The following table sets forth summary information regarding oil, NGL and gas revenues, production, average product prices and average production costs and expenses for the last three years. We determined
the Boe using the ratio of six Mcf of natural gas to one Boe, and one barrel of NGLs to one Boe. The ratios of six Mcf of natural gas to one Boe and one barrel of NGLs to one Boe do not assume price equivalency and, given price differentials, the
price for a Boe for natural gas or NGLs may differ significantly from the price for a barrel of oil.   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Revenues (in thousands)
  



  



  




 Oil
  
$
42,463
  
  
$
18,640
  
  
$
11,323
  

 NGLs
  
 
41,029
  
  
 
10,765
  
  
 
5,919
  

 Gas
  
 
24,895
  
  
 
28,176
  
  
 
23,406
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total oil, NGL and gas sales
  
 
108,387
  
  
 
57,581
  
  
 
40,648
  

 Realized gain on commodity derivatives
  
 
3,375
  
  
 
5,784
  
  
 
14,659
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total oil, NGL and gas sales including derivative impact
  
$
111,762
  
  
$
63,365
  
  
$
55,307
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Production
  



  



  




 Oil (MBbls)
  
 
482
  
  
 
246
  
  
 
206
  

 NGLs (MBbls)
  
 
798
  
  
 
261
  
  
 
209
  

 Gas (MMcf)
  
 
6,345
  
  
 
6,290
  
  
 
6,320
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total (MBoe)
  
 
2,338
  
  
 
1,556
  
  
 
1,468
  

 Total (MBoe/d)
  
 
6.4
  
  
 
4.3
  
  
 
4.0
  

 Average prices
  



  



  




 Oil (per Bbl)
  
$
88.18
  
  
$
75.67
  
  
$
54.97
  

 NGLs (per Bbl)
  
 
51.39
  
  
 
41.19
  
  
 
28.32
  

 Gas (per Mcf)
  
 
3.92
  
  
 
4.48
  
  
 
3.70
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total (per Boe)
  
$
46.37
  
  
$
37.00
  
  
$
27.69
  

 Realized gain on commodity derivatives (per Boe)
  
 
1.44
  
  
 
3.72
  
  
 
9.99
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total including derivative impact (per Boe)
  
$
47.81
  
  
$
40.72
  
  
$
37.68
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Costs and expenses (per Boe)
  



  



  




 Lease operating(1)
  
$
5.70
  
  
$
5.50
  
  
$
5.30
  

 Severance and production taxes
  
 
2.48
  
  
 
1.92
  
  
 
1.36
  

 Exploration
  
 
4.08
  
  
 
1.66
  
  
 
1.10
  

 Impairment
  
 
7.90
  
  
 
1.68
  
  
 
2.02
  

 General and administrative
  
 
7.66
  
  
 
7.34
  
  
 
7.23
  

 Depletion, depreciation and amortization
  
 
13.89
  
  
 
14.28
  
  
 
16.80
  
  


(1)
Lease operating expenses per Boe include ad valorem taxes. 
  46 


Table of Contents
Oil, NGL and gas sales.    Oil, NGL and gas sales increased $50.8
million, or 88%, to $108.4 million from $57.6 million in 2010. Of the $50.8 million increase in oil, NGL and gas sales, approximately $48.6 million was attributable to an increase in production volumes and $2.2 million was attributable to an
increase in prices. Our 2011 oil, NGL and gas sales increased over 2010 due to increased production volumes from our drilling program in the Permian Basin, the Working Interest Acquisition and realization of NGL revenues in southeast Project Pangea
resulting from a gas purchase and processing contract that provides for the sale of NGLs from the gas stream in the southeast portion of Project Pangea. In 2011, the average price we received for our production, before the effect of commodity
derivatives, increased to $46.37 per Boe from $37.00 per Boe, or a 25% increase. Subject to commodity prices, we expect oil, NGL and gas sales to increase in 2012 due to increased production volumes from our drilling program in the Permian Basin.
 Oil, NGL and gas sales increased $16.9 million, or 42%, in 2010 to $57.6 million from $40.6 million in 2009. Of the $16.9
million increase in oil, NGL and gas sales in 2010, approximately $11.9 million was attributable to an increase in prices we received for our natural gas, oil and NGL production, and approximately $5 million was attributable to an increase in
production volumes. In 2010, the average price we received for our production, before the effect of commodity derivatives, increased to $37.00 per Boe from $27.69 per Boe, or a 34% increase. 
The following table summarizes our oil, NGL and gas sales for each of the last three years (in thousands). 
 
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 Revenues
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Oil
  
$
42,463
  
  
$
18,640
  
  
$
11,323
  

 NGLs
  
 
41,029
  
  
 
10,765
  
  
 
5,919
  

 Gas
  
 
24,895
  
  
 
28,176
  
  
 
23,406
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total oil, NGL and gas sales
  
 
108,387
  
  
 
57,581
  
  
 
40,648
  

 Realized gain on commodity derivatives
  
 
3,375
  
  
 
5,784
  
  
 
14,659
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total oil, NGL and gas sales including derivative impact
  
$
111,762
  
  
$
63,365
  
  
$
55,307
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The following table summarizes the prices we received for oil, NGLs and gas for each of the last three
years.   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 Average prices
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Oil (per Bbl)
  
$
88.18
  
  
$
75.67
  
  
$
54.97
  

 NGLs (per Bbl)
  
 
51.39
  
  
 
41.19
  
  
 
28.32
  

 Gas (per Mcf)
  
 
3.92
  
  
 
4.48
  
  
 
3.70
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total (per Boe)
  
$
46.37
  
  
$
37.00
  
  
$
27.69
  

 Realized gain on commodity derivatives (per Boe)
  
 
1.44
  
  
 
3.72
  
  
 
9.99
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total including derivative impact (per Boe)
  
$
47.81
  
  
$
40.72
  
  
$
37.68
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Net income (loss).    Net income for 2011 was $7.2 million, or $0.25 per
diluted share, compared to net income of $7.5 million, or $0.34 per diluted share for 2010 and a net loss of $5.2 million, or $0.25 per diluted share, for 2009. Net income per diluted share decreased in 2011 over 2010 primarily due to higher
total expenses, including higher impairment and depletion, depreciation and amortization expenses. Net income per diluted share increased in 2010 from 2009 primarily due to higher revenues and higher realized prices. 
Oil, NGL and gas production.    Production for 2011 totaled 2,338 MBoe (6.4 MBoe/d), compared to 1,556 MBoe
(4.3 MBoe/d) produced in 2010, an increase of 50%. Production for 2011 was 21% oil, 34% NGLs and 45% natural gas, compared to 16% oil, 17% NGLs and 67% natural gas in 2010. The increase in production in

  47 


Table of Contents

2011 is the result of our continued development of our Permian Basin properties, the Working Interest Acquisition and processing NGLs in the southeast portion of Project Pangea; however,
production was impacted during the second half of 2011 by oil takeaway constraints due to increased industry activity in the Permian Basin and a shortage of oil trucking capacity. We expect 2012 production to continue to increase over 2011 due to
our expected drilling program in the Permian Basin.  Production for 2010 totaled 1,556 MBoe (4.3 MBoe/d), compared to 1,468
MBoe (4 MBoe/d) in 2009, a 6% increase. Oil and NGL production for 2010 increased 22% to 507 MBbls, compared to 415 MBbls produced in 2009. Production for 2010 was 16% oil, 17% NGLs and 67% natural gas, compared to 14% oil, 14% NGLs and 72% natural
gas in 2009. Production volumes for 2010 increased as a result of our ongoing development activities in the Permian Basin, partially offset by the natural decline of our production. 
The following table summarizes our production for each of the last three years. 
 
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 Production
  
  2011  
 
  
  2010  
 
  
  2009  
 

 Oil (MBbls)
  
 
482
  
  
 
246
  
  
 
206
  

 NGLs (MBbls)
  
 
798
  
  
 
261
  
  
 
209
  

 Gas (MMcf)
  
 
6,345
  
  
 
6,290
  
  
 
6,320
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total (MBoe)
  
 
2,338
  
  
 
1,556
  
  
 
1,468
  

 Total (MBoe/d)
  
 
6.4
  
  
 
4.3
  
  
 
4.0
  
 Commodity derivative activities.    Realized gains from our commodity
derivative activity increased our earnings by $3.4 million, $5.8 million and $14.7 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Realized gains and losses are derived from the relative movement of commodity prices in relation to the fixed notional
pricing of our commodity derivatives positions or the range of prices in our collars for the respective years. The unrealized loss on commodity derivatives was $347,000 and $9.9 million for 2011 and 2009, respectively, and the unrealized gain on
commodity derivatives was $788,000 for 2010. As commodity prices increase or decrease, the fair value of the open portion of those positions decreases or increases.  Historically, we have not designated our derivative instruments as cash-flow hedges. We record our open derivative instruments at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets as either unrealized gains
or losses on commodity derivatives. We record changes in such fair value in earnings on our consolidated statements of operations under the caption entitled “unrealized (loss) gain on commodity derivatives.” 
Lease operating expense. Our lease operating expenses (“LOE”) increased $4.7 million, or 55%, for 2011, to $13.3 million
($5.70 per Boe) from $8.6 million ($5.50 per Boe) for 2010. The increase in LOE for 2011 was primarily attributable to the Working Interest Acquisition. In February 2011, we acquired the remaining 38% working interest in northwest Project Pangea,
which increased our working interest to approximately 100%. The increase in LOE per Boe was primarily due to an increase in well repair and maintenance, partially offset by a decrease in ad valorem taxes, compressor rental and repair and water
hauling, insurance and other LOE over the prior year. For 2012, we expect LOE per Boe to be relatively consistent with 2011 despite higher service costs, which we expect will be partially offset by increased production volumes. 
Our LOE for 2010 was $8.6 million ($5.50 per Boe), compared to $7.8 million ($5.30 per Boe) for 2009. The increase in LOE per Boe over
the prior year period was primarily due to an increase in water hauling and insurance and ad valorem taxes, partially offset by a decrease in compressor rental and repair over the prior year period. Compressor related expenses declined due to the
release of a rental amine plant during the second half of 2009 and lower negotiated compressor rentals. Ad valorem taxes and water hauling, insurance and other LOE increased as a result of an increase in the number of wells from our continued
development in the Permian Basin. 
  48 


Table of Contents
The following table summarizes LOE per Boe. 
 




































 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
Change
 
 
%Change
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
Change
 
 
%Change
 

 Compressor rental and repair
  
$
1.36
  
  
$
1.45
  
  
$
(0.09
) 
 
 
(6.2
)% 
 
$
1.45
  
  
$
1.62
  
  
$
(0.17
) 
 
 
(10.5
)% 

 Ad valorem taxes
  
 
1.13
  
  
 
1.24
  
  
 
(0.11
) 
 
 
(8.9
) 
 
 
1.24
  
  
 
1.20
  
  
 
0.04
  
 
 
3.3
  

 Water hauling, insurance and other
  
 
1.08
  
  
 
1.16
  
  
 
(0.08
) 
 
 
(6.9
) 
 
 
1.16
  
  
 
0.86
  
  
 
0.30
  
 
 
34.9
  

 Pumpers and supervision
  
 
1.05
  
  
 
1.01
  
  
 
0.04
  
 
 
4.0
  
 
 
1.01
  
  
 
1.00
  
  
 
0.01
  
 
 
1.0
  

 Well repair and maintenance
  
 
1.00
  
  
 
0.54
  
  
 
0.46
  
 
 
85.2
  
 
 
0.54
  
  
 
0.56
  
  
 
(0.02
) 
 
 
(3.6
) 

 Workovers
  
 
0.08
  
  
 
0.10
  
  
 
(0.02
) 
 
 
(20.0
) 
 
 
0.10
  
  
 
0.06
  
  
 
0.04
  
 
 
66.7
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
5.70
  
  
$
5.50
  
  
$
0.20
  
 
 
3.6
% 
 
$
5.50
  
  
$
5.30
  
  
$
0.20
  
 
 
3.8
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Severance and production taxes.    Our severance and production taxes
increased $2.8 million, or 93%, for 2011 to $5.8 million from $3 million for 2010. The increase in severance and production taxes was primarily the result of an increase in oil, NGL and gas sales over 2010. Severance and production taxes were
approximately 5.4% and 5.2% of oil, NGL and gas sales for the respective periods. For 2012, we expect severance and production taxes as a percent of oil, NGL and gas sales will remain relatively consistent compared to the severance and production
taxes for 2011.  Our severance and production taxes increased $1 million, or 50%, for 2010 to $3 million from $2 million for
2009. The increase in severance and production taxes was primarily due to the increase in oil, NGL and gas sales between 2010 and 2009. Severance and production taxes amounted to approximately 5.2% and 4.9% of oil, NGL and gas sales for the
respective periods.  Exploration expense.    We recorded $9.5 million of exploration expense for
2011. Exploration expense for 2011 resulted primarily from lease extensions and expirations in the Permian Basin and the acquisition of 3-D seismic data in Pangea West. During 2011, we extended the acreage terms for an additional four years for
approximately 9,200 acres in the northwest area of Project Pangea for $3.2 million, or approximately $350 per acre. Further, approximately 5,000 acres in the southeast area of Project Pangea expired during 2011 resulting in approximately $1.2
million of exploration expense. For 2012, we expect exploration expense to be less than 2011 due to fewer lease extensions and expirations.  We recorded $2.6 million and $1.6 million of exploration expense for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Exploration expense for 2010 resulted primarily from 3-D seismic acquisition in northwest Project Pangea
and lease renewals in Project Pangea and Kentucky. Exploration expense for the 2009 period resulted primarily from the expiration of leases for approximately 2,300 net acres Project Pangea and East Texas. 
Impairment.    We review our long-lived assets, including proved and unproved oil and gas properties accounted
for under the successful efforts method of accounting. For 2011, our total impairment expense was $18.5 million. Due to ongoing, low natural gas prices and to the further decline in natural gas prices during the three months ended
December 31, 2011, we recorded an impairment expense to our oil and gas properties in the East Texas Basin of $15.2 million in 2011. At December 31, 2011, we had $2.7 million recorded for our properties in the East Texas Basin,
which is the estimated fair value at December 31, 2011. We also recorded an impairment expense of $3.3 million, which was all of our remaining carrying costs associated with our unproved properties in Northern New Mexico. 
We recorded an impairment of unproved oil and gas properties of $2.6 million and $3 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The 2010
impairment resulted from a write-off of $2.6 million in costs in our Southwest Kentucky project, and represented the remaining carrying value we had recorded for the project. The 2009 impairment resulted from a write-off of $3 million in costs in
Northeast British Columbia, and represented the remaining carrying value we had recorded for the project. 
  49 


Table of Contents
General and administrative expenses.    Our general and
administrative expenses (“G&A”) increased $6.5 million, or 57%, to $17.9 million ($7.66 per Boe) for 2011 from $11.4 million ($7.34 per Boe) for 2010. The increase in G&A was primarily due to higher salaries and benefits, and
share-based compensation. For 2012, we expect G&A to be higher, compared to 2011, as a result of higher share-based compensation and staffing increases. However, we expect G&A to be lower on a per Boe basis. 
Our G&A increased $805,000, or 8%, to $11.4 million ($7.34 per Boe) for 2010, from $10.6 million ($7.23 per Boe) for 2009. The
increase in G&A was principally due to higher share-based compensation, salaries and benefits.  The following table
summarizes G&A (in millions).   




































 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
Change
 
  
% Change
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
Change
 
 
% Change
 

 Salaries and benefits
  
$
8.1
  
  
$
5.3
  
  
$
2.8
  
  
 
52.8
% 
 
$
5.3
  
  
$
5.0
  
  
$
0.3
  
 
 
6.0
% 

 Share-based compensation
  
 
4.7
  
  
 
2.6
  
  
 
2.1
  
  
 
80.8
  
 
 
2.6
  
  
 
1.8
  
  
 
0.8
  
 
 
44.4
  

 Professional fees
  
 
1.4
  
  
 
1.3
  
  
 
0.1
  
  
 
7.7
  
 
 
1.3
  
  
 
1.4
  
  
 
(0.1
) 
 
 
(7.1
) 

 Other
  
 
3.7
  
  
 
2.2
  
  
 
1.5
  
  
 
68.2
  
 
 
2.2
  
  
 
2.4
  
  
 
(0.2
) 
 
 
(8.3
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
17.9
  
  
$
11.4
  
  
$
6.5
  
  
 
57.0
% 
 
$
11.4
  
  
$
10.6
  
  
$
0.8
  
 
 
7.5
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Depletion, depreciation and amortization expense.    Our depletion,
depreciation and amortization expense (“DD&A”) increased $10.3 million, or 46%, to $32.5 million for 2011, from $22.2 million for 2010. Our DD&A per Boe decreased by $0.39, or 3%, to $13.89 per Boe for 2011, compared to $14.28 per
Boe for 2010. The increase in DD&A was primarily attributable to higher capitalized costs over 2010, partially offset by an increase in estimated proved developed reserves. 
DD&A decreased $2.4 million, or 9.9%, to $22.2 million for 2010, from $24.7 million for 2009. Our DD&A per Boe decreased by
$2.52, or 15%, to $14.28 per Boe for 2010, compared to $16.80 per Boe for 2009. The decrease in DD&A was primarily attributable to an increase in estimated proved developed reserves at December 31, 2010, partially offset by higher capital
costs over the prior year.  Interest expense, net.    Our interest expense, net, increased $1.2
million, or 55%, to $3.4 million for 2011, from $2.2 million for 2010. This increase was the result of higher average notes payable balances outstanding. The weighted average interest rate applicable to our outstanding borrowings during 2011 and
2010, was 3.1% and 3.4%, respectively.  Our interest expense increased $402,000, or 22.5%, to $2.2 million for 2010, from $1.8
million for 2009. This increase was the result of higher average notes payable balances outstanding as well as an increase in amortization of $268,000 for deferred loan costs during 2010. The weighted average interest rate applicable to our
outstanding borrowings during 2010 and 2009, was 3.4% and 3.2%, respectively.  Income taxes.    Our
income taxes decreased $612,000 to $3.5 million for 2011, from $4.1 million for 2010. The decrease in income taxes was due to lower pre-tax income in 2011 and a lower effective income tax rate. Our effective income tax rate for 2011 and 2010 was
32.5% and 35.5%, respectively. The lower income tax rate in 2011 was a result of an increased impact in permanent differences. 
Our income taxes increased $4.9 million to $4.1 million for 2010, from a benefit of $785,000 for 2009. The increase in income taxes was
due to higher pre-tax income in 2010, partially offset by higher taxes in 2009 from a change in our estimated income tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our effective income tax rate for 2010 was 35.5%, compared with 13.1% for
2009. The lower effective tax rate in the 2009 period primarily resulted from an increased impact of permanent differences from book and taxable income, partially offset by an increase in our estimated income taxes for the year ended
December 31, 2008. 
  50 


Table of Contents
Liquidity and Capital Resources 
We generally will rely on cash generated from operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and, to the extent that credit
and capital market conditions will allow, future public equity and debt offerings to satisfy our liquidity needs. Our ability to fund planned capital expenditures and to make acquisitions depends upon our future operating performance, availability
of borrowings under our revolving credit facility, and more broadly, on the availability of equity and debt financing, which is affected by prevailing economic conditions in our industry and financial, business and other factors, some of which are
beyond our control. We cannot predict whether additional liquidity from equity or debt financings beyond our revolving credit facility will be available on acceptable terms, or at all, in the foreseeable future. 
Our cash flow from operations is driven by commodity prices, production volumes and the effect of commodity derivatives. Prices for oil
and gas are affected by national and international economic and political environments, national and global supply and demand for hydrocarbons, seasonal influences of weather and other factors beyond our control. Cash flows from operations are
primarily used to fund exploration and development of our oil and gas properties.  We believe we have adequate liquidity from
cash generated from operations and unused borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility for current working capital needs and maintenance of our current drilling program. However, we may determine to access the public or private equity or
debt markets for future development of reserves, acquisitions, additional working capital or other liquidity needs, if such financing is available on acceptable terms. We cannot guarantee that such financing will be available on acceptable terms or
at all.  Liquidity  We define liquidity as funds available under our revolving credit facility plus year-end net cash and cash equivalents. We had $43.8 million and $32.3 million in long-term debt outstanding under our
revolving credit facility at December 31, 2011, and 2009, respectively. We had no long-term debt outstanding under our revolving credit facility at December 31, 2010. 
The following table summarizes our liquidity position at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (in thousands). 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Borrowing base
  
$
260,000
  
 
$
150,000
  
 
$
115,000
  

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
 
301
  
 
 
23,465
  
 
 
2,685
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
(43,800
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(32,319
) 

 Undrawn letters of credit
  
 
(350
) 
 
 
(350
) 
 
 
(400
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Liquidity
  
$
216,151
  
 
$
173,115
  
 
$
84,966
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 In February 2011, we acquired an additional 38% working interest in Cinco Terry from two non-operating
partners for $70.8 million, after post-closing adjustments. The Working Interest Acquisition was funded with borrowings under our revolving credit facility and cash on hand.  In November 2011, we completed an equity offering and issued an aggregate of 4.6 million shares of our common stock at $28 per share in an underwritten public offering (the “2011
Offering”). After deducting underwriting discounts and transaction costs of approximately $6.6 million, we received net proceeds of approximately $122.2 million, which we intend to use to fund our capital expenditures for the Wolffork oil shale
resource play, working interest and leasehold acquisitions in the Permian Basin and general working capital needs. Pending these uses, we used the proceeds of the 2011 Offering to repay outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility.

  51 


Table of Contents
In November 2010, we issued 6.6 million shares of common stock at $16.25 per share.
After deducting underwriting discounts and estimated transaction costs of approximately $5.7 million, we received net proceeds of approximately $101.8 million. We used the proceeds of the offering to repay all outstanding borrowings under our
revolving credit facility, fund development of our Wolffork oil shale resource play and general working capital needs.  In
2009, while commodity prices were low and demand for natural gas was reduced, we decreased our capital spending to preserve liquidity and improve our financial position. As a result, we paid down long-term debt and increased liquidity by over 40%,
from $60.5 million at December 31, 2008, to $85.4 million at December 31, 2009.  Working Capital
 Our working capital is affected primarily by our cash and cash equivalents balance and our capital spending program.
At December 31, 2011, we had a working capital deficit of $32.2 million, compared to a working capital surplus of $12.1 million and a working capital deficit of $10 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The change in working
capital for 2011 is primarily attributable to capital expended on our drilling program. Our working capital deficits have been historically attributable to accrued liabilities and have been more than offset by liquidity available under our revolving
credit facility. To the extent we operate or end the year 2012 with a working capital deficit, we expect such deficit to be more than offset by liquidity available under our revolving credit facility. 
Cash Flows  The following table summarizes our sources and uses of funds for the periods noted (in thousands).   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Cash flows provided by operating activities
  
$
95,770
  
 
$
42,377
  
 
$
39,761
  

 Cash flows used in investing activities
  
 
(284,758
) 
 
 
(91,346
) 
 
 
(29,553
) 

 Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities
  
 
165,843
  
 
 
69,748
  
 
 
(11,618
) 

 Effect of Canadian exchange rate
  
 
(19
) 
 
 
1
  
 
 
18
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents
  
$
(23,164
) 
 
$
20,780
  
 
$
(1,392
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 For 2011, our primary sources of cash were from operating activities and financing activities.
Approximately $95.8 million of cash from operations and $165.8 million of cash from financing activities were used to fund a portion of our drilling program and the Working Interest Acquisition. In November 2011, we sold 4.6 million shares of
common stock. After deducting underwriting discounts and estimated transaction costs of approximately $6.6 million, we received net proceeds of approximately $122.2 million. We used the proceeds of the offering to repay outstanding borrowings under
our revolving credit facility.  For 2010, our primary sources of cash were from operating activities and financing activities.
Approximately $42.4 million of cash from operations was used to fund a portion of our drilling program and pay down our long-term debt. In November 2010, we sold 6.6 million shares of common stock. After deducting underwriting discounts and
estimated transaction costs of approximately $5.7 million, we received net proceeds of approximately $101.8 million. We used a portion of the proceeds of the offering to repay all outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
 In 2009, our primary sources of cash were from operating activities. Approximately $39.8 million of cash from operations
was used to fund our drilling program and 3-D seismic operations and pay down our long-term debt. 
  52 


Table of Contents
Operating Activities 
For 2011, our cash flows from operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and available cash were used primarily for
drilling activities and leasehold acquisitions in the Permian Basin and the Working Interest Acquisition. Cash flows from operating activities increased by $53.4 million, or 126%, to $95.8 million from $42.4 million in 2010, primarily due to an 88%
increase in oil, NGL and gas sales in 2011. For 2010, our cash flows from operations, borrowings under our revolving credit
facility and available cash were used primarily for drilling activities in Project Pangea, leasehold acquisitions and a 3-D seismic program in our Permian Basin operations. Cash flows from operating activities increased by 6.8%, or $2.7 million, to
$42.4 million from 2009 partially due to a 42% increase in oil and gas sales in 2010. Cash flows provided by operating activities also were affected by an increase in cash flows used by working capital during 2010.
For 2009, our cash flow from operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and available cash were used for drilling
activities, 3-D seismic operations and for the payment of a portion of our long-term debt.  Investing Activities
 Cash flows used in investing activities increased by $193.4 million, or 212% for 2011, compared to 2010, which
primarily reflects the Working Interest Acquisition for $70.8 million, net of purchase price adjustments, and expenditures for drilling and lease acquisitions and extensions in our core operating area in the Permian Basin. 
Cash flows used in investing activities increased by $61.8 million for 2010 as compared to 2009, which primarily reflects expenditures
for drilling and acquisitions in our core operating area in the Permian Basin. During 2010, we drilled a total of 91 gross (56.2 net) wells, compared to 32 gross (18 net) wells in 2009. Also in 2010, we acquired a 10% working interest in northwest
Project Pangea from a non-operating partner for $21.2 million, net of purchase price adjustments.  The majority of our cash
flows used in investing activities for the years ended 2011, 2010 and 2009 have been used for drilling and acquisitions in our core operating area in the Permian Basin and East Texas Basin. 
The following table is a summary of capital expenditures related to our oil and gas properties (in thousands). 
 
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Permian Basin
  
$
179,395
  
  
$
56,211
  
  
$
26,398
  

 Permian Basin acquisitions
  
 
70,827
  
  
 
21,179
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
250,022
  
  
 
77,390
  
  
 
26,398
  

 East Texas Basin
  
 
560
  
  
 
101
  
  
 
1,554
  

 Exploratory projects
  
 
445
  
  
 
285
  
  
 
237
  

 Inventory and other
  
 
1,377
  
  
 
1,636
  
  
 
(1,959
) 

 Lease acquisition, geological and geophysical
  
 
31,970
  
  
 
11,604
  
  
 
2,760
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
284,574
  
  
$
91,016
  
  
$
28,990
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Financing Activities 
We borrowed $246.8 million under our revolving credit facility in 2011, compared to $121.8 million in 2010 and $67.4 million in 2009. We
repaid a total of $203 million, $154.1 million and $78.6 million of amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  In November 2011, we completed the 2011 Offering and sold 4.6 million shares of common stock at $28 per share. After deducting underwriting discounts and transaction costs of approximately $6.6
million, we received 
  53 


Table of Contents

net proceeds of approximately $122.2 million. We intend to use the proceeds to fund our capital expenditures for the Wolffork oil shale resource play, working interest and leasehold acquisitions
in the Permian Basin and general working capital needs. Pending these uses, we used the proceeds of the 2011 Offering to repay outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility. 
In November 2010, we sold 6.6 million shares of common stock in an underwritten public offering. After deducting underwriting
discounts and estimated transaction costs of approximately $5.7 million, we received net proceeds of approximately $101.8 million. We used the proceeds of the offering to repay all outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility, fund
development of our Wolffork oil shale resource play and general working capital needs.  Our current goal is to manage our
borrowings to help us maintain financial flexibility and liquidity, and to avoid the problems associated with highly-leveraged companies with large interest costs and possible debt reductions restricting ongoing operations. 
2012 Capital Expenditures  In November 2011, we announced a drilling program that included two rigs to drill vertical wells targeting the Wolffork or Canyon Sands and one rig to drill horizontal wells targeting the Wolfcamp. Due to
continued, strong results from our horizontal Wolfcamp drilling program, we replaced one of our vertical drilling rigs with a second horizontal rig in Project Pangea in March 2012. In connection with the expansion of our horizontal Wolfcamp drilling
program, our Board of Directors approved a $30 million increase in our 2012 capital budget to $190 million. We also expect to recomplete two to four wells per month in the Wolffork in 2012. Our objectives for 2012 include advancing our understanding
of optimal well spacing, multi-zone potential and hydrocarbon recovery and improving our cost structure.  Our 2012 capital
budget is subject to change depending upon a number of factors, including additional data on our Wolffork oil shale resource play, results of Wolfcamp Shale and Wolffork drilling and recompletions, economic and industry conditions at the time of
drilling, prevailing and anticipated prices for oil, gas and NGLs, the availability of sufficient capital resources for drilling prospects, our financial results and the availability of lease extensions and renewals on reasonable terms. 
Revolving Credit Facility 
We have a $300 million revolving credit facility with a borrowing base set at $260 million. The borrowing base is redetermined
semi-annually on or before each April 1 and October 1 based on our oil and gas reserves. We or the lenders can each request one additional borrowing base redetermination each calendar year. 
The maturity date under our revolving credit facility is July 31, 2014. Borrowings bear interest based on the agent bank’s
prime rate plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.75% to 1.75%, or the sum of the Eurodollar rate plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.75% to 2.75%. Margins vary based on the borrowings outstanding compared to the borrowing base. In addition,
we pay an annual commitment of 0.50% of unused borrowings available under our revolving credit facility.  We had outstanding
borrowings of $43.8 million under our revolving credit facility at December 31, 2011. We had no outstanding borrowings at December 31, 2010. The interest rate applicable to our revolving credit facility at December 31, 2011, was 3.7%.
We also had outstanding unused letters of credit under our revolving credit facility totaling $350,000 at December 31, 2011, which reduce amounts available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility. 
Loans under our revolving credit facility are secured by first priority liens on substantially all of our West Texas assets and are
guaranteed by our subsidiaries. 
  54 


Table of Contents
Covenants 
Our credit agreement contains two principal financial covenants: 
 


 
•
 
 a consolidated modified current ratio covenant that requires us to maintain a ratio of not less than 1.0 to 1.0 at all times. The consolidated modified
current ratio is calculated by dividing Consolidated Current Assets (as defined in the credit agreement) by Consolidated Current Liabilities (as defined in the credit agreement). As defined more specifically in the credit agreement, the consolidated
modified current ratio is calculated as current assets less current unrealized gains on commodity derivatives plus the available borrowing base at the respective balance sheet date, divided by current liabilities less current unrealized losses on
commodity derivatives at the respective balance sheet date.   


 
•
 
 a consolidated funded debt to consolidated EBITDAX ratio covenant that requires us to maintain a ratio of not more than 4.0 to 1.0 at the end of each
fiscal quarter. The consolidated funded debt to consolidated EBITDAX ratio is calculated by dividing Consolidated Funded Debt (as defined in the credit agreement) by Consolidated EBITDAX (as defined in the credit agreement). As defined
more specifically in the credit agreement, consolidated EBITDAX is calculated as net income (loss), plus (1) exploration expense, (2) depletion, depreciation and amortization expense, (3) share-based compensation expense,
(4) unrealized loss on commodity derivatives, (5) interest expense, (6) income and franchise taxes and (7) certain other noncash expenses, less (1) gains or losses from sales or dispositions of assets, (2) unrealized
gain on commodity derivatives and (3) extraordinary or nonrecurring gains. For purposes of calculating this ratio, consolidated EBITDAX for a fiscal quarter is annualized pursuant to the credit agreement.
Our credit agreement also restricts cash dividends and other restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, incurrence of other debt,
consolidations and mergers, the level of operating leases, assets sales, investments in other entities and liens on properties. 
In addition, our credit agreement contains customary events of default that would permit our lenders to accelerate the debt under our
credit agreement if not cured within applicable grace periods, including, among others, failure to make payments of principal or interest when due, materially incorrect representations and warranties, failure to make mandatory prepayments in the
event of borrowing base deficiencies, breach of covenants, defaults upon other obligations in excess of $500,000, events of bankruptcy, the occurrence of one or more unstayed judgments in excess of $500,000 not covered by an acceptable policy
of insurance, failure to pay any obligation in excess of $500,000 owed under any derivatives transaction or in any amount if the obligation under the derivatives transaction is secured by collateral under the credit agreement, any event of default
by the Company occurs under any agreement entered into in connection with a derivatives transaction, liens securing the loans under the credit agreement cease to be in place, a Change in Control (as defined in the credit agreement) of the Company
occurs, and dissolution of the Company.  At December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all of our covenants and had
not committed any acts of default under the credit agreement.  To date we have experienced no disruptions in our ability to
access our revolving credit facility. However, our lenders have substantial ability to reduce our borrowing base on the basis of subjective factors, including the loan collateral value that each lender, in its discretion and using the methodology,
assumptions and discount rates as such lender customarily uses in evaluating oil and gas properties, assigns to our properties. 
Contractual Obligations 
As of December 31, 2011, our contractual obligations include long-term debt, daywork drilling contracts, service contracts, operating
lease obligations, asset retirement obligations and employment agreements with our executive officers.
  55 


Table of Contents
We periodically enter into contractual arrangements under which we are committed to expend
funds to drill wells in the future, including agreements to secure drilling rig services, which require us to make future minimum payments to the rig operators. We record drilling commitments in the periods in which well capital expenditures are
incurred or rig services are provided. Our commitment under daywork drilling contracts was $3.4 million at December 31, 2011.  In December 2011, we extended an 18-month contract for a dedicated, third-party fracture stimulation fleet by three months. The contract requires a minimum commitment of $16.5 million per quarter for the
contract term. The contract contains early termination provisions for a monthly fee of less than the minimum quarterly commitment in the event of a termination before the end of the contract term. 
In April 2007, we signed a five-year lease for approximately 13,000 square feet of office space in Fort Worth, Texas. In August
2008, we expanded our office space under an amendment to the lease to approximately 18,000 square feet. In December 2010, we expanded our office space under an amendment to the lease to approximately 23,400 square feet. In January 2011, we began
additional rent payments of approximately $9,000 per month, bringing our total office lease payment to approximately $45,000 per month.  Our asset retirement obligation primarily represents the estimated present value of the amount we will incur to plug, abandon and remediate our producing properties at the end of their productive lives,
in accordance with applicable federal, state and local laws. We determine our asset retirement obligation by calculating the present value of estimated cash flows related to the liability. The retirement obligation is recorded as a liability at its
estimated present value as of the asset’s inception, with an offsetting increase to proved properties. Periodic accretion of discount of the estimated liability is recorded as an expense in the income statement. 
At December 31, 2011, we had outstanding employment agreements with each of our five executive officers that contained automatic
renewal provisions providing that such agreements may be automatically renewed for successive terms of one year unless the employment is terminated at the end of the term by written notice given to the employee not less than 60 days prior to the end
of such term. Our maximum commitment under the employment agreements, which would apply if the employees covered by these agreements were each terminated without cause, was approximately $4 million at December 31, 2011. 
The following table summarizes these commitments as of December 31, 2011 (in thousands). 
 
























 
  
Payments Due By Period
 

 Contractual Obligations
  
Total
 
  
Less than1 year
 
  
1-3 years
 
  
3-5 years
 
  
More than5 years
 

 Long-term debt(1)
  
$
43,800
  
  
$
 —
  
  
$
43,800
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
 —
  

 Daywork drilling contracts(2)
  
 
3,382
  
  
 
3,382
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Service contracts(3)
  
 
30,000
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
30,000
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Operating lease obligations(4)
  
 
635
  
  
 
510
  
  
 
115
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
—
  

 Asset retirement obligations(5)
  
 
6,730
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
6,730
  

 Employment agreements with executive officers
  
 
3,963
  
  
 
3,963
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
88,510
  
  
$
7,855
  
  
$
73,915
  
  
$
10
  
  
$
6,730
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Borrowings under our credit agreement.   


(2)
At December 31, 2011, daywork drilling contracts related to three drilling rigs were contracted through January 31, 2012, March 1, 2012, and
March 31, 2012, respectively.   


(3)
We are a party to a dedicated hydraulic fracturing services contract that requires minimum revenue payments of $5.5 million per month through the term of
October 1, 2013. The contract contains early termination provisions for a monthly fee of less than the minimum monthly commitment in the event of a termination before the end of the contract term. If the service provider fails to provide
certain minimal levels of service or otherwise breaches the agreement, no early termination fee is due. The table above assumes payment of required monthly fee during the applicable notice period and early termination fee through the end of the
contract term. 
  56 


Table of Contents


(4)
Operating lease obligations are for office space and equipment. 


(5)
See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our asset retirement obligations. 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  From time to time, we enter into off-balance sheet arrangements and transactions that can give rise to off-balance sheet obligations. As of December 31, 2011, the off-balance sheet arrangements and
transactions that we have entered into include undrawn letters of credit, operating lease agreements and gas transportation commitments. We do not believe that these arrangements are reasonably likely to materially affect our liquidity or
availability of, or requirements for, capital resources.  General Trends and Outlook 
Our financial results depend upon many factors, particularly the price of oil and gas. Commodity prices are affected by changes in market
demand, which is impacted by domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas, overall domestic and global economic conditions, commodity processing, gathering and transportation availability and the availability of refining capacity, price and
availability of alternative fuels, price and quantity of foreign imports, domestic and foreign governmental regulations, political conditions in or affecting other gas producing and oil producing countries, weather and technological advances
affecting oil and gas consumption. As a result, we cannot accurately predict future oil and gas prices, and therefore, we cannot determine what effect increases or decreases will have on our capital program, production volumes and future revenues. A
substantial or extended decline in oil and gas prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, quantities of oil and gas reserves that may be economically produced and liquidity that may be
accessed through our borrowing base under our revolving credit facility and through capital markets.  In addition to
production volumes and commodity prices, finding and developing sufficient amounts of oil and gas reserves at economical costs are critical to our long-term success. Future finding and development costs are subject to changes in the industry,
including the costs of acquiring, drilling and completing our projects. We focus our efforts on increasing oil and gas reserves and production while controlling costs at a level that is appropriate for long-term operations. Our future cash flow from
operations will depend on our ability to manage our overall cost structure.  Like all oil and gas production companies, we
face the challenge of natural production declines. Oil and gas production from a given well naturally decreases over time. Additionally, our reserves have a rapid initial decline. We attempt to overcome this natural decline by drilling to develop
and identify additional reserves, farm-ins or other joint drilling ventures, and by acquisitions. However, during times of severe price declines, we may from time to time reduce current capital expenditures and curtail drilling operations in order
to preserve liquidity. A material reduction in capital expenditures and drilling activities could materially reduce our production volumes and revenues and increase future expected costs necessary to develop existing reserves. 
We also face the challenge of financing exploration, development and future acquisitions. We believe we have adequate liquidity from cash
generated from operations and unused borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility for current working capital needs and maintenance of our current drilling program. However, we may determine to access the public or private equity or debt
markets for future development of reserves, acquisitions, additional working capital or other liquidity needs, if such financing is available on acceptable terms. We cannot guarantee that such financing will be available on acceptable terms or at
all.   


ITEM 7A. 
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 
Some of the information below contains forward-looking statements. The primary objective of the following information is to provide
forward-looking quantitative and qualitative information about our potential exposure to market risks. The term “market risk” refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in oil and gas

  57 


Table of Contents

prices, and other related factors. The disclosure is not meant to be a precise indicator of expected future losses, but rather an indicator of reasonably possible losses. This forward-looking
information provides an indicator of how we view and manage our ongoing market risk exposures. Our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for commodity derivative and investment purposes, not for trading purposes. 
Proved Reserves 
Estimates of proved oil and gas reserves directly impact financial accounting estimates including depletion, depreciation and amortization
expense, evaluation of impairment of properties and the calculation of plugging and abandonment liabilities. Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated
with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations. The process of estimating quantities of proved reserves
is very complex, requiring significant subjective decisions in the evaluation of all geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. The data for any reservoir may change substantially over time due to results from operational
activity. Proved reserve volumes at December 31, 2011, were estimated based on the average of the closing price on the first day of each month for the 12-month period prior to December 31, 2011, for oil, NGLs and natural gas in accordance
with SEC rules. Changes in commodity prices and operations costs may increase or decrease estimates of proved oil, NGL and natural gas reserves. Depletion expense for our oil and gas properties is determined using our estimates of proved oil, NGL
and natural gas reserves. A hypothetical 10% decline in our December 31, 2011, estimated proved reserves would have increased our depletion expense by approximately $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. 
Commodity Price Risk 
Given the current economic outlook, we expect commodity prices to remain volatile. Even modest decreases in commodity prices can
materially affect our revenues and cash flow. In addition, if commodity prices remain suppressed for a significant amount of time, we could be required under successful efforts accounting rules to write down our oil and gas properties. 
We enter into financial swaps and options to reduce the risk of commodity price fluctuations. We do not designate such instruments as
cash flow hedges. Accordingly, we record open commodity derivative positions on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value and recognize changes in such fair values as income (expense) on our consolidated statements of operations as they occur.
 The table below summarizes our commodity derivatives positions outstanding at December 31, 2011. 
 










 Commodity and Period
  
ContractType
  
      Volume Transacted      
  
Contract Price

 Natural Gas – 2012
  
Call
  
230,000 MMBtu/month
  
$6.00/MMBtu

 Crude Oil – 2012
  
Collar
  
700 Bbls/d
  
$85.00/Bbl – $97.50/Bbl

 Crude Oil – 2012
  
Collar
  
500 Bbls/d
  
$90.00/Bbl – $106.10/Bbl
 The table below summarizes commodity derivatives positions that we entered into after December 31, 2011.
  










 Commodity and Period
  
ContractType
  
Volume Transacted    
  
Contract Price

 Natural Gasoline –
February 2012 – December 2012
  
Swap
  
225 Bbls/d
  
$95.55/Bbl

 Normal Butane –
March 2012 – December 2012
  
Swap
  
225 Bbls/d
  
$73.92/Bbl

 Crude Oil – 2013
  
Collar
  
650 Bbls/d
  
$90.00/Bbl – $105.80/Bbl

 Crude Oil – 2014
  
Collar
  
550 Bbls/d
  
$90.00/Bbl – $105.50/Bbl

  58 


Table of Contents
At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the fair value of our open derivative
contracts was a net liability of approximately $1.4 million and $1.1 million, respectively.  JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and
KeyBank National Association are currently the only counterparties to our commodity derivatives positions. We are exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on our commodity derivatives positions. However, we do not
anticipate nonperformance by the counterparties over the term of the commodity derivatives positions. JPMorgan is the administrative agent and a participant, and KeyBank is the documentation agent and a participant, in our revolving credit facility
and the collateral for the outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility is used as collateral for our commodity derivatives.  Unrealized gains and losses, at fair value, are included on our consolidated balance sheets as current or non-current assets or liabilities based on the anticipated timing of cash settlements under the
related contracts. Changes in the fair value of our commodity derivative contracts are recorded in earnings as they occur and included in other income (expense) on our consolidated statements of operations. We estimate the fair values of swap
contracts based on the present value of the difference in exchange-quoted forward price curves and contractual settlement prices multiplied by notional quantities. We internally valued the option contracts using industry-standard option pricing
models and observable market inputs. We use our internal valuations to determine the fair values of the contracts that are reflected on our consolidated balance sheets. Realized gains and losses are also included in other income (expense) on our
consolidated statements of operations.  For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2009, we recognized an unrealized loss
of $347,000 and $9.9 million, respectively, from the change in the fair value of commodity derivatives. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we recognized an unrealized gain of $788,000 from the change in the fair value of commodity
derivatives. A hypothetical 10% increase in the NYMEX floating prices would have resulted in a $1.4 million decrease in the December 31, 2011, fair value recorded on our balance sheet, and a corresponding increase to the loss on commodity
derivatives in our statement of operations.  To estimate the fair value of our commodity derivatives positions, we use market
data or assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including assumptions about risk and the risks inherent in the inputs to the valuation technique. These inputs can be readily observable, market corroborated
or generally unobservable. We primarily apply the market approach for recurring fair value measurements and attempt to use the best available information. We determine the fair value based upon the hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to
measure fair value. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurement) and lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurement). The three levels
of fair value hierarchy are as follows:   


 
•
 
 Level 1 — Quoted prices are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date. At December 31, 2011,
we had no Level 1 measurements.   


 
•
 
 Level 2 — Pricing inputs are other than quoted prices in active markets included in Level 1, which are either directly or indirectly observable as
of the reporting date. Level 2 includes those financial instruments that are valued using models or other valuation methodologies. These models are primarily industry-standard models that consider various assumptions, including quoted forward prices
for commodities, time value, volatility factors and current market and contractual prices for the underlying instruments, as well as other relevant economic measures. Our derivatives, which consist primarily of commodity swaps and collars, are
valued using commodity market data which is derived by combining raw inputs and quantitative models and processes to generate forward curves. Where observable inputs are available, directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset
or liability, the instrument is categorized in Level 2. At December 31, 2011, all of our commodity derivatives were valued using Level 2 measurements. 
  59 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Level 3 — Pricing inputs include significant inputs that are generally less observable from objective sources. These inputs may be used with
internally developed methodologies that result in management’s best estimate of fair value. At December 31, 2011, our Level 3 measurements were used to calculate our asset retirement obligation and our impairment analysis of proved
properties at December 31, 2011. Additionally, Level 3 measurements were used to calculate our estimated fair value of our oil and gas properties in the East Texas Basin. We valued these properties by estimating future discounted net cash flows
of reserves using forward market prices adjusted for locational basis differentials and other costs.   


ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.  Our consolidated financial statements and supplemental data are included in this report beginning on page F-1. 
  60 


Table of Contents


ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
We had no changes in, and no disagreements with our accountants on, accounting and financial disclosure. 
 


ITEM 9A. 
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  Disclosure Controls and Procedures  Our management, with the participation
of our President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of December 31, 2011.
Based on this evaluation, our President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of December 31, 2011, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective, in that they ensure that information required
to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is (1) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and (2) accumulated and
communicated to our management, including our President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.  Internal Control over Financial Reporting  Management’s Annual
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and Attestation Report of Registered Public Accounting Firm 
Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we have included a report of management’s assessment of the design
and effectiveness of our internal controls as part of this annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. Hein & Associates LLP (“Hein”), our independent registered public accounting firm, also
attested to, and reported on, our internal control over financial reporting. Management’s report and Hein’s attestation report are referenced on page F-1 under the captions “Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting” and “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm —Internal Control over Financial Reporting” and are incorporated herein by reference. 
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
No changes to our internal control over financial reporting occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2011, that have materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act). 
 


ITEM 9B.
OTHER INFORMATION  None. 
  61 


Table of Contents
PART III 
 


ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Information required under Item 10 of this report will be contained under the captions “Election of
Directors—Directors,” “Executive Officers” and “Corporate Governance” to be provided in our proxy statement for our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the SEC on or before April 30, 2012, which
are incorporated herein by reference. Additional information regarding our corporate governance guidelines as well as the complete texts of our Code of Conduct and the charters of our Audit Committee and our Compensation and Nominating Committee may
be found on our website at www.approachresources.com.   


ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  Information required by Item 11 of this report will be contained under the caption “Executive Compensation” in our definitive proxy statement for our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders to
be filed with the SEC on or before April 30, 2012, which is incorporated herein by reference.   


ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
Information required by Item 12 of this report will be contained under the caption “Stock Ownership Matters” in our
definitive proxy statement for our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the SEC on or before April 30, 2012, which is incorporated herein by reference. 
 


ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 
Information required by Item 13 of this report will be contained under the captions “Certain Relationships and Related Party
Transactions” and “Corporate Governance — Board Independence” in our definitive proxy statement for our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the SEC on or before April 30, 2012, which are incorporated herein
by reference.   


ITEM 14.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  Information required by Item 14 of this report will be contained under the caption “Independent Registered Public Accountants” in our definitive proxy statement for our 2012 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the SEC on or before April 30, 2012, which is incorporated herein by reference. 
  62 


Table of Contents
PART IV 
 


ITEM 15.
    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
 


(a)
Documents filed as part of this report  (1) and (2) Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules. 
See “Index to Consolidated Financial Statements” on page F-1. 
(3) Exhibits.  See “Index to Exhibits” on page 70 for a description of the exhibits filed as part of this report. 
  63 


Table of Contents
GLOSSARY AND SELECTED ABBREVIATIONS 
The following is a description of the meanings of some of the oil and gas industry terms used in this report. 
3-D seismic.     (Three Dimensional Seismic Data) Geophysical data that depicts the subsurface strata in three
dimensions. 3-D seismic data typically provides a more detailed and accurate interpretation of the subsurface strata than two dimensional seismic data.  Basin.     A large natural depression on the earth’s surface in which sediments generally brought by water accumulate. 
Bbl.     One stock tank barrel, of 42 U.S. gallons liquid volume, used to reference oil, condensate or
NGLs.  Boe.     Barrel of oil equivalent, determined using the ratio of six Mcf of gas to one Boe,
and one Bbl of NGLs to one Boe.  Btu or British Thermal Unit.     The quantity of heat required to
raise the temperature of one pound of water by one degree Fahrenheit.  Completion.     The
installation of permanent equipment for production of oil or gas, or, in the case of a dry well, for reporting to the appropriate authority that the well has been abandoned.  Developed acreage.     The number of acres that are allocated or assignable to productive wells or wells that are capable of production. 
Developed oil and gas reserves.     Has the meaning given to such term in Rule 4-10(a)(6) of
Regulation S-X, as follows:  Developed oil and gas reserves are reserves of any category that can be expected to be
recovered:  (i) Through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or in which the cost of
the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well; and  (ii) Through installed
extraction equipment and infrastructure operational at the time of the reserves estimate if the extraction is by means not involving a well.  Development well.     A well drilled within the proved area of an oil or gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive. 
Dry hole or well.     An exploratory, development or extension well that proved to be incapable of producing
either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well.  Dry hole
costs.     Costs incurred in drilling a well, assuming a well is not successful, including plugging and abandonment costs.  Exploratory well.     A well drilled to find a new field or to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir. 
Extension well.     A well drilled to extend the limits of a known reservoir. 
Farm-in.     An arrangement in which the owner or lessee of mineral rights (the first party) assigns a working
interest to an operator (the second party), the consideration for which is specified exploration and/or development activities. The first party retains an overriding royalty, working interest or other type of economic interest in the mineral
production. The arrangement from the viewpoint of the second party is termed a “farm-in” arrangement. 
  64 


Table of Contents
Field.     An area consisting of either a single reservoir or
multiple reservoirs, all grouped on or related to the same individual geological structural feature and/or stratigraphic condition.  Hydraulic fracturing.     The technique designed to improve a well’s production rates by pumping a mixture of water and sand (in our case, over 99% by mass) and chemical
additives (in our case, less than 1% by mass) into the formation and rupturing the rock, creating an artificial channel. 
Gross acres or gross wells.     The total acres or wells, as the case may be, in which a working interest is
owned.  Lease operating expenses.     The expenses of lifting oil or gas from a producing formation
to the surface, and the transportation and marketing thereof, constituting part of the current operating expenses of a working interest, and also including labor, superintendence, supplies, repairs, short lived assets, maintenance, allocated
overhead costs, ad valorem taxes and other expenses incidental to production, but excluding lease acquisition or drilling or completion expenses.  LNG.     Liquefied natural gas. 
MBbls.     Thousand barrels of oil or other liquid hydrocarbons. 
MBoe.     Thousand barrels of oil equivalent, determined using the ratio of six Mcf of gas to one Boe, and one Bbl of
NGLs to one Boe.  Mcf.     Thousand cubic feet of natural gas. 
MMBoe.     Million barrels of oil equivalent, determined using the ratio of six Mcf of gas to one Boe, and one
Bbl of NGLs to one Boe.  MMBtu.     Million British thermal units. 
MMcf.     Million cubic feet of gas.  Net acres or net wells.     The sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres or wells, as the case may be. 
NGLs.     Natural gas liquids. The portions of gas from a reservoir that are liquefied at the surface in
separators, field facilities or gas processing plants.  NYMEX.     New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Play.     A set of known or postulated oil and/or gas accumulations sharing similar geologic,
geographic and temporal properties, such as source rock, migration pathways, timing, trapping mechanism and hydrocarbon type. 
Productive well.     An exploratory, development or extension well that is not a dry well. 
Prospect.     A specific geographic area which, based on supporting geological, geophysical or other data and
also preliminary economic analysis using reasonably anticipated prices and costs, is deemed to have potential for the discovery of commercial hydrocarbons.  Proved developed producing reserves.     Proved developed oil and gas reserves that are expected to be recovered: 
(i) Through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or in which the cost of the required equipment is
relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well; and  (ii) Through installed extraction equipment and
infrastructure operational at the time of the reserves estimate if the extraction is by means not involving a well. 
  65 


Table of Contents
Proved oil and gas reserves.     Has the meaning given to such
term in Rule 4-10(a)(22) of Regulation S-X, as follows:  Proved oil and gas reserves are those
quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible—from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions,
operating methods, and government regulations—prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods
are used for the estimation. The project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time. 
(i) The area of the reservoir considered as proved includes: 
(A) The area identified by drilling and limited by fluid contacts, if any, and 
(B) Adjacent undrilled portions of the reservoir that can, with reasonable certainty, be judged to be continuous with it
and to contain economically producible oil or gas on the basis of available geoscience and engineering data. 
(ii) In the absence of data on fluid contacts, proved quantities in a reservoir are limited by the lowest known
hydrocarbons (LKH) as seen in a well penetration unless geoscience, engineering, or performance data and reliable technology establishes a lower contact with reasonable certainty. 
(iii) Where direct observation from well penetrations has defined a highest known oil (HKO) elevation and the potential
exists for an associated gas cap, proved oil reserves may be assigned in the structurally higher portions of the reservoir only if geoscience, engineering, or performance data and reliable technology establish the higher contact with reasonable
certainty.  (iv) Reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery
techniques (including, but not limited to, fluid injection) are included in the proved classification when: 
(A) Successful testing by a pilot project in an area of the reservoir with properties no more favorable than in the
reservoir as a whole, the operation of an installed program in the reservoir or an analogous reservoir, or other evidence using reliable technology establishes the reasonable certainty of the engineering analysis on which the project or program was
based; and  (B) The project has been approved for development by all necessary parties and entities, including
governmental entities.  (v) Existing economic conditions include prices and costs at which economic
producibility from a reservoir is to be determined. The price shall be the average price during the 12-month period prior to the ending date of the period covered by the report, determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the
first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions. 
  66 


Table of Contents
PV-10.     An estimate of the present value of the future net
revenues from proved oil and gas reserves after deducting estimated production and ad valorem taxes, future capital costs and operating expenses, but before deducting any estimates of federal income taxes. The estimated future net revenues are
discounted at an annual rate of 10% to determine their “present value.” The present value is shown to indicate the effect of time on the value of the revenue stream and should not be construed as being the fair market value of the
properties. Estimates of PV-10 are made using oil and gas prices and operating costs at the date indicated and held constant for the life of the reserves.  “Recompletion” or to “recomplete” a well.     The addition of production from another interval or formation in an existing wellbore. 
Reserve life.     This index is calculated by dividing year-end 2011 estimated proved reserves by 2011
production of 2,338 MBoe to estimate the number of years of remaining production.  Reservoir.     A
porous and permeable underground formation containing a natural accumulation of producible oil and/or gas that is confined by impermeable rock or water barriers and is individual and separate from other reservoirs. 
Spacing.     The distance between wells producing from the same reservoir. Spacing is expressed in terms of
acres, e.g., 40-acre spacing, and is established by regulatory agencies.  Standardized measure.    
The present value of estimated future net revenues to be generated from the production of proved reserves, determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC (using prices and costs in effect as of the period end date) without giving
effect to non-property related expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service and future income tax expenses or to depletion, depreciation and amortization and discounted using an annual discount rate of 10%. Standardized measure
does not give effect to derivative transactions.  Tight gas sands.     A formation with low
permeability that produces natural gas with low flow rates for long periods of time.  Unconventional resources or
reserves.     Natural gas or oil resources or reserves from (i) low-permeability sandstone and shale formations, such as tight gas and gas shales, respectively, and (ii) coalbed methane. 
Undeveloped acreage.     Lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would
permit the production of commercial quantities of oil or gas regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves. 
Undeveloped oil and gas reserves.     Has the meaning given to such term in Rule 4-10(a)(31) of
Regulation S-X, which defines proved undeveloped reserves as follows:  Undeveloped oil and gas reserves
are reserves of any category that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. 
(i) Reserves on undrilled acreage shall be limited to those directly offsetting development spacing areas that are
reasonably certain of production when drilled, unless evidence using reliable technology exists that establishes reasonable certainty of economic producibility at greater distances. 
  67 


Table of Contents
(ii) Undrilled locations can be classified as having undeveloped reserves
only if a development plan has been adopted indicating that they are scheduled to be drilled within five years, unless the specific circumstances, justify a longer time. 
(iii) Under no circumstances shall estimates for undeveloped reserves be attributable to any acreage for which an
application of fluid injection or other improved recovery technique is contemplated, unless such techniques have been proved effective by actual projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology
establishing reasonable certainty.  Working interest.     The operating interest that gives the
owner the right to drill, produce and conduct operating activities on the property and receive a share of production. 
Workover.     Operations on a producing well to restore or increase production. 
/d.     “Per day” when used with volumetric units or dollars. 
  68 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   






APPROACH RESOURCES INC.




By:
 
/s/ J. Ross Craft


 
J. Ross Craft


 
President and Chief Executive Officer
 Date: March 12, 2012  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated and on
March 12, 2012.   






 Signature
  
 Title




 /s/    J. Ross
Craft         J. Ross Craft
  
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director(Principal Executive Officer)




 /s/    Steven P.
Smart         Steven P. Smart
  
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)




 /s/    Bryan H.
Lawrence         Bryan H.
Lawrence
  
Director and Chairman of the Board of Directors




 /s/    Alan D.
Bell         Alan D. Bell
  
Director




 /s/    James H.
Brandi         James H. Brandi
  
Director




 /s/    James C.
Crain         James C. Crain
  
Director




 /s/    Sheldon B.
Lubar         Sheldon B. Lubar
  
Director




 /s/    Christopher J.
Whyte         Christopher J.
Whyte
  
Director

  69 


Table of Contents
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF
APPROACH RESOURCES INC.   








 
  
Page
 




 Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
  
 
F-2
  




 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm — Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting
  
 
F-3
  




 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm — Financial Statements
  
 
F-4
  




 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010
  
 
F-5
  




 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
  
 
F-6
  




 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
  
 
F-7
  




 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity for the years ended December 
31, 2009, 2010 and 2011
  
 
F-8
  




 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
  
 
F-9
  




 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
F-10
  

  F-1



Table of Contents
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL
REPORTING  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance to management and our board of directors regarding the preparation and fair
presentation of published financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only
reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. Management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. In making this assessment, management used
the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control — Integrated Framework. Based on our assessment, we believe that, as of December 31,
2011, our internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.   


















By: 
 
/s/    J. Ross Craft
 

 
By: 
 
/s/    Steven P. Smart


 
J. Ross Craft
 

 

 
Steven P. Smart


 
President and Chief Executive Officer
 

 

 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 Fort Worth, Texas  March 12, 2012 
  F-2



Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 To the Board of Directors and Stockholders  Approach Resources Inc.  We have audited Approach Resources Inc. and
subsidiaries’ (collectively, the “Company”) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures
as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  A
company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (a) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (b) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (c) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control —
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  We have also audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Approach Resources Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, changes in stockholders’ equity, cash flows and comprehensive income for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, and our report dated March 12, 2012, expressed an unqualified opinion.
  






/s/    HEIN & ASSOCIATES LLP

Dallas, Texas

March 12, 2012

  F-3



Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 To the Board of Directors and Stockholders  Approach Resources Inc.  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets of Approach Resources Inc. and subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders’ equity, cash flows and
comprehensive income for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  In our opinion, the consolidated
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Approach Resources Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our report dated March 12, 2012 expressed an unqualified
opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.   






/s/    HEIN & ASSOCIATES LLP

Dallas, Texas

March 12, 2012

  F-4



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Balance Sheets 
(In thousands, except shares and per-share amounts) 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

ASSETS
  

 CURRENT ASSETS:
  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
301
  
 
$
23,465
  

 Accounts receivable:
  



 




 Joint interest owners
  
 
179
  
 
 
8,319
  

 Oil, NGL and gas sales
  
 
10,060
  
 
 
6,044
  

 Unrealized gain on commodity derivatives
  
 
—
  
 
 
862
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
 
342
  
 
 
322
  

 Deferred income taxes — current
  
 
504
  
 
 
2,318
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
11,386
  
 
 
41,330
  

 PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT:
  



 




 Oil and gas properties, at cost, using the successful efforts method of accounting
  
 
732,659
  
 
 
474,917
  

 Furniture, fixtures and equipment
  
 
1,621
  
 
 
1,077
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
734,280
  
 
 
475,994
  

 Less accumulated depletion, depreciation and amortization
  
 
(138,996
) 
 
 
(106,784
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net properties and equipment
  
 
595,284
  
 
 
369,210
  

 OTHER ASSETS
  
 
1,224
  
 
 
2,549
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
607,894
  
 
$
413,089
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  

 CURRENT LIABILITIES:
  



 




 Advances from non-operators
  
$
 —
  
 
$
509
  

 Accounts payable
  
 
12,599
  
 
 
11,426
  

 Oil, NGL and gas sales payable
  
 
4,748
  
 
 
5,534
  

 Accrued liabilities
  
 
24,837
  
 
 
10,686
  

 Unrealized loss on commodity derivatives
  
 
1,441
  
 
 
1,085
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
43,625
  
 
 
29,240
  

 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES:
  



 




 Long-term debt
  
 
43,800
  
 
 
—
  

 Unrealized loss on commodity derivatives
  
 
—
  
 
 
871
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
46,290
  
 
 
44,616
  

 Asset retirement obligations
  
 
6,730
  
 
 
5,416
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
140,445
  
 
 
80,143
  

 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Note 8)
  



 




 STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY :
  



 




 Preferred stock, $0.01 par value, 10,000,000 shares authorized none outstanding
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Common stock, $0.01 par value, 90,000,000 shares authorized, 33,093,594 and 28,226,890 issued and outstanding,
respectively
  
 
331
  
 
 
282
  

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
400,890
  
 
 
273,912
  

 Retained earnings
  
 
66,228
  
 
 
58,986
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
  
 
—
  
 
 
(234
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total stockholders’ equity
  
 
467,449
  
 
 
332,946
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity
  
$
607,894
  
 
$
413,089
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying notes to these consolidated financial statements. 
  F-5



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statements of Operations 
(In thousands, except shares and per-share amounts) 
 
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 REVENUES:
  



 



 




 Oil, NGL and gas sales
  
$
108,387
  
 
$
57,581
  
 
$
40,648
  

 EXPENSES:
  



 



 




 Lease operating
  
 
13,328
  
 
 
8,555
  
 
 
7,777
  

 Severance and production taxes
  
 
5,806
  
 
 
2,990
  
 
 
1,996
  

 Exploration
  
 
9,546
  
 
 
2,589
  
 
 
1,621
  

 Impairment
  
 
18,476
  
 
 
2,622
  
 
 
2,964
  

 General and administrative
  
 
17,900
  
 
 
11,422
  
 
 
10,617
  

 Depletion, depreciation and amortization
  
 
32,475
  
 
 
22,224
  
 
 
24,660
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expenses
  
 
97,531
  
 
 
50,402
  
 
 
49,635
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)
  
 
10,856
  
 
 
7,179
  
 
 
(8,987
) 

 OTHER:
  



 



 




 Interest expense, net
  
 
(3,402
) 
 
 
(2,189
) 
 
 
(1,787
) 

 Realized gain on commodity derivatives
  
 
3,375
  
 
 
5,784
  
 
 
14,659
  

 Unrealized (loss) gain on commodity derivatives
  
 
(347
) 
 
 
788
  
 
 
(9,899
) 

 Gain on sale of oil and gas properties, net of foreign currency transaction loss
  
 
248
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAX PROVISION (BENEFIT)
  
 
10,730
  
 
 
11,562
  
 
 
(6,014
) 

 INCOME TAX PROVISION (BENEFIT)
  
 
3,488
  
 
 
4,100
  
 
 
(785
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCOME (LOSS)
  
$
7,242
  
 
$
7,462
  
 
$
(5,229
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE:
  



 



 




 Basic
  
$
0.25
  
 
$
0.34
  
 
$
(0.25
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted
  
$
0.25
  
 
$
0.34
  
 
$
(0.25
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 WEIGHTED AVERAGE SHARES OUTSTANDING:
  



 



 




 Basic
  
 
28,930,792
  
 
 
22,065,797
  
 
 
20,869,832
  

 Diluted
  
 
29,158,598
  
 
 
22,214,070
  
 
 
20,869,832
  

See accompanying notes to these consolidated financial statements. 
  F-6



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 
(In thousands)   
















 
  
For the Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
7,242
  
 
$
7,462
  
 
$
(5,229
) 

 Other comprehensive income (loss):
  



 



 




 Foreign currency translation, net of related income tax
  
 
(20
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
266
  

 Reclassification of foreign currency transaction loss to earnings, net of related income tax
  
 
254
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive income (loss)
  
$
7,476
  
 
$
7,458
  
 
$
(4,963
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying notes to these consolidated financial statements. 
  F-7



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity 
for the Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011 
(In thousands, except shares and per-share amounts) 
 




























 
 
Common Stock
 
 
AdditionalPaid-inCapital

 
 
RetainedEarnings
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)
 
 
Total
 

 
 
Shares
 
 
Amount
 
 
 
 
 

 BALANCES, January 1, 2009
 
 
20,715,357
  
 
$
207
  
 
$
167,349
  
 
$
56,753
  
 
$
(496
) 
 
$
223,813
  

 Issuance of common shares to directors for compensation
 
 
50,845
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
378
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
378
  

 Restricted stock issuance, net of cancellations
 
 
202,040
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Share-based compensation expense
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,448
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,448
  

 Surrender of restricted shares for payment of income taxes
 
 
(8,957
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(68
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(68
) 

 Adjustment to additional paid-in capital for tax shortfall upon vesting of restricted shares
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(112
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(112
) 

 Net loss
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(5,229
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(5,229
) 

 Foreign currency translation adjustments, net of related income tax of $118
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
266
  
 
 
266
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 BALANCES, December 31, 2009
 
 
20,959,285
  
 
 
209
  
 
 
168,993
  
 
 
51,524
  
 
 
(230
) 
 
 
220,496
  

 Issuance of common stock upon exercise of options
 
 
58,798
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
750
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
751
  

 Issuance of common stock, net of issuance costs
 
 
6,612,500
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
101,698
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
101,764
  

 Issuance of common shares to directors for compensation
 
 
46,347
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
380
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
380
  

 Restricted stock issuance, net of cancellations
 
 
560,870
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Share-based compensation expense
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,248
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,248
  

 Surrender of restricted shares for payment of income taxes
 
 
(10,910
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(89
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(89
) 

 Adjustment to additional paid-in capital for tax shortfall upon vesting of restricted shares
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(62
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(62
) 

 Net income
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
7,462
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
7,462
  

 Foreign currency translation adjustments, net of related income tax of $2
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(4
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 BALANCES, December 31, 2010
 
 
28,226,890
  
 
 
282
  
 
 
273,912
  
 
 
58,986
  
 
 
(234
) 
 
$
332,946
  

 Issuance of common stock upon exercise of options
 
 
74,241
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
1,008
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,009
  

 Issuance of common stock, net of issuance costs
 
 
4,600,000
  
 
 
46
  
 
 
122,104
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
122,150
  

 Issuance of common shares to directors for compensation
 
 
18,446
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
420
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
420
  

 Restricted stock issuance, net of cancellations
 
 
205,475
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Share-based compensation expense
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,263
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,263
  

 Surrender of restricted shares for payment of income taxes
 
 
(31,458
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(815
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(815
) 

 Net income
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
7,242
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
7,242
  

 Foreign currency transaction and translation adjustments, net of related income tax of $85
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
234
  
 
 
234
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 BALANCES, December 31, 2011
 
 
33,093,594
  
 
$
331
  
 
$
400,890
  
 
$
66,228
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
467,449
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying notes to these consolidated financial statements. 
  F-8



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
(In thousands, except shares and per-share amounts) 
 
















 
 
For the Years Ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
 



 



 




 Net income (loss)
 
$
7,242
  
 
$
7,462
  
 
$
(5,229
) 

 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities:
 



 



 




 Depletion, depreciation and amortization
 
 
32,475
  
 
 
22,224
  
 
 
24,660
  

 Unrealized loss (gain) on commodity derivatives
 
 
347
  
 
 
(788
) 
 
 
9,899
  

 Impairment
 
 
18,476
  
 
 
2,622
  
 
 
2,964
  

 Gain on sale of oil and gas properties, net of foreign currency transaction loss
 
 
(248
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Exploration expense
 
 
9,546
  
 
 
2,589
  
 
 
1,621
  

 Share-based compensation expense
 
 
4,683
  
 
 
2,628
  
 
 
1,826
  

 Deferred income taxes
 
 
3,488
  
 
 
4,100
  
 
 
(785
) 

 Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
 



 



 




 Accounts receivable
 
 
6,168
  
 
 
(6,581
) 
 
 
12,352
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
 
 
378
  
 
 
527
  
 
 
71
  

 Accounts payable
 
 
(151
) 
 
 
6,083
  
 
 
(7,863
) 

 Oil, NGL and gas sales payable
 
 
(786
) 
 
 
1,760
  
 
 
(857
) 

 Accrued liabilities
 
 
14,152
  
 
 
(249
) 
 
 
1,102
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash provided by operating activities
 
 
95,770
  
 
 
42,377
  
 
 
39,761
  

 INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
 



 



 




 Additions to oil and gas properties
 
 
(284,574
) 
 
 
(91,016
) 
 
 
(28,990
) 

 Proceeds from gain on sale of oil and gas properties, net
 
 
360
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Additions to furniture, fixtures and equipment, net
 
 
(544
) 
 
 
(330
) 
 
 
(563
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash used in investing activities
 
 
(284,758
) 
 
 
(91,346
) 
 
 
(29,553
) 

 FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
 



 



 




 Borrowings under credit facility
 
 
246,800
  
 
 
121,800
  
 
 
67,407
  

 Repayment of amounts outstanding under credit facility
 
 
(203,000
) 
 
 
(154,119
) 
 
 
(78,625
) 

 Proceeds from issuance of common stock, net offering costs
 
 
122,150
  
 
 
101,764
  
 
 
—
  

 Proceeds from issuance of common stock upon exercise of stock options
 
 
1,009
  
 
 
751
  
 
 
—
  

 Loan origination fees
 
 
(1,116
) 
 
 
(448
) 
 
 
(400
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash provided by (used in) financing activities
 
 
165,843
  
 
 
69,748
  
 
 
(11,618
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
 
(23,145
) 
 
 
20,779
  
 
 
(1,410
) 

 EFFECT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION ON CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
 
(19
) 
 
 
1
  
 
 
18
  

 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, beginning of year
 
 
23,465
  
 
 
2,685
  
 
 
4,077
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, end of year
 
$
301
  
 
$
23,465
  
 
$
2,685
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION:
 



 



 




 Cash paid for interest
 
$
2,856
  
 
$
1,920
  
 
$
1,790
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF NON-CASH TRANSACTION:
 



 



 




 Acquisition of oil and gas properties
 
$
547
  
 
$
132
  
 
$
 —
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Asset retirement obligations capitalized
 
$
1,190
  
 
$
604
  
 
$
170
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying notes to these consolidated financial statements. 
  F-9



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 


1.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
Organization and Nature of Operations  Approach Resources Inc. (“Approach,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our”) is an independent energy company engaged in the exploration, development,
production and acquisition of oil and gas properties. We focus on finding and developing oil and natural gas reserves in oil shale and tight sands. Our properties are primarily located in the Permian Basin in West Texas. We also own interests in the
East Texas Basin.  Consolidation, Basis of Presentation and Significant Estimates 
The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America and include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated. In preparing the accompanying financial statements, management has made certain estimates and
assumptions that affect reported amounts in the financial statements and disclosures of contingencies. Actual results may differ from those estimates. Significant assumptions are required in the valuation of proved oil and natural gas reserves,
which affect our estimate of depletion expense as well as our impairment analyses. Significant assumptions also are required in our estimation of accrued liabilities, share-based compensation and asset retirement obligations. It is at least
reasonably possible these estimates could be revised in the near term, and these revisions could be material.  Cash and Cash Equivalents
 We consider all highly liquid debt instruments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash
equivalents. At times, the amount of cash and cash equivalents on deposit in financial institutions exceeds federally insured limits. We monitor the soundness of the financial institutions and believe the Company’s risk is negligible.
 Financial Instruments  The carrying amounts of financial instruments including cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities and long-term debt approximate fair value, as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010. See Note 7 for commodity derivative fair value disclosures.  Oil and Gas Properties and Operations
 Capitalized Costs.     Our oil and gas properties comprised the following (in thousands):
  












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Mineral interests in properties:
  



 




 Unproved properties
  
$
46,813
  
 
$
19,963
  

 Proved properties
  
 
26,845
  
 
 
15,317
  

 Wells and related equipment and facilities
  
 
626,564
  
 
 
430,810
  

 Support equipment
  
 
5,135
  
 
 
3,098
  

 Uncompleted wells, equipment and facilities
  
 
27,302
  
 
 
5,729
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total costs
  
 
732,659
  
 
 
474,917
  

 Less accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization
  
 
(137,980
) 
 
 
(106,127
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net capitalized costs
  
$
594,679
  
 
$
368,790
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-10



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 
We follow the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas producing
activities. Costs to acquire mineral interests in oil and gas properties and to drill and equip development wells and related asset retirement costs are capitalized. Costs to drill exploratory wells are capitalized pending determination of whether
the wells have proved reserves. If we determine that the wells do not have proved reserves, the costs are charged to expense. There were no exploratory wells capitalized pending determination of whether the wells have proved reserves at
December 31, 2011 or 2010. Geological and geophysical costs, including seismic studies and costs of carrying and retaining unproved properties are charged to expense as incurred. We capitalize interest on expenditures for significant
exploration and development projects that last more than six months while activities are in progress to bring the assets to their intended use. Through December 31, 2011, we have capitalized no interest costs because our exploration and
development projects generally last less than six months. Costs incurred to maintain wells and related equipment are charged to expense as incurred.  On the sale or retirement of a complete unit of a proved property, the cost and related accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization are eliminated from the property accounts, and the resultant
gain or loss is recognized. On the retirement or sale of a partial unit of proved property, the cost is charged to accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization with a resulting gain or loss recognized in income. 
Capitalized amounts attributable to proved oil and gas properties are depleted by the unit-of-production method over proved reserves
using the unit conversion ratio of six Mcf of gas to one barrel of oil equivalent (“Boe”), and one barrel of NGLs to one Boe. The ratios of six Mcf of natural gas to one Boe and one barrel of NGLs to one Boe do not assume price equivalency
and, given price differentials, the price for a Boe for natural gas may differ significantly from the price for a barrel of oil. Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense for oil and gas producing property and related equipment was $32.1
million, $22.0 million and $24.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Capitalized
costs related to proved oil and gas properties, including wells and related equipment and facilities, are evaluated for impairment based on an analysis of undiscounted future net cash flows in accordance with ASC 360, formerly Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets. If undiscounted cash flows are insufficient to recover the net capitalized costs related to proved properties, then we recognize an impairment charge in
income from operations equal to the difference between the net capitalized costs related to proved properties and their estimated fair values based on the present value of the related future net cash flows. For 2011, we recorded an impairment
expense of $15.2 million, which was attributable to our oil and gas properties in the East Texas Basin. At December 31, 2011, we had $2.7 million recorded for the East Texas Basin, which is the estimated fair value at December 31, 2011. We
noted no impairment of our proved properties based on our analysis for the years ended December 31, 2010 or 2009. 
Unproved oil and gas properties that are individually significant are periodically assessed for impairment of value, and a loss is
recognized at the time of impairment by providing an impairment allowance. For 2011, we recorded an impairment expense of $3.3 million, related to all of our remaining carrying costs associated with our unproved properties in Northern New Mexico.
For 2010, we recorded an impairment of $2.6 million, which resulted from a write-off of $2.6 million in costs associated with our Boomerang project in Kentucky and represented the remaining carrying value we had recorded for the project. We also
recorded an impairment in 2009, which resulted from a write-off of $3 million in costs associated with our British Columbia project, and represented the remaining carrying value we had recorded for the project. 
On the sale of an entire interest in an unproved property for cash or cash equivalent, gain or loss on the sale is recognized, taking
into consideration the amount of any recorded impairment if the property had been assessed 
  F-11



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 

individually. If a partial interest in an unproved property is sold, the amount received is treated as a reduction of the cost of the interest retained. During 2011, we sold our working interest
in Northeast British Columbia for net proceeds of $360,000. The gain on the sale of this interest, net of foreign currency, was $248,000, and is included under “Other” on the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended
December 31, 2011. Our carrying value and associated plugging obligations related to Northeast British Columbia previously were written off as an impairment of unproved properties during the year ended December 31, 2009. 
Oil and Gas Operations 
Revenue and Accounts Receivable.    We recognize revenue for our production when the quantities are delivered
to or collected by the respective purchaser. Prices for such production are defined in sales contracts and are readily determinable based on certain publicly available indices. All transportation costs are included in lease operating expense.
 Accounts receivable, joint interest owners, consist of uncollateralized joint interest owner obligations due within
30 days of the invoice date. Accounts receivable, oil and gas sales, consist of uncollateralized accrued revenues due under normal trade terms, generally requiring payment within 30 to 60 days of production. No interest is charged on
past-due balances. Payments made on all accounts receivable are applied to the earliest unpaid items. We review accounts receivable periodically and reduce the carrying amount by a valuation allowance that reflects our best estimate of the amount
that may not be collectible. No such allowance was considered necessary at December 31, 2011 or 2010.  Oil and Gas
Sales Payable.    Oil and gas sales payable represents amounts collected from purchasers for oil and gas sales which are either revenues due to other revenue interest owners or severance taxes due to the respective state or
local tax authorities. Generally, we are required to remit amounts due under these liabilities within 30 days of the end of the month in which the related production occurred. 
Advances from Non-Operators.    Advances from non-operators represent amounts collected in advance for joint
operating activities. Such amounts are applied to joint interest accounts receivable as related costs are incurred. 
Production Costs.    Production costs, including compressor rental and repair, pumpers’ salaries,
saltwater disposal, ad valorem taxes, insurance, repairs and maintenance, expensed workovers and other operating expenses are expensed as incurred and included in lease operating expense on our consolidated statements of operations. 
Exploration expenses.    Exploration expenses include dry hole costs, lease extensions, delay rentals and
geological and geophysical costs.  Dependence on Major Customers.    For the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we sold substantially all of our oil and gas produced to six purchasers. Additionally, substantially all of our accounts receivable related to oil and gas sales were due from those six purchasers at
December 31, 2011, and 2010. We believe that there are potential alternative purchasers and that it may be necessary to establish relationships with new purchasers. However, there can be no assurance that we can establish such relationships and
that those relationships will result in increased purchasers. Although we are exposed to a concentration of credit risk, we believe that all of our purchasers are credit worthy. 
Dependence on Suppliers.    Our industry is cyclical, and from time to time there is a shortage of drilling
rigs, equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of 
  F-12



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 

rigs, equipment, services and supplies are substantially greater. If the unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, services, supplies or qualified personnel were particularly
severe in the areas where we operate, we could be materially and adversely affected. We believe that there are potential alternative providers of drilling and completion services and that it may be necessary to establish relationships with new
contractors. However, there can be no assurance that we can establish such relationships and that those relationships will result in increased availability of drilling rigs or other services. 
Other Property.    Furniture, fixtures and equipment are carried at cost. Depreciation of furniture, fixtures
and equipment is provided using the straight-line method over estimated useful lives ranging from three to ten years. Gain or loss on retirement or sale or other disposition of assets is included in income in the period of disposition. Depreciation
expense for other property and equipment was $372,000, $233,000 and $204,000 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Income Taxes.    We are subject to U.S. federal income taxes along with state income taxes in Texas and New Mexico. When tax returns are filed, it is highly certain that some
positions taken would be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities, while others are subject to uncertainty about the merits of the position taken or the amount of the position that would be ultimately sustained. The benefit of a tax
position is recognized in the financial statements in the period during which, based on all available evidence, management believes it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including the resolution of appeals
or litigation processes, if any. Tax positions taken are not offset or aggregated with other positions. Tax positions that meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold are measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is more than 50%
likely of being realized upon settlement with the applicable taxing authority. The portion of the benefits associated with tax positions taken that exceeds the amount measured as described above is reflected as a liability for unrecognized tax
benefits in the accompanying balance sheet along with any associated interest and penalties that would be payable to the taxing authorities upon examination. Interest and penalties associated with unrecognized tax benefits are classified as
additional income taxes in the consolidated statement of income.  Based on our analysis, we did not have any uncertain tax
positions as of December 31, 2011 or 2010. The Company’s income tax returns are subject to examination by the relevant taxing authorities as follows: U.S. Federal income tax returns for tax years 2008 and forward, Texas income and margin
tax returns for tax years 2008 and forward and New Mexico income tax returns for years 2008 and forward. There are currently no income tax examinations underway for these jurisdictions. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to the differences between the
financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the tax rate in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to
be recovered or settled. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the year of the enacted tax rate change.  Derivative Activity.    All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the instruments’ fair values are recognized in the statement
of operations immediately unless specific commodity derivative accounting criteria are met. For qualifying cash flow commodity derivatives, the gain or loss on the derivative is deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income to the extent the
commodity derivative is effective. The ineffective portion of the commodity derivative is recognized immediately in the statement of operations. Gains and losses on commodity derivative instruments included in cumulative other comprehensive income
are reclassified to oil, NGL and natural gas sales revenue in the period that the related production is delivered. Derivative contracts that do not qualify for commodity derivative accounting treatment are recorded as derivative assets and
liabilities at fair value in the balance sheet, and the associated unrealized gains and losses are recorded as current income or expense in the statement of operations. 
  F-13



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 
Historically, we have not designated our derivative instruments as cash-flow hedges. We
record our open derivative instruments at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets as either unrealized gains or losses on commodity derivatives. We record changes in such fair value in earnings on our consolidated statements of operations
under the caption entitled “unrealized gain (loss) on commodity derivatives.”  Although we have not designated our
derivative instruments as cash-flow hedges, we use those instruments to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices related to our natural gas and oil production. Unrealized gains and losses, at fair value, are included on our
consolidated balance sheets as current or non-current assets or liabilities based on the anticipated timing of cash settlements under the related contracts. Changes in the fair value of our commodity derivative contracts are recorded in earnings as
they occur and included in other income (expense) on our consolidated statements of operations. Realized gains and losses are also included in other income (expense) on our consolidated statements of operations. 
Accrued Liabilities.    Following is a summary of our accrued liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010
(in thousands):   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Capital expenditures accrued
  
$
20,512
  
  
$
8,924
  

 Operating expenses and other
  
 
4,325
  
  
 
1,762
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
24,837
  
  
$
10,686
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Asset Retirement Obligations.    Our asset retirement obligations relate to
future plugging and abandonment expenses on oil and gas properties. Based on the expected timing of payments, the full asset retirement obligation is classified as non-current. There were no significant changes to the asset retirement obligations
for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.  Foreign Currency Translation.    The
functional currency of the countries in which we operate is the U.S. dollar in the United States and the Canadian Dollar in Canada. Assets and liabilities of our Canadian subsidiary that are denominated in currencies other than the Canadian Dollar
are translated at current exchange rates. Gains and losses resulting from such translations, along with gains or losses realized from transactions denominated in currencies other than the Canadian Dollar are included in operating results on our
statements of operations. For purposes of consolidation, we translate the assets and liabilities of our Canadian Subsidiary into U.S. Dollars at current exchange rates while revenues and expenses are translated at the average rates in effect for the
period. The related translation gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders’ equity on our consolidated balance sheets. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we recognized a
translation loss of $20,000 and $4,000, net of the related income taxes, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recognized translation gains, net of related income tax of $266,000. 
Share-Based Compensation.    We measure and record compensation expense for all share-based payment awards to
employees and outside directors based on estimated grant date fair values. We recognize compensation costs for awards granted over the requisite service period based on the grant date fair value. 
  F-14



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 
Earnings Per Common Share.    We report basic earnings per
common share, which excludes the effect of potentially dilutive securities, and diluted earnings per common share, which includes the effect of all potentially dilutive securities unless their impact is anti-dilutive. The following are
reconciliations of the numerators and denominators of our basic and diluted earnings per share, (dollars in thousands, except per-share amounts):   
















 
  
For the Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Income (numerator):
  



  



  




 Net income (loss) — basic
  
$
7,242
  
  
$
7,462
  
  
$
(5,229
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Weighted average shares (denominator):
  



  



  




 Weighted average shares — basic
  
 
28,930,792
  
  
 
22,065,797
  
  
 
20,869,832
  

 Dilution effect of share-based compensation, treasury method(1)
  
 
227,806
  
  
 
148,273
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Weighted average shares — diluted
  
 
29,158,598
  
  
 
22,214,070
  
  
 
20,869,832
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) per share:
  



  



  




 Basic
  
$
0.25
  
  
$
0.34
  
  
$
(0.25
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted
  
$
0.25
  
  
$
0.34
  
  
$
(0.25
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Approximately 410,000 options to purchase our common stock were excluded from this calculation because they were anti-dilutive, during the year ended December 31,
2009.   


2.
Working Interest Acquisitions 
In February 2011, we acquired an additional 38% working interest in northwest Project Pangea from two non-operating
partners for $70.8 million, after customary post-closing adjustments (the “38% Working Interest Acquisition”). We funded the 38% Working Interest Acquisition with cash on hand and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Our 2011
oil, NGL and gas sales and net income included approximately $25.5 million and $8.4 million, respectively, related to this acquisition.  In October 2010, we acquired an additional 10% working interest in northwest Project Pangea from a non-operating partner for $21.2 million, after post-closing adjustments (the “10% Working Interest
Acquisition”). Funding was provided through borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Our 2010 oil, NGL and gas sales and net income included approximately $1.3 million and $477,000, respectively, related to this acquisition. 
  F-15



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 
The following table represents the allocation of the total purchase price of the 38%
Working Interest Acquisition and the 10% Working Interest Acquisition (in thousands).   












 
  
38% WorkingInterestAcquisition
 
 
10% WorkingInterestAcquisition
 

 Purchase price:
  



 




 Acquisition price
  
$
76,000
  
 
$
21,500
  

 Asset retirement obligations assumed
  
 
547
  
 
 
132
  

 Post-closing purchase price adjustments
  
 
(5,720
) 
 
 
(453
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
70,827
  
 
$
21,179
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Allocation:
  



 




 Wells, equipment and related facilities
  
$
51,447
  
 
$
15,613
  

 Mineral interests in oil and gas properties
  
 
19,380
  
 
 
5,566
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
70,827
  
 
$
21,179
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The following condensed unaudited pro forma information gives effect to these acquisitions as if they had
occurred on January 1, 2009. The pro forma information has been included in the notes as required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and is provided for comparison purposes only. The pro forma financial information is not
necessarily indicative of the financial results that would have occurred had these acquisitions been effective on the dates as indicated and should not be viewed as indicative of operations in the future. 
 
















 
  
UnauditedPro FormaFinancial Data
 

 
  
Years
EndedDecember 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(dollars in thousands,except per-share
amounts)
 

 Oil, NGL and gas sales
  
$
113,041
  
  
$
86,114
  
  
$
57,221
  

 Total operating expenses
  
$
100,125
  
  
$
63,384
  
  
$
63,333
  

 Net income (loss)
  
$
7,186
  
  
$
15,714
  
  
$
(5,207
) 

 Earnings (loss) per share — basic
  
$
0.25
  
  
$
0.71
  
  
$
(0.25
) 

 Earnings (loss) per share — diluted
  
$
0.25
  
  
$
0.71
  
  
$
(0.25
) 
  


3.
Public Equity Offerings 
On November 15, 2011, we completed a public offering of 4,000,000 shares of our common stock. The underwriters
were granted an option to purchase up to 600,000 additional shares of our common stock. The underwriters fully exercised this option and purchased the additional shares on November 16, 2011. After deducting underwriting discounts and
transaction costs of approximately $6.6 million, we received net proceeds of approximately $122.2 million. We intend to use the proceeds to fund our capital expenditures for the Wolffork oil shale resource play, working interest and leasehold
acquisitions in the Permian Basin and general working capital needs. Pending these uses, we used the proceeds of the 2011 equity offering to repay outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility. 
On November 10, 2010, we completed a public offering of 5,750,000 shares of our common stock. The underwriters were granted an
option to purchase up to 862,500 additional shares of our common stock. The 
  F-16



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 

underwriters fully exercised this option and purchased the additional shares on November 11, 2010. After deducting underwriting discounts and transaction costs of approximately $5.7 million,
we received net proceeds of approximately $101.8 million. We used the proceeds of the 2010 equity offering to repay all outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility, and to fund our capital expenditures for the Wolffork oil shale
resource play, working interest and leasehold acquisitions in the Permian Basin and general working capital needs.   


4.
Revolving Credit Facility 
We have a $300 million revolving credit facility with a borrowing base set at $260 million. The borrowing base is
redetermined semi-annually on or before each April 1 and October 1 based on our oil and gas reserves. We or the lenders can each request one additional borrowing base redetermination each calendar year. 
The maturity date under our revolving credit facility is July 31, 2014. Borrowings bear interest based on the agent bank’s
prime rate plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.75% to 1.75%, or the sum of the Eurodollar rate plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.75% to 2.75%. Margins vary based on the borrowings outstanding compared to the borrowing base. In addition,
we pay an annual commitment of 0.50% of unused borrowings available under our revolving credit facility.  Effective
May 4, 2011, we entered into a tenth amendment (the “Tenth Amendment”) to our credit agreement, which (i) increased the borrowing base under the credit agreement to $200 million from $150 million, (ii) increased the
lenders’ aggregate maximum commitment to $300 million from $200 million, (iii) extended the maturity date of the credit agreement by two years to July 31, 2014, (iv) increased the consolidated funded debt to consolidated EBITDAX
ratio covenant to a ratio of not more than 4 to 1 from a ratio of not more than 3.5 to 1, (v) permitted the issuance of up to $200 million of senior unsecured debt; provided, that any such debt issuance will reduce the borrowing base by 25% of
the principal amount of the issuance, and (vi) added a fifth bank, Royal Bank of Canada, to the lending group.  The Tenth
Amendment also revised the applicable rate schedule to decrease the Eurodollar rate margin to a range of 1.75% to 2.75% from a range of 2.25% to 3.25% and decreased the base rate margin to a range of 0.75% to 1.75% from a range of 1.25% to 2.25%,
each determined by the then-current percentage of the borrowing base that is drawn.  Effective October 7, 2011, we
entered into an eleventh amendment to our credit agreement, which, among other things, (i) increased the borrowing base to $260 million from $200 million, and (ii) added Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. as a sixth lender to the bank syndicate.
 Effective December 21, 2011, we entered into a twelfth amendment to our credit agreement, which assigned the rights and
obligations of BNP Paribas as lender under the credit agreement, to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBank National Association, Royal Bank of Canada and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.  We had outstanding borrowings of $43.8 million under our revolving credit facility at December 31, 2011. We had no outstanding borrowings at December 31, 2010. The interest rate applicable to
our revolving credit facility at December 31, 2011, was 3.7%. We also had outstanding unused letters of credit under our revolving credit facility totaling $350,000 at December 31, 2011, which reduce amounts available for borrowing under
our revolving credit facility.  Loans under our revolving credit facility are secured by first priority liens on substantially
all of our West Texas assets and are guaranteed by our subsidiaries. 
  F-17



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 
Covenants 
Our credit agreement contains two principal financial covenants: 
 


 
•
 
 a consolidated modified current ratio covenant that requires us to maintain a ratio of not less than 1.0 to 1.0 at all times. The consolidated modified
current ratio is calculated by dividing Consolidated Current Assets (as defined in the credit agreement) by Consolidated Current Liabilities (as defined in the credit agreement). As defined more specifically in the credit agreement, the consolidated
modified current ratio is calculated as current assets less current unrealized gains on commodity derivatives plus the available borrowing base at the respective balance sheet date, divided by current liabilities less current unrealized losses on
commodity derivatives at the respective balance sheet date.   


 
•
 
 a consolidated funded debt to consolidated EBITDAX ratio covenant that requires us to maintain a ratio of not more than 4.0 to 1.0 at the end of each
fiscal quarter. The consolidated funded debt to consolidated EBITDAX ratio is calculated by dividing Consolidated Funded Debt (as defined in the credit agreement) by Consolidated EBITDAX (as defined in the credit agreement). As defined
more specifically in the credit agreement, consolidated EBITDAX is calculated as net income (loss), plus (1) exploration expense, (2) depletion, depreciation and amortization expense, (3) share-based compensation expense,
(4) unrealized loss on commodity derivatives, (5) interest expense, (6) income and franchise taxes and (7) certain other noncash expenses, less (1) gains or losses from sales or dispositions of assets, (2) unrealized
gain on commodity derivatives and (3) extraordinary or nonrecurring gains. For purposes of calculating this ratio, consolidated EBITDAX for a fiscal quarter is annualized pursuant to the credit agreement.
Our credit agreement also restricts cash dividends and other restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, incurrence of other debt,
consolidations and mergers, the level of operating leases, assets sales, investments in other entities and liens on properties. 
In addition, our credit agreement contains customary events of default that would permit our lenders to accelerate the debt under our
credit agreement if not cured within applicable grace periods, including, among others, failure to make payments of principal or interest when due, materially incorrect representations and warranties, failure to make mandatory prepayments in the
event of borrowing base deficiencies, breach of covenants, defaults upon other obligations in excess of $500,000, events of bankruptcy, the occurrence of one or more unstayed judgments in excess of $500,000 not covered by an acceptable policy
of insurance, failure to pay any obligation in excess of $500,000 owed under any derivatives transaction or in any amount if the obligation under the derivatives transaction is secured by collateral under the credit agreement, any event of default
by the Company occurs under any agreement entered into in connection with a derivatives transaction, liens securing the loans under the credit agreement cease to be in place, a Change in Control (as defined in the credit agreement) of the Company
occurs, and dissolution of the Company.  At December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all of our covenants and had
not committed any acts of default under the credit agreement.   


5.
Share-Based Compensation 
In June 2007, the board of directors and stockholders approved the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (“the 2007
Plan”). Under the 2007 Plan, we may grant restricted stock, stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock units, performance awards, unrestricted stock awards and other incentive awards.

  F-18



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 

The 2007 Plan reserves 10 percent of our outstanding common shares as adjusted on January 1 of each year, plus shares of common stock that were available for grant of awards under our prior
plan. Awards of any stock options are to be priced at not less than the fair market value at the date of the grant. The vesting period of any stock award is to be determined by the board or an authorized committee at the time of the grant. The term
of each stock option is to be fixed at the time of grant and may not exceed 10 years. Shares issued upon stock options exercised are issued as new shares.  Share-based compensation expense amounted to $4.7 million, $2.6 million and $1.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Such amounts represent the estimated fair
value of stock awards for which the requisite service period elapsed during those periods. Included in share-based compensation expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, was $420,000, $381,000 and $377,000, respectively,
related to grants to nonemployee directors.  Stock Options 
There were no stock option grants during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. As of December 31, 2011, all stock
options are fully vested.  The following table summarizes stock options outstanding and activity as of and for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, (dollars in thousands):   




















 
  
SharesSubject toStockOptions
 
 
WeightedAverageExercisePrice
 
  
WeightedAverageRemainingContractualTerm(in years)
 
  
AggregateIntrinsicValue
 

 Outstanding at January 1, 2009
  
 
434,302
  
 
$
8.47
  
  
 
6.55
  
  
$
837
  

 Granted
  
 
—
  
 
$
 —
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
—
  
 
$
 —
  
  



  




 Canceled
  
 
(24,975
) 
 
$
12.00
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2009
  
 
409,327
  
 
$
8.03
  
  
 
5.41
  
  
$
 —
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Granted
  
 
—
  
 
$
 —
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
(58,798
) 
 
$
12.76
  
  



  




 Canceled
  
 
(16,191
) 
 
$
12.00
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2010
  
 
334,338
  
 
$
7.01
  
  
 
3.85
  
  
$
4,567
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Granted
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
(74,241
) 
 
$
13.59
  
  



  




 Canceled
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
  
 
260,097
  
 
$
5.13
  
  
 
1.94
  
  
$
6,315
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Exercisable (fully vested) at December 31, 2011
  
 
260,097
  
 
$
5.13
  
  
 
1.94
  
  
$
6,315
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The intrinsic value of the options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, was
$1.1 million and $608,000, respectively. The tax benefit recognized related to the stock option exercises was $358,000 and $141,000 in the years ended December 31, 2011, and 2010, respectively. 
  F-19



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 
Nonvested Shares 
Share grants totaling 256,317 shares, 568,142 shares and 204,790 shares with an approximate aggregate fair market value of $8.1 million,
$4.3 million and $1.7 million at the time of grant were granted to employees during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Included in the share grants for 2011 and 2010 are 204,000 shares and 400,000 shares,
respectively, awarded to our executive officers. The aggregate fair market value of these shares on the grant date was $6.5 million and $2.7 million, respectively, to be expensed over a remaining service period of approximately three years, subject
to certain performance restrictions. A summary of the status of nonvested shares for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, is presented below:   












 
  
Shares
 
 
WeightedAverageGrant-Date
Fair Value
 

 Nonvested at January 1, 2009
  
 
56,023
  
 
$
18.96
  

 Granted
  
 
204,790
  
 
 
8.40
  

 Vested
  
 
(32,182
) 
 
 
18.07
  

 Canceled
  
 
(2,751
) 
 
 
12.39
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Nonvested at December 31, 2009
  
 
225,880
  
 
 
9.73
  

 Granted
  
 
568,142
  
 
 
7.71
  

 Vested
  
 
(77,969
) 
 
 
10.07
  

 Canceled
  
 
(7,272
) 
 
 
9.51
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Nonvested at December 31, 2010
  
 
708,781
  
 
 
8.04
  

 Granted
  
 
256,317
  
 
 
31.54
  

 Vested
  
 
(124,134
) 
 
 
9.93
  

 Canceled
  
 
(50,842
) 
 
 
12.03
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Nonvested at December 31, 2011
  
 
790,122
  
 
$
15.06
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 As of December 31, 2011, unrecognized compensation expense related to the nonvested shares amounted
to $7.6 million, which will be recognized over a remaining service period of three years.  On February 21, 2012, 129,890
restricted shares were awarded to our executive officers. The number of shares awarded assumes that the Company will achieve maximum total shareholder return performance conditions. The aggregate fair market value of these shares on the grant date
was $4.8 million, to be expensed over a remaining service period of approximately four years, subject to certain performance conditions and three-year total shareholder return performance. 
 


6.
Income Taxes 
Our provision (benefit) for income taxes comprised the following (in thousands): 
 
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Deferred:
  



  



  




 Federal
  
$
3,199
  
  
$
3,917
  
  
$
(1,056
) 

 State
  
 
289
  
  
 
183
  
  
 
271
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total deferred provision (benefit) for income taxes
  
$
3,488
  
  
$
4,100
  
  
$
(785
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-20



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 
Total income tax expense (benefit) differed from the amounts computed by applying the
U.S. Federal statutory tax rates to pre-tax income (in thousands):   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Statutory tax at 34%
  
$
3,648
  
 
$
3,931
  
 
$
(2,045
) 

 State taxes, net of federal impact
  
 
289
  
 
 
184
  
 
 
72
  

 Permanent differences(1)
  
 
(289
) 
 
 
53
  
 
 
231
  

 Other differences
  
 
(160
) 
 
 
(68
) 
 
 
957
(2) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
3,488
  
 
$
4,100
  
 
$
(785
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Amounts primarily relate to share-based compensation expense and stock option exercises. 
 


(2)
Approximately $600,000 relates to a change in our estimated income tax for the year ended December 31, 2008. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are the result of temporary differences between the financial statement carrying values and tax bases
of assets and liabilities. Our net deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded as a long-term liability of $46.3 million and $44.6 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, $504,000 and $2.3
million of deferred taxes expected to be realized within one year were included in current assets. Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities are (in thousands): 
 












 
  
Years EndedDecember 
31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  



 




 Net operating loss carryforwards
  
$
31,052
  
 
$
13,587
  

 Unrealized loss on commodity derivatives
  
 
504
  
 
 
381
  

 Other
  
 
866
  
 
 
1,148
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax assets
  
 
32,422
  
 
 
15,116
  

 Deferred tax liability:
  



 




 Difference in depreciation, depletion and capitalization methods—oil and gas properties
  
 
(78,174
) 
 
 
(57,414
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax liability
  
$
(45,752
) 
 
$
(42,298
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-21



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 
Net operating loss carryforwards for tax purposes have the following expiration dates
(in thousands):   
















 Expiration Dates
  
Amounts
 
  
Stock OptionAdjustments
 
  
Total
 

 2023
  
$
1,523
  
  
$
 —
  
  
$
1,523
  

 2024
  
 
1,082
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,082
  

 2025
  
 
2,594
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,594
  

 2026
  
 
1,683
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,683
  

 2027
  
 
1,020
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,020
  

 2028
  
 
1,308
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,308
  

 2029
  
 
3,299
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,299
  

 2030
  
 
12,605
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
12,605
  

 2031
  
 
63,705
  
  
 
1,972
  
  
 
65,677
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
88,819
  
  
$
1,972
  
  
$
90,791
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 As of December 31, 2011, we had net operating loss carryfowards of approximately $90.8 million, of
which approximately $2 million was generated from the benefit of stock options. When these benefits are realized, they will be credited to additional paid-in capital.   


7.
Derivatives 
At December 31, 2011, we had the following commodity derivatives positions outstanding: 
 










 Commodity and Period
  
ContractType
    
Volume Transacted
  
Contract Price

 Natural Gas – 2012
  
Call
    
230,000 MMBtu/month
  
$6.00/MMBtu

 Crude Oil – 2012
  
Collar
    
700 Bbls/d
  
$85.00/Bbl – $97.50/Bbl

 Crude Oil – 2012
  
Collar
    
500 Bbls/d
  
$90.00/Bbl – $106.10/Bbl
 Subsequent to December 31, 2011, we entered into the following commodity derivatives positions:
  










 Commodity and Period
  
ContractType
  
Volume Transacted
  
Contract Price

 Natural Gasoline – February 2012 – December 2012
  
Swap
  
225 Bbls/d
  
$95.55/Bbl

 Normal Butane – March 2012 – December 2012
  
Swap
  
225 Bbls/d
  
$73.92/Bbl

 Crude Oil – 2013
  
Collar
  
650 Bbls/d
  
$90.00/Bbl – $105.80/Bbl

 Crude Oil – 2014
  
Collar
  
550 Bbls/d
  
$90.00/Bbl – $105.50/Bbl

  F-22



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 
The following summarizes the fair value of our open commodity derivatives as of
December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 (in thousands):   
























 
  
 Asset Derivatives
 
  
 Liability Derivatives
 

 
  
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
 
  
Fair Value
 

  
  
 Balance SheetLocation
  
December 31,2011
 
  
December 31,2010
 
  
 Balance SheetLocation
  
December 31,2011
 
  
December 31,2010
 

 Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments
  

  



  



  

  



  




 Commodity derivatives
  
Unrealized gain on commodity derivatives
  
$
—
  
  
$
862
  
  
Unrealized loss on commodity derivatives
  
$
1,441
  
  
$
1,956
  
 The following summarizes the change in the fair value of our commodity derivatives (in thousands):
  


















 
  
 Income Statement Location
  
 
 

 
  
 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments
  

  



 



  




 Commodity derivatives
  
Unrealized (loss) gain on commodity derivatives
  
$
(347
) 
 
$
788
  
  
$
(9,899
) 


  
Realized gain on commodity derivatives
  
 
3,375
  
 
 
5,784
  
  
 
14,659
  


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  

  
$
3,028
  
 
$
6,572
  
  
$
4,760
  


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Unrealized gains and losses, at fair value, are included on our consolidated balance sheets as current or
non-current assets or liabilities based on the anticipated timing of cash settlements under the related contracts. Changes in the fair value of our commodity derivative contracts are recorded in earnings as they occur and included in other income
(expense) on our consolidated statements of operations. We estimate the fair value of swap contracts based on the present value of the difference in exchange-quoted forward price curves and contractual settlement prices multiplied by notional
quantities. We internally valued the option contracts using industry-standard option pricing models and observable market inputs. We use our internal valuations to determine the fair values of the contracts that are reflected on our consolidated
balance sheets. Realized gains and losses are also included in other income (expense) on our consolidated statements of operations.  We are exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties on our commodity derivatives positions and have considered the exposure in our internal valuations. However, we do not
anticipate nonperformance by the counterparties over the term of the commodity derivatives positions. 
  F-23



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 
To estimate the fair value of our commodity derivatives positions, we use market data or
assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including assumptions about risk and the risks inherent in the inputs to the valuation technique. These inputs can be readily observable, market corroborated or
generally unobservable. We primarily apply the market approach for recurring fair value measurements and attempt to use the best available information. We determine the fair value based upon the hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure
fair value. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurement) and lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurement). The three levels of fair
value hierarchy are as follows:   


 
•
 
 Level 1 — Quoted prices are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date. At December 31, 2011,
we had no Level 1 measurements.   


 
•
 
 Level 2 — Pricing inputs are other than quoted prices in active markets included in Level 1, which are either directly or indirectly observable as
of the reporting date. Level 2 includes those financial instruments that are valued using models or other valuation methodologies. These models are primarily industry-standard models that consider various assumptions, including quoted forward prices
for commodities, time value, volatility factors and current market and contractual prices for the underlying instruments, as well as other relevant economic measures. Our derivatives, which consist primarily of commodity swaps and collars, are
valued using commodity market data which is derived by combining raw inputs and quantitative models and processes to generate forward curves. Where observable inputs are available, directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset
or liability, the instrument is categorized in Level 2. At December 31, 2011, all of our commodity derivatives were valued using Level 2 measurements. 
 


 
•
 
 Level 3 — Pricing inputs include significant inputs that are generally less observable from objective sources. These inputs may be used with
internally developed methodologies that result in management’s best estimate of fair value. At December 31, 2011, our Level 3 measurements were limited to our asset retirement obligation. Additionally, Level 3 measurements were used to
calculate our estimated fair value of our oil and gas properties in the East Texas Basin. We valued these properties by estimating future discounted net cash flows of reserves using forward market prices adjusted for locational basis differentials
and other costs.   


8.
Commitments and Contingencies 
We periodically enter into contractual arrangements under which we are committed to expend funds to drill wells in the
future, including agreements to secure drilling rig services, which require us to make future minimum payments to the rig operators. We record drilling commitments in the periods in which well capital expenditures are incurred or rig services are
provided. Our commitment under daywork drilling contracts was $3.4 million at December 31, 2011.  In December 2011, we
extended an 18-month contract for a dedicated, third-party fracture stimulation fleet by three months. The contract requires a minimum commitment of $16.5 million per quarter for the contract term. The contract contains early termination provisions
for a monthly fee of less than the minimum quarterly commitment in the event of a termination before the end of the contract term.  At December 31, 2011, we had employment agreements with all five of our executive officers. These agreements are automatically renewed for successive terms of one year unless employment is terminated
at the end of the term by written notice given to the employee not less than 60 days prior to the end of such term. Our maximum commitment under the employment agreements, which would apply if the executives covered by these agreements were each
terminated without cause, was approximately $4 million at December 31, 2011. This estimate assumes the maximum potential bonus for 2012 is earned by each employee during 2012. 
  F-24



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 
We lease our office space in Fort Worth, Texas, under a non-cancelable agreement
that expires on December 31, 2012. We also have non-cancelable operating lease commitments related to office equipment that expire by 2012. The following is a schedule by years of future minimum rental payments required under our operating
lease arrangements as of December 31, 2011 (in thousands):   








 2012
  
$
510
  

 2013 – 2016
  
 
125
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
635
  


  
  
  
 
 Rent expense under our lease arrangements amounted to $630,000, $463,000 and $461,000 for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Litigation 
In August 2011, we settled all claims with EnCana Oil & Gas (USA) Inc. (“EnCana”) arising out of Approach Operating,
LLC v. EnCana Oil & Gas (USA) Inc., Cause No. 29.070A, District Court of Limestone County, Texas. As previously disclosed, on July 2, 2009, our operating subsidiary filed a lawsuit against EnCana for breach of the joint
operating agreement (“JOA”) covering our North Bald Prairie project in East Texas and seeking damages for nonpayment of amounts owed under the JOA as well as declaratory relief. As part of the release and settlement of all claims by
both parties, EnCana paid us $1.4 million. In addition, we will remain operator of the North Bald Prairie project, subject to the terms of the JOA.  We are involved in various legal and regulatory proceedings arising in the normal course of business. While we cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings with certainty, we do not believe that
an adverse result in any pending legal or regulatory proceeding, individually or in the aggregate, would be material to our consolidated financial condition or cash flows.  Environmental Issues We are engaged in oil and gas exploration and
production and may become subject to certain liabilities as they relate to environmental clean up of well sites or other environmental restoration procedures as they relate to the drilling of oil and gas wells and the operation thereof. In
connection with our acquisition of existing or previously drilled well bores, we may not be aware of what environmental safeguards were taken at the time such wells were drilled or during such time the wells were operated. Should it be determined
that a liability exists with respect to any environmental clean up or restoration, we would be responsible for curing such a violation. No claim has been made, nor are we aware of any liability that exists, as it relates to any environmental clean
up, restoration or the violation of any rules or regulations relating thereto. 
  F-25



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 


9.
Oil and Gas Producing Activities 
Set forth below is certain information regarding the costs incurred for oil and gas property acquisition, development
and exploration activities (in thousands):   
















 
  
For the Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Property acquisition costs:
  



  



  




 Unproved properties
  
$
30,019
  
  
$
12,528
  
  
$
1,081
  

 Proved properties
  
 
11,785
  
  
 
2,055
  
  
 
57
  

 Exploration costs
  
 
9,991
  
  
 
2,874
  
  
 
1,483
  

 Development costs(1)
  
 
233,969
  
  
 
72,528
  
  
 
28,121
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total costs incurred
  
$
285,764
  
  
$
89,985
  
  
$
30,742
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, development costs include $1.2 million, $604,000 and $170,000 in non-cash asset retirement obligations,
respectively.  Set forth below is certain information regarding the results of operations for oil and gas
producing activities (in thousands):   
















 
  
For the Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Revenues
  
$
108,387
  
 
$
57,581
  
 
$
40,648
  

 Production costs
  
 
(19,134
) 
 
 
(11,545
) 
 
 
(9,773
) 

 Exploration expense
  
 
(9,546
) 
 
 
(2,589
) 
 
 
(1,621
) 

 Impairment
  
 
(18,476
) 
 
 
(2,622
) 
 
 
(2,964
) 

 Depletion
  
 
(31,858
) 
 
 
(21,991
) 
 
 
(24,456
) 

 Income tax expense
  
 
(9,546
) 
 
 
(6,527
) 
 
 
(636
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Results of operations
  
$
19,827
  
 
$
12,307
  
 
$
1,198
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


10.
Disclosures About Oil and Gas Producing Activities (unaudited) 
Proved Reserves  The estimates of proved reserves and related valuations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, were prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton, independent petroleum engineers. Each
year’s estimate of proved reserves and related valuations were also prepared in accordance with then-current provisions of ASC 932 and Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities. 
  F-26



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 
Estimates of proved reserves are inherently imprecise and are continually subject to
revision based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors. All of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves are attributable to properties within the United States. A summary of
Approach’s changes in quantities of proved oil, NGL and natural gas reserves for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, are as follows:   




















 Proved Developed and Proved
Undeveloped Reserves
  
Oil(MBbls)
 
 
NGLs(MBbls)
 
 
Natural Gas(MMcf)
 
 
Total(MBoe)
 

 Balance — December 31, 2008
  
 
3,538
  
 
 
2,829
  
 
 
172,867
  
 
 
35,178
  

 Extensions and discoveries
  
 
1,392
  
 
 
1,290
  
 
 
14,301
  
 
 
5,066
  

 Purchases of minerals in place
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Production
  
 
(206
) 
 
 
(209
) 
 
 
(6,320
) 
 
 
(1,468
) 

 Revisions to previous estimates
  
 
(386
) 
 
 
184
  
 
 
(12,514
) 
 
 
(2,288
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance — December 31, 2009
  
 
4,338
  
 
 
4,094
  
 
 
168,334
  
 
 
36,488
  

 Extensions and discoveries
  
 
984
  
 
 
1,395
  
 
 
8,365
  
 
 
3,773
  

 Purchases of minerals in place
  
 
383
  
 
 
786
  
 
 
4,736
  
 
 
1,958
  

 Production
  
 
(247
) 
 
 
(261
) 
 
 
(6,290
) 
 
 
(1,556
) 

 Revisions to previous estimates
  
 
(507
) 
 
 
14,685
  
 
 
(24,756
) 
 
 
10,052
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance — December 31, 2010
  
 
4,951
  
 
 
20,699
  
 
 
150,389
  
 
 
50,715
  

 Extensions and discoveries
  
 
11,847
  
 
 
7,010
  
 
 
40,146
  
 
 
25,548
  

 Purchases of minerals in place
  
 
2,200
  
 
 
4,284
  
 
 
24,083
  
 
 
10,498
  

 Production
  
 
(482
) 
 
 
(798
) 
 
 
(6,345
) 
 
 
(2,338
) 

 Revisions to previous estimates
  
 
(465
) 
 
 
(2,072
) 
 
 
(29,466
) 
 
 
(7,448
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance — December 31, 2011
  
 
18,051
  
 
 
29,123
  
 
 
178,807
  
 
 
76,975
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Proved Developed Reserves:
  



 



 



 




 December 31, 2009
  
 
1,239
  
 
 
1,879
  
 
 
74,804
  
 
 
15,585
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 December 31, 2010
  
 
2,146
  
 
 
11,193
  
 
 
74,739
  
 
 
25,795
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 December 31, 2011
  
 
5,542
  
 
 
13,945
  
 
 
84,743
  
 
 
33,611
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The following is a discussion of the material changes in our proved reserve quantities for the years
ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:  Year Ended December 31, 2011 
We produced 2.4 MMBoe during 2011, 99% of which is attributable to our assets in the Permian Basin. Extensions and discoveries of 25.5
MMBoe for 2011 include 24.2 MMBoe attributable to our Wolffork oil shale resource play in the Permian Basin. During 2011, we acquired approximately 10.5 MMBoe of proved reserves through the 38% Working Interest Acquisition. We recorded downward
revisions of 7.5 MMBoe to the December 31, 2010, estimates of our proved reserves at year end 2011. Downward revisions of 7.5 MMBoe include 5.6 MMBoe of economic revisions in southeast Project Pangea in the Permian Basin and 2.2 MMBoe of proved
undeveloped reserves in the East Texas Basin that, due to ongoing, low natural gas prices, we do not expect to develop by year-end 2013. Also included in the revisions were 0.3 MMBoe of positive revisions resulting from higher oil and NGL prices
using the average 12-month price in 2011. 
  F-27



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2010 
Our drilling programs in Project Pangea in the Permian Basin resulted in our classification of reserves as proved, which accounts for the
additional quantities listed under extensions and discoveries. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a 10.1 MMBoe positive revision to our previous estimate, resulting from 9.2 MMBoe attributable to planned processing upgrades in
southeast Project Pangea and 1.1 MMBoe attributable to an increase in commodity prices, partially offset by 0.2 MMBoe of negative performance revisions. On April 1, 2011, we will begin realizing NGL revenues from the natural gas production in
southeast Project Pangea under a gas purchase and processing contract with DCP Midstream, LP. The commodity prices used to estimate our proved reserves at December 31, 2010, increased to $4.38/MMBtu of gas, $39.25/Bbl of NGLs and $79.40/Bbl of
oil from $3.87/MMBtu of natural gas, $27.20/Bbl of NGLs and $56.04/Bbl of oil at December 31, 2009. The negative revision of 0.1 MMBoe, primarily related to producing properties in our North Bald Prairie field in the East Texas Basin. Well
performance data collected during 2010 for North Bald Prairie indicated that these assets underperformed our year-end 2010 decline estimates. Accordingly, we removed 0.9 Bcf (0.2 MMBoe) from proved reserves recorded for North Bald Prairie. We also
removed 0.1 MMBoe in Project Pangea due to performance revisions.  Year Ended December 31, 2009 
Our drilling programs in Project Pangea in the Permian Basin resulted in our classification of reserves as proved, which accounts for the
additional quantities listed under extensions and discoveries. For the year ended December 31, 2009, of the 2.3 MMBoe downward revision of our previous estimate, 1.7 MMBoe and 0.6 MMBoe relate to price and performance revisions, respectively.
The gas price used to estimate our proved reserves decreased from $6.04 per Mcf at December 31, 2008, to $3.88 per Mcf at December 31, 2009. The performance revision primarily related to producing properties in our North Bald Prairie field
in the East Texas Basin. Well performance data collected during 2009 for North Bald Prairie indicate that these assets underperformed our year-end 2008 decline estimates. Accordingly, we removed 4.5 Bcf from proved reserves recorded for North Bald
Prairie. We also removed 0.1 MMBoe in southeast Project Pangea due to performance revisions. Partially offsetting the removal of 0.9 MMBoe from proved reserves recorded for North Bald Prairie and southeast Project Pangea was a positive performance
revision of 0.3 MMBoe in northern Project Pangea.  Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Reserves
 The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and natural gas reserves and the
changes in standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and natural gas reserves were prepared in accordance with 2010 and 2009 provisions of ASC 932 and SFAS 69. Future cash inflows were computed by applying
the average on the closing price on the first day of each month for the 12-month period prior to December 31, 2011, to estimated future production. Future production and development costs are computed by estimating the expenditures to be
incurred in developing and producing the proved oil and natural gas reserves at year end, based on year-end costs and assuming continuation of existing economic conditions.  Future income tax expenses are calculated by applying appropriate year-end tax rates to future pre-tax net cash flows relating to proved oil and natural gas reserves, less the tax basis of properties
involved.  Future income tax expenses give effect to permanent differences, tax credits and loss carryforwards relating to the
proved oil and natural gas reserves. Future net cash flows are discounted at a rate of 10% annually to derive the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows. This calculation procedure does not necessarily result in an estimate of the
fair market value of Approach’s oil and natural gas properties. 
  F-28



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 
The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and
natural gas reserves are as follows (in thousands):   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Future cash flows
  
$
3,772,633
  
 
$
1,804,477
  
 
$
1,007,703
  

 Future production costs
  
 
(1,012,044
) 
 
 
(499,321
) 
 
 
(358,276
) 

 Future development costs
  
 
(625,994
) 
 
 
(259,005
) 
 
 
(213,161
) 

 Future income tax expense
  
 
(583,961
) 
 
 
(282,628
) 
 
 
(88,796
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Future net cash flows
  
 
1,550,634
  
 
 
763,523
  
 
 
347,470
  

 10% annual discount for estimated timing of cash flows
  
 
(1,136,253
) 
 
 
(559,291
) 
 
 
(267,479
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows
  
$
414,381
  
 
$
204,232
  
 
$
79,991
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Future cash flows as shown above were reported without consideration for the effects of commodity
derivative transactions outstanding at each period end.  Changes in Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows
 The changes in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and natural gas
reserves are as follows (in thousands):   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Balance, beginning of period
  
$
204,232
  
 
$
79,991
  
 
$
142,635
  

 Net change in sales and transfer prices and in production (lifting) costs related to future production
  
 
334,104
  
 
 
120,520
  
 
 
(89,649
) 

 Changes in estimated future development costs
  
 
(395,037
) 
 
 
(65,718
) 
 
 
(29,647
) 

 Sales and transfers of oil and gas produced during the period
  
 
(89,253
) 
 
 
(46,031
) 
 
 
(30,877
) 

 Net change due to extensions, discoveries and improved recovery
  
 
291,501
  
 
 
30,240
  
 
 
26,648
  

 Net change due to purchase of minerals in place
  
 
119,780
  
 
 
15,696
  
 
 
—
  

 Net change due to revisions in quantity estimates
  
 
(84,988
) 
 
 
80,564
  
 
 
(12,034
) 

 Previously estimated development costs incurred during the period
  
 
182,522
  
 
 
40,265
  
 
 
28,121
  

 Accretion of discount
  
 
32,793
  
 
 
17,166
  
 
 
18,743
  

 Other
  
 
(38,107
) 
 
 
4,171
  
 
 
(3,449
) 

 Net change in income taxes
  
 
(143,166
) 
 
 
(72,632
) 
 
 
29,500
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows
  
$
414,381
  
 
$
204,232
  
 
$
79,991
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-29



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 
The commodity prices in effect at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, inclusive of
adjustments for quality and location used in determining future net revenues related to the standardized measure calculation are as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Oil (per Bbl)
  
$
89.65
  
  
$
74.90
  
  
$
56.04
  

 Natural gas liquids (per Bbl)
  
$
49.63
  
  
$
39.25
  
  
$
27.20
  

 Gas (per Mcf)
  
$
3.97
  
  
$
4.13
  
  
$
3.88
  
  


11.
Supplementary Data 
Selected Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited), (dollars in thousands, except per-share amounts): 
 




















 
  
2011 Quarters Ended
 

 
  
December 31
 
 
September 30
 
 
June 30
 
 
March 31
 

 Net revenue
  
$
31,123
  
 
$
27,958
  
 
$
29,123
  
 
$
20,183
  

 Net operating expenses
  
 
(42,339
) 
 
 
(19,092
) 
 
 
(18,170
) 
 
 
(17,930
) 

 Interest expense, net
  
 
(1,010
) 
 
 
(1,016
) 
 
 
(863
) 
 
 
(513
) 

 Realized gain on commodity derivatives
  
 
1,720
  
 
 
1,392
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
197
  

 Unrealized (loss) gain on commodity derivatives
  
 
(4,168
) 
 
 
1,739
  
 
 
2,231
  
 
 
(149
) 

 (Loss) gain on sale of oil and gas properties
  
 
(243
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
488
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 (Loss) income before income (benefit) tax
  
 
(14,917
) 
 
 
10,981
  
 
 
12,390
  
 
 
2,276
  

 Income tax (benefit) provision
  
 
(5,632
) 
 
 
3,908
  
 
 
4,400
  
 
 
812
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net (loss) income
  
$
(9,285
) 
 
$
7,073
  
 
$
7,990
  
 
$
1,464
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic net (loss) income applicable to common stockholders per common share
  
$
(0.30
) 
 
$
0.25
  
 
$
0.28
  
 
$
0.05
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted net (loss) income applicable to common stockholders per common share
  
$
(0.30
) 
 
$
0.25
  
 
$
0.28
  
 
$
0.05
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  




















 
  
2010 Quarters Ended
 

 
  
December 31
 
 
September 30
 
 
June 30
 
 
March 31
 

 Net revenue
  
$
16,290
  
 
$
14,916
  
 
$
13,155
  
 
$
13,220
  

 Net operating expenses
  
 
(15,493
) 
 
 
(12,350
) 
 
 
(10,191
) 
 
 
(12,368
) 

 Interest expense, net
  
 
(558
) 
 
 
(615
) 
 
 
(550
) 
 
 
(466
) 

 Realized gain on commodity derivatives
  
 
2,171
  
 
 
1,615
  
 
 
1,768
  
 
 
230
  

 Unrealized (loss) gain on commodity derivatives
  
 
(2,094
) 
 
 
(312
) 
 
 
(1,901
) 
 
 
5,095
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
 
316
  
 
 
3,254
  
 
 
2,281
  
 
 
5,711
  

 Income tax provision
  
 
55
  
 
 
1,167
  
 
 
730
  
 
 
2,148
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
261
  
 
$
2,087
  
 
$
1,551
  
 
$
3,563
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic net income applicable to common stockholders per common share
  
$
0.01
  
 
$
0.10
  
 
$
0.07
  
 
$
0.17
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted net income applicable to common stockholders per common share
  
$
0.01
  
 
$
0.10
  
 
$
0.07
  
 
$
0.17
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-30



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 
 




















 
  
2009 Quarters Ended
 

 
  
December 31
 
 
September 30
 
 
June 30
 
 
March 31
 

 Net revenue
  
$
11,881
  
 
$
8,787
  
 
$
9,915
  
 
$
10,065
  

 Net operating expenses
  
 
(15,650
) 
 
 
(10,715
) 
 
 
(10,713
) 
 
 
(12,557
) 

 Interest expense, net
  
 
(434
) 
 
 
(451
) 
 
 
(457
) 
 
 
(445
) 

 Realized gain on commodity derivatives
  
 
2,763
  
 
 
4,271
  
 
 
4,444
  
 
 
3,181
  

 Unrealized (loss) gain on commodity derivatives
  
 
(1,310
) 
 
 
(6,414
) 
 
 
(4,320
) 
 
 
2,145
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 (Loss) income before income taxes
  
 
(2,750
) 
 
 
(4,522
) 
 
 
(1,131
) 
 
 
2,389
  

 Income tax (benefit) provision
  
 
(468
) 
 
 
(1,378
) 
 
 
(460
) 
 
 
1,521
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net (loss) income
  
$
(2,282
) 
 
$
(3,144
) 
 
$
(671
) 
 
$
868
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic net (loss) income applicable to common stockholders per common share
  
$
(0.11
) 
 
$
(0.15
) 
 
$
(0.03
) 
 
$
0.04
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted net (loss) income applicable to common stockholders per common share
  
$
(0.11
) 
 
$
(0.15
) 
 
$
(0.03
) 
 
$
0.04
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  F-31



Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. 
Index to Exhibits   






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description of Exhibit

     2.1
  
Purchase and Sale Agreement dated February 23, 2011, between J. Cleo Thompson and James Cleo Thompson, Jr. L.P., Wes-Tex Drilling Company, L.P. and Approach Oil & Gas Inc.
(filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 1, 2011, and incorporated herein by reference).




     3.1
  
Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Approach Resources Inc. (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed December 13, 2007, and incorporated
herein by reference).




     3.2
  
Restated Bylaws of Approach Resources Inc. (filed as Exhibit 3.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed December 13, 2007, and incorporated herein by
reference).




     4.1
  
Specimen Common Stock Certificate (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1/A filed October 18, 2007 (File No. 333-144512), and incorporated
herein by reference).




   10.1
  
Form of Indemnity Agreement between Approach Resources Inc. and each of its directors and officers (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1/A
filed September 13, 2007 (File No. 333-144512), and incorporated herein by reference).




   10.2
  
First Amendment to Form of Indemnity Agreement between Approach Resources Inc. and each of its directors and officers (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed December 31, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference).




   10.3†
  
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by and between Approach Resources Inc. andJ. Ross Craft dated January 1, 2011 (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed January 6, 2011, and incorporated herein by reference).




   10.4†
  
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by and between Approach Resources Inc. and Steven P. Smart dated January 1, 2011 (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed January 6, 2011, and incorporated herein by reference).




   10.5†
  
Employment Agreement by and between Approach Resources Inc. and J. Curtis Henderson dated January 1, 2011 (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed January 6, 2011, and incorporated herein by reference).




   10.6†
  
Employment Agreement by and between Approach Resources Inc. and Qingming Yang dated January 24, 2011 (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
January 28, 2011, and incorporated herein by reference).




   10.7†
  
Employment Agreement by and between Approach Resources Inc. and Ralph P. Manoushagian dated January 24, 2011 (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed January 28, 2011, and incorporated herein by reference).




   10.8†
  
Approach Resources Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, effective as of June 28, 2007 (filed as Exhibit 10.6 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed
July 12, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference).




   10.9†
  
First Amendment dated December 31, 2008, to Approach Resources Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, effective as of June 28, 2007 (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed December 31, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference).




   10.10
  
Form of Business Opportunities Agreement among Approach Resources Inc. and the other signatories thereto (filed as Exhibit 10.11 to the Company’s Registration Statement
onForm S-1/A filed October 18, 2007 (File No. 333-144512), and incorporated herein by reference).
  70 


Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. 
Index to Exhibits — continued   






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description of Exhibit

   10.11†
  
Form of Option Agreement under 2003 Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.12 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed July 12, 2007, and incorporated herein
by reference).




   10.12†
  
Form of Summary of Stock Option Grant under Approach Resources Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.14 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1/A
filed October 18, 2007 (File No. 333-144512), and incorporated herein by reference).




   10.13†
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement under Approach Resources Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.10 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed
November 6, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference).




   10.14†
  
Form of Performance-Based, Time-Vesting Restricted Stock Award Agreement under Approach Resources Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.14 to the Company’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K filed March 11, 2011, and incorporated herein by reference).




   10.15†
  
Form of TSR-Based Restricted Stock Award Agreement under Approach Resources Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed February 20, 2012, and incorporated herein by reference).




   10.16
  
Registration Rights Agreement dated as of November 14, 2007, by and among Approach Resources Inc. and investors identified therein (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s
Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed December 3, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference).




   10.17
  
Gas Purchase Agreement dated as of November 21, 2007, between WTG Benedum Joint Venture, as Buyer, and Approach Oil & Gas Inc. and Approach Operating, LLC, as Seller (filed as
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 28, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference).




   10.18
  
Gas Purchase Contract dated as of January 1, 2011, between Approach Resources I, LP and Approach Oil & Gas Inc., as Seller, and DCP Midstream, LP, as Buyer (filed as Exhibit
10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 14, 2011, and incorporated herein by reference).




 *10.19
  
Specimen Oil and Gas Lease for University Lands.




   10.20
  
$200,000,000 Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of January 18, 2008, among Approach Resources Inc., as borrower, The Frost National Bank, as administrative agent and lender, and
the financial institutions named therein (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 25, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference).




   10.21
  
Amendment No. 1 dated February 19, 2008, to Credit Agreement dated as of January 18, 2008, among Approach Resources Inc., as borrower, The Frost National Bank, and JPMorgan Chase
Bank, NA, as lenders, and Approach Oil & Gas Inc., Approach Oil & Gas (Canada) Inc. and Approach Resources I, LP, as guarantors (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 22, 2008, and incorporated
herein by reference).




   10.22
  
Amendment No. 2 dated May 6, 2008, to Credit Agreement dated as of January 18, 2008, among Approach Resources Inc., as borrower, The Frost National Bank, as administrative agent and
lender, JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA, as lender, and Approach Oil & Gas Inc., Approach Oil & Gas (Canada) Inc. and Approach Resources I, LP, as guarantors (filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed August 28,
2008, and incorporated herein by reference).
  71 


Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. 
Index to Exhibits — continued   






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description of Exhibit

    10.23
  
Amendment No. 3 dated August 26, 2008, to Credit Agreement dated as of January 18, 2008, among Approach Resources Inc., as borrower, The Frost National Bank, as administrative agent
and lender, JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA, Fortis Capital Corp. and KeyBank National Association, as lenders, and Approach Oil & Gas Inc., Approach Oil & Gas (Canada) Inc. and Approach Resources I, LP, as guarantors (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the
Company’s Current Report onForm 8-K filed August 28, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference).




    10.24
  
Amendment No. 4 dated April 8, 2009, to Credit Agreement dated as of January 18, 2008, among Approach Resources Inc., as borrower, The Frost National Bank, as administrative agent
and lender, JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA, Fortis Capital Corp. and KeyBank National Association, as lenders, and Approach Oil & Gas Inc., Approach Oil & Gas (Canada) Inc. and Approach Resources I, LP, as guarantors (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the
Company’s Current Report onForm 8-K filed April 16, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference).




    10.25
  
Amendment No. 5 dated July 8, 2009, to Credit Agreement dated as of January 18, 2008, among Approach Resources Inc., as borrower, The Frost National Bank, as administrative agent
and lender, JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA, Fortis Capital Corp. and KeyBank National Association, as lenders, and Approach Oil & Gas Inc., Approach Oil & Gas (Canada) Inc. and Approach Resources I, LP, as guarantors (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the
Company’s Current Report onForm 8-K filed July 14, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference).




    10.26
  
Amendment No. 6 dated as of October 30, 2009, to Credit Agreement dated as of January 18, 2008, among Approach Resources Inc., as borrower, The Frost National Bank, as
administrative agent and lender, JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA, Fortis Capital Corp. and KeyBank National Association, as lenders, and Approach Oil & Gas Inc., Approach Oil & Gas (Canada) Inc. and Approach Resources I, LP, as guarantors (filed as
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 3, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference).




    10.27
  
Amendment No. 7 dated as of February 1, 2010, to Credit Agreement dated as of January 18, 2008, among Approach Resources Inc., as borrower, The Frost National Bank, as
administrative agent and lender, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as successor agent and lender, Fortis Capital Corp. and KeyBank National Association, as lenders, and Approach Oil & Gas Inc., Approach Oil & Gas (Canada) Inc. and Approach
Resources I, LP, as guarantors (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 4, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference).




    10.28
  
Amendment No. 8 dated as of May 3, 2010, to Credit Agreement dated as of January 18, 2008, among Approach Resources Inc., as Borrower, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative
agent and lender, The Frost National Bank, BNP Paribas and KeyBank National Association, as lenders, Fortis Capital Corp., as departing lender and Approach Oil & Gas Inc., Approach Oil & Gas (Canada) Inc. and Approach Resources I, LP, as
guarantors (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 6, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference).




    10.29
  
Amendment No. 9 dated as of October 21, 2010, to Credit Agreement dated as of January 18, 2008, among Approach Resources Inc., as Borrower, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
administrative agent and lender, The Frost National Bank, BNP Paribas and KeyBank National Association, as lenders, and Approach Oil & Gas Inc., Approach Oil & Gas (Canada) Inc. and Approach Resources I, LP, as guarantors (filed as Exhibit
10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 26, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference).
  72 


Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. 
Index to Exhibits — continued   






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description of Exhibit

    10.30
  
Amendment No. 10 dated as of May 4, 2011, to Credit Agreement dated as of January 18, 2008, among Approach Resources Inc., as Borrower, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative
agent and lender, The Frost National Bank, BNP Paribas, KeyBank National Association and Royal Bank of Canada, as lenders, and Approach Oil & Gas Inc., Approach Oil & Gas (Canada) Inc. and Approach Resources I, LP, as guarantors (filed as
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 4, 2011, and incorporated herein by reference).




   10.31
  
Amendment No. 11 dated as of October 7, 2011, to Credit Agreement dated as of January 18, 2008, among Approach Resources Inc., as Borrower, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
administrative agent and lender, The Frost National Bank, BNP Paribas, KeyBank National Association, Royal Bank of Canada and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as lenders, and Approach Oil & Gas Inc., Approach Oil & Gas (Canada) Inc. and Approach
Resources I, LP, as guarantors (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 11, 2011, and incorporated herein by reference).




    10.32
  
Amendment No. 12 dated as of December 20, 2011, to Credit Agreement dated as of January 18, 2008, among Approach Resources Inc., as Borrower, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
administrative agent and lender, KeyBank National Association, The Frost National Bank, Royal Bank of Canada and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as lenders, BNP Paribas, as departing lender, and Approach Oil & Gas Inc., Approach Oil & Gas (Canada)
Inc. and Approach Resources I, LP, as guarantors (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 21, 2011, and incorporated herein by reference).




    14.1
  
Code of Conduct (filed as Exhibit 14.1 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed March 28, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference).




    21.1
  
Subsidiaries (filed as Exhibit 21.1 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed March 13, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference).




  *23.1
  
Consent of Hein & Associates LLP.




  *23.2
  
Consent of DeGolyer and MacNaughton.




  *31.1
  
Certification by the President and Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




  *31.2
  
Certification by the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




  *32.1
  
Certification by the President and Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.




  *32.2
  
Certification by the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




  *99.1
  
Report of DeGolyer and MacNaughton.




 *101.INS
  
XBRL Instance Document.




 *101.SCH
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.




 *101.CAL
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.




 *101.LAB
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.
  73 


Table of Contents
Approach Resources Inc. 
Index to Exhibits — continued   






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description of Exhibit




 *101. PRE
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.




 *101. DEF
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.
  


*
  Filed herewith.   


†
  Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 
  74 



