
10-K
1
d282185d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549   
  FORM 10-K
  


þ
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) 


    
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 
                     or
                       


¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) 


    
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  For the transition period from              to             
 Commission file number 001-34480  VERISK ANALYTICS, INC.  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)   






Delaware
 
26-2994223

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
 
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)




545 Washington Boulevard Jersey City, NJ
 
07310-1686

(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(Zip Code)
 (201) 469-2000  (Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)  Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   






 Title of each class
 
 Name of each exchange on which registered

 Class A common stock $.001 par value
 
NASDAQ Global Select Market
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.              þ  Yes    ¨  No
 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.          ¨  Yes    þ  No 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.                                        
                                         
                                þ 
 Yes    ¨  No  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).                                        
                    þ  Yes    
¨  No  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of
this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.                                        
                                         
              ¨  Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and
“smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   










þ  Large accelerated filer
  
¨  Accelerated filer
  
¨  Non-accelerated filer
  
¨  Smaller reporting company


  
(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).    ¨  Yes    þ  No  As of June 30, 2011, the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, the aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant was $4,960,601,791 based on the closing price reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on such date.  The
number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant’s classes of common stock, as of February 24, 2012 was:   








 Class
  
Shares Outstanding
 

 Class A common stock $.001 par value
  
 
164,791,059
  
 DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  Certain information required by Part III of this annual report on Form 10-K is incorporated by reference to our definitive Proxy Statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which will be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after December 31, 2011.   
   


Table of Contents
INDEX 
 










 
  
 
  
Page
 

 PART I
  

  




 Item 1.
  
Business
  
 
3
  

 Item 1A.
  
Risk Factors
  
 
17
  

 Item 1B.
  
Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
25
  

 Item 2.
  
Properties
  
 
25
  

 Item 3.
  
Legal Proceedings
  
 
26
  

 Item 4.
  
Mine Safety Disclosures
  
 
28
  

 PART II
  

  




 Item 5.
  
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
  
 
28
  

 Item 6.
  
Selected Financial Data
  
 
31
  

 Item 7.
  
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  
 
34
  

 Item 7A.
  
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
  
 
55
  

 Item 8.
  
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
55
  


  
 Consolidated Balance Sheets
  
 
61
  


  
 Consolidated Statements of Operations
  
 
62
  


  
 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Deficit
  
 
63
  


  
 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
  
 
64
  


  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
66
  

 Item 9.
  
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
 
55
  

 Item 9A.
  
Controls and Procedures
  
 
55
  

 Item 9B.
  
Other Information
  
 
56
  

 PART III
  

  




 Item 10.
  
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
56
  

 Item 11.
  
Executive Compensation
  
 
56
  

 Item 12.
  
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
  
 
56
  

 Item 13.
  
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence
  
 
56
  

 Item 14.
  
Principal Accounting Fees and Services
  
 
56
  

 PART IV
  

  




 Item 15.
  
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
  
 
56
  


  
SIGNATURES
  
 
121
  


  
 EXHIBIT INDEX
  
 
122
  


  
 Exhibit 23.1
  





  
 Exhibit 31.1
  





  
 Exhibit 31.2
  





  
 Exhibit 32.1
  




  2 


Table of Contents
Unless the context otherwise indicates or requires, as used in this annual report on Form 10-K,
references to “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company” refer to Verisk Analytics, Inc. and its subsidiaries.  In this annual report on Form 10-K, all dollar amounts are expressed in thousands, unless indicated otherwise.  SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  Verisk Analytics, Inc.,
or Verisk, has made statements under the captions “Business,” “Risk Factors,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and in other sections of this annual report on
Form 10-K that are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “may,” “might,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “plans,”
“anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential,” or “continue,” the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements, which are
subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, may include projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth strategies and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our
current expectations and projections about future events. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from the results, level of activity, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements, including those factors discussed under the caption entitled “Risk Factors.” You should specifically consider the numerous risks outlined under “Risk Factors.”
 Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future
results, level of activity, performance or achievements. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. We are under no duty to update any of these
forward-looking statements after the date of this annual report on Form 10-K to conform our prior statements to actual results or revised expectations.  PART I   


Item 1.
Business  Our Company 
Verisk Analytics is a leading provider of information about risk to professionals in insurance, healthcare, mortgage, government, supply
chain, and risk management. Using advanced technologies to collect and analyze billions of records, we draw on industry expertise and unique proprietary data sets to provide predictive analytics and decision-support solutions in fraud prevention,
actuarial science, insurance coverages, fire protection, catastrophe and weather risk, data management, and many other fields. In the United States and around the world, we help customers protect people, property, and financial assets. 
Our customers use our solutions to make better risk decisions with greater efficiency and discipline. We refer to these products and
services as ‘solutions’ due to the integration among our services and the flexibility that enables our customers to purchase components or the comprehensive package. These ‘solutions’ take various forms, including data,
statistical models or tailored analytics, all designed to allow our clients to make more logical decisions. We believe our solutions for analyzing risk positively impact our customers’ revenues and help them better manage their costs. In 2011,
our U.S. customers included all of the top 100 P&C insurance providers, as well as numerous health plans and third party administrators, leading mortgage insurers, and mortgage lenders. We believe that our commitment to our customers and the
embedded nature of our solutions serve to strengthen and extend our relationships. 
  3 


Table of Contents
We help those businesses address what we believe are the four primary decision making
processes essential for managing risk as set forth below in the Verisk Risk Analysis Framework:  The Verisk Risk Analysis
Framework    

 These four processes correspond to various functional areas inside our customers’ operations:
  


 
•
 
 our loss predictions are typically used by P&C insurance and healthcare actuaries, advanced analytics groups and loss control groups to help drive
their own assessments of future losses;   


 
•
 
 our risk selection and pricing solutions are typically used by underwriters as they manage their books of business; 
 


 
•
 
 our fraud detection and prevention tools are used by P&C insurance, healthcare and mortgage underwriters to root out fraud prospectively and by
claims departments to speed claims and find fraud retroactively; and   


 
•
 
 our tools to quantify loss are primarily used by claims departments, independent adjustors and contractors. 
We add value by linking our solutions across these four key processes; for example, we use the same modeling methods to support the
pricing of homeowner’s insurance policies and to quantify the actual losses when damage occurs to insured homes.  We
offer our solutions and services primarily through annual subscriptions or long-term agreements, which are typically pre-paid and represented approximately 69.0% of our revenues in 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we had revenues of
$1,331.8 million and net income of $282.8 million. For the five year period ended December 31, 2011, our revenues and net income grew at a CAGR of 13.5% and 17.1%, respectively.  Our History  We trace our history to 1971, when Insurance Services Office,
Inc., or ISO, started operations as a not-for-profit advisory and rating organization providing services for the U.S. P&C insurance industry. ISO was formed as an association of insurance companies to gather statistical data and other
information from insurers and report to regulators, as required by law. ISO’s original functions also included developing programs to help insurers define and manage insurance products and providing information to help insurers determine their
own independent premium rates. Insurers used and continue to use our offerings primarily in their product development, underwriting and rating functions. Today, those businesses form the core of our Risk Assessment segment. 
Over the past decade, we have transformed our business beyond its original functions by deepening and broadening our data assets,
developing a set of integrated risk management solutions and services and addressing new markets through our Decision Analytics segment.  Our expansion into analytics began when we acquired the American Insurance Services Group, or AISG, and certain operations and assets of the National Insurance Crime Bureau in 1997 and 1998, respectively.
Those organizations brought to the company large databases of insurance claims, as well as expertise in detecting and preventing claims fraud. To further expand our Decision Analytics segment, we acquired AIR Worldwide, or AIR, in 2002, the
technological leader in catastrophe modeling. In 2004, we entered the healthcare space by 
  4 


Table of Contents

acquiring several businesses that now offer web-based analytical and reporting systems for health insurers, provider organizations and self-insured employers. In 2005, we entered the mortgage
sector, acquiring the first of several businesses that now provide automated fraud detection, compliance and decision support solutions for the U.S. mortgage industry. In 2006, to bolster our position in the insurance claims field we acquired
Xactware, a leading supplier of estimating software for professionals involved in building repair and reconstruction. In 2010, we acquired 3E Company, creating a scale presence in supply chain and environmental health and safety. In 2011, we further
bolstered our healthcare solutions by acquiring Health Risk Partners, LLC, or HRP, which provides solutions to optimize revenue, which ensure compliance and improve quality of care for Medicare Advantage and Medicaid health plans, and Bloodhound
Technologies, Inc., or Bloodhound, which provides real-time pre-adjudication medical claims editing.  These acquisitions have
added scale, geographic reach, highly skilled workforces, and a wide array of new capabilities to our Decision Analytics segment. They have helped to make us a leading provider of information and decision analytics for customers involved in the
business of risk in the U.S. and selectively around the world.  Our senior management operating team, which includes our chief
executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer, general counsel, and three senior officers who lead our business units, have been with us for an average of over twenty years. This team has led our transformation to a successful
for-profit entity, focused on growth with our U.S. P&C insurer customers and expansion into a variety of new markets.  On
May 23, 2008, in contemplation of our initial public offering, or IPO, ISO formed Verisk Analytics, Inc., or Verisk, a Delaware corporation, to be the holding company for our business. Verisk was initially formed as a wholly-owned subsidiary of
ISO. On October 6, 2009, in connection with our IPO, the company effected a reorganization whereby ISO became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Verisk. Verisk Class A common stock began trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on
October 7, 2009 under the symbol “VRSK.”  Segments 
We organize our business in two segments: Risk Assessment and Decision Analytics. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II of this annual report for information regarding our segments.  Risk
Assessment Segment  Our Risk Assessment segment serves our P&C insurance customers and focuses on the first two
decision making processes in our Risk Analysis Framework: prediction of loss and selection and pricing of risk. Within this segment, we also provide solutions to help our insurance customers comply with their reporting requirements in each U.S.
state in which they operate. Our customers include most of the P&C insurance providers in the U.S.  Statistical
Agent and Data Services  The P&C insurance industry is heavily regulated in the U.S. P&C insurers are required
to collect statistical data about their premiums and losses and to report that data to regulators in every state in which they operate. Our statistical agent services have enabled P&C insurers to meet these regulatory requirements for over 30
years. We aggregate the data and, as a licensed “statistical agent” in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia, we report these statistics to insurance regulators. We are able to capture significant economies of scale given
the level of penetration of this service within the U.S. P&C insurance industry.  To provide our customers and the
regulators the information they require, we maintain one of the largest private databases in the world. Over the past four decades, we have developed core expertise in acquiring, processing, managing, and operating large and comprehensive databases
that are the foundation of our Risk Assessment segment. We use our proprietary technology to assemble, organize and update vast amounts of detailed information submitted by our customers. We supplement this data with publicly available information.

  5 


Table of Contents
Each year, P&C insurers send us approximately 2.9 billion detailed individual records of
insurance transactions, such as insurance premiums collected or losses incurred. We maintain a database of over 15.8 billion statistical records, including approximately 6.1 billion commercial lines records and approximately 9.7 billion personal
lines records. We collect unit-transaction detail of each premium and loss record, which enhances the validity, reliability and accuracy of our data sets and our actuarial analyses. Our proprietary quality process includes almost 2,500 separate
checks to ensure that data meet our high standards of quality.  Actuarial Services 
We provide actuarial services to help our customers price their risks as they underwrite. We project future losses and loss expenses
utilizing a broad set of data. These projections tend to be more reliable than if our customers used solely their own data. We provide loss costs by coverage, class, territory, and many other categories. Our customers can use our estimates of future
loss costs in making independent decisions about the prices charged for their policies. For most P&C insurers, in most lines of business, we believe our loss costs are an essential input to rating decisions. We make a number of actuarial
adjustments, including loss development and loss adjustment expenses before the data is used to estimate future loss costs. Our actuarial services are also used to create the analytics underlying our industry-standard insurance programs described
below.  Using our large database of premium and loss data, our actuaries are able to perform sophisticated analyses using our
predictive models and analytic methods to help our P&C insurance customers with pricing, loss reserving, and marketing. We distribute a number of actuarial products and offer flexible services to meet our customers’ needs. In addition, our
actuarial consultants provide customized services for our clients that include assisting them with the development of independent insurance programs, analysis of their own underwriting experience, development of classification systems and rating
plans, and a wide variety of other business decisions. We also supply information to a wide variety of customers in other markets including reinsurance, government agencies and real estate. 
Industry-Standard Insurance Programs  We are the recognized leader in the U.S. for industry-standard insurance programs that help P&C insurers define coverages and issue policies. Our policy language, prospective loss cost information and
policy writing rules can serve as integrated turnkey insurance programs for our customers. Insurance companies need to ensure that their policy language, rules, and rates comply with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Insurers must
also make sure their policies remain competitive by promptly changing coverages in response to changes in statutes or case law. To meet their needs, we process and interface with state regulators on average over 2,800 filings each year, ensuring
smooth implementation of our rules and forms. When insurers choose to develop their own alternative programs, our industry-standard insurance programs also help regulators make sure that such insurers’ policies meet basic coverage requirements.
 Standardized coverage language, which has been tested in litigation and tailored to reflect judicial interpretation, helps to
ensure consistent treatment of claimants. As a result, our industry-standard language also simplifies claim settlements and can reduce the occurrence of costly litigation, because our language causes the meaning of coverage terminology to become
established and known. Our policy language includes standard coverage language, endorsements and policy writing support language that assist our customers in understanding the risks they assume and the coverages they are offering. With these policy
programs, insurers also benefit from economies of scale. We have over 200 specialized lawyers and insurance experts reviewing changes in each state’s insurance rules and regulations, including on average over 13,000 legislative bills, 1,000
regulatory actions and 2,000 court cases per year, to make any required changes to our policy language and rating information. 
  6 


Table of Contents
To cover the wide variety of risks in the marketplace, we offer a broad range of policy
programs. For example, in the homeowner’s line of insurance, we maintain policy language and rules for 6 basic coverages, 254 national endorsements, and 479 state-specific endorsements. Overall, we provide policy language, prospective loss
costs, policy writing rules, and a variety of other solutions for 25 lines of insurance.  Property-Specific Rating and
Underwriting Information  We gather information on individual properties and communities so that insurers can use our
information to evaluate and price personal and commercial property insurance, as well as commercial liability insurance. Our property-specific rating and underwriting information allow our customers to understand, quantify, underwrite, mitigate, and
avoid potential loss for residential and commercial properties. Our database contains loss costs and other vital information on more than 3.3 million commercial buildings in the United States and also holds information on more than
6 million individual businesses occupying those buildings. We have a staff of approximately 600 field representatives strategically located around the United States who observe and report on conditions at commercial and residential properties,
evaluate community fire-protection capabilities and assess the effectiveness of municipal building-code enforcement. Each year, our field staff visits more than 350,000 commercial properties to collect information on new buildings and verify
building attributes.  We also provide proprietary analytic measures of the ability of individual communities to mitigate
losses from important perils. Nearly every property insurer in the U.S. uses our evaluations of community firefighting capabilities to help determine premiums for fire insurance throughout the country. We provide field-verified and validated data on
the fire protection services for more than 46,000 fire response jurisdictions. We also offer services to evaluate the effectiveness of community enforcement of building codes and the efforts of communities to mitigate damage from flooding. Further,
we provide information on the insurance rating territories, premium taxes, crime risk, and hazards of windstorm, earthquake, wildfire, and other perils. To supplement our data on specific commercial properties and individual communities, we have
assembled, from a variety of internal and third-party sources, information on hazards related to geographic locations representing every postal address in the U.S. Insurers use this information not only for policy quoting but also for analyzing risk
concentration in geographical areas. 
  7 


Table of Contents
Decision Analytics Segment  In the Decision Analytics segment, we support all four phases of our Risk Analysis Framework. We develop predictive models to forecast scenarios and produce both standard and customized analytics that
help our customers better predict loss, select and price risk, detect fraud before and after a loss event, and quantify losses. Effective December 31, 2011, we provided additional disclosure about our revenue within Decision Analytics segment
based on the industry vertical groupings of insurance, mortgage and financial services, healthcare and specialized markets. Previously, we disclosed revenue based on the classification of our solution as fraud identification and detection solutions,
loss prediction solutions and loss quantification solutions. We believe that this change enhances financial reporting transparency and helps investors better understand the themes within the Decision Analytics segment. The businesses are categorized
by the primary end market for their services.    

 As we develop our models to quantify loss and detect fraud, we improve our ability to predict the loss
and prevent the fraud from happening. We believe this provides us with a significant competitive advantage over firms that do not offer solutions which operate both before and after loss events. 
Insurance 
Fraud Detection and Prevention:    We are a leading provider of fraud-detection tools for the P&C insurance industry. Our
fraud solutions improve our customers’ profitability by both predicting the likelihood that fraud is occurring and detecting suspicious activity after it has occurred. When a claim is submitted, our system searches our database and returns
information about other claims filed by the same individuals or businesses (either as claimants or insurers) that help our customers determine if fraud has occurred. The system searches for matches in identifying information fields, such as name,
address, Social Security number, vehicle identification number, driver’s license number, tax identification number, or other parties to the loss. Our system also includes advanced name and address searching to perform intelligent searches and
improve the overall quality of the matches. Information from match reports speeds payment of meritorious claims while providing a defense against fraud and can lead to denial of a claim, negotiation of a reduced award or further investigation by the
insurer or law enforcement.  We have a comprehensive system used by claims adjusters and investigations professionals to
process claims and fight fraud. Claims databases are one of the key tools in the fight against insurance fraud. The benefits of a single all-claims database include improved efficiency in reporting data and searching for information, enhanced
capabilities for detecting suspicious claims and superior information for investigating fraudulent claims, suspicious individuals and possible fraud rings. Our database contains information on nearly 800 million claims and is the world’s
largest database of claims information used for claims and investigations. Insurers and other participants submit new claim reports, more than 239,000 a day on average, across all categories of the U.S. P&C insurance industry. 
  8 


Table of Contents
We also provide a service allowing insurers to report thefts of automobiles and property,
improving the chances of recovering those items; a service that helps owners and insurers recover stolen heavy construction and agricultural equipment; an expert scoring system that helps distinguish between suspicious and meritorious claims; and
products that use link-analysis technology to help visualize and fight insurance fraud.  Loss Prediction:    We
pioneered the field of probabilistic catastrophe modeling used by insurers, reinsurers and financial institutions to manage their catastrophe risk. Our models of global natural hazards, which form the basis of our solutions, enable companies to
identify, quantify and plan for the financial consequences of catastrophic events. We have developed models, covering natural hazards, including hurricanes, earthquakes, winter storms, tornadoes, hailstorms, and flood, for potential loss events in
more than 80 countries. We have also developed and introduced a probabilistic terrorism model capable of quantifying the risk in the U.S. from this emerging threat, which supports pricing and underwriting decisions down to the level of an individual
policy  Loss Quantification:    We provide data, analytic and networking products for professionals involved in
estimating all phases of building repair and reconstruction. We provide solutions for every phase of a building’s life, including:   


 
•
 
 quantifying the ultimate cost of repair or reconstruction of damaged or destroyed buildings; 
 


 
•
 
 aiding in the settlement of insurance claims; and   


 
•
 
 tracking the process of repair or reconstruction and facilitating communication among insurers, adjusters, contractors and policyholders.
 To help our customers estimate repair costs, we provide a solution that assists contractors and insurance
adjusters to estimate repairs using a patented plan-sketching program. The program allows our customers to sketch floor plans, roof plans and wall-framing plans and automatically calculates material and labor quantities for the construction of
walls, floors, footings and roofs.  We also offer our customers access to wholesale and retail price lists, which include
structural repair and restoration pricing for 467 separate economic areas in North America. We revise this information monthly and, in the aftermath of a major disaster, we can update the price lists as often as weekly to reflect rapid price
changes. Our structural repair and cleaning database contains more than 13,000 unit-cost line items. For each line item such as smoke cleaning, water extraction and hazardous cleanup, we report time and material pricing, including labor, labor
productivity rates (for new construction and restoration), labor burden and overhead, material costs, and equipment costs. We improve our reported pricing data by several methods including direct market surveys, and an analysis of the actual claims
experience of our customers. We estimate that about 80.0% of all homeowners’ claims settled in the U.S. annually use our solution. Utilization of such a large percentage of the industry’s claims leads to accurate reporting of pricing
information, which we believe is unmatched in the industry.  Our estimates allow our customers to set loss reserves, deploy
field adjusters and verify internal company estimates. Our estimates also keep insurers, their customers, regulators, and other interested parties informed about the total costs of disasters. We also provide our customers access to daily reports on
severe weather and catastrophes and we maintain a database of information on catastrophe losses in the U.S. since 1950. 
Mortgage and Financial Services  Fraud Detection and Prevention:    We are a leading provider of automated fraud detection, compliance and decision-support tools for the mortgage industry. Utilizing our own
loan level application database combined with actual mortgage loan performance data, we have established a risk scoring system which increases our customers’ ability to detect fraud. We provide solutions that detect fraud through each step of
the mortgage lifecycle and provide regulatory compliance solutions that perform instant compliance reviews of each mortgage application. Our fraud solutions can improve our customers’ profitability by predicting the likelihood that a customer
account is experiencing fraud. Our solution analyzes customer transactions in real time and generates recommendations for 
  9 


Table of Contents

immediate action which are critical to stopping fraud and abuse. These applications can also detect some organized fraud schemes that are too complex and well-hidden to be identified by other
methods.  Effective fraud detection relies on pattern identification, which in turn requires us to identify, isolate and track
mortgage applications through time. Histories of multiple loans, both valid and fraudulent, are required to compare a submitted loan both to actual data and heuristic analyses. For this reason, unless fraud detection solutions are fueled by
comprehensive data, their practicality is limited. Our proprietary database contains more than 21 million current and historical loan applications collected over the past ten years. This database contains data from loan applications as well as
supplementary third-party data.  Our technology employs sophisticated models to identify patterns in the data. Our solution
provides a score, which predicts whether the information provided by a mortgage applicant is correct. Working with data obtained through our partnership with a credit bureau, we have demonstrated a strong correlation between fraudulent information
in the application and the likelihood of both foreclosure and early payment default on loans. We believe our solution is based upon a more comprehensive set of loan level information than any other provider in the mortgage industry. 
We also provide forensic audit services for the mortgage origination and mortgage insurance industries. Our predictive screening tools
predict which defaulted loans are the most likely candidates for full audits for the purpose of detecting fraud. We then generate detailed audit reports on defaulted mortgage loans. Those reports serve as a key component of the loss mitigation
strategies of mortgage loan insurers. The recent turmoil in the mortgage industry has created an opportunity for growth in demand for our services, as we believe most mortgage insurers do not have the in-house capacity to respond to and properly
review all of their defaulted loans for evidence of fraud.  Healthcare 
Fraud Detection and Prevention:    We offer solutions that help healthcare claims payors detect fraud, abuse and overpayment.
Our approach combines computer-based modeling and profiling of claims with analysis performed by clinical experts. We run our customers’ claims through our proprietary analytic system to identify potential fraud, abuse and overpayment, and then
a registered nurse, physician or other clinical specialist skilled in coding and reimbursement decisions reviews all suspect claims and billing patterns. This combination of system and human review is unique in the industry and we believe offers
improved accuracy for paying claims.  We analyze the patterns of claims produced by individual physicians, physicians’
practices, hospitals, dentists, and pharmacies to locate the sources of fraud. After a suspicious source of claims is identified, our real-time analytic solutions investigate each claim individually for particular violations, including upcoding,
multiple billings, services claimed but not rendered, and billing by unlicensed providers. By finding the individual claims with the most cost-recovery potential and also minimizing the number of false-positive indications of fraud, we enable the
special investigation units of healthcare payors to efficiently control their claims costs while maintaining high levels of customer service to their insurers.  We also offer web-based reporting tools that let payors take definitive action to prevent overpayments or payment of fraudulent claims. The tools provide the documentation that helps to identify,
investigate and prevent abusive and fraudulent activity by providers.  Loss Prediction:    We are a leading
provider of healthcare business intelligence and predictive modeling. We provide analytical and reporting systems to health insurers, provider organizations and self-insured employers. Those organizations use our solutions to review their healthcare
data, including information on claims, membership, providers and utilization, and provide cost trends, forecasts and actuarial, financial and utilization analyses.  For example, our solutions allow our customers to predict medical costs and improve the financing and organization of health services. Our predictive models help our customers identify high-cost cases for
care- and 
  10 


Table of Contents

disease-management intervention, compare providers adjusting for differences in health, predict resource use for individuals and populations, establish health-based and performance-based
payments, negotiate payments and incentives, negotiate premium rates, and measure return on investment.  We also provide our
customers healthcare services using complex clinical analyses to uncover reasons behind cost and utilization increases. Physicians and hospitals are adopting and acquiring new technologies, drugs and devices more rapidly than ever before. We provide
financial and actuarial analyses, clinical, technical and implementation services and training services to help our customers manage costs and risks to their practices.  Specialized Markets  Loss Prediction:    We help
businesses and governments better anticipate and manage climate- and weather-related risks. We prepare certain agencies and companies to anticipate, manage, react to and profit from weather and climate related risk. We serve our clients by providing
state-of-the-art research, development and analysis delivered in reports, databases and software solutions. We are dedicated to the advancement of scientific understanding of the atmospheric, climate and weather, ocean, and planetary sciences.
Through research conducted by our in-house scientific staff, and often in collaboration with world-renowned scientists at academic and other research institutions, we have developed analytical tools to help measure and observe the properties of the
environment and to translate these measurements into useful information to take action.  We also offer a comprehensive suite
of data and information services that enables improved compliance with global Environmental Health & Safety, or EH&S requirements related to the safe manufacturing, distribution, transportation, usage and disposal of chemicals and
products. From the supply chain or solutions lifecycle, we deliver a program specific to the EH&S compliance information and management needs of our customers. We have a full solutions lifecycle and cross-supply chain approach that provide a
single, integrated solution for managing EH&S capabilities, resulting in reduced cost, risk and liability while improving process.  Our
Growth Strategy  Over the past five years, we have grown our revenues at a CAGR of 13.5% through the successful execution
of our business plan. These results reflect strong organic revenue growth, new product development and selected acquisitions. We have made, and continue to make, investments in people, data sets, analytic solutions, technology, and complementary
businesses. The key components of our strategy include:  Increase Sales to Insurance
Customers.    We expect to expand the application of our solutions in insurance customers’ internal risk and underwriting processes. Building on our deep knowledge of, and embedded position in, the insurance
industry, we expect to sell more solutions to existing customers tailored to individual insurance segments. By increasing the breadth and relevance of our offerings, we believe we can strengthen our relationships with customers and increase our
value to their decision making in critical ways.  Develop New, Proprietary Data Sets and Predictive
Analytics.    We work with our customers to understand their evolving needs. We plan to create new solutions by enriching our mix of proprietary data sets, analytic solutions and effective decision support across the
markets we serve. We constantly seek to add new data sets that can further leverage our analytic methods, technology platforms and intellectual capital.  Leverage Our Intellectual Capital to Expand into Adjacent Markets and New Customer Sectors.    Our organization is built on nearly four decades of intellectual property
in risk management. We believe we can continue to profitably expand the use of our intellectual capital and apply our analytic methods in new markets, where significant opportunities for long-term growth exist. We also continue to pursue growth
through targeted international expansion. We have already demonstrated the effectiveness of this strategy with our expansion into healthcare and non-insurance financial services. 
  11 


Table of Contents
Pursue Strategic Acquisitions that Complement Our Leadership
Positions.    We will continue to expand our data and analytics capabilities across industries. While we expect this will occur primarily through organic growth, we have and will continue to acquire assets and businesses
that strengthen our value proposition to customers. We have developed an internal capability to source, evaluate and integrate acquisitions that have created value for shareholders.  Our Customers  Risk Assessment Customers 
The customers in our Risk Assessment segment include the top 100 P&C insurance providers in the United States. Our statistical agent
services are used by a substantial majority of P&C insurance providers in the U.S. to report to regulators. Our actuarial services and industry-standard insurance programs are used by the majority of insurers and reinsurers in the U.S. In
addition, certain agencies of the federal government, as well as county and state governmental agencies and organizations, use our solutions to help satisfy government needs for risk assessment and emergency response information. See Item 13.
“Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence — Customer Relationships” for more information on our relationship with our principal stockholders. 
Decision Analytics Customers  In the Decision Analytics segment, we provide our P&C insurance solutions to the majority of the P&C insurers in the U.S. Specifically, our claims database serves thousands of customers,
representing nearly 93.0% of the P&C insurance industry by premium volume, 26 state workers’ compensation insurance funds, 592 self-insurers, 454 third-party administrators, several state fraud bureaus, and many law-enforcement agencies
involved in investigation and prosecution of insurance fraud. Also, P&C insurance companies using our building and repair solutions represent about 80.0% of the property market in the U.S. We estimate that more than 80.0% of insurance repair
contractors and service providers in the U.S. and Canada with computerized estimating systems use our building and repair pricing data. In the U.S. healthcare industry, our customers include numerous health plans and third party administrators. In
the U.S. mortgage industry, we have more than 750 customers. We provide our solutions to leading mortgage lenders and mortgage insurers. We have been providing services to mortgage insurers for over 20 years. 
Our Competitors  We
believe no single competitor currently offers the same scope of services and market coverage we provide. The breadth of markets we serve exposes us to a broad range of competitors. 
Risk Assessment Competitors  Our Risk Assessment segment operates primarily in the U.S. P&C insurance industry, where we enjoy a leading market presence. We have a number of competitors in specific lines or services. 
We encounter competition from a number of sources, including insurers who develop internal technology and actuarial methods for
proprietary insurance programs. Competitors also include other statistical agents, including the National Independent Statistical Service, the Independent Statistical Service and other advisory organizations, providing underwriting rules,
prospective loss costs and coverage language such as the American Association of Insurance Services and Mutual Services Organization, although we believe none of our competitors has the breadth or depth of data we have. 
Competitors for our property-specific rating and underwriting information are primarily limited to a number of regional providers of
commercial property inspections and surveys, including Overland Solutions, Inc. and Regional Reporting, Inc. We also compete with a variety of organizations that offer consulting services, 
  12 


Table of Contents

primarily specialty technology and consulting firms. In addition, a customer may use its own internal resources rather than engage an outside firm for these services. Our competitors also include
information technology product and services vendors including CDS, Inc., management and strategy consulting firms including Deloitte Consulting LLP, and smaller specialized information technology firms and analytical services firms including
Pinnacle Consulting and EMB.  Decision Analytics Competitors 
In the P&C insurance claims market and catastrophe modeling market, certain products are offered by a number of companies, including
Risk Management Solutions (catastrophe modeling), LexisNexis Risk Solutions (loss histories and motor vehicle records for personal lines underwriting), MSB (property value and claims estimator), and Solera (personal automobile underwriting). We
believe that our P&C insurance industry expertise, combined with our ability to offer multiple applications, services and integrated solutions to individual customers, enhances our competitiveness against these competitors with more limited
offerings. In the healthcare market, certain products are offered by a number of companies, including Computer Sciences Corporation (evaluation of bodily injury and workers’ compensation claims), Fair Isaac Corporation (workers’
compensation and healthcare claims cost containment) and OptumInsight, McKesson, Medstat, MedAssurant, and iHealth (healthcare predictive modeling and business intelligence). Competitive factors include application features and functions, ease of
delivery and integration, ability of the provider to maintain, enhance and support the applications or services and price. In the mortgage analytics solutions market, our competitors include CoreLogic and DataVerify Corporation (mortgage lending
fraud identification). We believe that none of our competitors in the mortgage analytics market offers the same combination of expertise in fraud detection analytics and forensic audit capabilities. 
Development of New Solutions  We take a market-focused team approach to developing our solutions. Our operating units are responsible for developing, reviewing and enhancing our various products and services. Our data management and
production team designs and manages our processes and systems for market data procurement, proprietary data production and quality control. Our Enterprise Data Management, or EDM, team supports our efforts to create new information and products from
available data and explores new methods of collecting data. EDM is focused on understanding and documenting business-unit and corporate data assets and data issues; sharing and combining data assets across the enterprise; creating an enterprise data
strategy; facilitating research and product development; and promoting cross-enterprise communication. Our ISO Innovative Analytics, or IIA, team is a corporate center of excellence for analytical methods in applying modeling techniques to predict
risk outcomes.  Our software development team builds the technology used in many of our solutions. As part of our
product-development process, we continually solicit feedback from our customers on the value of our products and services and the market’s needs. We have established an extensive system of customer advisory panels, which meet regularly
throughout the year to help us respond effectively to the needs of our markets. In addition, we use frequent sales calls, executive visits, user group meetings, and other industry forums to gather information to match the needs of the market with
our product development efforts. We also use a variety of market research techniques to enhance our understanding of our clients and the markets in which they operate.  We also add to our offerings through an active acquisition program. Since 2007, we have acquired 13 businesses, which have allowed us to enter new markets, offer new products and enhance the value of
existing products with additional proprietary sources of data.  When we find it advantageous, we augment our proprietary data
sources and systems by forming alliances with other leading information providers and technology companies and integrating their product offerings into our offerings. This approach gives our customers the opportunity to obtain the information they
need from a single source and more easily integrate the information into their workflows. 
  13 


Table of Contents
Sales, Marketing and Customer Support 
We sell our products and services primarily through direct interaction with our clients. We employ a three-tier sales structure that
includes salespeople, product specialists and sales support. As of December 31, 2011, we had a sales force of 286 people. Within the company, several areas have sales teams that specialize in specific products and services. These specialized
sales teams sell specific, highly technical product sets to targeted markets.  To provide account management to our largest
customers, we segment the insurance carrier market into three groups. Tier One or “National” Accounts constitutes our largest customers, Tier Two or “Strategic” Accounts represents both larger carrier groups and middle-market
carriers. Tier Three are the small insurance companies that may represent one line of business and/or be one-state or regional writers. A Sales Generalist is assigned to every insurer account and is responsible for our overall relationship with
these insurance companies. Our senior executives are also involved with the senior management of our customers.  Sales people
participate in both customer-service and sales activities. They provide direct support, interacting frequently with assigned customers to assure a positive experience using our services. Salespeople primarily seek out new sales opportunities and
work with the various sales teams to coordinate sales activity and provide the best solutions for our customers. We believe our salespeople’s product knowledge and local presence differentiates us from our competition. Product specialists are
subject-matter experts and work with salespeople on specific opportunities for their assigned products. Both salespeople and product specialists have responsibility for identifying new sales opportunities. A team approach and a common customer
relationship management system allow for effective coordination between the two groups.  Sources of our Data 
The data we use to perform our analytics and power our solutions are sourced through six different kinds of data arrangements. First, we
gather data from our customers within agreements that also permit our customers to use the solutions created upon their data. These agreements remain in effect unless the data contributor chooses to opt out and represent our primary method of data
gathering. It is very rare that contributors elect not to continue providing us data. Second, we have agreements with data contributors in which we specify the particular uses of their data and provide to the data contributors their required levels
of privacy, protection of data and where necessary de-identification of data. These agreements represent no cost to us and generally feature a specified period of time for the data contributions and require renewal. Third, we “mine” data
found inside the transactions supported by our solutions; as an example, we utilize the claims settlement data generated inside our repair cost estimating solution to improve the cost factors used in our models. Again, these arrangements represent
no cost to us and we obtain the consent of our customers to make use of their data in this way. Fourth, we source data generally at no cost from public sources including federal, state and local governments. Fifth, we gather data about the physical
characteristics of commercial properties through the direct observation of our field staff that also perform property surveys at the request of, and facilitated by, property insurers. Lastly, we purchase data from data aggregators under contracts
that reflect prevailing market pricing for the data elements purchased, including county tax assessor records, descriptions of hazards such as flood plains and professional licenses. In all our modes of data collection, we are the owners of whatever
derivative solutions we create using the data. Our costs of data received from our customers were 1.5% and 1.7% of revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Information Technology  Technology 
Our information technology systems are fundamental to our success. They are used for the storage, processing, access and delivery of the
data which forms the foundation of our business and the development and delivery of our solutions provided to our clients. Much of the technology we use and provide to our customers is 
  14 


Table of Contents

developed, maintained and supported by approximately 1,020 employees. We generally own or have secured ongoing rights to use for the purposes of our business all the customer-facing applications
which are material to our operations. We support and implement a mix of technologies, focused on implementing the most efficient technology for any given business requirement or task. 
Data Centers  We have two primary data centers in Jersey City, New Jersey and Orem, Utah. In addition, we have data centers dedicated to certain business units, including AIR and Verisk Health in Boston and AISG
Claimsearch in Israel. In addition to these key data centers, we also have a number of smaller data centers located in other states.  Disaster Recovery  We are committed to a framework for business
continuity management and carry out annual reviews of the state of preparedness of each business unit. All of our critical databases, systems and contracted client services are also regularly recovered. We also have documented disaster recovery
plans in place for each of our major data centers and each of our solutions. Our primary data center recovery site is in New York State, approximately 50 miles northwest of Jersey City, New Jersey. 
Security  We have adopted a wide range of measures to ensure the security of our IT infrastructure and data. Security measures generally cover the following key areas: physical security; logical security of the
perimeter; network security such as firewalls; logical access to the operating systems; deployment of virus detection software; and appropriate policies and procedures relating to removable media such as laptops. All laptops are encrypted and media
leaving our premises that is sent to a third-party storage facility is also encrypted. This commitment has led us to achieve certification from CyberTrust (an industry leader in information security certification) since 2002. 
Intellectual Property 
We own a significant number of intellectual property rights, including copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and patents. Specifically,
our policy language, insurance manuals, software and databases are protected by both registered and common law copyrights, and the licensing of those materials to our customers for their use represents a large portion of our revenue. We also own in
excess of 500 trademarks in the U.S. and foreign countries, including the names of our products and services and our logos and tag lines, many of which are registered. We believe many of our trademarks, trade names, service marks and logos to be of
material importance to our business as they assist our customers in identifying our products and services and the quality that stands behind them. We consider our intellectual property to be proprietary, and we rely on a combination of statutory
(e.g., copyright, trademark, trade secret and patent) and contractual safeguards in a comprehensive intellectual property enforcement program to protect them wherever they are used. 
We also own several software method and processing patents and have several pending patent applications in the U.S. that complement our
products. The patents and patent applications include claims which pertain to technology, including a patent for our Claims Outcome Advisor software, and for our Xactware Sketch product. We believe the protection of our proprietary technology is
important to our success and we will continue to seek to protect those intellectual property assets for which we have expended substantial research and development capital and which are material to our business. 
In order to maintain control of our intellectual property, we enter into license agreements with our customers, granting each customer a
license to use our products and services, including our software and databases. This helps to maintain the integrity of our proprietary intellectual property and to protect the 
  15 


Table of Contents

embedded information and technology contained in our solutions. As a general practice, employees, contractors and other parties with access to our proprietary information sign agreements that
prohibit the unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary rights, information and technology.  Employees 
As of December 31, 2011, we employed 5,200 full-time and 201 part-time employees. None of our employees are represented by unions. We
consider our relationship with our employees to be good and have not experienced interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements.  Our employees include over 200 actuarial professionals, including 43 Fellows and 25 Associates of the Casualty Actuarial Society, as well as 147 Chartered Property Casualty Underwriters, 19 Certified and
23 Associate Insurance Data Managers, and over 500 professionals with advanced degrees, including PhDs in mathematics and statistical modeling who review both the data and the models.  Regulation  Because our business involves the distribution of certain
personal, public and non-public data to businesses and governmental entities that make eligibility, service and marketing decisions based on such data, certain of our solutions and services are subject to regulation under federal, state and local
laws in the United States and, to a lesser extent, foreign countries. Examples of such regulation include the Fair Credit Reporting Act, which regulates the use of consumer credit report information; the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which regulates the
use of non-public personal financial information held by financial institutions and applies indirectly to companies that provide services to financial institutions; the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, which restricts the public
disclosure of patient information and applies indirectly to companies that provide services to healthcare businesses; the Drivers Privacy Protection Act, which prohibits the public disclosure, use or resale by any state’s department of motor
vehicles of personal information about an individual that was obtained by the department in connection with a motor vehicle record, except for a “permissible purpose” and various other federal, state and local laws and regulations.
 These laws generally restrict the use and disclosure of personal information and provide consumers certain rights to know the
manner in which their personal information is being used, to challenge the accuracy of such information and/or to prevent the use and disclosure of such information. In certain instances, these laws also impose requirements for safeguarding personal
information through the issuance of data security standards or guidelines. Certain state laws impose similar privacy obligations, as well as obligations to provide notification of security breaches in certain circumstances. 
We are also licensed as a rating, rate service, advisory or statistical organization under state insurance codes in all fifty states,
Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands and the District of Columbia. As such an advisory organization, we provide statistical, actuarial, policy language development and related products and services to property/casualty insurers, including advisory
prospective loss costs, other prospective cost information, manual rules and policy language. We also serve as an officially designated statistical agent of state insurance regulators to collect policy-writing and loss statistics of individual
insurers and compile that information into reports used by the regulators.  Many of our products, services and operations as
well as insurer use of our services are subject to state rather than federal regulation by virtue of the McCarran-Ferguson Act. As a result, many of our operations and products are subject to review and/or approval by state regulators. Furthermore,
our operations involving licensed advisory organization activities are subject to periodic examinations conducted by state regulators and our operations and products are subject to state antitrust and trade practice statutes within or outside state
insurance codes, which are typically enforced by state attorneys general and/or insurance regulators. 
  16 


Table of Contents
Available Information  We maintain an Investor Relations website on the Internet at investor.verisk.com. We make available free of charge, on or through this website, our annual, quarterly, and current reports and any
amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. To access these, click on the “Financial Information” — “SEC Filings” link found on
our Investor Relations homepage. Verisk trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the ticker symbol “VRSK.” Our stock was first publicly traded on October 7, 2009. 
 


Item 1A.
Risk Factors  You
should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K before deciding to invest in shares of our Class A common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our
business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In such case, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 
We could lose our access to data from external sources which could prevent us from providing our solutions. 
We depend upon data from external sources, including data received from customers and various government and public record services, for
information used in our databases. In general, we do not own the information in these databases, and the participating organizations could discontinue contributing information to the databases. Our data sources could withdraw or increase the price
for their data for a variety of reasons, and we could also become subject to legislative or judicial restrictions on the use of such data, in particular if such data is not collected by the third parties in a way which allows us to legally use
and/or process the data. In addition, some of our customers are significant stockholders of our company. Specifically, a portion of Class A common stock is owned by insurers who are also our customers. If our customers’ percentage of
ownership of our common stock decreases in the future, there can be no assurance that our customers will continue to provide data to the same extent or on the same terms. If a substantial number of data sources, or certain key sources, were to
withdraw or be unable to provide their data, or if we were to lose access to data due to government regulation or if the collection of data became uneconomical, our ability to provide solutions to our customers could be impacted, which could
materially adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.  Agreements with
our data suppliers are short-term agreements. Some suppliers are also competitors, which may make us vulnerable to unpredictable price increases and may cause some suppliers not to renew certain agreements. Our competitors could also enter into
exclusive contracts with our data sources. If our competitors enter into such exclusive contracts, we may be precluded from receiving certain data from these suppliers or restricted in our use of such data, which would give our competitors an
advantage. Such a termination or exclusive contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results if we were unable to arrange for substitute sources. 
We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from U.S. P&C primary insurers. If the downturn in the U.S. insurance industry
continues or that industry does not continue to accept our solutions, our revenues will decline.  Revenues derived from
solutions we provide to U.S. P&C primary insurers account for a substantial portion of our total revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 52.0 % of our revenue was derived from solutions provided to U.S. P&C
primary insurers. Also, sales of certain of our solutions are tied to premiums in the U.S. P&C insurance market, which may rise or fall in any given year due to loss experience and capital capacity and other factors in the insurance industry
beyond our control. In addition, our revenues will 
  17 


Table of Contents

decline if the insurance industry does not continue to accept our solutions. Factors that might affect the acceptance of these solutions by P&C primary insurers include the following:
  


 
•
 
 changes in the business analytics industry;   


 
•
 
 changes in technology;   


 
•
 
 our inability to obtain or use state fee schedule or claims data in our insurance solutions; 
 


 
•
 
 saturation of market demand;   


 
•
 
 loss of key customers;   


 
•
 
 industry consolidation; and   


 
•
 
 failure to execute our customer-focused selling approach.  A continued downturn in the insurance industry or lower acceptance of our solutions by the insurance industry could result in a decline in revenues from that industry and have a material adverse effect on
our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Our revenues from customers in the mortgage vertical is
largely transactional and subject to changing conditions of the U.S mortgage market.  Revenue derived from solutions we
provide the U.S. mortgage and mortgage-related industries accounted for approximately 10.0% of our total revenue in the year ended December 31, 2011. Our forensic audits business and business with government-sponsored entities in the mortgage
business accounted for approximately 67.0% of our total mortgage and mortgage-related revenue in 2011. Because our business relies on transaction volumes based on both new mortgage applications and forensic audit of funded loans, reductions in
either the volume of mortgage loans originated or the number or quality of funded loans could reduce our revenue. Mortgage origination volumes in 2011 declined versus 2010. This decline may continue based on changes in the mortgage market related to
the U.S. mortgage crisis. Recently there have been proposals to restructure or eliminate the roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The restructuring or elimination of either Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac could have a negative effect on the U. S. mortgage
market and on our revenue derived from the solutions we provide to the mortgage industry. If origination volumes and applications for mortgages decline, our revenue in this part of the business may decline if we are unable to increase the percentage
of mortgages examined for existing customers or add new customers. Our forensic audit business has benefited from the high amount of bad loans to be examined by mortgage insurers and other parties as a result of the U.S. mortgage crisis. Certain
mortgage insurers who have been operating under regulatory waivers of capital sufficiency requirements have announced that they are currently unable to write new mortgage insurance policies unless regulatory relief is provided. Such a development
could impact the volume of loans to be examined in our forensic audit business and could reduce our revenue and profitability. Additionally, a withdrawal of mortgage insurers from the mortgage loan market could potentially reduce the volume of loan
originations, which could reduce the revenue in our origination-related business. Two customers represented the majority of our mortgage revenue in 2011 and if their volumes decline and we are not able to replace such volumes with new customers, our
revenue may decline.  There may be consolidation in our end customer market, which would reduce the use of our services.
 Mergers or consolidations among our customers could reduce the number of our customers and potential customers. This
could adversely affect our revenues even if these events do not reduce the aggregate number of customers or the activities of the consolidated entities. If our customers merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our customers, or
that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. The adverse effects of consolidation will be greater in sectors that we are particularly dependent upon, for example, in the P&C insurance services sector.
Any of these developments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 
  18 


Table of Contents
If we are unable to develop successful new solutions or if we experience defects,
failures and delays associated with the introduction of new solutions, our business could suffer serious harm.  Our
growth and success depends upon our ability to develop and sell new solutions. If we are unable to develop new solutions, or if we are not successful in introducing and/or obtaining regulatory approval or acceptance for new solutions, we may not be
able to grow our business, or growth may occur more slowly than we anticipate. In addition, significant undetected errors or delays in new solutions may affect market acceptance of our solutions and could harm our business, financial condition or
results of operations. In the past, we have experienced delays while developing and introducing new solutions, primarily due to difficulties in developing models, acquiring data and adapting to particular operating environments. Errors or defects in
our solutions that are significant, or are perceived to be significant, could result in rejection of our solutions, damage to our reputation, loss of revenues, diversion of development resources, an increase in product liability claims, and
increases in service and support costs and warranty claims.  We will continue to rely upon proprietary technology
rights, and if we are unable to protect them, our business could be harmed.  Our success depends, in part, upon our
intellectual property rights. To date, we have relied primarily on a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret, and trademark laws and nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions on copying and distribution to protect our proprietary
technology. This protection of our proprietary technology is limited, and our proprietary technology could be used by others without our consent. In addition, patents may not be issued with respect to our pending or future patent applications, and
our patents may not be upheld as valid or may not prevent the development of competitive products. Any disclosure, loss, invalidity of, or failure to protect our intellectual property could negatively impact our competitive position, and ultimately,
our business. Our protection of our intellectual property rights in the United States or abroad may not be adequate and others, including our competitors, may use our proprietary technology without our consent. Furthermore, litigation may be
necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could
harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  We could face claims for intellectual
property infringement, which if successful could restrict us from using and providing our technologies and solutions to our customers.  There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings, particularly in the United States, regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the information technology industry. There is a
risk that we are infringing, or may in the future infringe, the intellectual property rights of third parties. We monitor third-party patents and patent applications that may be relevant to our technologies and solutions and we carry out freedom to
operate analyses where we deem appropriate. However, such monitoring and analysis has not been, and is unlikely in the future to be, comprehensive, and it may not be possible to detect all potentially relevant patents and patent applications. Since
the patent application process can take several years to complete, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, that may later result in issued patents that cover our products and technologies. As a result, we may infringe existing
and future third-party patents of which we are not aware. As we expand our operations there is a higher risk that such activity could infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. 
Third-party intellectual property infringement claims and any resultant litigation against us or our technology partners or providers,
could subject us to liability for damages, restrict us from using and providing our technologies and solutions or operating our business generally, or require changes to be made to our technologies and solutions. Even if we prevail, litigation is
time consuming and expensive to defend and would result in the diversion of management’s time and attention. 
  19 


Table of Contents
If a successful claim of infringement is brought against us and we fail to develop
non-infringing technologies and solutions or to obtain licenses on a timely and cost effective basis this could materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 
Regulatory developments could negatively impact our business. 
Because personal, public and non-public information is stored in some of our databases, we are vulnerable to government regulation and
adverse publicity concerning the use of our data. We provide many types of data and services that already are subject to regulation under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, Driver’s Privacy Protection Act, Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act, the European Union’s Data Protection Directive and to a lesser extent, various other federal, state, and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are designed to protect the privacy of the
public and to prevent the misuse of personal information in the marketplace. However, many consumer advocates, privacy advocates, and government regulators believe that the existing laws and regulations do not adequately protect privacy. They have
become increasingly concerned with the use of personal information, particularly social security numbers, department of motor vehicle data and dates of birth. As a result, they are lobbying for further restrictions on the dissemination or commercial
use of personal information to the public and private sectors. Similar initiatives are under way in other countries in which we do business or from which we source data. The following legal and regulatory developments also could have a material
adverse affect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows:   


 
•
 
 amendment, enactment, or interpretation of laws and regulations which restrict the access and use of personal information and reduce the supply of data
available to customers;   


 
•
 
 changes in cultural and consumer attitudes to favor further restrictions on information collection and sharing, which may lead to regulations that
prevent full utilization of our solutions;   


 
•
 
 failure of our solutions to comply with current laws and regulations; and 
 


 
•
 
 failure of our solutions to adapt to changes in the regulatory environment in an efficient, cost-effective manner. 
Fraudulent data access and other security breaches may negatively impact our business and harm our reputation. 
Security breaches in our facilities, computer networks, and databases may cause harm to our business and reputation and result in a loss
of customers. Our systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar disruptive problems. Third-party contractors also may experience security breaches involving the storage and transmission of
proprietary information. If users gain improper access to our databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify confidential third-party information that is stored or transmitted on our networks. 
In addition, customers’ misuse of our information services could cause harm to our business and reputation and result in loss of
customers. Any such misappropriation and/or misuse of our information could result in us, among other things, being in breach of certain data protection and related legislation. 
A security or privacy breach may affect us in the following ways: 
 


 
•
 
 deterring customers from using our solutions;   


 
•
 
 deterring data suppliers from supplying data to us;   


 
•
 
 harming our reputation;   


 
•
 
 exposing us to liability;   


 
•
 
 increasing operating expenses to correct problems caused by the breach; 
  20 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 affecting our ability to meet customers’ expectations; or 
 


 
•
 
 causing inquiry from governmental authorities.  Incidents in which consumer data has been fraudulently or improperly acquired, or any other security or privacy breaches, may occur and could go undetected. The number of potentially affected consumers
identified by any future incidents is obviously unknown. Any such incident could materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 
We typically face a long selling cycle to secure new contracts that requires significant resource commitments, which result in a
long lead time before we receive revenues from new relationships.  We typically face a long selling cycle to secure a
new contract and there is generally a long preparation period in order to commence providing the services. We typically incur significant business development expenses during the selling cycle and we may not succeed in winning a new customer’s
business, in which case we receive no revenues and may receive no reimbursement for such expenses. Even if we succeed in developing a relationship with a potential new customer, we may not be successful in obtaining contractual commitments after the
selling cycle or in maintaining contractual commitments after the implementation cycle, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
We may lose key business assets, including loss of data center capacity or the interruption of telecommunications links, the
internet, or power sources, which could significantly impede our ability to do business.  Our operations depend on our
ability, as well as that of third-party service providers to whom we have outsourced several critical functions, to protect data centers and related technology against damage from hardware failure, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure,
impacts of terrorism, breaches in security (such as the actions of computer hackers), natural disasters, or other disasters. The on-line services we provide are dependent on links to telecommunications providers. In addition, we generate a
significant amount of our revenues through telesales centers and websites that we utilize in the acquisition of new customers, fulfillment of solutions and services and responding to customer inquiries. We may not have sufficient redundant
operations to cover a loss or failure in all of these areas in a timely manner. Certain of our customer contracts provide that our on-line servers may not be unavailable for specified periods of time. Any damage to our data centers, failure of our
telecommunications links or inability to access these telesales centers or websites could cause interruptions in operations that materially adversely affect our ability to meet customers’ requirements, resulting in decreased revenue, operating
income and earnings per share.  We are subject to competition in many of the markets in which we operate and we may not
be able to compete effectively.  Some markets in which we operate or which we believe may provide growth opportunities
for us are highly competitive, and are expected to remain highly competitive. We compete on the basis of quality, customer service, product and service selection and price. Our competitive position in various market segments depends upon the
relative strength of competitors in the segment and the resources devoted to competing in that segment. Due to their size, certain competitors may be able to allocate greater resources to a particular market segment than we can. As a result, these
competitors may be in a better position to anticipate and respond to changing customer preferences, emerging technologies and market trends. In addition, new competitors and alliances may emerge to take market share away. We may be unable to
maintain our competitive position in our market segments, especially against larger competitors. We may also invest further to upgrade our systems in order to compete. If we fail to successfully compete, our business, financial position and results
of operations may be adversely affected. 
  21 


Table of Contents
Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other harmful
consequences.  Our long-term business strategy includes growth through acquisitions. Future acquisitions may not be
completed on acceptable terms and acquired assets, data or businesses may not be successfully integrated into our operations. Any acquisitions or investments will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of businesses. Such
risks include, among other things:   


 
•
 
 failing to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at acquired companies that prior to the
acquisition lacked such controls, procedures and policies;   


 
•
 
 paying more than fair market value for an acquired company or assets; 
 


 
•
 
 failing to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses in an efficient, timely manner; 
 


 
•
 
 assuming potential liabilities of an acquired company; 
 


 
•
 
 managing the potential disruption to our ongoing business; 
 


 
•
 
 distracting management focus from our core businesses; 
 


 
•
 
 difficulty in acquiring suitable businesses;   


 
•
 
 impairing relationships with employees, customers, and strategic partners; 
 


 
•
 
 incurring expenses associated with the amortization of intangible assets; 
 


 
•
 
 incurring expenses associated with an impairment of all or a portion of goodwill and other intangible assets due to changes in market conditions, weak
economies in certain competitive markets, or the failure of certain acquisitions to realize expected benefits; and   


 
•
 
 diluting the share value and voting power of existing stockholders. 
The anticipated benefits of many of our acquisitions may not materialize. Future acquisitions or dispositions could result in the
incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could harm our financial condition.  We typically fund our acquisitions through our debt facilities. Although we have capacity under our uncommitted facilities, lenders are not required to loan us any funds under such facilities. Therefore,
future acquisitions may require us to obtain additional financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. 
To the extent the availability of free or relatively inexpensive information increases, the demand for some of our solutions may
decrease.  Public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information have become increasingly available recently,
particularly through the internet, and this trend is expected to continue. Governmental agencies in particular have increased the amount of information to which they provide free public access. Public sources of free or relatively inexpensive
information may reduce demand for our solutions. To the extent that customers choose not to obtain solutions from us and instead rely on information obtained at little or no cost from these public sources, our business and results of operations may
be adversely affected.  Our senior leadership team is critical to our continued success and the loss of such personnel
could harm our business.  Our future success substantially depends on the continued service and performance of the
members of our senior leadership team. These personnel possess business and technical capabilities that are difficult to replace. Members of our senior management operating team have been with us for an average of over twenty years.

  22 


Table of Contents

However, with the exception of Frank J. Coyne, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, we do not have employee contracts with the members of our senior management operating team. If we lose key
members of our senior management operating team, we may not be able to effectively manage our current operations or meet ongoing and future business challenges, and this may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.  We may fail to attract and retain enough qualified employees to support our operations, which
could have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business and service our customers.  Our business relies on
large numbers of skilled employees and our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees. If our attrition rate increases, our operating efficiency and productivity may decrease. We compete
for employees not only with other companies in our industry but also with companies in other industries, such as software services, engineering services and financial services companies, and there is a limited pool of employees who have the skills
and training needed to do our work. If our business continues to grow, the number of people we will need to hire will increase. We will also need to increase our hiring if we are not able to maintain our attrition rate through our current recruiting
and retention policies. Increased competition for employees could have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business and service our customers, as well as cause us to incur greater personnel expenses and training costs. 
We are subject to antitrust and other litigation, and may in the future become subject to further such litigation; an adverse
outcome in such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues and profitability. 
We participate in businesses (particularly insurance-related businesses and services) that are subject to substantial litigation,
including antitrust litigation. We are subject to the provisions of a 1995 settlement agreement in an antitrust lawsuit brought by various state Attorneys General and private plaintiffs which imposes certain constraints with respect to insurer
involvement in our governance and business. We currently are defending against putative class action lawsuits in which it is alleged that certain of our subsidiaries unlawfully have conspired with insurers with respect to their payment of insurance
claims. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Our failure to successfully defend or settle such litigation could result in liability that, to the extent not covered by our insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, revenues and profitability. Given the nature of our business, we may be subject to similar litigation in the future. Even if the direct financial impact of such litigation is not material, settlements or judgments arising out of such
litigation could include further restrictions on our ability to conduct business, including potentially the elimination of entire lines of business, which could increase our cost of doing business and limit our prospects for future growth.
 Our liquidity, financial position and profitability could be adversely affected by further deterioration in U.S. and
international credit markets and economic conditions.  Deterioration in the global capital markets has caused financial
institutions to seek additional capital, merge with larger financial institutions and, in some cases, fail. These conditions have led to concerns by market participants about the stability of financial markets generally and the strength of
counterparties, resulting in a contraction of available credit, even for the most credit-worthy borrowers. Due to recent market events, our liquidity and our ability to obtain financing may be negatively impacted if one of our lenders under our
revolving credit facilities or existing shelf arrangements fails to meet its funding obligations. In such an event, we may not be able to draw on all, or a substantial portion, of our uncommitted credit facilities, which would adversely affect our
liquidity. Also, if we attempt to obtain future financing in addition to, or replacement of, our existing credit facilities to finance our continued growth through acquisitions or otherwise, the credit market turmoil could negatively impact our
ability to obtain such financing. 
  23 


Table of Contents
General economic, political and market forces and dislocations beyond our control
could reduce demand for our solutions and harm our business.  The demand for our solutions may be impacted by domestic
and international factors that are beyond our control, including macroeconomic, political and market conditions, the availability of short-term and long-term funding and capital, the level and volatility of interest rates, currency exchange rates
and inflation. The United States economy recently experienced periods of contraction and both the future domestic and global economic environments may continue to be less favorable than those of prior years. Any one or more of these factors may
contribute to reduced activity and prices in the securities markets generally and could result in a reduction in demand for our solutions, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant
additional decline in the value of assets for which risk is transferred in market transactions could have an adverse impact on the demand for our solutions. In addition, the decline of the credit markets has reduced the number of mortgage
originators, and therefore, the immediate demand for our related mortgage solutions. Specifically, certain of our fraud detection and prevention solutions are directed at the mortgage market. This decline in asset value and originations and an
increase in foreclosure levels has also created greater regulatory scrutiny of mortgage originations and securitizations. Any new regulatory regime may change the utility of our solutions for mortgage lenders and other participants in the mortgage
lending industry and related derivative markets or increase our costs as we adapt our solutions to new regulation.  If
there are substantial sales of our common stock, our stock price could decline.  The market price of our common stock
could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to
sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem attractive.  As of December 31, 2011, our
stockholders, who owned our shares prior to the IPO and follow-on offering, continue to beneficially own a portion of our Class A common stock, primarily owned by our Employee Stock Ownership Plan or ESOP, representing in aggregate
approximately 13.1 % of our outstanding common stock. Such stockholders will be able to sell their common stock in the public market from time to time without registration, and subject to limitations on the timing, amount and method of those
sales imposed by securities laws. If any of these stockholders were to sell a large number of their common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. In addition, the perception in the public markets that sales by them
might occur could also adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  Pursuant to our equity incentive plans, options
to purchase approximately 17,834,361 shares of Class A common stock were outstanding as of February 24, 2012 . We filed a registration statement under the Securities Act, which covers the shares available for issuance under our equity
incentive plans (including for such outstanding options) as well as shares held for resale by our existing stockholders that were previously issued under our equity incentive plans. Such further issuance and resale of our common stock could cause
the price of our common stock to decline.  Also, in the future, we may issue our securities in connection with investments and
acquisitions. The amount of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then outstanding common stock.  Our capital structure, level of indebtedness and the terms of anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law and in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could diminish the
value of our common stock and could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult or could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors.  We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business
combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested 
  24 


Table of Contents

stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in
our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable or make it more difficult for stockholders to replace directors even if stockholders consider it beneficial to do so. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: 
 


 
•
 
 authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding
shares to thwart a takeover attempt;   


 
•
 
 prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow holders of less than a majority of the stock to elect some
directors;   


 
•
 
 require that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly-created directorships, be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office;
  


 
•
 
 limit who may call special meetings of stockholders;   


 
•
 
 authorize the issuance of authorized but unissued shares of common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval, subject to the rules and
regulations of the NASDAQ Global Select Market;   


 
•
 
 prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and
  


 
•
 
 establish advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon
by stockholders at stockholder meetings.  In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation
Law may inhibit potential acquisition bids for us. As a public company, we are subject to Section 203, which regulates corporate acquisitions and limits the ability of a holder of 15.0% or more of our stock from acquiring the rest of our stock.
Under Delaware law a corporation may opt out of the anti-takeover provisions, but we do not intend to do so.  These provisions
may prevent a stockholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt,
these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.   


Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments 
Not Applicable.   


Item 2.
Properties  Our
headquarters are in Jersey City, New Jersey. As of December 31, 2011, our principal offices consisted of the following properties:   










 Location
  
Square Feet
 
  
Lease Expiration Date

 Jersey City, New Jersey
  
 
390,991
  
  
May 31, 2021

 Orem, Utah
  
 
89,172
  
  
December 31, 2017

 Boston, Massachusetts
  
 
69,806
  
  
November 30, 2020

 Tempe, Arizona
  
 
44,481
  
  
March 31, 2014

 South Jordan, Utah
  
 
42,849
  
  
June 30, 2014

 North Reading, Massachusetts
  
 
41,200
  
  
June 30, 2015

 Carlsbad, California
  
 
38,139
  
  
April 30, 2017

 Agoura Hills, California
  
 
28,666
  
  
October 31, 2018

  25 


Table of Contents
We also lease offices in 22 states in the United States and the District of Columbia, and
offices outside the United States to support our international operations in Canada, China, Denmark, England, Germany, India, Israel, Japan, and Nepal.  We believe that our properties are in good operating condition and adequately serve our current business operations. We also anticipate that suitable additional or alternative space, including those under
lease options, will be available at commercially reasonable terms for future expansion.   


Item 3.
Legal Proceedings  We are
party to legal proceedings with respect to a variety of matters in the ordinary course of business, including those matters described below. With respect to the ongoing matter, we are unable, at the present time, to determine the ultimate resolution
of or provide a reasonable estimate of the range of possible loss attributable to this matter or the impact it may have on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. This is primarily because this case remains in its early stages
and discovery has not yet commenced. Although we believe we have strong defenses and intend to vigorously defend this matter, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations, financial position or cash flows.  Claims Outcome Advisor Litigation 
Hensley, et al. v. Computer Sciences Corporation et al. was a putative nationwide class action complaint, filed in February 2005,
in Miller County, Arkansas state court. Defendants included numerous insurance companies and providers of software products used by insurers in paying claims. We were among the named defendants. Plaintiffs alleged that certain software products,
including our Claims Outcome Advisor product and a competing software product sold by Computer Sciences Corporation, improperly estimated the amount to be paid by insurers to their policyholders in connection with claims for bodily injuries.
 We entered into settlement agreements with plaintiffs asserting claims relating to the use of Claims Outcome Advisor by
defendants Hanover Insurance Group, Progressive Car Insurance and Liberty Mutual Insurance Group. Each of these settlements was granted final approval by the court and together the settlements resolve the claims asserted in this case against us with
respect to the above insurance companies, who settled the claims against them as well. A provision was made in 2006 for this proceeding and the total amount we paid in 2008 with respect to these settlements was less than $2.0 million. A fourth
defendant, The Automobile Club of California, which is alleged to have used Claims Outcome Advisor, was dismissed from the action. On August 18, 2008, pursuant to the agreement of the parties the Court ordered that the claims against us be
dismissed with prejudice.  Subsequently, Hanover Insurance Group made a demand for reimbursement, pursuant to an
indemnification provision contained in a December 30, 2004 License Agreement between Hanover and us, of its settlement and defense costs in the Hensley class action. Specifically, Hanover demanded $2.5 million including $0.6 million in
attorneys’ fees and expenses. We disputed that Hanover is entitled to any reimbursement pursuant to the License Agreement. In July 2010, after Hanover and us were unable to resolve the dispute in mediation, Hanover served a summons and
complaint seeking indemnity and contribution from us. The parties resolved this matter with no material adverse consequences to us in a Settlement Agreement and Release executed on August 25, 2011. 
Xactware Litigation  The following two lawsuits were filed by or on behalf of groups of Louisiana insurance policyholders who claim, among other things, that certain insurers who used products and price information supplied
by our Xactware subsidiary (and those of another provider) did not fully compensate policyholders for property damage 
  26 


Table of Contents

covered under their insurance policies. The plaintiffs seek to recover compensation for their damages in an amount equal to the difference between the amount paid by the defendants and the fair
market repair/restoration costs of their damaged property.  Schafer v. State Farm Fire & Cas. Co., et al. was
a putative class action pending against us and State Farm Fire & Casualty Company filed in March 2007 in the Eastern District of Louisiana. The complaint alleged antitrust violations, breach of contract, negligence, bad faith, and fraud.
The court dismissed the antitrust claim as to both defendants and dismissed all claims against us other than fraud. Judge Duval denied plaintiffs’ motion to certify a class with respect to the fraud and breach of contract claims on
August 3, 2009. After the single action was re-assigned to Judge Africk, plaintiffs agreed to settle the matter with us and State Farm and a Settlement Agreement and Release was executed by all parties in June 2010. The terms of the settlement
were not considered material to us.  Mornay v. Travelers Ins. Co., et al. was a putative class action pending against
us and Travelers Insurance Company filed in November 2007 in the Eastern District of Louisiana. The complaint alleged antitrust violations, breach of contract, negligence, bad faith, and fraud. As in Schafer, the court dismissed the antitrust claim
as to both defendants and dismissed all claims against us other than fraud. Judge Duval stayed all proceedings in the case pending an appraisal of the lead plaintiff’s insurance claim. The matter was re-assigned to Judge Barbier, who on
September 11, 2009 issued an order administratively closing the matter pending completion of the appraisal process. After the appraisal process was completed and the court lifted the stay, defendants filed a motion to strike the class
allegations and dismiss the fraud claim. The plaintiffs agreed to settle the matter and a Settlement Agreement and Release were executed by all parties on January 5, 2012. The terms of the settlement were not considered material to us.
 iiX Litigation  In April 2010, our subsidiary, Insurance Information Exchange or iiX, as well as other information providers in the State of Missouri were served with a summons and class action complaint filed in the
United States District Court for the Western District of Missouri alleging violations of the Driver Privacy Protection Act, or the DPPA, entitled Janice Cook, et al. v. ACS State & Local Solutions, et al. Plaintiffs brought the
action on their own behalf and on behalf of all similarly situated individuals whose personal information is contained in any motor vehicle record maintained by the State of Missouri and who have not provided express consent to the State of Missouri
for the distribution of their personal information for purposes not enumerated by the DPPA and whose personal information has been knowingly obtained and used by the defendants. The class complaint alleged that the defendants knowingly obtained
personal information for a purpose not authorized by the DPPA and sought liquidated damages in the amount of two thousand five hundred dollars for each instance of a violation of the DPPA, punitive damages and the destruction of any illegally
obtained personal information. The court granted iiX’s motion to dismiss the complaint based on a failure to state a claim on November 19, 2010. Plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal on December 17, 2010 and oral argument was heard by
the Eighth Circuit on September 18, 2011. The Eighth Circuit affirmed the District Court’s dismissal on December 15, 2011. 
Interthinx Litigation  In September 2009, our subsidiary, Interthinx, Inc., was served with a putative class action entitled Renata Gluzman v. Interthinx, Inc. The plaintiff, a former Interthinx employee, filed
the class action on  August 13, 2009 in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Los Angeles on behalf of all Interthinx
information technology employees for unpaid overtime and missed meals and rest breaks, as well as various related claims claiming that the information technology employees were misclassified as exempt employees and, as a result, were denied certain
wages and benefits that would have been received if they were properly classified as non-exempt employees. The pleadings included, among other things, a violation of Business and Professions Code 17200 for unfair business practices, which allowed
plaintiffs to include as class members all information technology employees employed at Interthinx for four years prior to the date of filing 
  27 


Table of Contents

the complaint. The complaint sought compensatory damages, penalties that are associated with the various statutes, restitution, interest costs, and attorney fees. On June 2, 2010, plaintiffs
agreed to settle their claims with Interthinx and the court granted final approval to the settlement on February 23, 2011. The terms of the settlement were not considered material to us.  Citizens Insurance Litigation  We have received notice of a
complaint filed on February 7, 2012 in the Florida State Circuit Court for Pasco County naming Citizens Property Insurance Corporation (“Citizens”) and the Company’s Xactware subsidiary. The complaint does not seek monetary relief
against Xactware. It alleges a class action seeking declaratory relief against defendants and is brought on behalf of “all individuals who have purchased a new or renewed a property casualty insurance policy from Citizens” where Citizens
used an Xactware product to determine replacement value of the property. The complaint has not yet been served on Xactware. At this time, it is not possible to determine the ultimate resolution of or estimate the liability related to this matter.
  


Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures 
Not Applicable. 
PART II   


Item 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
Market Information 
Verisk trades under the ticker symbol “VRSK” on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Our common stock was first publicly traded on
October 7, 2009. As of February 24, 2012, the closing price of our Class A common stock was $42.00 per share, as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market. As of February 24, 2012, there were approximately 33 Class A
stockholders of record. We believe the number of beneficial owners is substantially greater than the number of record holders for Class A, because a large portion of Class A common stock is held in “street name” by brokers. We
converted all Class B shares to Class A shares in 2011 and currently have no outstanding Class B shares.  We have not
paid or declared any cash dividends on our Class A, Class B-1, or Class B-2 common stock during the two most recent fiscal years and we currently do not intend to pay dividends on our Class A, Class B-1, or Class B-2 common stock. We
do have a publicly announced share repurchase plan and have repurchased 26,396,076 shares since our IPO. As of December 31, 2011, we had 379,717,811 shares of treasury stock. 
  28 


Table of Contents
The following table shows the quarterly range of the closing high and low per share sales
prices for our common stock as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market.   












 Year Ending December 31, 2011
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 Fourth Quarter
  
$
40.13
  
  
$
33.06
  

 Third Quarter
  
$
35.15
  
  
$
30.98
  

 Second Quarter
  
$
34.72
  
  
$
32.54
  

 First Quarter
  
$
34.47
  
  
$
30.97
  





 Year Ending December 31, 2010
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 Fourth Quarter
  
$
34.60
  
  
$
27.64
  

 Third Quarter
  
$
30.20
  
  
$
27.25
  

 Second Quarter
  
$
30.93
  
  
$
27.65
  

 First Quarter
  
$
30.44
  
  
$
27.24
  
 Performance Graph  The graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder return on $100 invested in our Class A common stock, with the cumulative total return (assuming reinvestment of dividends) on $100 invested
in each of the NASDAQ Composite Index, S&P 500 Index and an aggregate of peer issuers in the information industry since October 7, 2009, the date our Class A common stock was first publicly traded. The peer issuers used for this graph
are Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, Equifax Inc., Factset Research Systems Inc., Fair Isaac Corporation, IHS Inc, Morningstar, Inc., MSCI Inc., and Solera Holdings, Inc. Each peer issuer was weighted according to its respective market
capitalization on October 7, 2009.  COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN 
Assumes $100 Invested on Oct. 07, 2009  Assumes Dividend Reinvested  Fiscal Year Ending Dec. 31, 2011
   


  29 


Table of Contents
Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities 
There were no unregistered sales of equity securities by the Company during the period covered by this report. 
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  On April 29, 2010, our board of directors authorized the Repurchase Program for $150.0 million. On October 19, 2010, April 12, 2011, and July 18, 2011, our board of directors
authorized an additional $150.0 million, $150.0 million, and $150.0 million, respectively, for a total of $600.0 million. On January 11, 2012 , we announced an additional $300.0 million of share repurchases authorized by the board of directors,
thereby increasing the capacity to $900.0 million. Under the repurchase program, we may repurchase stock in the market or as otherwise determined by us. These authorizations have no expiration dates and may be suspended or terminated at any time.
Our shares repurchased for the quarter ending December 31, 2011 is set forth below:   




















 Period
  
Total Numberof SharesPurchased
 
  
AveragePrice Paidper Share
 
  
Total Number ofShares Purchasedas Part of PubliclyAnnounced
Plansor Programs
 
  
Maximum DollarValue of Shares thatMay Yet
BePurchased Under thePlans or Programs
 

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
(in thousands)
 

 October 1, 2011 through October 31, 2011
  
 
454,557
  
  
$
34.51
  
  
 
454,557
  
  
$
31,701
  

 November 1, 2011 through November 30, 2011
  
 
333,586
  
  
$
37.01
  
  
 
333,586
  
  
$
19,357
  

 December 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011
  
 
323,241
  
  
$
38.91
  
  
 
323,241
  
  
$
6,779
  


  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  





  
 
1,111,384
  
  
$
36.54
  
  
 
1,111,384
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  




  30 


Table of Contents


Item 6.
Selected Financial Data 
The following selected historical financial data should be read in conjunction with, and are qualified by reference to, Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. The consolidated statement of
operations data for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and the consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 are derived from the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual
report on Form 10-K. The consolidated statement of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 and the consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 are derived from audited consolidated
financial statements that are not included in this annual report on Form 10-K. Results for the year ended December 31, 2011 are not necessarily indicative of results that may be expected in any other future period. 
Between January 1, 2007 and December 31, 2011 we acquired 13 businesses, which may affect the comparability of our consolidated
financial statements.   
























 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 
 
(in thousands, except for share and per share data)
 

 Statement of operations:
 



 



 



 



 




 Revenues:
 



 



 



 



 




 Risk Assessment revenues
 
$
563,361
  
 
$
542,138
  
 
$
523,976
  
 
$
504,391
  
 
$
485,160
  

 Decision Analytics revenues
 
 
768,479
  
 
 
596,205
  
 
 
503,128
  
 
 
389,159
  
 
 
317,035
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Revenues
 
 
1,331,840
  
 
 
1,138,343
  
 
 
1,027,104
  
 
 
893,550
  
 
 
802,195
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Expenses:
 



 



 



 



 




 Cost of revenues
 
 
533,735
  
 
 
463,473
  
 
 
491,294
  
 
 
386,897
  
 
 
357,191
  

 Selling, general and administrative
 
 
209,469
  
 
 
166,374
  
 
 
162,604
  
 
 
131,239
  
 
 
107,576
  

 Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets
 
 
43,827
  
 
 
40,728
  
 
 
38,578
  
 
 
35,317
  
 
 
31,745
  

 Amortization of intangible assets
 
 
34,792
  
 
 
27,398
  
 
 
32,621
  
 
 
29,555
  
 
 
33,916
  

 Acquisition related liabilities adjustment(1)
 
 
(3,364
) 
 
 
(544
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expenses
 
 
818,459
  
 
 
697,429
  
 
 
725,097
  
 
 
583,008
  
 
 
530,428
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income
 
 
513,381
  
 
 
440,914
  
 
 
302,007
  
 
 
310,542
  
 
 
271,767
  

 Other income/(expense):
 



 



 



 



 




 Investment income
 
 
201
  
 
 
305
  
 
 
195
  
 
 
2,184
  
 
 
8,451
  

 Realized gain/(loss) on securities, net
 
 
686
  
 
 
95
  
 
 
(2,332
) 
 
 
(2,511
) 
 
 
857
  

 Interest expense
 
 
(53,847
) 
 
 
(34,664
) 
 
 
(35,265
) 
 
 
(31,316
) 
 
 
(22,928
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other expense, net
 
 
(52,960
) 
 
 
(34,264
) 
 
 
(37,402
) 
 
 
(31,643
) 
 
 
(13,620
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes
 
 
460,421
  
 
 
406,650
  
 
 
264,605
  
 
 
278,899
  
 
 
258,147
  

 Provision for income taxes
 
 
(177,663
) 
 
 
(164,098
) 
 
 
(137,991
) 
 
 
(120,671
) 
 
 
(103,184
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations
 
 
282,758
  
 
 
242,552
  
 
 
126,614
  
 
 
158,228
  
 
 
154,963
  

 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax(2)
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(4,589
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
 
$
282,758
  
 
$
242,552
  
 
$
126,614
  
 
$
158,228
  
 
$
150,374
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic net income/(loss) per share(3):
 



 



 



 



 




 Income from continuing operations
 
$
1.70
  
 
$
1.36
  
 
$
0.72
  
 
$
0.87
  
 
$
0.77
  

 Loss from discontinued operations
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(0.02
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic net income per share
 
$
1.70
  
 
$
1.36
  
 
$
0.72
  
 
$
0.87
  
 
$
0.75
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  31 


Table of Contents
























 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 
 
(in thousands, except for share and per share data)
 

 Diluted net income/(loss) per share (3):
 



 



 



 



 




 Income from continuing operations
 
$
1.63
  
 
$
1.30
  
 
$
0.70
  
 
$
0.83
  
 
$
0.74
  

 Loss from discontinued operations
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(0.02
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted net income per share
 
$
1.63
  
 
$
1.30
  
 
$
0.70
  
 
$
0.83
  
 
$
0.72
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average shares outstanding(3):
 



 



 



 



 




 Basic
 
 
166,015,238
  
 
 
177,733,503
  
 
 
174,767,795
  
 
 
182,885,700
  
 
 
200,846,400
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted
 
 
173,325,110
  
 
 
186,394,962
  
 
 
182,165,661
  
 
 
190,231,700
  
 
 
209,257,550
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The financial operating data below sets forth the information we believe is useful for investors in evaluating our
overall financial performance:   
























 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
  
2008
 
  
2007
 

 
  
(in thousands, except for share and per share data)
 

 Other data:
  



 



 



  



  




 EBITDA (4):
  



 



 



  



  




 Risk Assessment EBITDA
  
$
286,163
  
 
$
268,417
  
 
$
210,928
  
  
$
222,706
  
  
$
212,780
  

 Decision Analytics EBITDA
  
 
305,837
  
 
 
240,623
  
 
 
162,278
  
  
 
152,708
  
  
 
124,648
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 EBITDA
  
$
592,000
  
 
$
509,040
  
 
$
373,206
  
  
$
375,414
  
  
$
337,428
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 



 The following is a reconciliation of income from continuing operations to EBITDA:
   

 Income from continuing operations
  
$
282,758
  
 
$
242,552
  
 
$
126,614
  
  
$
158,228
  
  
$
154,963
  

 Depreciation and amortization of fixed and intangible assets
  
 
78,619
  
 
 
68,126
  
 
 
71,199
  
  
 
64,872
  
  
 
65,661
  

 Investment income and realized (gain)/loss on securities, net
  
 
(887
) 
 
 
(400
) 
 
 
2,137
  
  
 
327
  
  
 
(9,308
) 

 Interest expense
  
 
53,847
  
 
 
34,664
  
 
 
35,265
  
  
 
31,316
  
  
 
22,928
  

 Provision for income taxes
  
 
177,663
  
 
 
164,098
  
 
 
137,991
  
  
 
120,671
  
  
 
103,184
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 EBITDA
  
$
592,000
  
 
$
509,040
  
 
$
373,206
  
  
$
375,414
  
  
$
337,428
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The following table sets forth our consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31: 
 
























 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Balance Sheet Data:
  



 



 



 



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
191,603
  
 
$
54,974
  
 
$
71,527
  
 
$
33,185
  
 
$
24,049
  

 Total assets
  
$
1,541,106
  
 
$
1,217,090
  
 
$
996,953
  
 
$
928,877
  
 
$
830,041
  

 Total debt (5)
  
$
1,105,886
  
 
$
839,543
  
 
$
594,169
  
 
$
669,754
  
 
$
438,330
  

 Redeemable common stock (6)
  
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
749,539
  
 
$
1,171,188
  

 Stockholders’ deficit (7)
  
$
(98,490
) 
 
$
(114,442
) 
 
$
(34,949
) 
 
$
(1,009,823
) 
 
$
(1,203,348
) 
    


(1)
 During the second quarter of 2011, we reevaluated the probability of D2Hawkeye and Strategic Analytics achieving the specified predetermined EBITDA and
revenue targets for exceptional performance in fiscal 
  32 


Table of Contents


 

year 2011 and reversed the contingent consideration related to these acquisitions. During the third quarter of 2010, we reevaluated the probability of TierMed achieving the specified
predetermined EBITDA and revenue targets and reversed its contingent consideration related to this acquisition.   


(2)
As of December 31, 2007, we discontinued operations of our claim consulting business located in New Hope, Pennsylvania and the United Kingdom. There was no impact
of discontinued operations on the results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008.   


(3)
In conjunction with the IPO, the stock of Insurance Services Office, Inc. converted to stock of Verisk Analytics, Inc, which effected a fifty-to-one stock split of its
common stock. The numbers in the above table reflect this stock split.   


(4)
EBITDA is the financial measure, which management uses to evaluate the performance of our segments. “EBITDA” is defined as net income before investment income
and realized (gain)/loss on securities, net, interest expense, provision for income taxes, depreciation and amortization of fixed and intangible assets. Beginning in 2011 our EBITDA includes acquisition related liability adjustments for all periods
presented. In addition, this Management’s Discussion and Analysis includes references to EBITDA margin, which is computed as EBITDA divided by revenues. See Note 18 of our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form
10-K.  Although EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure, EBITDA is frequently used by securities analysts, lenders
and others in their evaluation of companies, EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for an analysis of our results of operations or cash flow from operating activities reported
under GAAP. Management uses EBITDA in conjunction with traditional GAAP operating performance measures as part of its overall assessment of company performance. Some of these limitations are: 
 


 
•
 
 EBITDA does not reflect our cash expenditures, or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments;
  


 
•
 
 EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; 
 


 
•
 
 Although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized often will have to be replaced in the future
and EBITDA does not reflect any cash requirements for such replacements; and   


 
•
 
 Other companies in our industry may calculate EBITDA differently than we do, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure.
  


(5)
Includes capital lease obligations.   


(6)
Prior to our corporate reorganization, we were required to record our Class A common stock and vested options at redemption value at each balance sheet date as the
redemption of these securities was not solely within our control, due to our contractual obligations to redeem these shares. We classified this redemption value as redeemable common stock. After our IPO, we were no longer obligated to redeem these
shares and therefore we reversed the redeemable common stock balance. See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K for further information. 
 


(7)
Subsequent to our corporate reorganization, share repurchases are recorded as treasury stock within stockholders’ deficit, as we intend to reissue shares from
treasury stock in the future. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we repurchased $380.7 million and $422.3 million, respectively, of treasury stock. 
  33 


Table of Contents


Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our historical financial statements and the related notes included
elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K, as well as the discussion under “Selected Consolidated Financial Data.” This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ
materially from those discussed in or implied by any of the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including but not limited to those listed under “Risk Factors” and “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking
Statements.”  We enable risk-bearing businesses to better understand and manage their risks. We provide value to our
customers by supplying proprietary data that, combined with our analytic methods, creates embedded decision support solutions. We are the largest aggregator and provider of data pertaining to U.S. property and casualty, or P&C, insurance risks.
We offer solutions for detecting fraud in the U.S. P&C insurance, mortgage and healthcare industries and sophisticated methods to predict and quantify loss in diverse contexts ranging from natural catastrophes to supply chain to health
insurance.  Our customers use our solutions to make better risk decisions with greater efficiency and discipline. We refer to
these products and services as ‘solutions’ due to the integration among our products and the flexibility that enables our customers to purchase components or the comprehensive package of products. These solutions take various forms,
including data, statistical models or tailored analytics, all designed to allow our clients to make more logical decisions. We believe our solutions for analyzing risk positively impact our customers’ revenues and help them better manage their
costs.  On May 23, 2008, in contemplation of our IPO, Insurance Service Office, Inc., or ISO, formed Verisk Analytics,
Inc., or Verisk, a Delaware corporation, to be the holding company for our business. Verisk was initially formed as a wholly-owned subsidiary of ISO. On October 6, 2009 in connection with our IPO, we effected a reorganization whereby ISO became
a wholly-owned subsidiary of Verisk.  On October 1, 2010, we completed a follow-on public offering. We did not receive
any proceeds from the sale of common stock in the offering. The primary purpose of the offering was to manage and organize the sale by Class B insurance company shareholders while providing incremental public float. Concurrently with the closing of
the offering, we repurchased shares of common stock, for an aggregate purchase price of $192.5 million, directly from selling shareholders owning Class B common stock. We converted all Class B shares to Class A shares in 2011 and currently have
no outstanding Class B shares.  We organize our business in two segments: Risk Assessment and Decision Analytics. Our Risk
Assessment segment provides statistical, actuarial and underwriting data for the U.S. P&C insurance industry. Our Risk Assessment segment revenues represented approximately 42.3 % and 47.6% of our revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our Decision Analytics segment provides solutions our customers use to analyze the processes of the Verisk Risk Analysis Framework: Prediction of Loss, Detection and Prevention of Fraud, and
Quantification of Loss. Effective December 31, 2011, we realigned the revenue categories within Decision Analytics segment, including fraud identification and detection solutions, loss prediction solutions and loss quantification solutions,
into four vertical market-related groupings of insurance, mortgage and financial services, healthcare, and specialized markets. We believe that this enhances financial reporting transparency and helps investors better understand the themes within
the Decision Analytics segment. Our Decision Analytics segment revenues represented approximately 57.7% and 52.4% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
Executive Summary 
Key Performance Metrics  We believe our business’s ability to generate recurring revenue and positive cash flow is the key indicator of the successful execution of our business strategy. We use year over year revenue growth
and EBITDA margin 
  34 


Table of Contents

as metrics to measure our performance. EBITDA and EBITDA margin are non-GAAP financial measures (see Note 4. within Item 6. Selected Financial Data section of Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations).  Revenue growth. We use year over year revenue growth
as a key performance metric. We assess revenue growth based on our ability to generate increased revenue through increased sales to existing customers, sales to new customers, sales of new or expanded solutions to existing and new customers and
strategic acquisitions of new businesses.  EBITDA margin. We use EBITDA margin as a metric to assess segment
performance and scalability of our business. We assess EBITDA margin based on our ability to increase revenues while controlling expense growth.  Revenues  We earn revenues through subscriptions, long-term
agreements and on a transactional basis. Subscriptions for our solutions are generally paid in advance of rendering services either quarterly or in full upon commencement of the subscription period, which is usually for one year and automatically
renewed each year. As a result, the timing of our cash flows generally precedes our recognition of revenues and income and our cash flow from operations tends to be higher in the first quarter as we receive subscription payments. Examples of these
arrangements include subscriptions that allow our customers to access our standardized coverage language, our claims fraud database or our actuarial services throughout the subscription period. In general, we experience minimal revenue seasonality
within the business. Our long-term agreements are generally for periods of three to seven years. We recognize revenue from subscriptions ratably over the term of the subscription and most long-term agreements are recognized ratably over the term of
the agreement.  Certain of our solutions are also paid for by our customers on a transactional basis. For example, we have
solutions that allow our customers to access fraud detection tools in the context of an individual mortgage application or loan, obtain property-specific rating and underwriting information to price a policy on a commercial building, or compare a
P&C insurance, medical or workers’ compensation claim with information in our databases. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, 31.1% and 30.2% of our revenues, respectively, were derived from providing transactional
solutions. We earn transactional revenues as our solutions are delivered or services performed. In general, transactions are billed monthly at the end of each month.  Approximately 85.7% and 84.0% of the revenues in our Risk Assessment segment for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, were derived from subscriptions and long-term agreements for
our solutions. Our customers in this segment include most of the P&C insurance providers in the United States. Approximately 56.6% and 56.8% of the revenues in our Decision Analytics segment, for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively, were derived from subscriptions and long-term agreements for our solutions.  Principal Operating Costs and
Expenses  Personnel expenses are the major component of both our cost of revenues and selling, general and
administrative expenses. Personnel expenses include salaries, benefits, incentive compensation, equity compensation costs (described under “Equity Compensation Costs” below), sales commissions, employment taxes, recruiting costs, and
outsourced temporary agency costs, which represented 65.3% and 65.4% of our total expenses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  We allocate personnel expenses between two categories, cost of revenues and selling, general and administrative costs, based on the actual costs associated with each employee. We categorize employees who
maintain our solutions as cost of revenues, and all other personnel, including executive managers, sales people, 
  35 


Table of Contents

marketing, business development, finance, legal, human resources, and administrative services, as selling, general and administrative expenses. A significant portion of our other operating costs,
such as facilities and communications, are also either captured within cost of revenues or selling, general and administrative expense based on the nature of the work being performed. 
While we expect to grow our headcount over time to take advantage of our market opportunities, we believe that the economies of scale in
our operating model will allow us to grow our personnel expenses at a lower rate than revenues. Historically, our EBITDA margin has improved because we have been able to increase revenues without a proportionate corresponding increase in expenses.
 Cost of Revenues. Our cost of revenues consists primarily of personnel expenses. Cost of revenues also includes the
expenses associated with the acquisition and verification of data, the maintenance of our existing solutions and the development and enhancement of our next-generation solutions. Our cost of revenues excludes depreciation and amortization.
 Selling, General and Administrative Expense. Our selling, general and administrative expense also consists primarily
of personnel costs. A portion of the other operating costs such as facilities, insurance and communications are also allocated to selling, general and administrative costs based on the nature of the work being performed by the employee. Our selling,
general and administrative expenses excludes depreciation and amortization.  Description of Acquisitions
 We acquired eight businesses since January 1, 2009. As a result of these acquisitions, our consolidated results
of operations may not be comparable between periods.  On June 17, 2011, we acquired the net assets of Health Risk
Partners, LLC, or HRP, a provider of solutions to optimize revenue, ensure compliance and improve quality of care for Medicare Advantage and Medicaid health plans. Within our Decision Analytics segment, this acquisition further advances our position
as a major provider of data, analytics, and decision-support solutions to the healthcare industry. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K for the preliminary purchase allocation. 
On April 27, 2011, we acquired 100% of the common stock of Bloodhound Technologies, Inc. or Bloodhound, a provider of real-time
pre-adjudication medical claims editing. Within our Decision Analytics segment, Bloodhound addresses the need of healthcare payers to control fraud and waste in a real-time claims-processing environment, and these capabilities align with our
existing fraud identification tools. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K for the preliminary purchase allocation.  On December 16, 2010, we acquired 100% of the common stock of 3E Company, or 3E, a global source for a comprehensive suite of environmental health and safety compliance solutions .Within our Decision
Analytics segment, we believe that 3E’s platform is consistent with our historical expertise in regulatory and compliance matters.  On December 14, 2010, we acquired 100% of the common stock of Crowe Paradis Services Corporation, or CP, a leading provider of claims analysis and compliance solutions to the property/casualty
insurance industry. Within our Decision Analytics segment, CP offers solutions for complying with the Medicare Secondary Payer (MSP) Act, provides services to many of the largest worker’s compensation insurers, third-party administrators
(TPAs), and self-insured companies which enhances solutions we currently offer. 
  36 


Table of Contents
On February 26, 2010, we acquired 100% of the common stock of Strategic Analytics,
Inc., or SA, a privately owned provider of credit risk and capital management solutions to consumer and mortgage lenders. Within our Decision Analytics segment, SA’s solutions and application set will allow our customers to take advantage of
state-of-the-art loss forecasting, stress testing, and economic capital requirement tools to better understand and forecast the risk associated within their credit portfolios.  On October 30, 2009, we acquired the net assets of Enabl-u Technology Corporation, Inc, or Enabl-u, a privately owned provider of data management, training and communication solutions to companies
with regional, national or global work forces. We believe this acquisition will enhance our ability to provide solutions for customers to measure loss prevention and improve asset management through the use of software and software services.
 On July 24, 2009, we acquired the net assets of TierMed Systems, LLC, or TierMed, a privately owned provider of
Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set, or HEDIS, solutions to healthcare organizations that have HEDIS or quality-reporting needs. We believe this acquisition will enhance our ability to provide solutions for customers to measure and
improve healthcare quality and financial performance through the use of software and software services.  On January 14,
2009, we acquired 100% of the stock of D2 Hawkeye, Inc., or D2, a privately-owned provider of data mining, decision support, clinical quality analysis, and risk analysis tools for the healthcare industry. We believe this acquisition will enhance our
position in the healthcare analytics and predictive modeling market by providing new market, cross-sell, and diversification opportunities for the Company’s expanding healthcare solutions. 
Equity Compensation Costs  We have a leveraged ESOP, funded with intercompany debt that includes 401(k), ESOP and profit sharing components to provide employees with equity participation. We make quarterly cash contributions to the
plan equal to the debt service requirements. As the debt is repaid, shares are released to the ESOP to fund 401(k) matching and profit sharing contributions and the remainder is allocated annually to active employees in proportion to their eligible
compensation in relation to total participants’ eligible compensation.  We accrue compensation expense over the reporting
period equal to the fair value of the shares to be released to the ESOP. Depending on the number of shares released to the plan during the quarter and the fluctuation in the fair value of the shares, a corresponding increase or decrease in
compensation expense will occur. The amount of our equity compensation costs recognized for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are as follows:   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 

 ESOP costs by contribution type:
  



  



  




 401(k) matching contribution expense
  
$
10,835
  
  
$
9,932
  
  
$
7,604
  

 Profit sharing contribution expense
  
 
1,780
  
  
 
1,641
  
  
 
1,139
  

 ESOP allocation expense
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
67,322
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total ESOP costs
  
$
12,615
  
  
$
11,573
  
  
$
76,065
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 ESOP costs by segment:
  



  



  




 Risk Assessment ESOP costs
  
$
6,953
  
  
$
6,861
  
  
$
43,641
  

 Decision Analytics ESOP costs
  
 
5,662
  
  
 
4,712
  
  
 
32,424
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total ESOP costs
  
$
12,615
  
  
$
11,573
  
  
$
76,065
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  37 


Table of Contents
In connection with our IPO, on October 6, 2009, we accelerated our future ESOP
allocation contribution through the end of the ESOP in 2013, to all participants eligible for a contribution in 2009. This resulted in a non-recurring, non-cash charge of approximately $57.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2009. As a result,
subsequent to the offering, the non-cash ESOP allocation expense was substantially reduced. Excluding the ESOP allocation, expense relating specifically to our 401(k) and profit sharing plans were $12.6 million, $11.6 million and $8.7 million
for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  In addition, the portion of the ESOP allocation
expense related to the appreciation of the value of the shares in the ESOP above the value of those shares when the ESOP was first established is not tax deductible.  Prior to our IPO, our Class A stock and vested stock options were recorded within redeemable common stock at full redemption value at each balance sheet date, as the redemption of these securities
was not solely within the control of the Company (see Note 14 of our consolidated financial statements). Effective with the corporate reorganization that occurred on October 6, 2009, we are no longer obligated to redeem Class A stock and
therefore are not required to present our Class A stock and vested stock options at redemption value. Our financial results for the fourth quarter of 2009 reflect a reversal of the redeemable common stock. The reversal of the redeemable common
stock of $1,064.9 million on October 6, 2009 resulted in the elimination of accumulated deficit of $440.6 million, an increase of $0.1 million to Class A common stock at par value, an increase of $624.3 million to additional
paid-in-capital, and a reclassification of the ISO Class A unearned common stock KSOP shares balance of $1.3 million to unearned KSOP contribution. See Note 14 in our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on
Form 10-K.  Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 
Consolidated Results of Operations  Revenues  Revenues were $1,331.8 million for the year ended
December 31, 2011 compared to $1,138.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase of $193.5 million or 17.0%. In 2011 and in 2010, we acquired five companies, HRP, Bloodhound, CP, 3E, and SA, collectively referred to as
recent acquisitions, which we define as acquisitions not owned for a significant portion of both the current period and/or prior period and would therefore impact the comparability of the financial results. Recent acquisitions were within our
Decision Analytics segment and provided an increase of $106.9 million in revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. Excluding recent acquisitions, revenues increased $86.6 million, which included an increase in our Risk Assessment segment
of $21.2 million and an increase in our Decision Analytics segment of $65.4 million. Refer to the Results of Operations by Segment within this section for further information regarding our revenues. 
Cost of Revenues  Cost of revenues was $533.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $463.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase of $70.2 million or 15.2%. Recent
acquisitions caused an increase of $46.6 million in cost for the year ended December 31, 2011. Excluding the impact of our recent acquisitions, our cost of revenues increased $23.6 million or 5.1%. The increase was primarily due to increases in
salaries and employee benefits cost of $16.6 million. Other increases include leased software expenses of $3.4 million, travel and travel related costs of $1.3 million, office maintenance expense of $0.4 million and other operating costs of
$4.1 million. These increases in costs were partially offset by a $2.2 million decrease in data costs primarily within in our Decision Analytics segment.  The increase in salaries and employee benefits of $16.6 million includes an increase of $19.4 million in annual salaries and employee benefits such as medical costs and equity incentive plan, and was
partially offset by a decrease of $2.8 million in pension costs. The pension cost decreased primarily due to the partial recovery in 2010 of the fair value of our pension investments. 
  38 


Table of Contents
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 
Selling, general and administrative expenses, or SGA, were $209.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $166.4
million for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase of $43.1 million or 25.9%. Excluding costs associated with our recent acquisitions of $31.6 million, SGA increased $11.5 million or 7.0%. The increase was primarily due to an
increase in salaries and employee benefits of $8.8 million which includes annual salary increases, medical costs, commissions, and equity compensation. Other increases were cost related to travel and travel related items of $1.1 million, rent
and maintenance of $0.4 million and other general expenses of $1.2 million.  Depreciation and Amortization of Fixed
Assets  Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets was $43.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared
to $40.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase of $3.1 million or 7.6%. Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets includes depreciation of furniture and equipment, software, computer hardware, and related equipment. The
majority of the increase relates to software and hardware costs to support data capacity expansion and revenue growth. 
Amortization of Intangible Assets  Amortization of intangible assets was $34.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $27.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase of $7.4 million or 27.0%. The
increase was primarily related to amortization of intangible assets associated with recent acquisitions of $13.4 million, partially offset by $6.0 million of amortization of intangible assets associated with prior acquisitions that have been fully
amortized.  Acquisition Related Liabilities Adjustment 
Acquisition related liabilities adjustment was a benefit of $3.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 and $0.5 million for
the year ended December 31, 2010. This benefit was a result of a reduction of $3.4 million to contingent consideration due to the reduced probability of the D2 and SA acquisitions achieving the EBITDA and revenue earnout targets for
exceptional performance in fiscal year 2011 established at the time of acquisition. In 2010, we reevaluated the probability of TierMed achieving the specified predetermined EBITDA and revenue targets and reversed $0.5 million of contingent
consideration related to this acquisition.  Investment Income and Realized Gain/(Loss) on Securities, Net 
Investment income and realized gain/(loss) on securities, net, was a gain of $0.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 as
compared to a gain of $0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase of $0.5 million.  Interest
Expense  Interest expense was $53.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $34.7 million for the
year ended December 31, 2010, a increase of $19.1 million or 55.3%. This increase is primarily due to the issuance of our 5.800% and 4.875% senior notes in the aggregate principal of $450.0 million and $250.0 million, respectively. 
Provision for Income Taxes  The provision for income taxes was $177.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $164.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase of $13.6 million or 8.3%.
The effective tax 
  39 


Table of Contents

rate was 38.6% for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 40.4% for the year ended December 31, 2010. The effective rate for the year ended December 31, 2011 was lower due to
settlements and resolution of uncertain tax positions, as well as a decrease in deferred taxes and a corresponding increase in tax expense in 2010 of $2.4 million resulting from reduced tax benefits of Medicare subsidies associated with legislative
changes in 2010.  EBITDA Margin  The EBITDA margin for our consolidated results was 44.4% for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 44.7% for the year ended December 31, 2010. For the year ended December 31, 2011,
the recent acquisitions mitigated our margin expansion by 1.7% and was partially offset by the acquisition related liabilities adjustment which positively impacted our EBITDA margin by 0.3%.  Results of Operations by Segment  Decision Analytics 
Revenues 
Revenues for our Decision Analytics segment were $768.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $596.2 million for
the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase of $172.3 million or 28.9%. Recent acquisitions accounted for an increase of $106.9 million in revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. Excluding the recent acquisitions, our insurance
revenue increased $54.4 million primarily due to an increase within our loss quantification solutions as a result of new customers and of higher volumes related to various natural disasters, particularly the increased storm activity within the U.S.
In addition, there was an increase in our catastrophe modeling services for existing and new customers, as well an increase in insurance fraud solutions revenue. Excluding the recent acquisitions, our healthcare revenue increased $11.5 million
primarily due to an increase in our fraud services as customer contracts were implemented and new sales of risk solutions. Our specialized markets revenue, excluding recent acquisitions, increased $3.2 million as a result of continued penetration of
existing customers within our weather and climate risk solutions. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in our mortgage and financial services of $3.7 million, excluding recent acquisitions, primarily due to lower volumes within our
underwriting and forensic solutions due to the continued challenges within the mortgage market.  Our revenue by category for
the periods presented is set forth below:   
















 
  
Year EndedDecember 31,
 
  
PercentageChange
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  

 
  
(In thousands)
 
  
 
 

 Insurance
  
$
451,216
  
  
$
372,843
  
  
 
21.0
% 

 Mortgage and financial services
  
 
134,702
  
  
 
137,365
  
  
 
(1.9
)% 

 Healthcare
  
 
103,722
  
  
 
57,972
  
  
 
78.9
% 

 Specialized markets
  
 
78,839
  
  
 
28,025
  
  
 
181.3
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total Decision Analytics
  
$
768,479
  
  
$
596,205
  
  
 
28.9
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



 Cost of Revenues  Cost of revenues for our Decision Analytics segment was $340.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $268.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase of $71.2
million or 26.5%. Excluding the impact of recent acquisitions of $46.6 million, our cost of revenues increased by $24.6 million or 9.2%. This increase is primarily due to a net increase in salary and employee benefits of $18.6 million. The net
increase in salaries and employee benefits includes an offsetting reduction in pension cost of $0.4 million. Other 
  40 


Table of Contents

increases include leased software costs of $3.3 million, office maintenance expenses of $1.2 million, travel and travel related costs of $0.8 million and other general expenses of $3.1 million.
These increases were offset by a $2.4 million decrease in data costs.  Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
 Selling, general and administrative expenses for our Decision Analytics segment were $126.0 million for the year ended
December 31, 2011 compared to $87.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase of $38.6 million or 44.1%. Excluding the impact of recent acquisitions of $31.6 million, SGA increased $7.0 million or 8.2%. The increase
was primarily due to an increase in salaries and employee benefits of $5.0 million which includes annual salary increases, medical costs, commissions, and equity compensation. Other increases were costs related to travel expenses of $0.8
million, office maintenance expense of $0.3 million, and in other general expenses of $0.9 million.  EBITDA Margin
 The EBITDA margin for our Decision Analytics segment was 39.8% for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 40.4%
for the year ended December 31, 2010. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the recent acquisitions mitigated our margin expansion by 2.4% and a reallocation of information technology and corporate resources also mitigated our margin.
These mitigating factors were partially offset by the acquisition related liabilities adjustment, which positively impacted our EBITDA margin by 0.4%.  Risk Assessment  Revenues 
Revenues were $563.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $542.1 million for the year ended December 31,
2010, an increase of $21.2 million or 3.9%. The overall increase within this segment primarily resulted from an increase in prices derived from continued enhancements to the content of our industry-standard insurance programs’ solutions as well
as selling expanded solutions to existing customers.  Our revenue by category for the periods presented is set forth below:
  
















 
  
Year EndedDecember 31,
 
  
PercentageChange
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  

 
  
(In thousands)
 
  
 
 

 Industry-standard insurance programs
  
$
371,894
  
  
$
353,501
  
  
 
5.2
% 

 Property-specific rating and underwriting information
  
 
137,133
  
  
 
137,071
  
  
 
0.0
% 

 Statistical agency and data services
  
 
31,518
  
  
 
29,357
  
  
 
7.4
% 

 Actuarial services
  
 
22,816
  
  
 
22,209
  
  
 
2.7
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total Risk Assessment
  
$
563,361
  
  
$
542,138
  
  
 
3.9
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



 Cost of Revenues  Cost of revenues for our Risk Assessment segment was $193.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $194.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, a decrease of $1.0
million or 0.5%. The decrease was primarily due to decrease in salaries and employee benefits costs of $2.0 million, primarily related to lower pension cost of $2.4 million. Salaries and employee benefit costs, excluding pension costs, increased
only moderately due to a reallocation of information technology resources to our Decision Analytics segment. Other decreases were related to office maintenance expense of $0.8 million. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in travel
and travel related costs of $0.5 million, data and consultant costs of $0.2 million, leased software $0.1 million and other general expenses of $1.0 million. 
  41 


Table of Contents
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 
Selling, general and administrative expenses for our Risk Assessment segment were $83.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011
compared to $79.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase of $4.5 million or 5.7%. The increase was primarily due to an increase in salaries and employee benefits of $3.8 million which includes annual salary increases,
medical costs, commissions, and equity compensation. Other increases included travel costs of $0.3 million, an increase in other general expenses of $0.3 million, and rent and maintenance cost of $0.1 million. 
EBITDA Margin  The EBITDA margin for our Risk Assessment segment was 50.8% for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 49.5% for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in margin is primarily
attributed to operating leverage in the segment as well as cost efficiencies achieved in 2011 and a reallocation of information technology and corporate resources to our Decision Analytics segment during the year ended December 31, 2011.
 Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 
Consolidated Results of Operations  Revenues  Revenues were $1,138.3 million for the year ended
December 31, 2010 compared to $1,027.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of $111.2 million or 10.8%. In 2010 and the latter half of 2009, we acquired five companies, TierMed, Enabl-u, Strategic Analytics, CP, and
3E, collectively referred to as recent acquisitions, which we define as acquisitions not owned for a significant portion of both the current period and/or prior period and would therefore impact the comparability of the financial results. Recent
acquisitions provided an increase of $10.5 million in revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. Excluding recent acquisitions, revenues increased $100.7 million, which included an increase in our Risk Assessment segment of
$18.1 million and an increase in our Decision Analytics segment of $82.6 million. Refer to the Results of Operations by Segment within this section for further information regarding our revenues. 
Cost of Revenues  Cost of revenues was $463.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $491.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of $27.8 million or 5.7%. This decrease
was primarily due to the accelerated ESOP allocation that occurred in 2009, which resulted in the elimination of substantially all future ESOP allocation expense. In 2010 and 2009, our ESOP allocation expense for the year was $0.0 million and
$51.9 million, respectively. The reduction in our cost of revenues was offset by recent acquisitions, which provided an increase of $6.4 million in cost for the year ended December 31, 2010. Excluding the impact of the accelerated ESOP
allocation in 2009 and the cost associated with our recent acquisitions, our cost of revenues increased $17.7 million or 4.0%. The increase was primarily due to increases in salaries and employee benefits cost of $16.9 million; $4.1 million of data
and consultants costs incurred in connection with the growth in our property-specific rating and underwriting information, and fraud identification and detection solutions; and other general expenses of $0.3 million. These increases in costs were
partially offset by a $2.7 million increase in state employment tax credit and a reduction in office maintenance expense of $0.9 million.  The increase in salaries and employee benefits of $16.9 million includes an increase of $24.6 million in annual salaries and employee benefits such as medical costs and long-term incentive plan, and
was partially offset by a decrease of $7.7 million in pension costs. The increase in salaries and benefit costs is related to a modest increase in employee headcount, primarily in Decision Analytics. The pension cost decreased $7.7 million
primarily due to the partial recovery in 2009 of the fair value of our pension investments. 
  42 


Table of Contents
Selling, General and Administrative 
Selling, general and administrative expenses, or SGA, were $166.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $162.6
million for the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of $3.8 million or 2.3%. Excluding the impact of the accelerated ESOP allocation in 2009 of $15.4 million and costs associated with our recent acquisitions of $4.8 million, SGA
increased $14.4 million or 9.8%. The increase was primarily due to an increase in salaries and employee benefits of $14.4 million, which includes annual salary increases, medical costs, commissions, and long-term incentive plan. Other increases were
costs related to advertising and marketing of $2.5 million and other general expenses of $2.1 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in legal costs primarily related to our IPO in 2009 of $2.8 million and a reduction in pension
cost of $1.8 million.  Depreciation and Amortization of Fixed Assets 
Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets was $40.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $38.6 million for
the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of $2.1 million or 5.6%. Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets includes depreciation of furniture and equipment, software, computer hardware, and related equipment. The majority of the
increase relates to software and hardware costs to support data capacity expansion and revenue growth.  Amortization of
Intangible Assets  Amortization of intangible assets was $27.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared
to $32.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of $5.2 million or 16.0%. This decrease was primarily related to a decrease of $6.3 million of amortization of intangible assets associated with prior acquisitions that have been
fully amortized; partially offset by $1.1 million of amortization of intangible assets associated with recent acquisitions. 
Acquisition Related Liabilities Adjustment  Acquisition related liabilities adjustment was a benefit of $0.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010; there was no such adjustment in 2009. This benefit was as a result of a reduction of
$0.5 million to contingent consideration due to the reduced probability of TierMed, a recent acquisition, achieving the EBITDA and revenue earnout targets set at the time of the acquisition. 
Investment Income and Realized Gains/(Losses) on Securities, Net 
Investment income and realized gains/(losses) on securities, net, was a gain of $0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 as
compared to a loss of $2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of $2.5 million.  Interest
Expense  Interest expense was $34.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $35.3 million for the
year ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of $0.6 million or 1.7%. This decrease was primarily due to reduced interest costs as a result of a decrease in average debt outstanding of approximately $605 million in 2010 compared to approximately
$650 million in 2009, coupled with a decrease in our interest rate on borrowings from our syndicated revolving credit facility from LIBOR plus 2.50% to LIBOR plus 1.75%. The decrease in borrowing rate was the result of an amendment to the facility
on September 10, 2010. These reductions were partially offset by an increase in the amortization of debt issuance costs related to the syndicated credit facility, which had been entered into in July of 2009. 
Provision for Income Taxes  The provision for income taxes was $164.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $138.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of $26.1 million or 18.9%. The
effective tax 
  43 


Table of Contents

rate was 40.4% for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 52.2% for the year ended December 31, 2009. The effective rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 was lower due to
a decrease in nondeductible expenses in 2010 versus 2009 related to the KSOP.  EBITDA Margin 
The EBITDA margin for our consolidated results was 44.7% for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 36.3% for the year ended
December 31, 2009. Our EBITDA margin does not reflect any ESOP allocation expense in 2010 due to the accelerated ESOP allocation that occurred in 2009. The ESOP allocation expense of $67.3 million in 2009 negatively impacted our 2009 EBITDA
margin by approximately 6.6%. Also included in the calculation of our 2009 EBITDA margin are costs of $7.0 million associated with the preparation of our IPO for the year ended December 31, 2009, which also negatively impacted our margin by
0.7%. For our 2010 EBITDA margin, a decrease in pension costs of $9.5 million positively impacted our margin by approximately 0.8%. 
Results of Operations by Segment  Decision Analytics  Revenues 
Revenues for our Decision Analytics segment were $596.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $503.1 million for the
year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of $93.1 million or 18.5%. Recent acquisitions accounted for an increase of $10.5 million of revenues. Excluding the recent acquisitions, our insurance services revenue increased $39.0 million primarily due
to increase penetration of existing and new solutions within our loss quantification to existing customers as well as to new customers. Furthermore, there was an increase in insurance fraud solutions and our catastrophe modeling services. Excluding
the recent acquisitions, our mortgage and financial services increased $28.9 million primarily due to an increase in services sold in our fraud detection and forensic audit services for the mortgage lenders and mortgage insurance industries.
Excluding the recent acquisitions, our healthcare revenue increased $4.5 million primarily due to an increase in our fraud services and risk solutions. Our specialized markets revenue, excluding recent acquisitions increased $10.2 million as a
result of continued growth from our weather and climate risk services.  Our revenue by category for the periods presented is
set forth below:   
















 
  
Year EndedDecember 31,
 
  
PercentageChange
 

 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  

 
  
(In thousands)
 
  
 
 

 Insurance
  
$
372,843
  
  
$
331,587
  
  
 
12.4
% 

 Mortgage and financial services
  
 
137,365
  
  
 
105,627
  
  
 
30.0
% 

 Healthcare
  
 
57,972
  
  
 
50,064
  
  
 
15.8
% 

 Specialized markets
  
 
28,025
  
  
 
15,850
  
  
 
76.8
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total Decision Analytics
  
$
596,205
  
  
$
503,128
  
  
 
18.5
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



 Cost of Revenues  Cost of revenues for our Decision Analytics segment was $268.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $260.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of $8.0
million or 3.0%. Excluding the impact of the accelerated ESOP allocation in 2009 of $22.2 million and costs associated with recent acquisitions of $6.4 million, our cost of revenues increased by $23.8 million or 10.0%. This increase is primarily due
to an increase in salary and employee benefits of $20.0 million; data and consultant costs of $3.1 million incurred primarily related to the revenue growth in our fraud identification and detection solutions; other general expenses of $1.0
million; and office maintenance expense of $0.2 million offset by a $0.5 million increase in state employment tax credit. 
  44 


Table of Contents
The increase in salaries and employee benefits of $20.0 million includes $21.2 million
increase in salaries and employee benefit costs, medical expense, and long-term incentive plans, including the IPO stock option grant; and is partially offset by decreases in pension of $1.2 million. The increase in salaries and benefit costs is
related to a modest increase in employee headcount relative to the 18.5% revenue growth in our Decision Analytic revenues. 
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  Selling, general and administrative expenses for our Decision Analytics segment were $87.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $80.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, an
increase of $7.3 million or 9.2%. Excluding the impact of the accelerated ESOP allocation in 2009 of $6.7 million and cost associated with recent acquisitions of $4.8 million, SGA increased $9.2 million or 12.5%. The increase was primarily due to an
increase in salaries and employee benefits of $8.3 million, which includes annual salary increases, medical costs, commissions, and long-term incentive plan. Other increases were costs related to advertising and marketing of $2.4 million and an
increase in other general expenses of $0.8 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in legal costs primarily related to our IPO of $1.9 million and decreased pension cost of $0.4 million. 
EBITDA Margin  The EBITDA margin for our Decision Analytics segment was 40.4% for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 32.3% for the year ended December 31, 2009. The impact of the accelerated ESOP
allocation of $28.9 million in 2009 negatively affected our margin by approximately 5.8%. In addition, included in our 2009 EBITDA margin are IPO related costs of $3.0 million, which negatively impacted our margin by 0.6%. 
Risk Assessment  Revenues  Revenues were $542.1 million for the year ended December 31,
2010 as compared to $524.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of $18.1 million or 3.5%. The overall increase within this segment primarily resulted from an increase in prices derived from continued enhancements to
the content of our industry-standard insurance programs’ solutions and the addition of new customers. The increase of $5.0 million or 3.8% within property-specific rating and underwriting information revenues is due partially to growth in
property appraisal solutions and community rating services.  Our revenue by category for the periods presented is set forth
below:   














 
  
Year
EndedDecember 31,
 
  
PercentageChange

 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  

 
  
(In thousands)
 
  
 

 Industry-standard insurance programs
  
$
353,501
  
  
$
341,079
  
  
3.6%

 Property-specific rating and underwriting information
  
 
137,071
  
  
 
132,027
  
  
3.8%

 Statistical agency and data services
  
 
29,357
  
  
 
28,619
  
  
2.6%

 Actuarial services
  
 
22,209
  
  
 
22,251
  
  
(0.2)%


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 Total Risk Assessment
  
$
542,138
  
  
$
523,976
  
  
3.5%


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  

 Cost of Revenues  Cost of revenues for our Risk Assessment segment was $194.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $230.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of $35.8
million or 15.5%. Excluding the impact of the accelerated ESOP allocation in 2009 of $29.7 million, our cost of revenues decreased 
  45 


Table of Contents

by $6.1 million or 3.0%. This decrease was primarily due to decrease in salaries and employee benefits costs of $3.1 million, a $2.2 million increase in state employment tax credit, office
maintenance expense of $1.1 million and $0.7 million of other general expenses. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in data and consultant costs of $1.0 million incurred primarily in connection with the revenues from our
property-specific rating and underwriting information solutions.  The decrease in salaries and employee benefits of $3.1
million includes $6.5 million reduction in pension costs and was partially offset by an increase of $3.4 million in salary and employee benefit costs, which include annual salary increases and long-term incentive plans across a relatively constant
employee headcount.  Selling, General and Administrative 
Selling, general and administrative expenses for our Risk Assessment segment were $79.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010
compared to $82.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of $3.5 million or 4.3%. Excluding the impact of the accelerated ESOP allocation in 2009 of $8.7 million, SGA increased $5.2 million or 7.0%. The increase was primarily
due to an increase in salaries and employee benefits of $6.1 million, which includes annual salary increases, medical costs, commissions, and long-term incentive plan expense and an increase in other general expenses of $1.4 million. These increases
were partially offset by a decrease in pension cost of $1.4 million and decrease in legal costs primarily related to our IPO in 2009 of $0.9 million.  EBITDA Margin  The EBITDA margin for our Risk Assessment segment was 49.5%
for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 40.3% for the year ended December 31, 2009. The impact of the accelerated ESOP allocation of $38.4 million in 2009 negatively affected our margin by approximately 7.3%. In addition, included
in our 2009 EBITDA margin are costs of $4.0 million associated with the preparation of our IPO for the year ended December 31, 2009, which negatively impacted our margin of 0.8%. For our 2010 EBITDA margin, decreased pension costs of $7.9
million positively impacted our margin by approximately 1.5%.  Quarterly Results of Operations 
The following table sets forth our quarterly unaudited consolidated statement of operations data for each of the eight quarters in the
period ended December 31, 2011. In management’s opinion, the data has been prepared on the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K, and reflects all necessary adjustments for
a fair presentation of this data. The results of historical periods are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations for a full year or any future period.   












































 
 
For the Quarter Ended
 
 
 
 
 
For the Quarter Ended
 
 
 
 

 
 
March 31,
 
 
June 30,
 
 
September 30,
 
 
December 31,
 
 
Full Year
 
 
March 31,
 
 
June 30,
 
 
September 30,
 
 
December 31,
 
 
Full Year
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2010
 

 Statement of income data:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Revenues
 
$
312,869
  
 
$
327,280
  
 
$
340,098
  
 
$
351,593
  
 
$
1,331,840
  
 
$
276,154
  
 
$
281,677
  
 
$
287,354
  
 
$
293,158
  
 
$
1,138,343
  

 Operating income
 
$
119,297
  
 
$
123,818
  
 
$
131,409
  
 
$
138,857
  
 
$
513,381
  
 
$
106,414
  
 
$
107,075
  
 
$
113,718
  
 
$
113,707
  
 
$
440,914
  

 Net income
 
$
65,876
  
 
$
65,577
  
 
$
70,987
  
 
$
80,318
  
 
$
282,758
  
 
$
55,375
  
 
$
58,404
  
 
$
62,880
  
 
$
65,893
  
 
$
242,552
  

 Basic net income per share:
 
$
0.39
  
 
$
0.39
  
 
$
0.43
  
 
$
0.49
  
 
$
1.70
  
 
$
0.31
  
 
$
0.32
  
 
$
0.35
  
 
$
0.38
  
 
$
1.36
  

 Diluted net income per share:
 
$
0.37
  
 
$
0.38
  
 
$
0.41
  
 
$
0.47
  
 
$
1.63
  
 
$
0.29
  
 
$
0.31
  
 
$
0.34
  
 
$
0.37
  
 
$
1.30
  
 Liquidity and Capital Resources  As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities of $196.7 million and $60.6 million, respectively. Subscriptions for our solutions are billed
and generally paid in 
  46 


Table of Contents

advance of rendering services either quarterly or in full upon commencement of the subscription period, which is usually for one year. Subscriptions are automatically renewed at the beginning of
each calendar year. We have historically generated significant cash flows from operations. As a result of this factor, as well as the availability of funds under our syndicated revolving credit facility, we believe we will have sufficient cash to
meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs, and to fuel our future growth plans.  We have historically managed the
business with a working capital deficit due to the fact that, as described above, we offer our solutions and services primarily through annual subscriptions or long-term contracts, which are generally prepaid quarterly or annually in advance of the
services being rendered. When cash is received for prepayment of invoices, we record an asset (cash and cash equivalents) on our balance sheet with the offset recorded as a current liability (fees received in advance). This current liability is
deferred revenue that does not require a direct cash outflow since our customers have prepaid and are obligated to purchase the services. In most businesses, growth in revenue typically leads to an increase in the accounts receivable balance causing
a use of cash as a company grows. Unlike these businesses, our cash position is favorably affected by revenue growth, which results in a source of cash due to our customers prepaying for most of our services. 
Our capital expenditures, which include non-cash purchases of fixed assets and capital lease obligations, as a percentage of revenues for
the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, were 5.1% and 3.6%, respectively. We estimate our capital expenditures for 2012 will be approximately $75.0 million, which primarily include expenditures on our technology infrastructure and our
continuing investments in developing and enhancing our solutions. Expenditures related to developing and enhancing our solutions are predominately related to internal use software and are capitalized in accordance with ASC 350-40,
“Accounting for Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use.” We also capitalize amounts in accordance with ASC 985-20, “Software to be Sold, Leased or Otherwise Marketed.” 
We have also historically used a portion of our cash for repurchases of our common stock from our stockholders. For the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 we repurchased $380.7 million, $422.3 million and redeemed $46.7 million, respectively, of our common stock. Included in the 2010 share repurchases are repurchases of $209.8 million of Class B, including
$199.9 million and $9.9 million of Verisk Class B-1 and Class B-2, respectively, which were not a part of the Repurchase Program. A portion of the share redemptions in 2009 included in the total above was completed pursuant to the terms of the
Insurance Service Office, Inc. 1996 Incentive Plan, or the Option Plan.  We provide pension and postretirement benefits to
certain qualifying active employees and retirees. On January 12, 2012, we announced a hard freeze, which will eliminate all future compensation and service credits, to be instituted on February 29, 2012 to all participants in the pension plans.
Based on the pension funding policy, we are required to contribute a minimum of approximately $28.9 million to the pension plans in 2012. In addition, we are contemplating a voluntary prefunding to our qualified pension plan of an amount between
$70.0 million and $90.0 million, which may occur in the first half of 2012. Under the postretirement plan, we provide certain healthcare and life insurance benefits to qualifying participants; however, participants are required to pay a stated
percentage of the premium coverage. We expect to contribute approximately $3.4 million to the postretirement plan in 2012. See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K. 
Financing and Financing Capacity  We had total debt, excluding capital lease and other obligations, of $1,096.7 million and $835.0 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The debt at December 31, 2011 is issued
under long-term private placement loan facilities and senior notes issued in 2011 to finance our stock repurchases and acquisitions.  On April 6, 2011, we completed an issuance of senior notes in the aggregate principal amount of $450.0 million. These senior notes are due on May 1, 2021 and accrue interest at a rate of 5.800%. We
received 
  47 


Table of Contents

net proceeds of $446.0 million after deducting original issue discount, underwriting discount, and commissions of $4.0 million. These underwriters’ discounts and commissions will be
amortized over the ten-year period, which is consistent with the remaining life of the notes. Interest is payable semi-annually on May 1st and November 1st each year, beginning on November 1, 2011. 
On December 8, 2011, we completed a second issuance of senior notes in the aggregate principal of $250.0 million. These senior notes are
due on January 15, 2019 and accrue interest at a rate of 4.875%. We received new proceeds of $246.0 million after deducting original issue discount, underwriting discount, and commissions of $4.0 million. These discounts and commissions will be
amortized over a seven-year period, which is consistent with the remaining life of the notes. Interest is payable semi-annually on January 15th and July 15th of each year beginning on July 15, 2012. 
The senior notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on an unsecured and unsubordinated basis by ISO and
certain subsidiaries that guarantee our syndicated revolving credit facility, (“credit facility”), or any amendment, refinancing or replacement thereof . We expect to redraw from our credit facility over time as needed for our corporate
strategy, including for general corporate purposes and acquisitions. The indenture governing the senior notes restricts our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things, create certain liens, enter into sale/leaseback
transactions and consolidate with, sell, lease, convey or otherwise transfer all or substantially all of our assets, or merge with or into, any other person or entity.  As of December 31, 2011, our $725.0 million syndicated revolving credit facility due October 2016, is a committed facility and all of our long-term private placement loan facilities are uncommitted
facilities. We have financed and expect to finance our short-term working capital needs, stock repurchases and acquisition contingent payments through cash from operations and borrowings from a combination of our credit facility and long-term
private placement facilities. We had borrowings of $310.0 million from our credit facility outstanding as of December 31, 2010. On April 8, 2011 and December 8, 2011, we repaid $295.0 million and $145.0 million respectively, of our outstanding
borrowings from the credit facility from proceeds of our senior notes discussed above. As of December 31, 2011, our credit facility had no outstanding borrowings and $725.0 million of borrowing capacity was available. 
The credit facility contains certain customary financial and other covenants that, among other things, impose certain restrictions on
indebtedness, liens, investments, and capital expenditures. These covenants also place restrictions on mergers, asset sales, sale/leaseback transactions, payments between us and our subsidiaries, and certain transactions with affiliates. The
financial covenants require that, at the end of any fiscal quarter, we have a consolidated interest coverage ratio of at least 3.0 to 1.0 and that during any period of four fiscal quarters, we maintain a consolidated funded debt leverage ratio below
3.25 to 1.0. We were in compliance with all debt covenants under the credit facility as of December 31, 2011.  Our credit
facility at December 31, 2010 totaled $575.0 million and on March 16, 2011, The Northern Trust Company joined the credit facility to increase the capacity from $575.0 million to $600.0 million. On March 28, 2011, we entered into amendments to our
credit facility and our master shelf agreements to, among other things permit the issuance of the senior notes and guarantees noted above. On October 25, 2011, we amended and restated the credit facility to increase the capacity from $600.0 million
to $700.0 million, extended the credit facility through October 24, 2016 and named ISO and Verisk as co-borrowers. The amended credit agreement also resulted in a decrease in the applicable interest rates. The interest rates for borrowing under the
amended credit agreement will now be the applicable LIBOR plus 1.250% to 1.875%, depending upon the result of certain ratios defined in the amended credit agreement. On November 14, 2011, TD Bank joined the credit facility to increase the capacity
from $700.0 million to $725.0 million. We paid a one-time commitment fee, which will be amortized over a five year period, which is consistent with the remaining life of the credit facility. 
We also have long-term private placement loan facilities under uncommitted master shelf agreements with New York Life and Prudential
Capital Group, or Prudential. On June 13, 2011, we repaid our $50.0 million 
  48 


Table of Contents

Prudential Series E notes. On August 8, 2011, we repaid our $25.0 million Prudential Series F notes and $50.0 million Principal Series A notes. As of December 31, 2011, we had
available capacity of $30.0 million and $190.0 million with New York Life and Prudential, respectively. The master shelf agreement with Aviva Investors North America expired on December 10, 2011 and we did not extend the agreement.
 The notes outstanding under these long-term private placement loan facilities mature over the next five years. Individual
borrowings are made at a fixed rate of interest determined at the time of the borrowing and interest is payable quarterly. The weighted average rate of interest with respect to our outstanding borrowings under these facilities was 5.76% and 6.07%
for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively and amounts outstanding were $8.6 and $4.6 million, respectively. The uncommitted master shelf agreements contain certain covenants that limit our ability to create liens, enter into
sale/leaseback transactions and consolidate, merge or sell assets to another company. Our shelf agreements also contains financial covenants that require that, at the end of any fiscal quarter, we have a consolidated interest coverage ratio of at
least 3.0 to 1.0 and a leverage ratio below 3.0 to 1.0 at the end of any fiscal quarter. We were in compliance with all debt covenants under our master shelf agreements as of December 31, 2011. 
Cash Flow  The following table summarizes our cash flow data for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:   
















 
  
For the Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
$
375,721
  
 
$
336,032
  
 
$
326,401
  

 Net cash used in investing activities
  
$
(204,129
) 
 
$
(243,689
) 
 
$
(185,340
) 

 Net cash used in financing activities
  
$
(34,780
) 
 
$
(108,787
) 
 
$
(102,809
) 
 Operating Activities  Net cash provided by operating activities increased to $375.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $336.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in
operating activities was primarily due to an increase in cash receipts from customers, partially offset by an increase in operating expense and tax payments during the year ended December 31, 2011. Increased pension contributions of $6.0
million in 2011 mitigated the growth in our operating cash flow during the year ended December 31, 2011.  Net cash
provided by operating activities increased to $336.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $326.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in operating activities was primarily due to an increase in
cash receipts from customers and a reduction in interest payments, partially offset by an increase in operating expense and tax payments during the year ended December 31, 2010. Increased pension contributions of $15.0 million in 2010, as well
as the timing of certain annual bonus payments, mitigated the growth in our operating cash flow during the year ended December 31, 2010.  Investing Activities  Net cash used in investing activities was $204.1
million for the year ended December 31, 2011 and $243.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The decrease in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to a decrease in acquisitions, including escrow funding and earnout
payments, of $60.8 million partially offset by an increase in fixed assets purchases of $21.2 million.  Net cash used in
investing activities was $243.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and $185.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to an increase in acquisitions,
including escrow funding, of $136.6 million partially offset by a decrease in earnout payments of $78.1 million. 
  49 


Table of Contents
Financing Activities 
Net cash used in financing activities was $34.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 and $108.8 million for the
year ended December 31, 2010. Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 was primarily related to the issuance of senior notes of $696.6 million, proceeds from issuance of short-term debt of
$122.2 million, proceeds from stock option exercises of $96.5 million, partially offset by refinancing of $440.0 million on the borrowings of our credit facility on a long-term basis, share repurchases of $381.8 million, and
repayments of long-term debt of $125.0 million.  Net cash used in financing activities was $108.8 million for the
year ended December 31, 2010 and $102.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily related to the proceeds from issuance of short-term
debt of $248.2 million, net proceeds from stock option exercises of $69.4 million, partially offset by share repurchases of $420.1 million.  Contractual Obligations  The following table summarizes our
contractual obligations and commercial commitments at December 31, 2011 and the future periods in which such obligations are expected to be settled in cash:   
























 
  
Payments Due by Period
 

 
  
Total
 
  
Less than1 year
 
  
1-3 years
 
  
3-5 years
 
  
More than5 years
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 

 Contractual obligations
  



  



  



  



  




 Long-term debt
  
$
1,399,942
  
  
$
64,623
  
  
$
291,095
  
  
$
305,949
  
  
$
738,275
  

 Capital lease obligations
  
 
9,124
  
  
 
5,391
  
  
 
3,658
  
  
 
75
  
  
 
—
  

 Operating leases
  
 
205,596
  
  
 
28,192
  
  
 
54,628
  
  
 
45,760
  
  
 
77,016
  

 Earnout and contingent payments
  
 
250
  
  
 
250
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Pension and postretirement plans (1)
  
 
175,977
  
  
 
32,292
  
  
 
63,925
  
  
 
58,041
  
  
 
21,719
  

 Other long-term liabilities(2)
  
 
12,095
  
  
 
678
  
  
 
8,322
  
  
 
223
  
  
 
2,872
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total (3)
  
$
1,802,984
  
  
$
131,426
  
  
$
421,628
  
  
$
410,048
  
  
$
839,882
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Our funding policy is to contribute at least equal to the minimum legal funding requirement. 
 


(2)
Other long-term liabilities consist of our ESOP contributions and employee-related deferred compensation plan. We also have a deferred compensation plan for our Board
of Directors; however, based on past performance and the uncertainty of the dollar amounts to be paid, if any, we have excluded such amounts from the above table. 
 


(3)
Unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $17.9 million have been recorded as liabilities in accordance with ASC 740, which have been omitted from the table above, and
we are uncertain as to if or when such amounts may be settled, with the exception of those amounts subject to a statute of limitation. Related to the unrecognized tax benefits, we also have recorded a liability for potential penalties and interest
of $4.7 million.  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
We have no off-balance sheet arrangements.  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  Our management’s
discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles 
  50 


Table of Contents

generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements require management to make estimates and judgments that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities
and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. These estimates are based on historical experience and on other assumptions that are
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, goodwill and intangible assets, pension and other post retirement benefits, stock based
compensation, and income taxes. Actual results may differ from these assumptions or conditions.  Revenue Recognition
 The Company’s revenues are primarily derived from sales of services and revenue is recognized as services are
performed and information is delivered to our customers. Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, fees and/or price are fixed or determinable and collectability is
reasonably assured. Revenues for subscription services are recognized ratably over the subscription term, usually one year. Revenues from transaction-based fees are recognized as information is delivered to customers, assuming all other revenue
recognition criteria are met.  The Company also has term based software licenses where the only remaining undelivered element
is post-contract customer support or PCS, including unspecified upgrade rights on a when and if available basis. The Company recognizes revenue for these licenses ratably over the duration of the license term. The PCS associated with these
arrangements is coterminous with the duration of the license term. The Company also provides hosting or software solutions that provide continuous access to information and include PCS and recognizes revenue ratably over the duration of the license
term. In addition, the determination of certain of our services revenues requires the use of estimates, principally related to transaction volumes in instances where these volumes are reported to us by our clients on a monthly basis in arrears. In
these instances, we estimate transaction volumes based on average actual volumes reported by our customers in the past. Differences between our estimates and actual final volumes reported are recorded in the period in which actual volumes are
reported. We have not experienced significant variances between our estimates of these services revenues reported to us by our customers and actual reported volumes in the past. 
We invoice our customers in annual, quarterly, or monthly installments. Amounts billed and collected in advance are recorded as fees
received in advance on the balance sheet and are recognized as the services are performed and revenue recognition criteria are met.  Stock Based Compensation  The fair value of equity awards is
measured on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which requires the use of several estimates, including expected term, expected risk-free interest rate, expected volatility and expected dividend yield. 
Stock based compensation cost is measured at the grant date, based on the fair value of the awards granted, and is recognized as expense
over the requisite service period. Option grants and restricted stock awards are expensed ratably over the four-year vesting period. We follow the substantive vesting period approach for awards granted after January 1, 2005, which requires that
stock based compensation expense be recognized over the period from the date of grant to the date when the award is no longer contingent on the employee providing additional service. 
We estimate expected forfeitures of equity awards at the date of grant and recognize compensation expense only for those awards expected
to vest. The forfeiture assumption is ultimately adjusted to the actual forfeiture rate.  Prior to our IPO, the fair value of
the common stock underlying the stock based compensation was determined quarterly on or about the final day of the quarter. The valuation methodology was based on a variety 
  51 


Table of Contents

of qualitative and quantitative factors including the nature of the business and history of the enterprise, the economic outlook in general, the condition of the specific industries in which we
operate, the financial condition of the business, our ability to generate free cash flow, and goodwill or other intangible asset value.  Prior to our IPO, the fair value of our common stock was determined using generally accepted valuation methodologies, including the use of the guideline company method. This determination of fair market
value employs both a comparable company analysis, which examines the valuation multiples of public companies deemed comparable, in whole or in part, to us and a discounted cash flow analysis that determines a present value of the projected future
cash flows of the business. The comparable companies are comprised of a combination of public companies in the financial services information and technology businesses. These methodologies have been consistently applied since 1997. We regularly
assess the underlying assumptions used in the valuation methodologies, including the comparable companies to be used in the analysis, the future forecasts of revenue and earnings, and the impact of market conditions on factors such as the weighted
average cost of capital. These assumptions are reviewed quarterly, with a more comprehensive evaluation performed annually. For the comparable company analysis, the share price and financial performance of these comparables were updated quarterly
based on the most recent public information. Our stock price was also impacted by the number of shares outstanding. As the number of shares outstanding has declined over time, our share price has increased. The determination of the fair value of our
common stock required us to make judgments that were complex and inherently subjective. If different assumptions are used in future periods, stock based compensation expense could be materially impacted in the future. 
Goodwill and Intangibles  Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition costs over the fair value of tangible net assets and identifiable intangible assets of the businesses acquired. Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have
indefinite lives are not amortized. Intangible assets determined to have definite lives are amortized over their useful lives. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are subject to impairment testing annually as of June 30, or
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable, using the guidance and criteria described in the accounting standard for Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. This testing compares
carrying values to fair values and, when appropriate, the carrying value of these assets is reduced to fair value.  As of
December 31, 2011, we had goodwill and net intangible assets of $936.4 million, which represents 60.8% of our total assets. During fiscal year 2011, we performed an impairment test as of June 30, 2011 and confirmed that no impairment
charge was necessary. There are many assumptions and estimates used that directly impact the results of impairment testing, including an estimate of future expected revenues, earnings and cash flows, useful lives and discount rates applied to such
expected cash flows in order to estimate fair value. We have the ability to influence the outcome and ultimate results based on the assumptions and estimates we choose for determining the fair value of our reporting units. To mitigate undue
influence, we set criteria and benchmarks that are reviewed and approved by various levels of management and reviewed by other independent parties. The determination of whether or not goodwill or indefinite-lived acquired intangible assets have
become impaired involves a significant level of judgment in the assumptions and estimates underlying the approach used to determine the value of our reporting units. Changes in our strategy or market conditions could significantly impact these
judgments and require an impairment to be recorded to intangible assets and goodwill. Our valuation has not indicated any impairment of our goodwill asset of $709.9 million as of December 31, 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2011,
there were no impairment indicators related to our intangible assets.  Pension and Postretirement 
We account for our pension and postretirement benefit plans in accordance with the accounting standard for Employers’ Accounting
for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. This standard requires that employers recognize on a prospective basis the funded status of their defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans on their consolidated
balance sheets and recognize as a component of other 
  52 


Table of Contents

comprehensive income/(loss), net of tax, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during the period but are not recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost.
Additional minimum pension liabilities and related intangible assets are also derecognized upon adoption of the new standard. 
Certain assumptions are used in the determination of our annual net period benefit cost and the disclosure of the funded status of these
plans. The principal assumptions concern the discount rate used to measure the projected benefit obligation, the expected return on plan assets and the expected rate of future compensation increases. We revise these assumptions based on an annual
evaluation of long-term trends and market conditions that may have an impact on the cost of providing retirement benefits.  In
determining the discount rate, we utilize quoted rates from long-term bond indices, and changes in long-term bond rates over the past year, cash flow models and other data sources we consider reasonable based upon the profile of the remaining
service life of eligible employees. As part of our evaluation, we calculate the approximate average yields on securities that were selected to match our separate projected cash flows for both the pension and postretirement plans. Our separate
benefit plan cash flows are input into actuarial models that include data for corporate bonds rated AA or better at the measurement date. The output from the actuarial models are assessed against the prior year’s discount rate and quoted rates
for long-term bond indices. For our pension plans at December 31, 2011, we determined this rate to be 4.98%, a decrease of 0.51% from the 5.49% rate used at December 31, 2010. Our postretirement rate is 3.50% at December 31, 2011, a
decrease of 0.50% from the 4.00% used at December 31, 2010.  The expected return on plan assets is determined by taking
into consideration our analysis of our actual historical investment returns to a broader long-term forecast adjusted based on our target investment allocation, and the current economic environment. Our investment guidelines target an investment
portfolio allocation of 40.0% debt securities and 60.0% equity securities. As of December 31, 2011, the plan assets were allocated 47.0% debt, 51.0% equity securities, and 2.0% to other investments. We have used our target investment allocation
to derive the expected return as we believe this allocation will be retained on an ongoing basis that will be commensurate with the projected cash flows of the plan. The expected return for each investment category within our target investment
allocation is developed using average historical rates of return for each targeted investment category, considering the projected cash flow of the qualified pension plan. The difference between this expected return and the actual return on plan
assets is generally deferred and recognized over subsequent periods through future net periodic benefit costs. We believe these considerations provide the basis for reasonable assumptions with respect to the expected long-term rate of return on plan
assets.  The rate of compensation increase is based on our long-term plans for such increases. The measurement date used to
determine the benefit obligation and plan assets is December 31. The future benefit payments for the postretirement plan are net of the federal medical subsidy. As a result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care
and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, the tax treatment of federal subsidies paid to sponsors of retiree health benefit plans that provide prescription drug benefits that are at least actuarially equivalent to the corresponding benefits provided
under Medicare Part D was effectively changed. This legislative change reduces future tax benefits of the coverage we provided to participants in the Postretirement Plan. We are required to account for this change in the period during which the law
is enacted. As a result, we recorded a non-cash tax charge to the provision for income taxes of $2.4 million as of December 31, 2010.  On January 12, 2012, we announced a hard freeze, which will eliminate all future compensation and service credits, to be instituted on February 29, 2012 to all participants in the pension plans. The
freeze in 2012 will reduce the unfunded pension liability by approximately $10.2 million and we will realize a curtailment gain of approximately $0.7 million. 
  53 


Table of Contents
A one percent change in discount rate, future rate of return on plan assets and the rate of
future compensation would have the following effects:   




































 
  
Pension
 
 
Post Retirement
 

 
  
1% Decrease
 
 
1% Increase
 
 
1% Decrease
 
  
1% Increase
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 

 
  
BenefitCost
 
 
ProjectedBenefitObligation
 
 
BenefitCost
 
 
ProjectedBenefitObligation
 
 
BenefitCost
 
 
ProjectedBenefitObligation
 
  
BenefitCost
 
  
ProjectedBenefitObligation
 

 Discount Rate
  
$
2,664
  
 
$
47,431
  
 
$
(1,811
) 
 
$
(36,816
) 
 
$
(94
) 
 
$
1,161
  
  
$
83
  
  
$
(1,067
) 

 Expected Rate on Asset
  
$
3,127
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
(3,127
) 
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  

 Rate of Compensation
  
$
(340
) 
 
$
(2,016
) 
 
$
524
  
 
$
2,191
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
 Income Taxes  In projecting future taxable income, we develop assumptions including the amount of future state, federal and foreign pretax operating income, the reversal of temporary differences, and the implementation
of feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. These assumptions require significant judgment about the forecasts of future taxable income and are consistent with the plans and estimates we use to manage the underlying businesses. The calculation
of our tax liabilities also involves dealing with uncertainties in the application and evolution of complex tax laws and regulations in other jurisdictions.  On January 1, 2007, we adopted Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an interpretation of ASC 740, which addresses the determination of whether tax benefits claimed or expected to
be claimed on a tax return should be recorded in the financial statements. Under this interpretation, we may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon
examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. As a result of the implementation of this interpretation, we recognized an increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits of approximately
$10.3 million, which was accounted for as an increase to the January 1, 2007 balance of retained earnings/(accumulated deficit).  We recognize and adjust our liabilities when our judgment changes as a result of the evaluation of new information not previously available. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the
ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. These differences will be reflected as increases or decreases to income tax expense in the period in which they are
determined.  As of December 31, 2011, we have gross federal, state, and foreign income tax net operating loss
carryforwards of $87.1 million, which will expire at various dates from 2012 through 2031. Such net operating loss carryforwards expire as follows:   








 
  
(In thousands)
 

 2012 - 2019
  
$
11,374
  

 2020 - 2024
  
 
17,168
  

 2025 - 2031
  
 
58,530
  


  
  
  
 


  
$
87,072
  


  
  
  
 
 We estimate unrecognized tax positions of $6.3 million that may be recognized by December 31, 2012,
due to expiration of statutes of limitations and resolution of audits with taxing authorities, net of additional uncertain tax positions. 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements  For a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements, refer to Note 2(s) to the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. 
  54 


Table of Contents


Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  Interest Rate Risk  We are exposed to market risk from fluctuations
in interest rates. At December 31, 2011, we had no borrowings outstanding under our syndicated revolving credit facility, which bear interest at variable rates based on LIBOR plus 1.250% to 1.875% depending on certain ratios defined in the credit
facility. A change in interest rates on this variable rate debt impacts our pre-tax income and cash flows, but does not impact the fair value of the instruments. Based on our overall interest rate exposure at December 31, 2011, a one percent change
in interest rates would not result in a change in annual pretax interest expense based on our current level of borrowings.   


Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  The information required by this Item is set forth on pages 57 through 120 of this annual report on Form 10-K.   


Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
None.   


Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures  Evaluation of
Disclosure Controls and Procedures  We are required to maintain disclosure controls and procedures (as that term is defined
in Rules 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized,
and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives at the
reasonable assurance level.  Our management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) as of the end of the period covered by this annual report on Form 10-K. Based upon the
foregoing assessments, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of December 31, 2011, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level. 
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting as of December 31, 2011 is set forth in Item 8. Financial Statement and Supplementary Data. 
Attestation Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm  The Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting as of December 31, 2011 is set forth in Item 8. Financial Statement and Supplementary
Data.  Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation of such internal control that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2011 that have
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
  55 


Table of Contents


Item 9B.
Other Information  None.
 PART III   


Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  The information required to be furnished by this Item 10. is incorporated herein by reference to our Notice of Annual Meeting of Stockholders and Proxy Statement to be filed within 120 days of
December 31, 2011 (the “Proxy Statement”).   


Item 11.
Executive Compensation 
The information required to be furnished by this Item 11. is incorporated herein by reference from our Proxy Statement. 
 


Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
The information required to be furnished by this Item 12. is incorporated herein by reference to our Proxy Statement. 
 


Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence  The information required to be furnished by this Item 13. is incorporated herein by reference to our Proxy Statement.   


Item 14.
Principal Accounting Fees and Services  The information required to be furnished by this Item 14. is incorporated herein by reference to our Proxy Statement.  PART IV   


Item 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  (a) The following documents are filed as part of this report.   


 
(1)
Financial Statements. See Index to Financial Statements and Schedules in Part II, Item 8. on this Form 10-K. 
 


 
(2)
Financial Statement Schedules. See Schedule II. Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves. 
 


 
(3)
Exhibits. See Index to Exhibits in this annual report on Form 10-K. 
  56 


Table of Contents
Item 8.     Consolidated Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data  Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules 
 








 Verisk Analytics, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 and for the Years Ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.
  




 Management’s Report on Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting
  
 
58
  

 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
59
  

 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Controls Over Financial
Reporting
  
 
60
  

 Consolidated Balance Sheets 
  
 
61
  

 Consolidated Statements of Operations 
  
 
62
  

 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Deficit 
  
 
63
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
  
 
64
  

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  
 
66
  

 Financial Statements Schedule
  




 Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves 
  
 
120
  

  57 


Table of Contents
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL
REPORTING  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
the financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Because of its inherent limitations, a system of internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance and may
not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with
the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our
principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework set forth in Internal Control — Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  Based on this assessment, management
concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective at December 31, 2011.  Deloitte &
Touche LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K has also audited the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011, as stated in their report which is included herein. 
  58 


Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of  Verisk Analytics, Inc.  Jersey City, New Jersey 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Verisk Analytics, Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders’ deficit, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. Our audits also included the
financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial
statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  In our opinion, such
consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Verisk Analytics, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the
basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 28, 2012 expressed an
unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.  /s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP 
Parsippany, New Jersey  February 28, 2012

  59 


Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of  Verisk Analytics, Inc.  Jersey City, New Jersey 
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Verisk Analytics, Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of
December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Controls over Financial Reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  A company’s
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company’s
board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  Because of the
inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission.  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011 of the Company and our report dated February 28, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial
statements and financial statement schedule.  /s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP  Parsippany, New Jersey  February 28, 2012 
  60 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010 
 












 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
 
(In thousands, except forshare and per share data)
 

ASSETS
  

 Current assets:
 



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
191,603
  
 
$
54,974
  

 Available-for-sale securities
 
 
5,066
  
 
 
5,653
  

 Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $4,158 and $4,028, respectively (including amounts from related
parties of $0 and $515, respectively)(1)
 
 
153,339
  
 
 
126,564
  

 Prepaid expenses
 
 
21,905
  
 
 
17,791
  

 Deferred income taxes, net
 
 
3,818
  
 
 
3,681
  

 Federal and foreign income taxes receivable
 
 
25,242
  
 
 
15,783
  

 State and local income taxes receivable
 
 
11,433
  
 
 
8,923
  

 Other current assets
 
 
41,248
  
 
 
7,066
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
 
 
453,654
  
 
 
240,435
  

 Noncurrent assets:
 



 




 Fixed assets, net
 
 
119,411
  
 
 
93,409
  

 Intangible assets, net
 
 
226,424
  
 
 
200,229
  

 Goodwill
 
 
709,944
  
 
 
632,668
  

 Deferred income taxes, net
 
 
10,480
  
 
 
21,879
  

 State income taxes receivable
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,773
  

 Other assets
 
 
21,193
  
 
 
26,697
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
 
$
1,541,106
  
 
$
1,217,090
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 



LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' DEFICIT
  

 Current liabilities:
 



 




 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
 
$
162,992
  
 
$
111,995
  

 Acquisition related liabilities
 
 
250
  
 
 
3,500
  

 Short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt
 
 
5,554
  
 
 
437,717
  

 Pension and postretirement benefits, current
 
 
4,012
  
 
 
4,663
  

 Fees received in advance (including amounts from related parties of $0 and $1,231, respectively)(1)
 
 
176,842
  
 
 
163,007
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
 
 
349,650
  
 
 
720,882
  

 Noncurrent liabilities:
 



 




 Long-term debt
 
 
1,100,332
  
 
 
401,826
  

 Pension benefits
 
 
109,161
  
 
 
95,528
  

 Postretirement benefits
 
 
18,587
  
 
 
23,083
  

 Other liabilities
 
 
61,866
  
 
 
90,213
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
 
 
1,639,596
  
 
 
1,331,532
  

 Commitments and contingencies
 



 




 Stockholders’ deficit:
 



 




 Verisk Class A common stock, $.001 par value; 1,200,000,000 shares authorized; 544,003,038 and 150,179,126 shares issued and
164,285,227 and 143,067,924 outstanding as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively
 
 
137
  
 
 
39
  

 Verisk Class B (Series 1) common stock, $.001 par value; 0 and 400,000,000 shares authorized; 0 and 198,327,962 shares issued and
0 and 12,225,480 outstanding as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively
 
 
—
  
 
 
47
  

 Verisk Class B (Series 2) common stock, $.001 par value; 0 and 400,000,000 shares authorized; 0 and 193,665,008 shares issued and
0 and 14,771,340 outstanding as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively
 
 
—
  
 
 
49
  

 Unearned KSOP contributions
 
 
(691
) 
 
 
(988
) 

 Additional paid-in capital
 
 
874,808
  
 
 
754,708
  

 Treasury stock, at cost, 379,717,811 and 372,107,352 shares as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively
 
 
(1,471,042
) 
 
 
(1,106,321
) 

 Retained earnings
 
 
576,585
  
 
 
293,827
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive losses
 
 
(78,287
) 
 
 
(55,803
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total stockholders' deficit
 
 
(98,490
) 
 
 
(114,442
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ deficit
 
$
1,541,106
  
 
$
1,217,090
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
See Note 19. Related Parties for further information.   
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  61 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
For The Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(In thousands, except for share and per share data)
 

 Revenues (including amounts from related parties of $13,882, $49,788 and $60,192 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009, respectively)(1)
  
$
1,331,840
  
 
$
1,138,343
  
 
$
1,027,104
  

 Expenses:
  



 



 




 Cost of revenues (exclusive of items shown separately below)
  
 
533,735
  
 
 
463,473
  
 
 
491,294
  

 Selling, general and administrative
  
 
209,469
  
 
 
166,374
  
 
 
162,604
  

 Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets
  
 
43,827
  
 
 
40,728
  
 
 
38,578
  

 Amortization of intangible assets
  
 
34,792
  
 
 
27,398
  
 
 
32,621
  

 Acquisition related liabilities adjustment
  
 
(3,364
) 
 
 
(544
) 
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expenses
  
 
818,459
  
 
 
697,429
  
 
 
725,097
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income
  
 
513,381
  
 
 
440,914
  
 
 
302,007
  

 Other income/(expense):
  



 



 




 Investment income
  
 
201
  
 
 
305
  
 
 
195
  

 Realized gain/(loss) on securities, net
  
 
686
  
 
 
95
  
 
 
(2,332
) 

 Interest expense
  
 
(53,847
) 
 
 
(34,664
) 
 
 
(35,265
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other expense, net
  
 
(52,960
) 
 
 
(34,264
) 
 
 
(37,402
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
 
460,421
  
 
 
406,650
  
 
 
264,605
  

 Provision for income taxes
  
 
(177,663
) 
 
 
(164,098
) 
 
 
(137,991
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
282,758
  
 
$
242,552
  
 
$
126,614
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic net income per share 
  
$
1.70
  
 
$
1.36
  
 
$
0.72
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted net income per share 
  
$
1.63
  
 
$
1.30
  
 
$
0.70
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average shares outstanding:
  



 



 




 Basic
  
 
166,015,238
  
 
 
177,733,503
  
 
 
174,767,795
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted
  
 
173,325,110
  
 
 
186,394,962
  
 
 
182,165,661
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
See Note 19. Related Parties for further information.   
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  62 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ DEFICIT 
For The Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011 
 
















































 
 
Common Stock Issued
 
 
 
 
 
UnearnedKSOPContributions

 
 
AdditionalPaid-inCapital

 
 
TreasuryStock
 
 
(AccumulatedDeficit)/Retained
Earnings
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensive
Losses
 
 
TotalStockholders’Deficit

 

 
 
VeriskClass A
 
 
ISOClass B
 
 
VeriskClass B(Series 1)
 
 
VeriskClass B(Series 2)
 
 
ParValue
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
(In thousands, except for share data)
 


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Balance, January 1, 2009
 
 
—
  
 
 
500,225,000
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
$
100
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
(683,994
) 
 
$
(243,495
) 
 
$
(82,434
) 
 
$
(1,009,823
) 

 Comprehensive income:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net income
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
126,614
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
126,614
  

 Other comprehensive income
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
28,806
  
 
 
28,806
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
155,420
  

 Increase in redemption value of ISO Class A common stock
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(272,428
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(272,428
) 

 Conversion of ISO Class B common stock upon corporate reorganization (Note 14)
 
 
88,949,150
  
 
 
(500,225,000
) 
 
 
205,637,925
  
 
 
205,637,925
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Conversion of ISO Class A redeemable common stock upon corporate reorganization (Note 14)
 
 
34,768,750
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
30
  
 
 
(1,305
) 
 
 
624,282
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
440,584
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,063,591
  

 KSOP shares earned
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
725
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
725
  

 Stock options exercised (including tax benefit of $18,253)
 
 
2,097,700
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
23,348
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
23,348
  

 Stock based compensation
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,218
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,218
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2009
 
 
125,815,600
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
205,637,925
  
 
 
205,637,925
  
 
$
130
  
 
$
(1,305
) 
 
$
652,573
  
 
$
(683,994
) 
 
$
51,275
  
 
$
(53,628
) 
 
$
(34,949
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net income
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
242,552
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
242,552
  

 Other comprehensive loss
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2,175
) 
 
 
(2,175
) 


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
240,377
  

 Conversion of Class B-1 common stock upon follow-on public offering (Note 1)
 
 
7,309,963
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(7,309,963
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 



 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Conversion of Class B-2 common stock upon follow-on public offering (Note 1)
 
 
11,972,917
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(11,972,917
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 



 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Treasury stock acquired - Class A (7,111,202 shares)
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(212,512
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(212,512
) 

 Treasury stock acquired - Class B-1 (7,583,532 shares)
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(199,936
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(199,936
) 

 Treasury stock acquired - Class B-2 (374,718 shares)
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(9,879
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(9,879
) 

 KSOP shares earned
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
317
  
 
 
11,256
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
11,573
  

 Stock options exercised (including tax benefit of $49,015)
 
 
5,579,135
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
84,492
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
84,497
  

 Net share settlement of taxes upon exercise of stock options
 
 
(503,043
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(15,051
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(15,051
) 

 Stock based compensation
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
21,298
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
21,298
  

 Other stock issuances
 
 
4,554
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
140
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
140
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2010
 
 
150,179,126
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
198,327,962
  
 
 
193,665,008
  
 
$
135
  
 
$
(988
) 
 
$
754,708
  
 
$
(1,106,321
) 
 
$
293,827
  
 
$
(55,803
) 
 
$
(114,442
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net income
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
282,758
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
282,758
  

 Other comprehensive loss
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(22,484
) 
 
 
(22,484
) 


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
260,274
  

 Conversion of Class B-1 common stock (Note 1)
 
 
198,327,962
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(198,327,962
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Conversion of Class B-2 common stock (Note 1)
 
 
193,665,008
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(193,665,008
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Treasury stock acquired - Class A (11,326,624 shares)
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(380,710
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(380,710
) 

 KSOP shares earned
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
297
  
 
 
12,318
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
12,615
  

 Stock options exercised, including tax benefit of $57,684 (3,716,165 shares reissued from treasury stock)
 
 
1,830,942
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
85,051
  
 
 
15,978
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
101,031
  

 Stock based compensation
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
22,656
  
 



 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
22,656
  

 Other stock issuances
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
75
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
86
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2011
 
 
544,003,038
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
$
137
  
 
$
(691
) 
 
$
874,808
  
 
$
(1,471,042
) 
 
$
576,585
  
 
$
(78,287
) 
 
$
(98,490
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  63 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
For The Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 

 Cash flows from operating activities:
  



 



 




 Net income
  
$
282,758
  
 
$
242,552
  
 
$
126,614
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
  



 



 




 Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets
  
 
43,827
  
 
 
40,728
  
 
 
38,578
  

 Amortization of intangible assets
  
 
34,792
  
 
 
27,398
  
 
 
32,621
  

 Amortization of debt issuance costs and original issue discount
  
 
1,655
  
 
 
1,463
  
 
 
785
  

 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
 
1,278
  
 
 
648
  
 
 
916
  

 KSOP compensation expense
  
 
12,615
  
 
 
11,573
  
 
 
76,065
  

 Stock based compensation
  
 
22,656
  
 
 
21,298
  
 
 
12,744
  

 Non-cash charges associated with performance based appreciation awards
  
 
585
  
 
 
789
  
 
 
4,039
  

 Acquisition related liabilities adjustment
  
 
(3,364
) 
 
 
(544
) 
 
 
(300
) 

 Realized (gain)/loss on securities, net
  
 
(686
) 
 
 
(95
) 
 
 
2,332
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
21,321
  
 
 
10,294
  
 
 
12,190
  

 Other operating
  
 
132
  
 
 
198
  
 
 
222
  

 Loss on disposal of assets
  
 
868
  
 
 
239
  
 
 
810
  

 Non-cash charges associated with lease termination
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
196
  

 Excess tax benefits from exercised stock options
  
 
(53,195
) 
 
 
(49,015
) 
 
 
(19,976
) 

 Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from acquisitions:
  



 



 




 Accounts receivable
  
 
(25,926
) 
 
 
(24,559
) 
 
 
(1,990
) 

 Prepaid expenses and other assets
  
 
(2,720
) 
 
 
899
  
 
 
(1,839
) 

 Federal and foreign income taxes
  
 
48,356
  
 
 
50,232
  
 
 
13,662
  

 State and local income taxes
  
 
(1,397
) 
 
 
(5,679
) 
 
 
5,710
  

 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
  
 
15,468
  
 
 
4,340
  
 
 
2,986
  

 Fees received in advance
  
 
12,373
  
 
 
20,984
  
 
 
10,460
  

 Other liabilities
  
 
(35,675
) 
 
 
(17,711
) 
 
 
9,576
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
 
375,721
  
 
 
336,032
  
 
 
326,401
  

 Cash flows from investing activities:
  



 



 




 Acquisitions, net of cash acquired of $590, $10,524 and $9,477, respectively
  
 
(121,721
) 
 
 
(189,578
) 
 
 
(61,350
) 

 Purchases of fixed assets
  
 
(59,829
) 
 
 
(38,641
) 
 
 
(38,694
) 

 Earnout payments
  
 
(3,500
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(78,100
) 

 Proceeds from release of acquisition related escrows
  
 
—
  
 
 
283
  
 
 
129
  

 Escrow funding associated with acquisitions
  
 
(19,560
) 
 
 
(15,980
) 
 
 
(7,636
) 

 Purchases of available-for-sale securities
  
 
(1,549
) 
 
 
(516
) 
 
 
(575
) 

 Proceeds from sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities
  
 
1,730
  
 
 
743
  
 
 
886
  

 Other investing activities
  
 
300
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
  
 
(204,129
) 
 
 
(243,689
) 
 
 
(185,340
) 
  The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  64 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Continued)  For The Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
















 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
(In thousands)
 

 Cash flows from financing activities:
 



 



 




 Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt, net of original issue discount
 
 
696,559
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
80,000
  

 Repayment of current portion of long-term debt
 
 
(125,000
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(100,000
) 

 Repayment of short-term debt refinanced on a long-term basis
 
 
(440,000
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Proceeds from issuance of short-term debt with original maturities greater than three months
 
 
120,000
  
 
 
215,000
  
 
 
—
  

 Proceeds/(repayments) of short-term debt, net
 
 
10,000
  
 
 
35,000
  
 
 
(59,244
) 

 Redemption of ISO Class A common stock
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(46,740
) 

 Repurchase of Verisk Class A common stock
 
 
(381,776
) 
 
 
(210,246
) 
 
 
—
  

 Repurchase of Verisk Class B-1 common stock
 
 
—
  
 
 
(199,936
) 
 
 
—
  

 Repurchase of Verisk Class B-2 common stock
 
 
—
  
 
 
(9,879
) 
 
 
—
  

 Net share settlement of taxes upon exercise of stock options
 
 
—
  
 
 
(15,051
) 
 
 
—
  

 Payment of debt issuance cost
 
 
(7,835
) 
 
 
(1,781
) 
 
 
(4,510
) 

 Excess tax benefits from exercised stock options
 
 
53,195
  
 
 
49,015
  
 
 
19,976
  

 Proceeds from stock options exercised
 
 
43,345
  
 
 
35,482
  
 
 
7,709
  

 Other financing
 
 
(3,268
) 
 
 
(6,391
) 
 
 
—
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in financing activities
 
 
(34,780
) 
 
 
(108,787
) 
 
 
(102,809
) 

 Effect of exchange rate changes
 
 
(183
) 
 
 
(109
) 
 
 
90
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
136,629
  
 
 
(16,553
) 
 
 
38,342
  

 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period
 
 
54,974
  
 
 
71,527
  
 
 
33,185
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period
 
$
191,603
  
 
$
54,974
  
 
$
71,527
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental disclosures:
 



 



 




 Taxes paid
 
$
117,717
  
 
$
113,609
  
 
$
111,458
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Interest paid
 
$
48,158
  
 
$
32,989
  
 
$
34,201
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Non-cash investing and financing activities:
 



 



 




 Repurchase of Verisk Class A common stock included in accounts payable and accrued liabilities
 
$
1,200
  
 
$
2,266
  
 
$
 —
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Redemption of ISO Class A common stock used to fund the exercise of stock options
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
2,326
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax asset/(liability) established on the date of acquisitions
 
$
1,324
  
 
$
(36,537
) 
 
$
(5,728
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Capital lease obligations
 
$
7,248
  
 
$
1,554
  
 
$
3,659
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Capital expenditures included in accounts payable and accrued liabilities
 
$
3,437
  
 
$
2,138
  
 
$
1,388
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Decrease in goodwill due to finalization of acquisition related liabilities
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
(4,300
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase in goodwill due to acquisition related escrow distributions
 
$
 —
  
 
$
6,996
  
 
$
181
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase in goodwill due to accrual of acquisition related liabilities
 
$
250
  
 
$
3,500
  
 
$
 —
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  65 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Amounts in thousands, except for share and per share data, unless otherwise stated) 
1.    Organization: 
Verisk Analytics, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (“Verisk” or the “Company”) enable
risk-bearing businesses to better understand and manage their risks. The Company provides its customers proprietary data that, combined with analytic methods, create embedded decision support solutions. The Company is one of the largest aggregators
and providers of data pertaining to property and casualty (“P&C”) insurance risks in the United States of America (“U.S.”). The Company offers solutions for detecting fraud in the U.S. P&C insurance, mortgage and
healthcare industries and sophisticated methods to predict and quantify loss in diverse contexts ranging from natural catastrophes to supply chain to health insurance. The Company provides solutions, including data, statistical models or tailored
analytics, all designed to allow clients to make more logical decisions.  Verisk was established on May 23, 2008 to serve
as the parent holding company of Insurance Services Office, Inc. (“ISO”) upon completion of the initial public offering (“IPO”). ISO was formed in 1971 as an advisory and rating organization for the P&C insurance industry to
provide statistical and actuarial services, to develop insurance programs and to assist insurance companies in meeting state regulatory requirements. Over the past decade, the Company has broadened its data assets, entered new markets, placed a
greater emphasis on analytics, and pursued strategic acquisitions. On October 6, 2009, ISO effected a corporate reorganization whereby the Class A and Class B common stock of ISO were exchanged by the current stockholders for the common
stock of Verisk on a one-for-one basis. Verisk immediately thereafter effected a fifty-for-one stock split of its Class A and Class B common stock and equally sub-divided the Class B common stock into two new series of stock, Verisk Class B
(Series 1) (“Class B-1”) and Verisk Class B (Series 2) (“Class B-2”).  On October 9, 2009, the
Company completed its IPO. Upon completion of the IPO, the selling stockholders sold 97,995,750 shares of Class A common stock of Verisk, which included the 12,745,750 over-allotment option, at the IPO price of $22.00 per share. The Company did
not receive any proceeds from the sales of common stock in the offering. Verisk trades under the ticker symbol “VRSK” on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.  On October 1, 2010, the Company completed a follow-on public offering. Upon completion of this offering, the selling stockholders sold 2,602,212, 7,309,963 and 11,972,917 shares of Class A,
Class B-1 and Class B-2 common stock of Verisk, respectively, at the public offering price of $27.25 per share. Class B-1 and Class B-2 common stock sold into this offering were automatically converted into Class A common stock. The Company did
not receive any proceeds from the sale of common stock in the offering. Concurrent with the closing of this offering, the Company also repurchased 7,254,407 and 45,593 shares of Class B-1 and Class B-2 common stock, respectively, at $26.3644 per
share, which represents the net proceeds per share the selling stockholders received in the public offering. The Company funded a portion of this repurchase with proceeds from borrowings of $160,000 under its syndicated revolving credit facility.
The Class B-1 shares converted to Class A common stock on April 6, 2011 and the remaining Class B-2 shares converted to Class A common stock on October 6, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s outstanding common
stock consisted only of Class A common stock. 
2.    Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies: 
The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”). The preparation of financial statements in conformity with these accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets
and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and 
  66 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Significant estimates include acquisition purchase price
allocations, the fair value of goodwill, the realization of deferred tax assets, acquisition related liabilities, fair value of stock based compensation, liabilities for pension and postretirement benefits, fair value of the Company’s
redeemable common stock, and the estimate for the allowance for doubtful accounts. Actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates. Certain reclassifications have been made related to the segment reporting within Decision Analytics’
revenue categories in the notes to the consolidated financial statements to conform to the respective 2011 presentation. 
Significant accounting policies include the following: 
(a)    Intercompany Accounts and Transactions
  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Verisk. All intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated. 
(b)    Revenue Recognition  
The following describes the Company’s primary types of revenues and the applicable revenue recognition policies. The
Company’s revenues are primarily derived from sales of services and revenue is recognized as services are performed and information is delivered to customers. Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has
occurred or services have been rendered, fees and/or price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue is recognized net of applicable sales tax withholdings. 
Industry-Standard Insurance Programs, Statistical Agent and Data Services and Actuarial Services 
Industry-standard insurance programs, statistical agent and data services and actuarial services are sold to participating
insurance company customers under annual agreements covering a calendar year where the price is determined at the inception of the agreement. In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 605, Revenue Recognition, the
Company recognizes revenue ratably over the term of these annual agreements, as services are performed and continuous access to information is provided over the entire term of the agreements. 
Property-Specific Rating and Underwriting Information 
The Company provides property-specific rating information through reports issued for specific commercial properties, for
which revenue is recognized when the report is delivered to the customer, provided that all other revenue recognition criteria are met. 
In addition, the Company provides hosting or software
solutions that provide continuous access to information about the properties being insured and underwriting information in the form of standard policy forms to be used by customers. As the customer has a contractual right to take possession of the
software without significant penalty, revenues from these arrangements are recognized ratably over the contract period from the time when the customer had access to the solution in accordance with ASC 985-605, Software Revenue Recognition
(“ASC 985-605”). The Company recognizes software license revenue when the arrangement does not require significant production, customization or modification of the software and the following criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an
agreement exists, delivery has occurred, fees are fixed or determinable, and collections are probable. These software arrangements include post-contract customer support (“PCS”). The Company recognizes software license revenue ratably over
the duration of the annual license term as vendor specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) of PCS, the only remaining undelivered element, cannot be established in accordance with ASC 985-605. The PCS associated with these arrangements is
coterminous with the duration of the license term. 
  67 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
Insurance 
Insurance services primarily consist of term-based software licenses. These software arrangements include PCS, which
includes unspecified upgrades on a when-and-if available basis. The Company recognizes software license revenue ratably over the duration of the annual license term as VSOE of PCS, the only remaining undelivered element, cannot be established in
accordance with ASC 985-605. The PCS associated with these arrangements is coterminous with the duration of the license term. In certain instances, the customers are billed for access on a monthly basis for the term-based software licenses and the
Company recognizes revenue accordingly. 
There are also services within insurance, which are comprised of
transaction-based fees recognized as information is delivered to customers, provided that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met.  Mortgage and Financial Services  Mortgage and financial
services are comprised of transaction-based fees recognized as information is delivered to customers, provided that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. 
Healthcare 
The Company provides software hosting arrangements to customers whereby the customer does not have the right to take
possession of the software. As these arrangements include PCS throughout the hosting term, revenues from these multiple element arrangements are recognized in accordance with ASC 605-25, Revenue Recognition — Multiple Element
Arrangements (“ASC 605-25”). The Company recognizes revenue ratably over the duration of the license term, which ranges from one to five years, since the contractual elements do not have stand alone value. 
There are also services within healthcare, which are comprised of
transaction-based fees recognized as information is delivered to customers, provided that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. 
Specialized Markets 
Specialized markets consist of term-based software licenses. These software arrangements include PCS, which includes
unspecified upgrades on a when-and-if available basis. The Company recognizes software license revenue ratably over the duration of the annual license term as VSOE of PCS, the only remaining undelivered element, cannot be established in accordance
with ASC 985-605. The PCS associated with these arrangements is coterminous with the duration of the license term. In certain instances, the customers are billed for access on a monthly basis for the term-based software licenses and the Company
recognizes revenue accordingly. In addition, specialized markets are comprised of transaction-based fees recognized as information is delivered to customers, provided that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. 
The Company services long-term contract arrangements with certain
customers. For these arrangements, revenue is recognized in accordance with ASC 605-35, Revenue Recognition — Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts (“ASC 605-35”), using the percentage-of-completion method, which
requires the use of estimates. In such instances, management is required to estimate the input measures, based on hours incurred to date compared to total estimated hours of the project, with consideration also given to output measures, such as
contract milestones, when applicable. Adjustments 
  68 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

to estimates are made in the period in which the facts requiring such revisions become known. Accordingly, recognized revenues and profits are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to
completion. The Company considers the contract substantially complete when there is compliance with all performance specifications and there are no remaining costs or potential risk. 
(c)    Fees Received in Advance  
The Company invoices its customers in annual, quarterly, monthly, or milestone installments. Amounts billed and collected
in advance of contract terms are recorded as “Fees received in advance” in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are recognized as the services are performed and the applicable revenue recognition criteria are met. 
(d)    Fixed Assets and Finite-lived Intangible Assets  
Property and equipment, internal-use software and finite-lived
intangibles are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization, which are computed on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or
the lease term. 
The Company’s internal software development costs
primarily relate to internal-use software. Such costs are capitalized in the application development stage in accordance with ASC 350-40, Internal-use Software. The Company also capitalizes software development costs upon the establishment of
technological feasibility for a product in accordance with ASC 985-20, Software to be Sold, Leased, or Marketed (“ASC 985-20”). Software development costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over a three-year period, which
management believes represents the useful life of these capitalized costs. 
In accordance with ASC 360, Property, Plant &
Equipment, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of long-lived assets and finite-lived intangible assets may not be recoverable, the Company reviews its long-lived assets and finite-lived intangible assets
for impairment by first comparing the carrying value of the assets to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the assets. If the carrying value exceeds the sum of the assets’
undiscounted cash flows, the Company estimates and recognizes an impairment loss by taking the difference between the carrying value and fair value of the assets. 
(e)    Capital and Operating Leases  
The Company leases various property, plant and equipment. Leased property is accounted for under ASC 840, Leases
(“ASC 840”). Accordingly, leased property that meets certain criteria is capitalized and the present value of the related lease payments is recorded as a liability. Amortization of assets accounted for as capital leases is computed
utilizing the straight-line method over the shorter of the remaining lease term or the estimated useful life (principally 3 to 4 years for computer equipment and automobiles). 
All other leases are accounted for as operating leases. Rent expense for operating leases, which may have rent escalation
provisions or rent holidays, is recorded on a straight-line basis over the non-cancelable lease period in accordance with ASC 840. The initial lease term generally includes the build-out period, where no rent payments are typically due under the
terms of the lease. The difference between rent expensed and rent paid is recorded as deferred rent. Construction allowances received from landlords are recorded as a deferred rent credit and amortized to rent expense over the term of the lease.

  69 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
(f)    Investments  
The Company’s investments at December 31, 2011 and 2010 included registered investment companies and equity
investments in non-public companies. The Company accounts for short-term investments in accordance with ASC 320, Investments-Debt and Equity Securities (“ASC 320”). 
There were no investments classified as trading securities at December 31, 2011 or 2010. All investments with readily
determinable market values are classified as available-for-sale. While these investments are not held with the specific intention to sell them, they may be sold to support the Company’s investment strategies. All available-for-sale investments
are carried at fair value. The cost of all available-for-sale investments sold is based on the specific identification method, with the exception of mutual fund-based investments, which is based on the weighted average cost method. Dividend income
is accrued on the ex-dividend date.  The Company performs reviews of its investment portfolio when individual
holdings have experienced a decline in fair value below their respective cost. The Company considers a number of factors in the evaluation of whether a decline in value is other-than-temporary including: (a) the financial condition and near
term prospects of the issuer; (b) the Company’s ability and intent to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for an anticipated recovery in value; and (c) the period and degree to which the market value has
been below cost. Where the decline is deemed to be other-than-temporary, a charge is recorded to “Realized gain/(loss) on securities, net” in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations, and a new cost basis is established for
the investment.  The Company’s equity investments in non-public companies are included in “Other
assets” in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Those securities are carried at cost, as the Company owns less than 20% of the stock and does not otherwise have the ability to exercise significant influence. These securities are
written down to their estimated realizable value when management considers there is an other-than-temporary decline in value based on financial information received and the business prospects of the entity. 
(g)    Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
 The Company follows the provisions of ASC 820-10, Fair Value Measurements (“ASC 820-10”),
which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value under U.S. GAAP and expands fair value measurement disclosures. The Company follows the provisions of ASC 820-10 for its financial assets and liabilities recognized or
disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis. The Company follows the provisions of ASC 820-10 for its non-financial assets and liabilities recognized or disclosed at fair value. 
(h)    Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts 
 Accounts receivable is generally recorded at the invoiced amount. The allowance for doubtful accounts is
estimated based on an analysis of the aging of the accounts receivable, historical write-offs, customer payment patterns, individual customer creditworthiness, current economic trends, and/or establishment of specific reserves for customers in
adverse financial condition. The Company assesses the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts on a quarterly basis. 
(i)    Foreign Currency 
 The Company has determined local currencies are the functional currencies of the foreign operations. The
assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated at the period-end rate of exchange and statement of operations items are translated at the average rates prevailing during the year. The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as a
component of “Accumulated other comprehensive losses” in the accompanying consolidated statements of changes in stockholders’ deficit. 
  70 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
(j)    Stock Based Compensation  
The Company follows ASC 718, Stock Compensation (“ASC 718”). Under ASC 718, stock based compensation cost
is measured at the grant date, based on the fair value of the awards granted, and is recognized as expense over the requisite service period.  Prior to January 1, 2008, the expected term (estimated period of time outstanding) was estimated using the simplified method as defined in ASC 718, in which the expected term equals the average of
vesting term and the contractual term. Subsequent to January 1, 2008, the expected term was primarily estimated based on studies of historical experience and projected exercise behaviors. However, for certain awards granted, for which no
historical exercise patterns existed, the expected term was estimated using the simplified method. The risk-free interest rate is based on the yield of U.S. Treasury zero coupon securities with a maturity equal to the expected term of the equity
awards. Expected volatility for awards prior to January 1, 2008 was based on the Company’s historical volatility for a period equal to the stock option’s expected term, ending on the day of grant, and calculated on a quarterly basis
for purposes of the ISO 401(k) Savings and Employee Stock Ownership Plan (“KSOP”). For awards granted after January 1, 2008, the volatility factor was based on an average of the historical stock prices of a group of the Company’s
peers over the most recent period commensurate with the expected term of the stock option award. Prior to 2008, the expected dividend yield was not included in the fair value calculation as the Company did not pay dividends. For awards granted after
January 1, 2008, the expected dividends yield was based on the Company’s expected annual dividend rate on the date of grant.  The Company estimates expected forfeitures of equity awards at the date of grant and recognizes compensation expense only for those awards expected to vest. The forfeiture assumption is ultimately
adjusted to the actual forfeiture rate. Changes in the forfeiture assumptions may impact the total amount of expense ultimately recognized over the requisite service period, and may impact the timing of expense recognized over the requisite service
period. 
(k)    Research and Development Costs 
 Research and development costs, which are primarily related to the personnel and related overhead costs
incurred in developing new services for our customers, are expensed as incurred. Such costs were $15,393, $14,870 and $14,109 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and were included in “Selling, general and
administrative” expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. 
(l)    Advertising Costs 
Advertising costs, which are primarily associated with promoting the Company’s brand, names and solutions provided,
are expensed as incurred. Such costs were $7,065, $6,877 and $4,621 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
(m)    Income Taxes  
The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method under ASC 740, Income Taxes (“ASC
740”), which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are
determined based on the differences between the financial statements and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect of a change in tax rates on
deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. 
  71 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
Deferred tax assets are recorded to the extent these assets are more
likely than not to be realized. In making such determination, the Company considers all available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning
strategies and recent financial operations. Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets if it is determined to be more likely than not that all or some of the potential deferred tax assets will not be realized. 
The Company follows ASC 740-10, Income Taxes (“ASC 740-10”), which clarifies the accounting for
uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements. ASC 740-10 provides that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized based on the technical merits when it is more likely than not that the position will be
sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes. Income tax positions must meet a more likely than not recognition threshold at the effective date to be recognized upon the adoption of ASC 740-10 and
in subsequent periods. This standard also provides guidance on measurement, derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. 
The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the income tax expense line in
the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Accrued interest and penalties are included within “Other liabilities” on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. 
(n)    Earnings Per Share  
Basic and diluted earnings per share (“EPS”) are determined in accordance with ASC 260, Earnings per
Share, which specifies the computation, presentation and disclosure requirements for EPS. Basic EPS excludes all dilutive common stock equivalents. It is based upon the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS, as calculated using the treasury stock method, reflects the potential dilution that would occur if the Company’s dilutive outstanding stock options were exercised. 
(o)    Pension and Postretirement Benefits 
 The Company accounts for its pension and postretirement benefits under ASC 715, Compensation —
Retirement Benefits (“ASC 715”). ASC 715 requires the recognition of the funded status of a benefit plan in the balance sheet, the recognition in other comprehensive income of gains or losses and prior service costs or credits arising
during the period, but which are not included as components of periodic benefit cost, and the measurement of defined benefit plan assets and obligations as of the balance sheet date. The Company utilizes a valuation date of December 31.

(p)    Product Warranty Obligations  
The Company provides warranty coverage for certain of its solutions. The Company recognizes a product warranty obligation
when claims are probable and can be reasonably estimated. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, product warranty obligations were not significant.  In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into numerous agreements that contain standard indemnities whereby the Company indemnifies another party for breaches of confidentiality,
infringement of intellectual property or gross negligence. Such indemnifications are primarily granted under licensing of computer software. Most agreements contain provisions to limit the maximum potential amount of future payments that the Company
could be required to make under these indemnifications; however, the Company is not able to develop an estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments to be made under these indemnifications as the triggering events are not subject to
predictability. 
  72 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
(q)    Loss Contingencies  
The Company accrues for costs relating to litigation, claims and other contingent matters when such liabilities become
probable and reasonably estimable. Such estimates are based on management’s judgment. Actual amounts paid may differ from amounts estimated, and such differences will be charged to operations in the period in which the final determination of
the liability is made. 
(r)    Goodwill  
Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition costs over the fair value of tangible net assets and identifiable intangible
assets of the businesses acquired. Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized. Intangible assets determined to have finite lives are amortized over their useful lives. Goodwill and intangible assets with
indefinite lives are subject to impairment testing annually as of June 30 or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable. The Company completed the required annual impairment test
as of June 30, 2011, which resulted in no impairment of goodwill in 2011. This test compares the carrying value of each reporting unit to its fair value. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets,
including goodwill assigned to that reporting unit, goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying value of the reporting unit’s net assets, including goodwill, exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then the Company will determine the
implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill. If the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then an impairment loss is recorded for the difference between the carrying amount and the implied
fair value of the goodwill. 
(s)    Recent Accounting Pronouncement

In December 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update
(“ASU”) No. 2011-12, Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05 (“ASU
No. 2011-12”). ASU No. 2011-12 defers the new presentation requirements about reclassifications of items out of accumulated other comprehensive income as described in ASU No. 2011-05, Presentation of Comprehensive Income
(“ASU No. 2011-05”). ASU No. 2011-12 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. The adoption of ASU No. 2011-12 will not have any impact on the
Company’s consolidated financial statements as the Company continues to report reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income consistent with the presentation requirements in effect before ASU No. 2011-05. 
In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, Testing Goodwill for Impairment
(“ASU No. 2011-08”). Under ASU No. 2011-08, an entity has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that
the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying
amount, then performing the two-step impairment test is unnecessary. However, if an entity concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform the first step of the two-step impairment test by calculating the fair value of the reporting unit and
comparing the fair value with the carrying amount of the reporting unit. ASU No. 2011-08 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption is permitted. The Company has elected not to early adopt and will
continue to assess the recoverability of goodwill under its existing practice. ASU No. 2011-08 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements as the Company has incorporated and will continue
to incorporate consideration of qualitative factors in the goodwill impairment testing. 
  73 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05. Under ASU
No. 2011-05, an entity has the option to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two
separate but consecutive statements. In both choices, an entity is required to present each component of net income along with total net income, each component of other comprehensive income along with a total for other comprehensive income, and a
total amount for comprehensive income. ASU No. 2011-05 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption is permitted. The Company has elected not to early adopt. ASU
No. 2011-05 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements as this guidance does not result in a change in the items that are required to be reported in other comprehensive income or when an
item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income. 
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04, Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value
Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs (“ASU No. 2011-04”). ASU No. 2011-04 clarifies FASB’s intent about the application of existing fair value measurement and develops common requirements for
measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements in accordance with U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. ASU No. 2011-04 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those
years, beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption is not permitted. ASU No. 2011-04 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements as this guidance does not result in a change in
the application of the requirements in ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements. 
3.    Concentration of Credit Risk: 
Financial instruments that potentially expose the Company to credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash
equivalents, available for sale securities and accounts receivable, which are generally not collateralized. The Company maintains, in cash and cash equivalents, higher credit quality financial institutions in order to limit the amount of credit
exposure. The total cash balances are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) to a maximum amount of $250 per bank at December 31, 2011 and 2010. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had cash balances
on deposit that exceeded the balance insured by the FDIC limit by approximately $166,111 and $35,514 with six banks. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company also had cash on deposit with foreign banks of approximately $23,747 and $18,198,
respectively.  The Company considers the concentration of credit risk associated with its trade accounts receivable to be
commercially reasonable and believes that such concentration does not result in the significant risk of near-term severe adverse impacts. The Company’s top fifty customers represent approximately 42% of revenues for 2011 and 45% for 2010 and
2009 with no individual customer accounting for more than 4%, 5% and 4% of revenues during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. No individual customer comprised more than 8% and 10% of accounts receivable at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
4.    Cash and Cash Equivalents: 
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash in banks, commercial paper, money-market funds, and other liquid instruments
with original maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. 
  74 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
5.    Accounts Receivable: 
Accounts Receivable consists of the following at December 31: 
 












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Billed receivables
  
$
148,055
  
 
$
122,874
  

 Unbilled receivables
  
 
9,442
  
 
 
7,718
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total receivables
  
 
157,497
  
 
 
130,592
  

 Less allowance for doubtful accounts
  
 
(4,158
) 
 
 
(4,028
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Accounts receivable, net
  
$
153,339
  
 
$
126,564
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

6.    Investments: 
The following is a summary of available-for-sale securities: 
 




















 
  
AdjustedCost
 
  
GrossUnrealizedGain
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLoss
 
 
Fair Value
 

 December 31, 2011
  



  



  



 




 Registered investment companies
  
$
4,618
  
  
$
439
  
  
$
—
  
 
$
5,057
  

 Equity securities
  
 
14
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
(5
) 
 
 
9
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total available-for-sale securities
  
$
4,632
  
  
$
439
  
  
$
(5
) 
 
$
5,066
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 December 31, 2010
  



  



  



 




 Registered investment companies
  
$
4,398
  
  
$
1,248
  
  
$
—
  
 
$
5,646
  

 Equity securities
  
 
14
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
(7
) 
 
 
7
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total available-for-sale securities
  
$
4,412
  
  
$
1,248
  
  
$
(7
) 
 
$
5,653
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

In addition to the available-for-sale securities above, the Company has equity investments in
non-public companies in which the Company acquired non-controlling interests and for which no readily determinable market value exists. These securities were accounted for under the cost method in accordance with ASC 323-10-25, The Equity Method
of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock (“ASC 323-10-25”). At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the carrying value of such securities was $3,443 and $3,642 for each period and has been included in “Other assets” in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets. 
Realized gain/(loss) on securities, net, including write downs related to other-than-temporary impairments of
available-for-sale securities and other assets, was as follows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Gross realized gain/(loss) on sale of registered investment securities
  
$
803
  
 
$
95
  
  
$
66
  

 Other-than-temporary impairment of registered investment securities
  
 
(117
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
(386
) 

 Other-than-temporary impairment of noncontrolling interest in non-public companies
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
(2,012
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Realized gain/(loss) on securities, net
  
$
686
  
 
$
95
  
  
$
(2,332
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  75 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
7.    Fair Value Measurements 
Certain assets and liabilities of the Company are reported at fair value in
the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Such assets and liabilities include amounts for both financial and non-financial instruments. To increase consistency and comparability of assets and liabilities recorded at fair value, ASC 820-10
establishes a three-level fair value hierarchy to prioritize the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. ASC 820-10 requires disclosures detailing the extent to which companies’ measure assets and liabilities at fair value,
the methods and assumptions used to measure fair value and the effect of fair value measurements on earnings. In accordance with ASC 820-10, the Company applied the following fair value hierarchy: 
Level 1 — Assets or liabilities for which the identical item is traded on an active exchange, such as
publicly-traded instruments.  Level 2 — Assets and liabilities valued based on observable market data
for similar instruments.  Level 3 — Assets or liabilities for which significant valuation assumptions
are not readily observable in the market; instruments valued based on the best available data, some of which is internally-developed, and considers risk premiums that a market participant would require. 
The following tables provide information for such assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. The
fair values of cash and cash equivalents (other than money-market funds which are recorded on a reported net asset value basis disclosed below), accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities, acquisition related liabilities prior to
the adoption of ASC 805, Business Combinations (“ASC 805”), short-term debt, and short-term debt expected to be refinanced approximate their carrying amounts because of the short-term nature of these instruments. The fair value of
the Company’s long-term debt was estimated at $1,181,788 and $584,361 as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and is based on quoted market prices if available and if not, an estimate of interest rates available to the Company for
debt with similar features, the Company’s current credit rating and spreads applicable to the Company. These assets and liabilities are not presented in the following table. 
The following table summarizes fair value measurements by level at December 31, 2011 and 2010 for assets and other balances measured
at fair value on a recurring basis:   




















 
  
Total
 
 
Quoted Pricesin Active Marketsfor IdenticalAssets (Level 1)
 
  
SignificantOtherObservableInputs (Level 2)
 
  
SignificantUnobservableInputs (Level 3)
 

 December 31, 2011
  



 



  



  




 Cash equivalents – money-market funds
  
$
2,449
  
 
$
 —
  
  
$
2,449
  
  
$
 —
  

 Registered investment companies(1)
  
$
5,057
  
 
$
5,057
  
  
$
 —
  
  
$
 —
  

 Equity securities(1)
  
$
9
  
 
$
9
  
  
$
 —
  
  
$
 —
  

 December 31, 2010
  



 



  



  




 Cash equivalents – money-market funds
  
$
2,273
  
 
$
 —
  
  
$
2,273
  
  
$
 —
  

 Registered investment companies(1)
  
$
5,646
  
 
$
5,646
  
  
$
 —
  
  
$
 —
  

 Equity securities(1)
  
$
7
  
 
$
7
  
  
$
 —
  
  
$
 —
  

 Contingent consideration under ASC 805(2)
  
$
(3,337
) 
 
$
 —
  
  
$
 —
  
  
$
(3,337
) 
  


(1)
Registered investment companies and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale securities and are valued using quoted prices in active markets multiplied by
the number of shares owned. 
  76 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 


(2)
Under ASC 805, contingent consideration is recognized at fair value at the end of each reporting period for acquisitions after January 1, 2009. The Company records
the initial recognition of the fair value of contingent consideration in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. Subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration are recorded in the consolidated statement of operations.
See Note 10 for further information regarding the acquisition related liabilities adjustment associated with D2 Hawkeye, Inc. and Strategic Analytics, Inc. recorded during the year ended December 31, 2011 and with TierMed Systems, LLC recorded
during the year ended December 31, 2010. 
The table below includes a rollforward of the Company’s contingent consideration under ASC 805 for the years ended
December 31:   












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Beginning balance
  
$
3,337
  
 
$
3,344
  

 Acquisitions
  
 
—
  
 
 
491
  

 Acquisition related liabilities adjustment(1)
  
 
(3,364
) 
 
 
(544
) 

 Accretion on acquisition related liabilities
  
 
27
  
 
 
46
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance
  
$
 —
  
 
$
3,337
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Under ASC 805, contingent consideration is recognized at fair value at the end of each reporting period for acquisitions after January 1, 2009. The Company records
the initial recognition of the fair value of contingent consideration in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. Subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration are recorded in the consolidated statement of operations.
See Note 10 for further information regarding the acquisition related liabilities adjustment associated with D2 Hawkeye, Inc. and Strategic Analytics, Inc. recorded during the year ended December 31, 2011 and with TierMed Systems, LLC recorded
during the year ended December 31, 2010. 
8.    Fixed Assets 
The following is a summary of fixed assets as of December 31: 
 




















 
  
Useful Life
 
  
Cost
 
  
AccumulatedDepreciation andAmortization
 
 
Net
 

 2011
  



  



  



 




 Furniture and office equipment
  
 
3-10 years
  
  
$
118,124
  
  
$
(79,707
) 
 
$
38,417
  

 Leasehold improvements
  
 
Lease term
  
  
 
31,779
  
  
 
(16,683
) 
 
 
15,096
  

 Purchased software
  
 
3 years
  
  
 
59,196
  
  
 
(44,413
) 
 
 
14,783
  

 Software development costs
  
 
3 years
  
  
 
126,265
  
  
 
(82,032
) 
 
 
44,233
  

 Leased equipment
  
 
3-4 years
  
  
 
25,906
  
  
 
(19,024
) 
 
 
6,882
  


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fixed assets
  



  
$
361,270
  
  
$
(241,859
) 
 
$
119,411
  


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 2010
  



  



  



 




 Furniture and office equipment
  
 
3-10 years
  
  
$
116,228
  
  
$
(84,465
) 
 
$
31,763
  

 Leasehold improvements
  
 
Lease term
  
  
 
31,420
  
  
 
(14,653
) 
 
 
16,767
  

 Purchased software
  
 
3 years
  
  
 
52,115
  
  
 
(40,216
) 
 
 
11,899
  

 Software development costs
  
 
3 years
  
  
 
100,376
  
  
 
(69,773
) 
 
 
30,603
  

 Leased equipment
  
 
3-4 years
  
  
 
18,362
  
  
 
(15,985
) 
 
 
2,377
  


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fixed assets
  



  
$
318,501
  
  
$
(225,092
) 
 
$
93,409
  


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  77 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
Consolidated depreciation and amortization of fixed assets for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, were $43,827, $40,728 and $38,578, of which $9,710, $10,755 and $9,394 were related to amortization of software development costs, respectively. There was no amortization expense related to software development
costs as these projects were in process and capitalized in accordance with ASC 985-20 during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 or 2009. The Company had unamortized software development costs that had been capitalized in accordance with
ASC 985-20 of $14,184 and $6,660 as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Leased equipment includes amounts held under capital leases for automobiles, computer software and computer equipment. 
9.    Goodwill and Intangible Assets: 
Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition costs over the fair value of tangible net assets and identifiable
intangible assets of the businesses acquired. Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized. Intangible assets determined to have finite lives are amortized over their useful lives. The Company completed the
required annual impairment test as of June 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, which resulted in no impairment of goodwill. Based on the results of the impairment assessment as of June 30, 2011, the Company determined that the fair value of its
reporting units exceeded their respective carrying value. The fair value of certain reporting units exceeded their carrying value by a moderate amount, which is consistent with the Company’s expectation due to the limited amount of time between
the acquisition date and the timing of the Company’s annual impairment test. There were no goodwill impairment indicators after the date of the last annual impairment test. 
The following is a summary of the change in goodwill from December 31, 2009 through December 31, 2011, both in total and as
allocated to the Company’s operating segments:   
















 
  
RiskAssessment
 
  
DecisionAnalytics
 
 
Total
 

 Goodwill at December 31, 2009(1)
  
$
27,908
  
  
$
462,921
  
 
$
490,829
  

 Current year acquisitions
  
 
—
  
  
 
115,414
  
 
 
115,414
  

 Accrual of acquisition related liabilities
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,500
  
 
 
3,500
  

 Purchase accounting reclassifications
  
 
—
  
  
 
(51
) 
 
 
(51
) 

 Acquisition related escrow funding
  
 
—
  
  
 
15,980
  
 
 
15,980
  

 Finalization of acquisition related escrows
  
 
—
  
  
 
6,996
  
 
 
6,996
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Goodwill at December 31, 2010(1)
  
$
27,908
  
  
$
604,760
  
 
$
632,668
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Current year acquisitions
  
 
—
  
  
 
58,227
  
 
 
58,227
  

 Accrual of acquisition related liabilities
  
 
—
  
  
 
250
  
 
 
250
  

 Purchase accounting reclassifications
  
 
—
  
  
 
(761
) 
 
 
(761
) 

 Acquisition related escrow funding
  
 
—
  
  
 
19,560
  
 
 
19,560
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Goodwill at December 31, 2011(1)
  
$
27,908
  
  
$
682,036
  
 
$
709,944
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
These balances are net of accumulated impairment charges of $3,244 that occurred prior to January 1, 2009. 
The Company finalized the purchase accounting for the acquisitions of 3E Company (“3E”) and Crowe Paradis
Services Corporation (“CP”) during the quarter ended December 31, 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company’s purchase accounting reclassifications primarily related to the finalization of 3E and CP and
resulted in a decrease in goodwill of $761, and an increase in liabilities of $1,893, an increase in other assets of $2,202, and an increase in intangible assets of $491. The impact of these adjustments on the consolidated statement of operations
for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 was immaterial. 
  78 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The Company finalized the purchase accounting for the acquisition of D2 Hawkeye, Inc.
(“D2”) in the first quarter of 2010, and there have been no adjustments since December 31, 2009. The Company finalized the purchase accounting for the acquisitions of TierMed Systems, LLC (“TierMed”) and Enabl-u Technology
Corporation (“Enabl-u”) as of December 31, 2010, which resulted in a decrease in goodwill of $51, an increase in current liabilities of $1,047 and an increase in intangible assets of $1,098. The Company finalized the purchase
accounting for the acquisition of Strategic Analytics, Inc. (“SA”) as of December 31, 2010, which resulted in an increase in goodwill of $882 and adjustments to intangible assets, current assets, current liabilities, and deferred tax
liabilities. The impact of these adjustments on the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 was immaterial.  The finalization of the purchase accounting, excluding the final resolution of indemnity escrows and contingent consideration, for the acquisition of Atmospheric and Environmental Research, Inc.
(“AER”) during the third quarter of 2009 resulted in an increase in intangible assets of $3,203, an increase in deferred tax liabilities of $885, a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $282, and a corresponding decrease to
goodwill of $2,600.  The Company’s intangible assets and related accumulated amortization consisted of the following:
  




















 
  
WeightedAverageUseful Life
 
  
Cost
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
 
Net
 

 December 31, 2011
  



  



  



 




 Technology-based
  
 
7 years
  
  
$
235,654
  
  
$
(155,333
) 
 
$
80,321
  

 Marketing-related
  
 
5 years
  
  
 
48,770
  
  
 
(33,190
) 
 
 
15,580
  

 Contract-based
  
 
6 years
  
  
 
6,555
  
  
 
(6,482
) 
 
 
73
  

 Customer-related
  
 
13 years
  
  
 
173,224
  
  
 
(42,774
) 
 
 
130,450
  


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total intangible assets
  



  
$
464,203
  
  
$
(237,779
) 
 
$
226,424
  


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 December 31, 2010
  



  



  



 




 Technology-based
  
 
7 years
  
  
$
210,212
  
  
$
(136,616
) 
 
$
73,596
  

 Marketing-related
  
 
5 years
  
  
 
40,882
  
  
 
(28,870
) 
 
 
12,012
  

 Contract-based
  
 
6 years
  
  
 
6,555
  
  
 
(6,287
) 
 
 
268
  

 Customer-related
  
 
13 years
  
  
 
145,567
  
  
 
(31,214
) 
 
 
114,353
  


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total intangible assets
  



  
$
403,216
  
  
$
(202,987
) 
 
$
200,229
  


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

Consolidated amortization expense related to intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009, was approximately $34,792, $27,398 and $32,621, respectively. Estimated amortization expense in future periods through 2017 and thereafter for intangible assets subject to amortization is as follows: 
 








 Year
  
Amount
 

 2012
  
$
33,956
  

 2013
  
 
28,431
  

 2014
  
 
21,305
  

 2015
  
 
21,079
  

 2016
  
 
20,694
  

 2017 and Thereafter
  
 
100,959
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
226,424
  


  
  
  
 

  79 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
10.    Acquisitions: 
2011 Acquisitions  On June 17, 2011, the Company acquired the net assets of Health Risk Partners, LLC (“HRP”), a provider of solutions to optimize revenue, ensure compliance and improve quality of care for
Medicare Advantage and Medicaid health plans, for a net cash purchase price of approximately $46,400 and funded $3,000 of indemnity escrows and $10,000 of contingency escrows. Within the Company’s Decision Analytics segment, this acquisition
further advances the Company’s position as a major provider of data, analytics, and decision-support solutions to the healthcare vertical market.  On April 27, 2011, the Company acquired 100% of the stock of Bloodhound Technologies, Inc. (“Bloodhound”), a provider of real-time pre-adjudication medical claims editing, for a net cash
purchase price of approximately $75,321 and funded $6,560 of indemnity escrows. Within the Company’s Decision Analytics segment, Bloodhound addresses the need of healthcare payers to control fraud and waste in a real-time claims-processing
environment, and these capabilities align with the Company’s existing fraud identification tools in the healthcare vertical market.  The preliminary purchase price allocations of the acquisitions resulted in the following:   
















 
  
Bloodhound
 
  
HRP
 
  
Total
 

 Accounts receivable
  
$
2,278
  
  
$
378
  
  
$
2,656
  

 Current assets
  
 
6,646
  
  
 
297
  
  
 
6,943
  

 Fixed assets
  
 
1,091
  
  
 
1,147
  
  
 
2,238
  

 Intangible assets
  
 
33,624
  
  
 
26,871
  
  
 
60,495
  

 Goodwill
  
 
45,635
  
  
 
32,152
  
  
 
77,787
  

 Other assets
  
 
16
  
  
 
13,000
  
  
 
13,016
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
1,324
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,324
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets acquired
  
 
90,614
  
  
 
73,845
  
  
 
164,459
  

 Current liabilities
  
 
6,869
  
  
 
1,445
  
  
 
8,314
  

 Other liabilities
  
 
1,864
  
  
 
13,000
  
  
 
14,864
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities assumed
  
 
8,733
  
  
 
14,445
  
  
 
23,178
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net assets acquired
  
$
81,881
  
  
$
59,400
  
  
$
141,281
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

Current liabilities consist of $6,560 of payment due to the sellers, assuming no pre-acquisition indemnity claims arise
subsequent to the acquisition date through April 2, 2012 for Bloodhound, which was funded into escrow at the close. The remaining balance also consist of accounts payable and accrued liabilities. For HRP, other liabilities consist of $13,000 of
payments due to the sellers, assuming certain conditions are met through December 31, 2012 and no pre-acquisition indemnity claims arise subsequent to the acquisition date through March 31, 2013, which was funded into escrow at the close.

  80 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The amounts assigned to intangible assets by type for 2011 acquisitions are summarized
in the table below:   




















 
  
WeightedAverageUseful Life
 
  
Bloodhound
 
  
HRP
 
  
Total
 

 Technology-based
  
 
10 years
  
  
$
16,087
  
  
$
9,301
  
  
$
25,388
  

 Marketing-related
  
 
8 years
  
  
 
2,247
  
  
 
5,633
  
  
 
7,880
  

 Customer-related
  
 
10 years
  
  
 
15,290
  
  
 
11,937
  
  
 
27,227
  


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total intangible assets
  
 
10 years
  
  
$
33,624
  
  
$
26,871
  
  
$
60,495
  


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

The goodwill associated with Bloodhound is not deductible for tax purposes; whereas the goodwill associated with HRP is
deductible for tax purposes as this was an asset purchase rather than a stock purchase. Included within the consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 are revenues of $34,265 and operating income of $5,261,
associated with these acquisitions. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company incurred transaction costs related to these acquisitions of $979 included within “Selling, general and administrative” expenses in the accompanying
consolidated statements of operations. 
The allocation of the purchase price to goodwill, accrued liabilities, and the
determination of a liability under ASC 740-10-25, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (“ASC 740-10-25”) is subject to revisions, which may have an impact on the consolidated financial statements. As the values of such assets
and liabilities were preliminary in nature in 2011, it may be subject to adjustments during the measurement period as additional information is obtained about the facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date. In accordance with
ASC 805, the allocation of the purchase price will be finalized once all information is obtained, but not to exceed one year from the acquisition date. 
2010 Acquisitions  On December 16, 2010, the Company acquired 100% of the stock of 3E Company (“3E”), a global source for a comprehensive suite of environmental health and safety compliance solutions for a
net cash purchase price of approximately $99,603 and funded $7,730 of indemnity escrows. Within the Company’s Decision Analytics segment, 3E overlaps the customer sets served by the other supply chain risk management solutions and helps the
Company’s customers across a variety of vertical markets address their environmental health and safety issues.  On
December 14, 2010, the Company acquired 100% of the stock of Crowe Paradis Services Corporation (“CP”), a provider of claims analysis and compliance solutions to the P&C insurance industry for a net cash purchase price of
approximately $83,589 and funded $6,750 of indemnity escrows. Within the Company’s Decision Analytics segment, CP offers solutions for complying with the Medicare Secondary Payer Act, provides services to P&C insurance companies,
third-party administrators and self-insured companies, which the Company believes further enhances the solution it currently offers.  On February 26, 2010, the Company acquired 100% of the stock of SA, a provider of credit risk and capital management solutions to consumer and mortgage lenders, for a net cash purchase price of
approximately $6,386 and the Company funded $1,500 of indemnity escrows. Within the Decision Analytics segment, the Company believes SA’ solutions and application set will allow customers to take advantage of state-of-the-art loss forecasting,
stress testing, and economic capital requirement tools to better understand and forecast the risk associated within their credit portfolios. 
  81 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The allocation of purchase price in the period of acquisition resulted in the following:
  




















 
  
SA
 
  
CP
 
  
3E
 
  
Total
 

 Accounts receivable
  
$
832
  
  
$
2,694
  
  
$
9,691
  
  
$
13,217
  

 Current assets
  
 
55
  
  
 
517
  
  
 
1,820
  
  
 
2,392
  

 Fixed assets
  
 
159
  
  
 
1,962
  
  
 
2,123
  
  
 
4,244
  

 Intangible assets
  
 
4,993
  
  
 
57,194
  
  
 
55,838
  
  
 
118,025
  

 Goodwill
  
 
4,006
  
  
 
51,727
  
  
 
75,661
  
  
 
131,394
  

 Other assets
  
 
1,500
  
  
 
6,750
  
  
 
7,963
  
  
 
16,213
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets acquired
  
 
11,545
  
  
 
120,844
  
  
 
153,096
  
  
 
285,485
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
810
  
  
 
20,257
  
  
 
15,470
  
  
 
36,537
  

 Current liabilities
  
 
853
  
  
 
2,165
  
  
 
22,163
  
  
 
25,181
  

 Other liabilities
  
 
1,996
  
  
 
8,083
  
  
 
8,130
  
  
 
18,209
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities assumed
  
 
3,659
  
  
 
30,505
  
  
 
45,763
  
  
 
79,927
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net assets acquired
  
$
7,886
  
  
$
90,339
  
  
$
107,333
  
  
$
205,558
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

Other liabilities consisted of $15,950 of payments due to the sellers, assuming no pre-acquisition indemnity claims
arise subsequent to the acquisition dates through December 31, 2012, March 31, 2012 and March 31, 2012 for SA, 3E and CP, respectively, which was funded into escrow at the close. This balance also consisted of $1,283 and $485 of
noncurrent deferred rent and unrecognized tax benefits, respectively. The remaining balance consisted of contingent consideration of $491, which was estimated as of the acquisition date by averaging the probability of achieving the specific
predetermined EBITDA (as defined in Note 18) of SA and revenue targets, which could result in a payment ranging from $0 to $18,000 for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011. The terms of the contingent consideration include a range that
allows the sellers to benefit from the potential growth of SA; however, the amount recorded as of the purchase allocation date represents management’s best estimate based on the prior financial results as well as management’s current best
estimate of the future growth of revenue and EBITDA. Subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration were recorded in operating income in the statement of operations. Refer to the “Acquisition Related Liabilities” section
below.  The initial amounts assigned in the period of acquisition to intangible assets by type for 2010 acquisitions are
summarized in the table below:   
























 
  
WeightedAverageUseful Life
 
  
SA
 
  
CP
 
  
3E
 
  
Total
 

 Technology-based
  
 
10 years
  
  
$
2,143
  
  
$
19,489
  
  
$
13,541
  
  
$
35,173
  

 Marketing-related
  
 
10 years
  
  
 
678
  
  
 
2,634
  
  
 
1,934
  
  
 
5,246
  

 Customer-related
  
 
15 years
  
  
 
2,172
  
  
 
35,071
  
  
 
40,363
  
  
 
77,606
  


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total intangible assets
  
 
13 years
  
  
$
4,993
  
  
$
57,194
  
  
$
55,838
  
  
$
118,025
  


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

The goodwill associated with these acquisitions is not deductible for tax purposes. Included within the consolidated
statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 are revenues of $6,087 and an operating loss of $2,259, associated with these acquisitions. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company incurred transaction costs related
to these acquisitions of $1,070 included within “Selling, general and administrative” expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. In accordance with ASC 
  82 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

805, the allocation of the purchase price for SA, CP and 3E was revised during the measurement period. Refer to Note 9 for further discussion. 
2009 Acquisitions  On October 30, 2009, the Company acquired the net assets of Enabl-u, a privately owned provider of data management, training and communication solutions to companies with regional, national or global
work forces, for a net cash purchase price of $2,502 and the Company funded $136 of indemnity escrows and $100 of contingency escrows. The Company believes this acquisition will enhance the Company’s ability to provide solutions for customers
to measure loss prevention and improve asset management through the use of software and software services.  On July 24,
2009, the Company acquired the net assets of TierMed, a privately owned provider of Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set (“HEDIS”) solutions to healthcare organizations that have HEDIS or quality-reporting needs, for a net
cash purchase price of $7,230 and the Company funded $400 of indemnity escrows. The Company believes this acquisition will enhance the Company’s ability to provide solutions for customers to measure and improve healthcare quality and financial
performance through the use of software and software services.  On January 14, 2009, the Company acquired 100% of the
stock of D2, a privately owned provider of data mining, decision support, clinical quality analysis, and risk analysis tools for the healthcare industry, for a net cash purchase price of $51,618 and the Company funded $7,000 of indemnity escrows.
The Company believes this acquisition will enhance the Company’s position in the healthcare analytics and predictive modeling market by providing new market, cross-sell, and diversification opportunities for the Company’s expanding
healthcare solutions.  The total net cash purchase price of these three acquisitions was $61,350 and the Company funded $7,636
of escrows, of which $7,000 and $236 was included in “Other current assets” and “Other assets,” respectively. The preliminary allocation of purchase price, including working capital adjustments, resulted in accounts receivable of
$4,435, current assets of $573, fixed assets of $2,387, finite lived intangible assets with no residual value of $25,265, goodwill of $49,776, current liabilities of $4,879, other liabilities of $10,479, and deferred tax liabilities of $5,728. Other
liabilities consist of a $7,236 payment due to the sellers of D2 and Enabl-u at the conclusion of the escrows funded at close, assuming no pre-acquisition indemnity claims arise subsequent to the acquisition date, and $3,344 of contingent
consideration, which was estimated as of the acquisition date by averaging the probability of achieving each of the specific predetermined EBITDA and revenue targets, which could result in a payment ranging from $0 to $65,700 for the fiscal year
ending December 31, 2011 for D2. Under ASC 805, contingent consideration is recognized at fair value at the end of each reporting period. Subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration were recorded in the statement of
operations. Refer to the “Acquisition Related Liabilities” section below. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company incurred transaction costs related to these acquisitions of $799 included within “Selling, general and
administrative” expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. 
  83 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The initial amounts assigned in the period of acquisition to intangible assets by type
for 2009 acquisitions are summarized in the table below:   












 
  
Weighted AverageUseful Life
 
  
Total
 

 Technology-based
  
 
12 years
  
  
$
9,282
  

 Marketing-related
  
 
5 years
  
  
 
4,698
  

 Customer-related
  
 
8 years
  
  
 
11,285
  


  



  
  
  
 

 Total intangible assets
  
 
9 years
  
  
$
25,265
  


  



  
  
  
 

The value of goodwill associated with these acquisitions is currently included within the Decision Analytics segment.
The goodwill for the D2 acquisition is not deductible for tax purposes. The goodwill for the TierMed and Enabl-u acquisitions is deductible for tax purposes over fifteen years. Included within the consolidated statements of operations for the year
ended December 31, 2009 are revenues of $18,681 and an operating loss of $3,817, associated with these acquisitions. In accordance with ASC 805, the allocation of the purchase price for D2, TierMed and Enabl-u was revised during the measurement
period. Refer to Note 9 for further discussion.  Acquisition Escrows 
Pursuant to the related acquisition
agreements, the Company has funded various escrow accounts to satisfy pre-acquisition indemnity and tax claims arising subsequent to the acquisition dates. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the current portion of the escrows amounted to $36,967
and $6,167, respectively, and has been included in “Other current assets” in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the noncurrent portion of the escrows amounted to $4,508 and $15,953,
respectively, and has been included in “Other assets” in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The Company’s escrows funded under the transition provisions of FASB No. 141 (Revised), Business Combinations
(“FAS No. 141(R)”), totaled $6,035 and will be recorded against goodwill upon settlement. The Company’s escrows funded under ASC 805 totaled $35,440 and are offset against accounts payable and accrued liabilities. 
During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company released $135 of indemnity escrows to sellers related to
the Enabl-u acquisition. In accordance with ASC 805, the escrows related to the Enabl-u acquisition was recorded within goodwill at the time of acquisition, as that escrow was expected to be released to the sellers. The release of $135 related to
Enabl-u was recorded as a reduction of other current assets and a corresponding reduction in accounts payable and accrued liabilities.  During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company released $13,931 of escrows to sellers primarily related to the D2 and Xactware, Inc. (“Xactware”) acquisitions. In accordance with ASC
805, the escrows related to the D2 acquisition was recorded within goodwill at the time of acquisition, as that escrow was expected to be released to the sellers. The release of $6,935 related to D2 was recorded as a reduction of other current
assets and a corresponding reduction in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Xactware was acquired in 2006 and therefore, accounted for under the transition provisions of FAS No. 141(R). As such, the release of $4,996 related to Xactware
was recorded as a reduction of other current assets and a corresponding increase in goodwill.  Acquisition Related
Liabilities  Based on the results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 for AER, the Company recorded
acquisition related liabilities and goodwill of $250, which will be paid in 2012. As of December 31, 2010, the 
  84 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

Company recorded acquisition related liabilities and goodwill of $3,500, which was paid in April 2011. AER was acquired in 2008 and therefore, accounted for under the transition provisions of FAS
No.141(R).  During the second quarter of 2011, the Company reevaluated the probability of D2 and SA achieving the specific
predetermined EBITDA and revenue earnout targets for exceptional performance in fiscal year 2011 and reversed its contingent consideration related to these acquisitions. These reversals resulted in a reduction of $3,364 to contingent consideration
and a decrease of $3,364 to “Acquisition related liabilities adjustment” in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011. The sellers of D2 and SA will not receive any acquisition
contingent payments.  During the third quarter of 2010, the Company reevaluated the probability of TierMed achieving the
specific predetermined EBITDA and revenue targets and reversed its contingent consideration related to this acquisition. This revaluation resulted in a reduction of $544 to contingent consideration and an increase of $544 to “Acquisition
related liabilities adjustment” in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations during the year ended December 31, 2010. The sellers of TierMed will not receive any acquisition contingent payments. 
11.    Income Taxes: 
The components of the provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31 are as follows: 
 
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Current:
  



  



  




 Federal and foreign
  
$
133,043
  
  
$
126,075
  
  
$
98,886
  

 State and local
  
 
21,343
  
  
 
24,651
  
  
 
26,603
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
154,386
  
  
$
150,726
  
  
$
125,489
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Deferred:
  



  



  




 Federal and foreign
  
$
14,896
  
  
$
7,933
  
  
$
11,603
  

 State and local
  
 
8,381
  
  
 
5,439
  
  
 
899
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
23,277
  
  
$
13,372
  
  
$
12,502
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Provision for income taxes
  
$
177,663
  
  
$
164,098
  
  
$
137,991
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

The reconciliation between the Company’s effective tax rate on income from continuing operations and the statutory
tax rate is as follows for the years ended December 31:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Federal statutory rate
  
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 

 State and local taxes, net of federal tax benefit
  
 
3.8
% 
 
 
4.8
% 
 
 
6.9
% 

 Non-deductible KSOP expenses
  
 
0.9
% 
 
 
1.0
% 
 
 
9.8
% 

 Other
  
 
(1.1
)% 
 
 
(0.4
)% 
 
 
0.5
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effective tax rate for continuing operations
  
 
38.6
% 
 
 
40.4
% 
 
 
52.2
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2011 compared to 2010 was due to favorable settlements and resolution of
uncertain tax positions, as well as a decrease in deferred taxes and a corresponding increase in tax expense in 2010 of $2,362 resulting from reduced tax benefits of Medicare subsidies associated with legislative changes in 2010. 
  85 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The tax effects of significant items comprising the Company’s deferred tax assets
as of December 31 are as follows:   












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Deferred income tax asset:
  



 




 Employee wages, pensions and other benefits
  
$
82,724
  
 
$
75,064
  

 Deferred revenue adjustment
  
 
2,863
  
 
 
3,505
  

 Deferred rent adjustment
  
 
5,124
  
 
 
5,324
  

 Net operating loss carryover
  
 
15,133
  
 
 
2,573
  

 State tax adjustments
  
 
4,803
  
 
 
7,722
  

 Capital and other unrealized losses
  
 
4,206
  
 
 
4,437
  

 Other
  
 
5,729
  
 
 
5,047
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
120,582
  
 
 
103,672
  

 Less valuation allowance
  
 
(1,615
) 
 
 
(1,485
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred income tax asset
  
 
118,967
  
 
 
102,187
  

 Deferred income tax liability:
  



 




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
(101,264
) 
 
 
(73,105
) 

 Other
  
 
(3,405
) 
 
 
(3,522
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred income tax liability
  
 
(104,669
) 
 
 
(76,627
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred income tax asset, net
  
$
14,298
  
 
$
25,560
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The deferred income tax asset and liability has been classified in “Deferred income taxes, net” in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, as follows:   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Current deferred income tax asset, net
  
$
3,818
  
  
$
3,681
  

 Non-current deferred income tax asset, net
  
 
10,480
  
  
 
21,879
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Deferred income tax asset, net
  
$
14,298
  
  
$
25,560
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

As a result of certain realization requirements of ASC 718, the table of net deferred tax
assets shown above does not include certain deferred tax assets that arose directly from tax deductions related to equity compensation in excess of compensation recognized for financial reporting. Equity will increase by $4,492 if and when such
deferred tax assets are ultimately realized. The Company uses tax law ordering for purposes of determining when excess tax benefits have been realized. 
In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was signed into law. The federal government currently
provides a subsidy on a tax free basis to companies that provide certain retiree prescription drug benefits (Medicare Part D Subsidy). As a result of a change in taxability of the federal subsidy which becomes effective January 1, 2013, the
Company recorded a non-cash income tax charge and a decrease to deferred tax assets of $2,362 in 2010.  As of
December 31, 2011, a deferred tax asset in the amount of $1,324 was recorded in connection with the acquisition of Bloodhound. As of December 31, 2010 deferred tax liabilities in the amount of $810, $20,257 and $15,470 were recorded in
connection with the acquisitions of SA, CP and 3E, respectively. 
  86 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The ultimate realization of the deferred tax assets depends on the Company’s
ability to generate sufficient taxable income in the future. The Company has provided for a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets associated with the capital loss carryforwards expiring in 2012 and 2014 and the net operating losses of
certain foreign subsidiaries. The Company’s net operating loss carryforwards expire as follows:   








 Years
  
Amount
 

 2012-2019
  
$
11,374
  

 2020-2024
  
 
17,168
  

 2025-2031
  
 
58,530
  


  
  
  
 


  
$
87,072
  


  
  
  
 

A valuation allowance has been established for the capital loss carryforwards and foreign net operating losses based on
the Company’s evaluation of the likelihood of utilizing these benefits before they expire. The Company has determined that the generation of future taxable income from certain foreign subsidiaries to fully realize the deferred tax assets is
uncertain. Other than these items, the Company has determined, based on the Company’s historical operating performance, that taxable income of the Company will more likely than not be sufficient to fully realize the deferred tax assets.
 It is the practice of the Company to permanently reinvest the undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries in those
operations. As of December 31, 2011, the Company has not made a provision for U.S. or additional foreign withholdings taxes on approximately $5,980 of the unremitted earnings. The Company does not rely on these unremitted earnings as a source
of funds for its domestic business as it expects to have sufficient cash flow in the U.S. to fund its U.S. operational and strategic needs. Consequently, the Company has not provided for U.S. federal or state income taxes or associated withholding
taxes on these undistributed foreign earnings. 
The Company follows ASC 740-10, which prescribes a comprehensive model for the
financial statement recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in income tax returns. For each tax position, the Company must determine whether it is more likely than not that the
position will be sustained upon examination based on the technical merits of the position, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation. A tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold is then measured to
determine the amount of benefit to recognize within the financial statements. No benefits may be recognized for tax positions that do not meet the more likely than not threshold. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized
tax benefit is as follows: 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Unrecognized tax benefit at January 1
  
$
23,080
  
 
$
27,322
  
 
$
31,659
  

 Gross increase in tax positions in prior period
  
 
3,684
  
 
 
492
  
 
 
1,317
  

 Gross decrease in tax positions in prior period
  
 
(1,753
) 
 
 
(2,547
) 
 
 
(3,508
) 

 Gross increase in tax positions in current period
  
 
281
  
 
 
1,773
  
 
 
2,052
  

 Gross increase in tax positions from stock acquisitions
  
 
97
  
 
 
392
  
 
 
—
  

 Gross decrease in tax positions from stock acquisitions
  
 
(20
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Settlements
  
 
(1,477
) 
 
 
(536
) 
 
 
(2,143
) 

 Lapse of statute of limitations
  
 
(6,015
) 
 
 
(3,816
) 
 
 
(2,055
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrecognized tax benefit at December 31
  
$
17,877
  
 
$
23,080
  
 
$
27,322
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  87 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
Of the total unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, $9,939,
$14,770 and $15,644, respectively, represent the amounts that, if recognized, would have a favorable effect on the Company’s effective tax rate in any future periods.  The total gross amount of accrued interest and penalties at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $4,690, $7,753 and $7,384, respectively. The Company’s practice is to recognize interest and
penalties associated with income taxes as a component of “Provision for income taxes” in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.  The Company does not expect a significant increase in unrecognized benefits related to federal, foreign, or state tax exposures within the coming year. In addition, the Company believes that it is
reasonably possible that approximately $6,310 of its currently remaining unrecognized tax positions, each of which is individually insignificant, may be recognized by the end of 2012 as a result of a combination of audit settlements and lapses of
statute of limitations, net of additional uncertain tax positions.  The Company is subject to tax in the U.S. and in various
state and foreign jurisdictions. The Company joined by its domestic subsidiaries, files a consolidated income tax return for the Federal income tax purposes. With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and local or
non-U.S. income tax examinations by tax authorities for tax years before 2008. In Massachusetts, the Company is being audited for the years 2006 through 2008 with a statute extension to July 31, 2012. In New York, the Company is being audited
for the years 2007 through 2009 with a statute extension to September 15, 2012. The Internal Revenue Service completed an audit for the 2008 period and has commenced an audit for the 2009 period. The Company does not expect that the results of
these examinations will have a material effect on its financial position or results of operations. 
12.    Composition of Certain Financial Statement Captions: 
The following table presents the components of “Other current assets,” “Accounts payable and accrued
liabilities” and “Other liabilities” as of December 31:   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Other current assets:
  



  




 Acquisition related escrows
  
$
36,967
  
  
$
6,167
  

 Other current assets
  
 
4,281
  
  
 
899
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total other current assets
  
$
41,248
  
  
$
7,066
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities:
  



  




 Accrued salaries, benefits and other related costs
  
$
66,354
  
  
$
60,013
  

 Escrow liabilities
  
 
30,899
  
  
 
135
  

 Other current liabilities
  
 
65,739
  
  
 
51,847
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total accounts payable and accrued liabilities
  
$
162,992
  
  
$
111,995
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Other liabilities:
  



  




 Unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalty
  
$
22,567
  
  
$
30,833
  

 Deferred rent
  
 
13,575
  
  
 
14,292
  

 Other liabilities
  
 
25,724
  
  
 
45,088
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total other liabilities
  
$
61,866
  
  
$
90,213
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  88 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
13.    Debt: 
The following table presents short-term and long-term debt by issuance: 
 




















 
 
IssuanceDate
 
 
MaturityDate
 
 
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 

 Short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt:
 



 



 



 




 Syndicated revolving credit facility
 
 
Various
  
 
 
Various
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
310,000
  

 Prudential senior notes:
 



 



 



 




 4.60% Series E senior notes
 
 
6/14/2005
  
 
 
6/13/2011
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
50,000
  

 6.00% Series F senior notes
 
 
8/8/2006
  
 
 
8/8/2011
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
25,000
  

 Principal senior notes:
 



 



 



 




 6.03% Series A senior notes
 
 
8/8/2006
  
 
 
8/8/2011
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
50,000
  

 Capital lease obligations
 
 
Various
  
 
 
Various
  
 
 
5,267
  
 
 
2,429
  

 Other
 
 
Various
  
 
 
Various
  
 
 
287
  
 
 
288
  


 



 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt
 



 



 
$
5,554
  
 
$
437,717
  

 Long-term debt:
 



 



 



 




 5.80% senior notes, less unamortized discount of $967
 
 
4/6/2011
  
 
 
5/1/2021
  
 
$
449,033
  
 
$
 —
  

 4.875% senior notes, less unamortized discount of $2,376
 
 
12/8/2011
  
 
 
1/15/2019
  
 
 
247,624
  
 
 
—
  

 Prudential senior notes:
 



 



 



 




 6.13% Series G senior notes
 
 
8/8/2006
  
 
 
8/8/2013
  
 
 
75,000
  
 
 
75,000
  

 5.84% Series H senior notes
 
 
10/26/2007
  
 
 
10/26/2013
  
 
 
17,500
  
 
 
17,500
  

 5.84% Series H senior notes
 
 
10/26/2007
  
 
 
10/26/2015
  
 
 
17,500
  
 
 
17,500
  

 6.28% Series I senior notes
 
 
4/29/2008
  
 
 
4/29/2013
  
 
 
15,000
  
 
 
15,000
  

 6.28% Series I senior notes
 
 
4/29/2008
  
 
 
4/29/2015
  
 
 
85,000
  
 
 
85,000
  

 6.85% Series J senior notes
 
 
6/15/2009
  
 
 
6/15/2016
  
 
 
50,000
  
 
 
50,000
  

 Principal senior notes:
 



 



 



 




 6.16% Series B senior notes
 
 
8/8/2006
  
 
 
8/8/2013
  
 
 
25,000
  
 
 
25,000
  

 New York Life senior notes:
 



 



 



 




 5.87% Series A senior notes
 
 
10/26/2007
  
 
 
10/26/2013
  
 
 
17,500
  
 
 
17,500
  

 5.87% Series A senior notes
 
 
10/26/2007
  
 
 
10/26/2015
  
 
 
17,500
  
 
 
17,500
  

 6.35% Series B senior notes
 
 
4/29/2008
  
 
 
4/29/2015
  
 
 
50,000
  
 
 
50,000
  

 Aviva Investors North America:
 



 



 



 




 6.46% Series A senior notes
 
 
4/27/2009
  
 
 
4/27/2013
  
 
 
30,000
  
 
 
30,000
  

 Other obligations:
 



 



 



 




 Capital lease obligations
 
 
Various
  
 
 
Various
  
 
 
1,506
  
 
 
1,628
  

 Other
 
 
Various
  
 
 
Various
  
 
 
2,169
  
 
 
198
  


 



 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Long-term debt
 



 



 
$
1,100,332
  
 
$
401,826
  


 



 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total debt
 



 



 
$
1,105,886
  
 
$
839,543
  


 



 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

Accrued interest associated with the Company’s outstanding debt obligations was $8,617 and $4,583 as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and included in “Accounts payable and accrued liabilities” within the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Consolidated interest expense associated with the Company’s

  89 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

outstanding debt obligations was $51,915, $33,045 and $35,021 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
Senior Notes  On December 8, 2011, the Company completed a second issuance of senior notes in the aggregate principal amount of $250,000. These senior notes are due on January 15, 2019 and accrue interest at
a rate of 4.875% . The Company received net proceeds of $246,040 after deducting original issue discount, underwriting discount, and commissions of $3,960. Interest is payable semi-annually on January 15th and July 15th of each year,
beginning on July 15, 2012. Interest accrues from December 8, 2011.  On April 6, 2011, the Company completed an
issuance of senior notes in the aggregate principal amount of $450,000. These senior notes are due on May 1, 2021 and accrue interest at a rate of 5.80% . The Company received net proceeds of $446,031 after deducting original issue discount,
underwriting discount, and commissions of $3,969. Interest is payable semi-annually on May 1st and November 1st of each year, beginning on November 1, 2011. Interest accrues from April 6, 2011. 
Both senior notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on an unsecured and unsubordinated basis by ISO, our
principal operating subsidiary, Verisk and certain subsidiaries that guarantee our syndicated revolving credit facility or any amendment, refinancing or replacement thereof (See Note 21. Condensed Consolidated Financial Information for Guarantor
Subsidiaries and Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries for further information). The debt issuance costs are amortized from the date of issuance to the maturity date. The senior notes rank equally with all of the Company’s existing and future senior
unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. However, the senior notes are subordinated to the indebtedness of any of the subsidiaries that do not guarantee the senior notes and are effectively subordinated to any future secured indebtedness to the
extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. The guarantees of the senior notes rank equally and ratably in right of payment with all other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the guarantors, and senior
in right of payment to all future subordinated indebtedness of the guarantors. Because the guarantees of the senior notes are not secured, such guarantees are effectively subordinated to any existing and future secured indebtedness of the applicable
guarantor to the extent of the value of the collateral securing that indebtedness. Upon a change of control event, the holders of the senior notes have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part of such holder’s senior notes
at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the principal amount of the senior notes plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of repurchase. The indenture governing the senior notes restricts the Company’s ability and its
subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things, create certain liens, enter into sale/leaseback transactions and consolidate with, sell, lease, convey or otherwise transfer all or substantially all of our assets, or merge with or into, any other
person or entity.  Prudential Master Shelf Agreement 
The Company has a $450,000 uncommitted master shelf agreement with Prudential Capital Group that expires on August 30, 2013.
Prudential Shelf Notes may be issued and sold until the earliest of (i) August 30, 2013; (ii) the thirtieth day after receiving written notice to terminate; or (iii) the last closing day after which there is no remaining facility
available. Interest is payable at a fixed rate or variable floating rate on a quarterly basis. Fixed rate Prudential Shelf Notes are subject to final maturities not to exceed ten years and, in the case of floating rate Prudential Shelf Notes, not to
exceed five years. The net proceeds from Prudential Shelf Notes were utilized to repurchase Class B common stock, to repay certain maturing notes and syndicated revolving credit facility and to fund acquisitions. 
  90 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, $260,000 and $335,000 was outstanding under this
agreement, respectively. Prudential Shelf Notes contain covenants that, among other things, require the Company to maintain certain leverage and interest coverage ratios.  Principal Master Shelf Agreement  The Company had an uncommitted master
shelf agreement with Principal Global Investors, LLC that expired on July 10, 2009. The Company did not extend this agreement. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, $25,000 and $75,000 was outstanding under this agreement, respectively.
Interest is payable on a quarterly basis. Principal Shelf Notes contain covenants that, among other things, require the Company to maintain certain leverage and fixed charge ratios. 
New York Life Master Shelf Agreement  The Company has a $115,000 uncommitted master shelf agreement with New York Life that expires on March 16, 2013. New York Life Shelf Notes may be issued and sold until the earliest of
(i) March 16, 2013; (ii) the thirtieth day after receiving written notice to terminate; or (iii) the last closing day after which there is no remaining facility available. Interest is payable at a fixed rate or variable floating
rate on a quarterly basis. Fixed rate New York Life Shelf Notes are subject to final maturities not to exceed ten years and, in the case of floating rate New York Life Shelf Notes, not to exceed five years. New York Life Shelf Notes are uncommitted
with fees in the amount equal to 0.125% of the aggregate principal amount for subsequent issuances. The net proceeds from New York Life Shelf Notes issued were utilized to fund acquisitions. 
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, $85,000 was outstanding under this agreement. New York Life Shelf Notes contain covenants that,
among other things, require the Company to maintain certain leverage and fixed charge ratios.  Aviva Master Shelf Agreement
 The Company had an uncommitted master shelf agreement with Aviva Investors North America, Inc (“Aviva”) that
expired on December 10, 2011. The Company did not extend this agreement. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, $30,000 was outstanding under this agreement. Interest is payable quarterly at a fixed rate of 6.46% . The net proceeds from Aviva
Shelf Notes issued were utilized to fund acquisitions. Aviva Shelf Notes contains certain covenants that, among other things, require the Company to maintain certain leverage and fixed charge ratios. 
Syndicated Revolving Credit Facility  As of December 31, 2011, the Company has a $725,000 syndicated revolving credit facility with Bank of America N.A., JPMorgan Chase N.A., Morgan Stanley, N.A., Wells Fargo Bank N.A., Sovereign Bank,
RBS Citizens, N.A., Sun Trust Bank, The Northern Trust Company, and TD Bank. This committed senior unsecured facility expires in October 2016. Interest is payable at maturity at a rate of LIBOR plus 1.250% to 1.875%, depending upon the result of
certain ratios defined in the amended credit agreement. The facility contains certain customary financial and other covenants that, among other things, require the Company to maintain certain leverage and interest coverage ratios. Verisk and ISO are
co-borrowers under the amended credit facility.  On March 16, 2011, The Northern Trust Company joined the syndicated
revolving credit facility to increase the capacity from $575,000 to $600,000. On March 28, 2011, the Company entered into amendments to its syndicated revolving credit facility and its master shelf agreements to, among other things permit the
issuance 
  91 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

of the senior notes and guarantees noted above. On October 25, 2011, the Company amended and restated the facility to increase the capacity from $600,000 to $700,000. On November 14,
2011, TD Bank joined the syndicated revolving credit facility to increase the capacity from $700,000 to $725,000.  As of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had $0 and $310,000 outstanding under this agreement, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, interest on the outstanding borrowings under the syndicated revolving credit facility is payable at a
weighted average interest rate of 2.10% . The Company amortizes all one-time fees and third party costs associated with the execution and amendment of this facility though the maturity date. 
Debt Maturities  The following table reflects the Company’s debt maturities:   








 Year
  
Amount
 

 2012
  
$
5,554
  

 2013
  
$
183,231
  

 2014
  
$
370
  

 2015
  
$
170,074
  

 2016
  
$
50,000
  

 2017 and thereafter
  
$
696,657
  

14.    Redeemable Common Stock: 
Prior to the corporate reorganization on
October 6, 2009, the Company followed ASC 480-10-S99-1, Presentation in Financial Statements of Preferred Redeemable Stock (“ASC 480-10-S99-1”). ASC 480-10-S99-1 required the Company to record ISO Class A common stock and
vested stock options at full redemption value at each balance sheet date as the redemption of these securities was not solely within the control of the Company. Subsequent changes to the redemption value of the securities were charged first to
retained earnings; once retained earnings was depleted, then to additional paid-in-capital, and if additional paid-in-capital was also depleted, then to accumulated deficit. Redemption value for the ISO Class A stock was determined quarterly on
or about the final day of the quarter for purposes of the KSOP. Prior to September 30, 2009, the valuation methodology was based on a variety of qualitative and quantitative factors including the nature of the business and history of the
enterprise, the economic outlook in general and the condition of the specific industries in which the Company operates, the financial condition of the business, the Company’s ability to generate free cash flow, and goodwill or other intangible
asset value. This determination of the fair market value employed both a comparable public company analysis, which examines the valuation multiples of companies deemed comparable, in whole or in part, to the Company, and a discounted cash flow
analysis that determined a present value of the projected future cash flows of the business. The Company regularly assessed the underlying assumptions used in the valuation methodologies, as required by the terms of the KSOP and the Insurance
Services Office, Inc. 1996 Incentive Plan (the “Option Plan”). The fourth quarter 2008 valuation was finalized on December 31, 2008, which resulted in a fair value per share of $15.56. The fair value calculated for the second quarter
2009 was $17.78 per share and was used for all ISO Class A stock transactions for the three months ended September 30, 2009. At September 30, 2009, the Company’s fair value per share used was determined based on the subsequent
observable IPO price of $22.00 on October 7, 2009. The use of the IPO price rather than the valuation methodology described above was based on the short period of time between September 30, 2009 and the IPO date. 
In connection with the corporate reorganization on October 6, 2009, the Company is no longer obligated to redeem
ISO Class A shares and is therefore no longer required to record the ISO Class A stock and vested 
  92 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

stock options at redemption value under ASC 480-10-S99-1. The redemption value of the ISO Class A redeemable common stock and vested options at intrinsic value at October 6, 2009
totaled $1,064,896, which includes $299,983 of aggregate intrinsic value of outstanding unexercised vested stock options. The reversal of the redeemable common stock balance was first applied against accumulated deficit; once the accumulated deficit
was depleted, then to additional paid-in-capital up to the amount equal to the additional paid-in-capital of the Company as if ASC 480-10-S99-1 was never required to be adopted. Any remaining balance was credited to retained earnings. The reversal
of the redeemable common stock of $1,064,896 on October 6, 2009 resulted in the elimination of accumulated deficit of $440,584, an increase of $30 to Class A common stock at par value, an increase of $624,282 to additional paid-in-capital,
and a reclassification of the ISO Class A unearned common stock KSOP shares balance of $1,305 to unearned KSOP contributions. See Note 16 for further discussion.  During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company redeemed 3,032,850 of ISO Class A shares at a weighted average price of $16.18 per share. Included in ISO Class A repurchased shares
were $805 for shares primarily utilized to satisfy minimum tax withholdings on options exercised during the year ended December 31, 2009.  Additional information regarding the changes in redeemable common stock prior to the corporate reorganization effective October 6, 2009 is provided in the table below. 
 
























 
  
ISO Class A Common Stock
 
 
TotalRedeemableCommonStock

 

 
  
SharesIssued
 
 
RedemptionValue
 
 
UnearnedKSOP
 
 
AdditionalPaid-in-Capital
 
 

 Balance, January 1, 2009
  
 
37,306,950
  
 
$
752,912
  
 
$
(3,373
) 
 
$
 —
  
 
$
749,539
  

 Redemption of ISO Class A common stock
  
 
(3,032,850
) 
 
 
(49,066
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(49,066
) 

 KSOP shares earned
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,068
  
 
 
73,272
  
 
 
75,340
  

 Stock based compensation
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
8,526
  
 
 
8,526
  

 Stock options exercised(including tax benefit of $1,723)
  
 
485,550
  
 
 
4,939
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,723
  
 
 
6,662
  

 Other stock transactions
  
 
9,100
  
 
 
162
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
162
  

 Increase in redemption value of ISO Class A common stock
  
 
—
  
 
 
355,949
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(83,521
) 
 
 
272,428
  

 Conversion of redeemable common stock upon corporate reorganization
  
 
(34,768,750
) 
 
 
(1,064,896
) 
 
 
1,305
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,063,591
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2009
  
 
—
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

15.    Stockholders’ Deficit: 
On November 18, 1996, the Company authorized 335,000,000 shares of ISO Class A redeemable common stock.
Effective with the corporate reorganization on October 6, 2009, the ISO Class A redeemable common stock and all Verisk Class B shares sold into the IPO were converted to Verisk Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis. In addition,
the Verisk Class A common stock authorized was increased to 1,200,000,000 shares. The Verisk Class A common shares have rights to any dividend declared by the board of directors, subject to any preferential or other rights of any
outstanding preferred stock, and voting rights to elect eight of the eleven members of the board of directors. The eleventh seat on the board of directors is held by the CEO of the Company. 
  93 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
On November 18, 1996, the Company authorized 1,000,000,000 ISO Class B shares and
issued 500,225,000 shares. On October 6, 2009, the Company completed a corporate reorganization whereby the ISO Class B common stock and treasury stock was converted to Verisk Class B common stock on a one-for-one-basis. All Verisk Class B
shares sold into the IPO were converted to Verisk Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis. In addition, the Verisk Class B common stock authorized was reduced to 800,000,000 shares, sub-divided into 400,000,000 shares of Class B-1 and
400,000,000 of Class B-2. Each share of Class B-1 common stock converted automatically, without any action by the stockholder, into one share of Verisk Class A common stock on April 6, 2011. Each share of Class B-2 common stock converted
automatically, without any action by the stockholder, into one share of Verisk Class A common stock on October 6, 2011. The Class B shares had the same rights as Verisk Class A shares with respect to dividends and economic ownership,
but had voting rights to elect three of the eleven directors. Upon the conversion of Verisk Class B common stock to Class A common stock, the Company’s common stock consisted only of Class A common stock. 
The Company repurchased 7,583,532 and 374,718 Class B-1 and Class B-2 shares, respectively, at an average price of $26.3644 during the
year ended December 31, 2010. These repurchases were separately authorized and did not affect the availability under the share repurchase program of the Company’s common stock (the “Repurchase Program”). The Company did not
repurchase any Class B shares during the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2011.  On October 6,
2009, the Company authorized 80,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.001 per shares, in connection with the reorganization. The preferred shares have preferential rights over the Verisk Class A, Class B-1 and Class B-2 common shares
with respect to dividends and net distribution upon liquidation. The Company did not issue any preferred shares from the reorganization date through December 31, 2011.  Share Repurchase Program  On April 29, 2010, the Company’s board
of directors authorized the Repurchase Program. Under the Repurchase Program, the Company may repurchase up to $600,000 of stock in the open market or as otherwise determined by the Company. On January 11, 2012, the Company announced an
additional $300,000 authorized by the board of directors of share repurchases under the Repurchase Program, thereby increasing the capacity to $900,000. The Company has no obligation to repurchase stock under this program and intends to use this
authorization as a means of offsetting dilution from the issuance of shares under the Verisk Analytics, Inc. 2009 Equity Incentive Plan (the “Incentive Plan”) and the Option Plan, while providing flexibility to repurchase additional shares
if warranted. This authorization has no expiration date and may be suspended or terminated at any time. Repurchased shares will be recorded as treasury stock and will be available for future issuance as part of the Repurchase Program. 
During the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, 11,326,624 and 7,111,202 shares of Verisk Class A common stock were
repurchased by the Company as part of this program at a weighted average price of $33.61 and $29.88 per share, respectively. The Company utilized cash from operations and the proceeds from its senior notes to fund these repurchases. As treasury
stock purchases are recorded based on trade date, the Company has included $1,200 and $2,266 in “Accounts payable and accrued liabilities” in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets for those purchases that have not settled as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company had $6,779 available to repurchase shares under the Repurchase Program as of December 31, 2011.  Treasury Stock  As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s treasury
stock consisted of 379,717,811 Class A common stock. The Company’s Class B-1 and Class B-2 treasury stock converted to Class A treasury stock on April 6, 2011 and October 6, 2011, respectively. Since July 1, 2011, the
Company reissued 3,716,165 shares of Class A 
  94 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

common stock, under the Incentive Plan and the Option Plan, from the treasury shares at a weighted average price of $4.30 per share. 
Earnings Per Share 
Basic earnings per common share is computed by dividing income available to common
stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. The computation of diluted EPS is similar to the computation of basic EPS except that the denominator is increased to include the number of additional common
shares that would have been outstanding, using the treasury stock method, if the dilutive potential common shares, including stock options and nonvested restricted stock, had been issued. 
The following is a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted EPS computations for
the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:   
















 
  
For the Years Ended
 

 
  
December 31,2011
 
  
December 31,2010
 
  
December 31,2009
 

 Numerator used in basic and diluted EPS:
  



  



  




 Net income
  
$
282,758
  
  
$
242,552
  
  
$
126,614
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Denominator:
  



  



  




 Weighted average number of common shares used in basic EPS
  
 
166,015,238
  
  
 
177,733,503
  
  
 
174,767,795
  

 Effect of dilutive shares:
  



  



  




 Potential Class A redeemable common stock issuable from stock options and stock awards
  
 
7,309,872
  
  
 
8,661,459
  
  
 
7,397,866
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Weighted average number of common shares and dilutive potential common shares used in diluted EPS
  
 
173,325,110
  
  
 
186,394,962
  
  
 
182,165,661
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Basic EPS per share
  
$
1.70
  
  
$
1.36
  
  
$
0.72
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted EPS per share
  
$
1.63
  
  
$
1.30
  
  
$
0.70
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

The potential shares of common stock that were excluded from diluted EPS were 1,506,440 at December 31, 2011,
2,095,140 at December 31, 2010 and 9,054,022 at December 31, 2009, because the effect of including those potential shares was anti-dilutive.  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Losses  The following is a summary of
accumulated other comprehensive losses:   












 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 

 Unrealized gains on investments, net of tax
  
$
269
  
 
$
725
  

 Unrealized foreign currency losses
  
 
(975
) 
 
 
(792
) 

 Pension and postretirement unfunded liability adjustment, net of tax
  
 
(77,581
) 
 
 
(55,736
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Accumulated other comprehensive losses
  
$
(78,287
) 
 
$
(55,803
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  95 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The before tax and after tax amounts for these categories, and the related tax
benefit/(expense) included in other comprehensive gain/(loss) are summarized below:     
















 
  
Before Tax
 
 
Tax Benefit/(Expense)
 
 
After Tax
 

 For the Year Ended December 31, 2011
  



 



 




 Unrealized holding loss on investments arising during the year
  
$
(924
) 
 
$
396
  
 
$
(528
) 

 Reclassification adjustment for amounts included in net income
  
 
117
  
 
 
(45
) 
 
 
72
  

 Unrealized foreign currency loss
  
 
(183
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(183
) 

 Pension and postretirement unfunded liability adjustment
  
 
(30,417
) 
 
 
8,572
  
 
 
(21,845
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other comprehensive loss
  
$
(31,407
) 
 
$
8,923
  
 
$
(22,484
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 For the Year Ended December 31, 2010
  



 



 




 Unrealized holding gain on investments arising during the year
  
$
340
  
 
$
(141
) 
 
$
199
  

 Unrealized foreign currency loss
  
 
(109
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(109
) 

 Pension and postretirement unfunded liability adjustment
  
 
(4,135
) 
 
 
1,870
  
 
 
(2,265
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other comprehensive loss
  
$
(3,904
) 
 
$
1,729
  
 
$
(2,175
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 For the Year Ended December 31, 2009
  



 



 




 Unrealized holding gain on investments arising during the year
  
$
563
  
 
$
(231
) 
 
$
332
  

 Reclassification adjustment for amounts included in net income
  
 
386
  
 
 
(161
) 
 
 
225
  

 Unrealized foreign currency gain
  
 
90
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
90
  

 Pension and postretirement unfunded liability adjustment
  
 
43,050
  
 
 
(14,891
) 
 
 
28,159
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other comprehensive income
  
$
44,089
  
 
$
(15,283
) 
 
$
28,806
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

16.    Compensation Plans: 
KSOP  The Company has established the KSOP for the benefit of eligible employees in the U.S. and Puerto Rico. The KSOP includes both an employee savings component and an employee stock ownership component. The
purpose of the combined plan is to enable the Company’s employees to participate in a tax-deferred savings arrangement under Internal Revenue Service Code Sections 401(a) and 401(k) (the “Code”), and to provide employee equity
participation in the Company through the employee stock ownership plan (“ESOP”) accounts.  Under the KSOP, eligible
employees may make pre-tax and after-tax cash contributions as a percentage of their compensation, subject to certain limitations under the applicable provisions of the Code. The maximum pre-tax contribution that can be made to the 401(k) account as
determined under the provisions of Code Section 401(g) is $17 for 2011, 2010 and 2009. Certain eligible participants (age 50 and older) may contribute an additional $6 on a pre-tax basis for 2011, 2010 and 2009. After-tax contributions are
limited to 10% of a participant’s compensation. The Company provides quarterly matching contributions in Class A common stock. The quarterly matching contributions are primarily equal to 75% of the first 6% of the participant’s
contribution.  The Company established the ESOP component as a funding vehicle for the KSOP. This leveraged ESOP acquired
57,190,000 shares of the Company’s Class A common stock at a cost of approximately $33,170 ($0.58 per share) in January 1997. The ESOP borrowed $33,170 from an unrelated third party to finance the purchase of the KSOP shares. The common
shares were pledged as collateral for its debt. The Company made annual cash contributions to the KSOP equal to the ESOP’s debt service. As the debt was repaid, shares were released from collateral and were allocated to active employees in
proportion to their annual salaries in relation to total 
  96 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

participant salaries. The Company accounts for its ESOP in accordance with ASC 718-40, Employee Stock Ownership Plans (“ASC 718-40”) and ASC 480-10, Distinguishing Liabilities
from Equity (“ASC 480-10”). As shares were committed to be released from collateral, the Company reported compensation expense at the then-current fair value of the shares, and the shares became outstanding for EPS computations.
 In 2004, the Company renegotiated the ESOP loan to require interest only payments for the third and fourth quarters of 2004.
In December 2004, the Company repaid the ESOP loan and issued a new loan agreement between the Company and the KSOP, thereby extending the allocation of the remaining unreleased shares as of July 1, 2004 through 2013. 
On October 6, 2009, the Company accelerated the release of 2,623,600 shares to the ESOP account. This resulted in a non-recurring
non-cash charge of $57,720 in October 2009, which was primarily non-deductible for tax purposes.  Effective with the IPO, the
KSOP trustee sold 5,000,000 shares of Verisk Class A common stock, of which 2,754,600 shares were released-unallocated shares and 2,245,400 were unreleased shares pledged as collateral against the intercompany ESOP loan. The sale of the
released-unallocated shares resulted in cash proceeds to the KSOP of $58,177. The sale of the unreleased shares resulted in cash proceeds to the KSOP of $47,423, all of which was pledged as collateral against the intercompany ESOP loan. The cash
proceeds received by the KSOP were used to repurchase shares diversified or distributed by KSOP participants subsequent to the IPO. All shares repurchased during this period were repurchased first from the cash proceeds from the sale of the
released-unallocated shares; once these proceeds were depleted and replaced with shares of Verisk Class A common stock, then all further share diversifications or distributions were repurchased from the proceeds received from the sale of the
unreleased shares. In accordance with ASC 718-40, the balance of the Class A common stock unearned KSOP shares was reclassified from redeemable common stock to “Unearned KSOP contributions”, a contra-equity account within the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets. As the intercompany ESOP loan is repaid, a percentage of the ESOP loan collateral will be released and allocated to active participants in proportion to their annual salaries in relation to total participant
salaries. As of December 31, 2011, the intercompany ESOP loan collateral consisted of cash equivalents totaling $481 and 892,228 shares of Verisk Class A common stock valued at $35,805. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had
17,693,820 and 44,601 allocated and released-unallocated ESOP shares, respectively.  In 2005, the Company established the ISO
Profit Sharing Plan (the “Profit Sharing Plan”), a defined contribution plan, to replace the qualified pension plan for all eligible employees hired on or after March 1, 2005. The Profit Sharing Plan is a component of the KSOP.
Eligible employees will participate in the Profit Sharing Plan if they complete 1,000 hours of service each plan year and are employed on December 31 of that year. The Company will make an annual contribution to the Profit Sharing Plan based on
the Company’s performance. Participants vest once they have completed four years and 1,000 hours of service. For all periods presented, the profit sharing contribution was funded using Class A common stock. 
Prior to the IPO, the fair value of the Class A shares was determined quarterly as determined for purposes of the KSOP. At
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the fair value was $40.13, $34.08 and $30.28 per share, respectively. KSOP compensation expense for 2011, 2010 and 2009 was approximately $12,615, $11,573 and $76,065, respectively. 
Equity Compensation Plans  All of the Company’s outstanding stock options are covered under the Incentive Plan or the Option Plan. Awards under the Incentive Plan may include one or more of the following types: (i) stock
options (both 
  97 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

nonqualified and incentive stock options), (ii) stock appreciation rights, (iii) restricted stock, (iv) restricted stock units, (v) performance awards, (vi) other
share-based awards, and (vii) cash. Employees, directors and consultants are eligible for awards under the Incentive Plan. Cash received from stock option exercises for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $43,345, $35,482
and $7,709, respectively. On July 1, 2011, the Company granted 34,011 nonqualified stock options that were immediately vested, 125,500 nonqualified stock options with a one-year service vesting period and 2,506 shares of Class A common
stock, to the directors of the Company. The stock options have an exercise price equal to the closing price of the Company’s Class A common stock on the grant date and a ten-year contractual term. 
In 2011, the Company granted 1,415,194 nonqualified stock options to key employees. The nonqualified stock options have an exercise price
equal to the closing price of the Company’s Class A common stock on the grant date, with a ten-year contractual term and a service vesting period of four years. In addition, the Company granted 150,187 shares of restricted stock to key
employees. The restricted stock is valued at the closing price of the Company’s Class A common stock on the date of grant and has a service vesting period of four years. The Company recognizes the expense of the restricted stock ratably
over the periods in which the restrictions lapse. The restricted stock is not assignable or transferrable until it becomes vested. As of December 31, 2011, there were 6,955,761 shares of Class A common stock reserved and available for
future issuance.  The fair value of the stock options granted during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
were estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option valuation model that uses the weighted-average assumptions noted in the following table.   
 
















  
  
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 
 
December 31,2009
 

 Option pricing model
  
 
Black-Scholes
  
 
 
Black-Scholes
  
 
 
Black-Scholes
  

 Expected volatility
  
 
30.44
% 
 
 
31.08
% 
 
 
31.81
% 

 Risk-free interest rate
  
 
2.21
% 
 
 
2.39
% 
 
 
2.16
% 

 Expected term in years
  
 
5.1
  
 
 
4.8
  
 
 
5.5
  

 Dividend yield
  
 
0.00
% 
 
 
0.00
% 
 
 
0.51
% 

 Weighted average grant date fair value per stock option
  
$
10.42
  
 
$
8.73
  
 
$
5.96
  

The expected term for a majority of the awards granted was estimated based on studies of historical experience and
projected exercise behavior. However, for certain awards granted, for which no historical exercise pattern exists, the expected term was estimated using the simplified method. The risk-free interest rate is based on the yield of U.S. Treasury zero
coupon securities with a maturity equal to the expected term of the equity award. The volatility factor was based on the average volatility of the Company’s peers, calculated using historical daily closing prices over the most recent period is
commensurate with the expected term of the stock option award. The expected dividend yield was based on the Company’s expected annual dividend rate on the date of grant. 
  98 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
Exercise prices for options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2011 ranged
from $2.16 to $34.91 as outlined in the following table:     




























  
  
Options Outstanding
 
  
Options Exercisable
 

 Range of
Exercise Prices
  
WeightedAverageRemainingContractual Life
 
  
StockOptionsOutstanding
 
  
WeightedAverageExercise Price
 
  
WeightedAverageRemainingContractual Life
 
  
StockOptionsExercisable
 
  
WeightedAverageExercisePrice
 

 $  2.16 to $  2.96
  
 
1.0
  
  
 
486,850
  
  
$
2.68
  
  
 
1.0
  
  
 
486,850
  
  
$
2.68
  

 $  2.97 to $  4.80
  
 
1.7
  
  
 
1,822,858
  
  
$
3.97
  
  
 
1.7
  
  
 
1,822,858
  
  
$
3.97
  

 $  4.81 to $  8.90
  
 
3.4
  
  
 
3,597,350
  
  
$
8.51
  
  
 
3.4
  
  
 
3,597,350
  
  
$
8.51
  

 $  8.91 to $15.10
  
 
4.8
  
  
 
1,925,670
  
  
$
13.55
  
  
 
4.8
  
  
 
1,925,670
  
  
$
13.55
  

 $15.11 to $17.84
  
 
6.8
  
  
 
4,912,134
  
  
$
16.67
  
  
 
6.7
  
  
 
2,876,009
  
  
$
16.84
  

 $17.85 to $22.00
  
 
7.8
  
  
 
2,626,085
  
  
$
22.00
  
  
 
7.8
  
  
 
804,879
  
  
$
22.00
  

 $22.01 to $34.91
  
 
8.7
  
  
 
3,525,458
  
  
$
30.60
  
  
 
8.4
  
  
 
639,695
  
  
$
29.17
  


  



  
  
  
 
  



  



  
  
  
 
  





  



  
 
18,896,405
  
  



  



  
 
12,153,311
  
  





  



  
  
  
 
  



  



  
  
  
 
  




A summary of options outstanding under the Incentive Plan and the Option Plan as of December 31, 2011 and changes
during the three years then ended is presented below:     
















  
  
Numberof Options
 
 
WeightedAverageExercise Price
 
  
AggregateIntrinsicValue
 

 Outstanding at January 1, 2009
  
 
23,157,250
  
 
$
7.79
  
  
$
179,981
  


  



 



  
  
  
 

 Granted
  
 
6,451,521
  
 
$
18.80
  
  




 Exercised
  
 
(2,583,250
) 
 
$
3.89
  
  
$
44,569
  


  



 



  
  
  
 

 Cancelled or expired
  
 
(264,300
) 
 
$
15.79
  
  





  
  
  
 
 



  




 Outstanding at December 31, 2009
  
 
26,761,221
  
 
$
10.74
  
  
$
522,914
  


  



 



  
  
  
 

 Granted
  
 
2,186,416
  
 
$
28.36
  
  




 Exercised
  
 
(5,579,135
) 
 
$
6.36
  
  
$
154,653
  


  



 



  
  
  
 

 Cancelled or expired
  
 
(310,645
) 
 
$
19.77
  
  





  
  
  
 
 



  




 Outstanding at December 31, 2010
  
 
23,057,857
  
 
$
13.35
  
  
$
478,014
  


  



 



  
  
  
 

 Granted
  
 
1,574,705
  
 
$
33.46
  
  




 Exercised
  
 
(5,543,866
) 
 
$
7.82
  
  
$
149,613
  


  



 



  
  
  
 

 Cancelled or expired
  
 
(192,291
) 
 
$
22.58
  
  





  
  
  
 
 



  




 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
  
 
18,896,405
  
 
$
16.55
  
  
$
445,510
  


  
  
  
 
 



  
  
  
 

 Options exercisable at December 31, 2011
  
 
12,153,311
  
 
$
12.35
  
  
$
337,647
  


  
  
  
 
 



  
  
  
 

 Options exercisable at December 31, 2010
  
 
14,820,447
  
 
$
9.22
  
  
$
368,466
  


  
  
  
 
 



  
  
  
 

  99 


Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
A summary of the status of the Company’s nonvested options as of December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009 and changes during the three years then ended is presented below:     












 
  
Numberof Options
 
 
WeightedAverageGrant-DateFair Value
 

 Nonvested balance at January 1, 2009
  
 
6,707,550
  
 
$
4.41
  

 Granted
  
 
6,451,521
  
 
$
5.96
  

 Vested
  
 
(3,023,775
) 
 
$
3.28
  

 Cancelled or expired
  
 
(264,300
) 
 
$
4.06
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Nonvested balance at December 31, 2009
  
 
9,870,996
  
 
$
5.27
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Granted
  
 
2,186,416
  
 
$
8.73
  

 Vested
  
 
(3,509,357
) 
 
$
5.04
  

 Cancelled or expired
  
 
(310,645
) 
 
$
5.84
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Nonvested balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
8,237,410
  
 
$
6.27
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Granted
  
 
1,574,705
  
 
$
10.42
  

 Vested
  
 
(2,876,730
) 
 
$
5.56
  

 Cancelled or expired
  
 
(192,291
) 
 
$
6.82
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Nonvested balance at December 31, 2011
  
 
6,743,094
  
 
$
7.52
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

Intrinsic value for stock options is calculated based on the exercise price of the underlying awards and the quoted
price of Verisk’s common stock as of the reporting date. The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2011 was $445,510 and $337,647, respectively. In accordance with ASC 718, excess tax
benefit from exercised stock options is recorded as an increase to additional-paid-in capital and a corresponding reduction in taxes payable. This tax benefit is calculated as the excess of the intrinsic value of options exercised in excess of
compensation recognized for financial reporting purposes. The amount of the tax benefit that has been realized, as a result of those excess tax benefits, is presented as a financing cash inflow within the accompanying consolidated statements of cash
flows. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company recorded excess tax benefit from stock options exercised of $57,684, $49,015 and $19,976 respectively. The Company realized $53,195, $49,015 and $19,976 of tax benefit
within the Company’s tax payments through December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  For the year ended
December 31, 2010, certain employees exercised stock options and covered the statutory minimum tax withholdings of $15,051 through a net settlement of 503,043 shares. The payment of taxes related to these exercises was recorded as a reduction
to additional-paid-in capital. This transaction is reflected within “Net share settlement of taxes upon exercise of stock options” within cash flows from financing activities in the accompanying consolidated statements of cash flows.
 The Company estimates expected forfeitures of equity awards at the date of grant and recognizes compensation expense only for
those awards that the Company expects to vest. The forfeiture assumption is ultimately adjusted to the actual forfeiture rate. Changes in the forfeiture assumptions may impact the total amount of expense ultimately recognized over the requisite
service period and may impact the timing of expense recognized over the requisite service period. Stock based compensation expense for 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $22,656, $21,298 and $12,744, respectively. 
  100



Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
A summary of the status of the restricted stock awarded under the Incentive Plan as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010 and changes during the interim period is presented below:     












  
  
Numberof shares
 
 
Weightedaveragegrant 
datefair value
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2010
  
 
—  
  
 
$
—  
  

 Granted
  
 
150,187
  
 
 
33.27
  

 Vested
  
 
(1,523
) 
 
 
33.30
  

 Forfeited
  
 
(3,030
) 
 
 
33.30
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
  
 
145,634
  
 
$
33.32
  


  
  
  
 
 




As of December 31, 2011, there was $38,455 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested
share-based compensation arrangements granted under the Incentive Plan and the Option Plan. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.34 years. As of December 31, 2011, there were 6,743,094 and 145,634 nonvested
stock options and restricted stock, respectively, of which 5,918,836 and 117,318 are expected to vest. The total grant date fair value of options vested during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $20,554, $17,677 and $9,918,
respectively. The total grant date fair value of restricted stock vested during the year ended December 31, 2011 was $908. 
17.     Pension and Postretirement Benefits: 
The Company maintained a qualified defined benefit pension plan for a certain of its employees through membership in
the Pension Plan for Insurance Organizations (the “Pension Plan”), a multiple-employer trust. The Company has applied a cash balance formula to determine future benefits. Under the cash balance formula, each participant has an account,
which is credited annually based on salary rates determined by years of service, as well as the interest earned on the previous year-end cash balance. Effective March 1, 2005, the Company established the Profit Sharing Plan, a defined
contribution plan, to replace the Pension Plan for all eligible employees hired on or after March 1, 2005. The Company also has a non-qualified supplemental cash balance plan (“SERP”) for certain employees. The SERP is funded from the
general assets of the Company. On January 12, 2012, the Company announced a hard freeze, which will eliminate all future compensation and service credits, to be instituted on February 29, 2012 to all participants in the Pension Plan and SERP.
The freeze in 2012 will reduce the unfunded pension liability by approximately $10,200 and the Company will realize a curtailment gain of approximately $700.  The Pension Plan’s funding policy is to contribute annually at an amount between the minimum funding requirements set forth in the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and the maximum
amount that can be deducted for federal income tax purposes. The Company contributed $1,400, $313 and $292 to the SERP in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and expects to contribute $679 in 2012. The minimum required funding for the Pension Plan
for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $25,312, $20,444 and $5,471, respectively. Based on the Pension Plan’s funding policy, the 2012 minimum contribution requirement is expected to be $28,206. 
The expected return on the plan assets for 2011 and 2010 was 8.25%, which was determined by taking into consideration the Company’s
analysis of its actual historical investment returns to a broader long-term forecast adjusted based on the its target investment allocation, and the current economic environment. The Company’s investment guidelines target investment allocation
of 60% equity securities and 40% debt securities. The Pension Plan assets consist primarily of investments in various fixed income and equity funds. Investment guidelines are established with each investment manager. These guidelines provide the
parameters within which the investment managers agree to operate, including criteria that determine eligible and ineligible securities, 
  101



Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

diversification requirements and credit quality standards, where applicable. Investment managers are prohibited from entering into any speculative hedging transactions. The investment objective
is to achieve a maximum total return with strong emphasis on preservation of capital in real terms. The domestic equity portion of the total portfolio should range between 40% and 60%. The international equity portion of the total portfolio should
range between 10% and 20%. The fixed income portion of the total portfolio should range between 20% and 40%. The asset allocation at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and target allocation for 2012 by asset category are as follows: 
   
















 Asset Category
  
TargetAllocation
 
 
Percentage ofPlan 
Assets
 

  
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Equity securities
  
 
60
% 
 
 
51
% 
 
 
56
% 

 Debt securities
  
 
40
% 
 
 
47
% 
 
 
42
% 

 Other
  
 
0
% 
 
 
2
% 
 
 
2
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The Company has used the target investment allocation to derive the expected return as the Company believes this
allocation will be retained on an ongoing basis that will commensurate with the projected cash flows of the plan. The expected return for each investment category within the target investment allocation is developed using average historical rates of
return for each targeted investment category, considering the projected cash flow of the Pension Plan. The difference between this expected return and the actual return on plan assets is generally deferred and recognized over subsequent periods
through future net periodic benefit costs. The Company believes that the use of the average historical rates of returns is consistent with the timing and amounts of expected contributions to the plans and benefit payments to plan participants. These
considerations provide the basis for reasonable assumptions with respect to the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets.  The Company also provides certain healthcare and life insurance benefits for both active and retired employees. The Postretirement Health and Life Insurance Plan (the “Postretirement Plan”) is
contributory, requiring participants to pay a stated percentage of the premium for coverage. As of October 1, 2001, the Postretirement Plan was amended to freeze benefits for current retirees and certain other employees at the January 1,
2002 level. Also, as of October 1, 2001, the Postretirement Plan had a curtailment, which eliminated retiree life insurance for all active employees and healthcare benefits for almost all future retirees, effective January 1, 2002. The
Company expects to contribute $3,407 to the Postretirement Plan in 2012. 
  102



Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The following table sets forth the changes in the benefit obligations and the plan
assets, the unfunded status of the Pension Plan, SERP and Postretirement Plan, and the amounts recognized in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets at December 31: 
   




















 
  
Pension Plan
 
 
Postretirement Plan
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 







 Change in benefit obligation:
  



 



 



 




 Benefit obligation at beginning of year
  
$
409,470
  
 
$
378,189
  
 
$
27,227
  
 
$
29,911
  

 Service cost
  
 
6,361
  
 
 
6,412
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Interest cost
  
 
21,707
  
 
 
21,364
  
 
 
878
  
 
 
1,211
  

 Actuarial loss/(gain)
  
 
22,268
  
 
 
26,039
  
 
 
(2,731
) 
 
 
689
  

 Plan participants’ contributions
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,380
  
 
 
2,676
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(25,117
) 
 
 
(22,534
) 
 
 
(6,457
) 
 
 
(7,685
) 

 Federal subsidy on benefits paid
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
638
  
 
 
425
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Benefit obligation at end of year
  
$
434,689
  
 
$
409,470
  
 
$
21,935
  
 
$
27,227
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Accumulated benefit obligation at end of year
  
$
424,525
  
 
$
398,936
  
 



 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 










 Weighted-average assumptions as of December 31,used to determine benefit obligation:
  



 



 



 




 Discount rate
  
 
4.98
% 
 
 
5.49
% 
 
 
3.50
% 
 
 
4.00
% 

 Rate of compensation increase
  
 
4.00
% 
 
 
4.00
% 
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  







 Change in plan assets:
  



 



 



 




 Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year
  
$
313,423
  
 
$
275,662
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  

 Actual return on plan assets, net of expenses
  
 
9,846
  
 
 
39,538
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Employer contributions
  
 
26,712
  
 
 
20,757
  
 
 
3,439
  
 
 
4,584
  

 Plan participants’ contributions
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,380
  
 
 
2,676
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(25,117
) 
 
 
(22,534
) 
 
 
(6,457
) 
 
 
(7,685
) 

 Subsidies received
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
638
  
 
 
425
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair value of plan assets at end of year
  
$
324,864
  
 
$
313,423
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unfunded status at end of year
  
$
109,825
  
 
$
96,047
  
 
$
21,935
  
 
$
27,227
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The pre-tax components affecting accumulated other comprehensive losses as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 are
summarized below:     




















 
  
Pension Plan
 
 
Postretirement Plan
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Prior service benefit
  
$
(913
) 
 
$
(1,714
) 
 
$
(1,439
) 
 
$
(1,586
) 

 Actuarial losses
  
 
123,087
  
 
 
90,465
  
 
 
7,543
  
 
 
10,696
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Accumulated other comprehensive losses, pretax
  
$
122,174
  
 
$
88,751
  
 
$
6,104
  
 
$
9,110
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  103



Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The components of net periodic benefit cost and the amounts recognized in other
comprehensive loss/(income) are summarized below for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:   
 




























 
  
Pension Plan
 
 
Postretirement Plan
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Service cost
  
$
6,361
  
 
$
6,412
  
 
$
7,375
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  

 Interest cost
  
 
21,707
  
 
 
21,364
  
 
 
21,196
  
 
 
878
  
 
 
1,211
  
 
 
1,729
  

 Amortization of transition obligation
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
166
  

 Recognized net actuarial loss
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
417
  

 Expected return on plan assets
  
 
(25,797
) 
 
 
(22,648
) 
 
 
(18,327
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Amortization of prior service cost
  
 
(801
) 
 
 
(801
) 
 
 
(801
) 
 
 
(146
) 
 
 
(146
) 
 
 
—
  

 Amortization of net actuarial loss
  
 
5,598
  
 
 
6,067
  
 
 
10,380
  
 
 
420
  
 
 
584
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net periodic benefit cost
  
$
7,068
  
 
$
10,394
  
 
$
19,823
  
 
$
1,152
  
 
$
1,649
  
 
$
2,312
  

 Transition obligation
  
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
(166
) 

 Amortization of actuarial gain
  
 
(656
) 
 
 
(496
) 
 
 
(501
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Amortization of prior service benefit
  
 
801
  
 
 
801
  
 
 
801
  
 
 
146
  
 
 
146
  
 
 
—
  

 Net gain recognized
  
 
(4,942
) 
 
 
(5,571
) 
 
 
(9,879
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Actuarial loss/(gain)
  
 
38,220
  
 
 
9,151
  
 
 
(36,422
) 
 
 
(3,152
) 
 
 
104
  
 
 
3,117
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recognized in other comprehensive loss/(income)
  
 
33,423
  
 
 
3,885
  
 
 
(46,001
) 
 
 
(3,006
) 
 
 
250
  
 
 
2,951
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recognized in net periodic cost and other comprehensive loss/(income)
  
$
40,491
  
 
$
14,279
  
 
$
(26,178
) 
 
$
(1,854
) 
 
$
1,899
  
 
$
5,263
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The estimated amounts in accumulated other comprehensive losses that are expected to be recognized as components of net
periodic benefit cost during 2012 are summarized below:     
















 
  
PensionPlan
 
 
PostretirementPlan
 
 
Total
 

 Amortization of prior service cost
  
$
(801
) 
 
$
(146
) 
 
$
(947
) 

 Amortization of net actuarial loss
  
 
8,484
  
 
 
507
  
 
 
8,991
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
7,683
  
 
$
361
  
 
$
8,044
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  104



Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The weighted-average assumptions as of January 1, 2011, 2010 and 2009 used to
determine net periodic benefit cost and the amount recognized in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets are provided below:   
 




























 
  
Pension Plan
 
 
Postretirement Plan
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Weighted-average assumptions as of January 1, used to determine net benefit cost:
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Discount rate
  
 
5.49
% 
 
 
5.74
% 
 
 
6.00
% 
 
 
4.00
% 
 
 
4.50
% 
 
 
6.00
% 

 Expected return on plan assets
  
 
8.25
% 
 
 
8.25
% 
 
 
8.25
% 
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  

 Rate of compensation increase
  
 
4.00
% 
 
 
4.00
% 
 
 
4.00
% 
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  

 Amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets consist of:
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Pension and postretirement benefits, current
  
$
664
  
 
$
519
  
 
$
481
  
 
$
3,348
  
 
$
4,144
  
 
$
4,803
  

 Pension and postretirement benefits, noncurrent
  
 
109,161
  
 
 
95,528
  
 
 
102,046
  
 
 
18,587
  
 
 
23,083
  
 
 
25,108
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total pension and postretirement benefits
  
$
109,825
  
 
$
96,047
  
 
$
102,527
  
 
$
21,935
  
 
$
27,227
  
 
$
29,911
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The following table presents the estimated future benefit payments for the respective plans. The future benefit
payments for the postretirement plan are net of the federal Medicare subsidy.     












 
  
PensionPlan
 
  
PostretirementPlan
 

 2012
  
$
27,361
  
  
$
3,407
  

 2013
  
$
28,099
  
  
$
3,169
  

 2014
  
$
32,158
  
  
$
2,906
  

 2015
  
$
29,794
  
  
$
2,600
  

 2016
  
$
31,187
  
  
$
2,330
  

 2017-2021
  
$
167,021
  
  
$
7,852
  

The healthcare cost trend rate for 2011 was 8.5% gradually decreasing to 5% in 2018. Assumed healthcare cost trend
rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the healthcare plan. A 1% change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects:   
 












 
  
1%Increase
 
  
1%Decrease
 

 Effect of total service and interest cost components of net periodic postretirement healthcare benefit cost
  
$
4,310
  
  
$
(5,624
) 

 Effect on the healthcare component of the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation
  
$
85,716
  
  
$
(129,305
) 

The expected subsidy from the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 reduced the
Company’s accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by approximately $7,900 and $7,514 as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the net periodic benefit cost by approximately $499, $474 and $613 in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. 
  105



Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The following table summarizes the fair value measurements by level of the Pension Plan
assets at December 31, 2011:     




















 
  
Total
 
  
Quoted Pricesin Active Marketsfor IdenticalAssets (Level 1)
 
  
Significant OtherObservableInputs (Level 2)
 
  
SignificantUnobservableInputs (Level 3)
 

 December 31, 2011
  



  



  



  




 Equity
  



  



  



  




 Managed equity accounts(1)
  
$
59,269
  
  
$
59,269
  
  
$
 —
  
  
$
 —
  

 Equity — pooled separate account(2)
  
 
104,738
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
104,738
  
  
 
—
  

 Equity — partnerships(3)
  
 
1,067
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,067
  

 Debt
  



  



  



  




 Fixed income manager — pooled separate account(2)
  
 
151,735
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
151,735
  
  
 
—
  

 Other
  



  



  



  




 Cash — pooled separate account(2)
  
 
8,055
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
8,055
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
324,864
  
  
$
59,269
  
  
$
264,528
  
  
$
1,067
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 







 December 31, 2010
  



  



  



  




 Equity
  



  



  



  




 Managed equity accounts(1)
  
$
64,364
  
  
$
64,364
  
  
$
 —
  
  
$
 —
  

 Equity — pooled separate account(2)
  
 
108,775
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
108,775
  
  
 
—
  

 Equity — partnerships(3)
  
 
1,121
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,121
  

 Debt
  



  



  



  




 Fixed income manager — pooled separate account(2)
  
 
133,315
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
133,315
  
  
 
—
  

 Other
  



  



  



  




 Cash — pooled separate account(2)
  
 
5,848
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
5,848
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
313,423
  
  
$
64,364
  
  
$
247,938
  
  
$
1,121
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Valued at the closing price of shares for domestic stocks within the managed equity accounts, and valued at the net asset value (“NAV”) of shares for mutual
funds at either the closing price reported in the active market or based on yields currently available on comparable securities of issuers with similar credit ratings for corporate bonds held by the Plan in these managed accounts.
  


(2)
The pooled separate accounts invest in domestic and foreign stocks, bonds and mutual funds. The fair values of these stocks, bonds and mutual funds are publicly quoted
and are used in determining the NAV of the pooled separate account, which is not publicly quoted.   


(3)
Investments for which readily determinable prices do not exist are valued by the General Partner using either the market or income approach. In establishing the
estimated fair value of investments, including those without readily determinable values, the General Partner assumes a reasonable period of time for liquidation of the investment, and takes into consideration the financial condition and operating
results of the underlying portfolio company, nature of investment, restrictions on marketability, holding period, market conditions, foreign currency exposures, and other factors the General Partner deems appropriate. 
  106



Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The following table sets forth a summary of changes in the fair value of the Pension
Plan’s Level 3 assets for the years ended December 31:     












 
  
Equity-partnerships
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Beginning Balance
  
$
1,121
  
 
$
4,939
  

 Actual return on plan assets:
  



 




 Realized and unrealized loss, net
  
 
(54
) 
 
 
(133
) 

 Purchase, sales, issuances, and settlements, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
(3,685
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending Balance
  
$
1,067
  
 
$
1,121
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

18.     Segment Reporting 
ASC 280-10, Disclosures About Segments of
an Enterprise and Related Information (“ASC 280-10”), establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments. ASC 280-10 requires that a public business enterprise report financial and descriptive information about
its reportable operating segments. Operating segments are components of an enterprise for which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) in deciding how to
allocate resources and in assessing performance. The Company’s CEO and Chairman of the Board is identified as the CODM as defined by ASC 280-10. To align with the internal management of the Company’s business operations based on service
offerings, the Company is organized into the following two operating segments, which are also the Company’s reportable segments:  Risk Assessment: The Company is the leading provider of statistical, actuarial and underwriting data for the U.S. P&C insurance industry. The Company’s databases include cleansed
and standardized records describing premiums and losses in insurance transactions, casualty and property risk attributes for commercial buildings and their occupants and fire suppression capabilities of municipalities. The Company uses this data to
create policy language and proprietary risk classifications that are industry standards and to generate prospective loss cost estimates used to price insurance policies. 
Decision Analytics: The Company develops solutions that its customers use to analyze key processes in
managing risk. The Company’s combination of algorithms and analytic methods incorporates its proprietary data to generate solutions. In most cases, the Company’s customers integrate the solutions into their models, formulas or underwriting
criteria in order to predict potential loss events, ranging from hurricanes and earthquakes to unanticipated healthcare claims. The Company develops catastrophe and extreme event models and offers solutions covering natural and man-made risks,
including acts of terrorism. The Company also develops solutions that allow customers to quantify costs after loss events occur. Fraud solutions include data on claim histories, analysis of mortgage applications to identify misinformation, analysis
of claims to find emerging patterns of fraud, and identification of suspicious claims in the insurance, mortgage and healthcare sectors. Effective December 31, 2011, the Company provided additional disclosure about its revenue within Decision
Analytics segment based on the industry vertical groupings of insurance, mortgage and financial services, healthcare and specialized markets. Previously, the Company disclosed revenue based on the classification of its solution as fraud
identification and detection solutions, loss prediction solutions and loss quantification solutions. There have been no changes in reportable segments in accordance with ASC 280-10 for the year ended December 31, 2011. 
The two aforementioned operating segments represent the segments for which separate discrete financial information is available and upon
which operating results are regularly evaluated by the CODM in order to assess performance and allocate resources. The Company uses segment EBITDA as the profitability measure for making decisions regarding ongoing operations. Segment EBITDA is
income from continuing operations before 
  107



Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

investment income and interest expense, income taxes and depreciation and amortization. Beginning in 2011, the Company’s definition of Segment EBITDA includes acquisition related liabilities
adjustment for all periods presented. Segment EBITDA is the measure of operating results used to assess corporate performance and optimal utilization of debt and acquisitions. Segment operating expenses consist of direct and indirect costs
principally related to personnel, facilities, software license fees, consulting, travel, and third-party information services. Indirect costs are generally allocated to the segments using fixed rates established by management based upon estimated
expense contribution levels and other assumptions that management considers reasonable. The Company does not allocate investment income, realized gain/(loss) on securities, net, interest expense, or income tax expense, since these items are not
considered in evaluating the segment’s overall operating performance. The CODM does not evaluate the financial performance of each segment based on assets. On a geographic basis, no individual country outside of the U.S. accounted for 1% or
more of the Company’s consolidated revenue for any of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 or 2009. No individual country outside of the U.S. accounted for 1% or more of total consolidated long-term assets as of December 31, 2011
or 2010. 
The following table provides the Company’s revenue and operating income performance by reportable segment for
the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, as well as a reconciliation to income before income taxes for all periods presented in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations: 
   








































 
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 
 
December 31, 2009
 

 
 
RiskAssessment
 
 
DecisionAnalytics
 
 
Total
 
 
RiskAssessment
 
 
DecisionAnalytics
 
 
Total
 
 
RiskAssessment
 
 
DecisionAnalytics
 
 
Total
 

 Revenues
 
$
563,361
  
 
$
768,479
  
 
$
1,331,840
  
 
$
542,138
  
 
$
596,205
  
 
$
1,138,343
  
 
$
523,976
  
 
$
503,128
  
 
$
1,027,104
  

 Expenses:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Cost of revenues (exclusive of items shown separately below)
 
 
193,667
  
 
 
340,068
  
 
 
533,735
  
 
 
194,731
  
 
 
268,742
  
 
 
463,473
  
 
 
230,494
  
 
 
260,800
  
 
 
491,294
  

 Selling, general and administrative
 
 
83,531
  
 
 
125,938
  
 
 
209,469
  
 
 
78,990
  
 
 
87,384
  
 
 
166,374
  
 
 
82,554
  
 
 
80,050
  
 
 
162,604
  

 Acquisition related liabilities adjustment
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3,364
) 
 
 
(3,364
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(544
) 
 
 
(544
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Segment EBITDA
 
 
286,163
  
 
 
305,837
  
 
 
592,000
  
 
 
268,417
  
 
 
240,623
  
 
 
509,040
  
 
 
210,928
  
 
 
162,278
  
 
 
373,206
  

 Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets
 
 
14,219
  
 
 
29,608
  
 
 
43,827
  
 
 
16,772
  
 
 
23,956
  
 
 
40,728
  
 
 
18,690
  
 
 
19,888
  
 
 
38,578
  

 Amortization of intangible assets
 
 
121
  
 
 
34,671
  
 
 
34,792
  
 
 
145
  
 
 
27,253
  
 
 
27,398
  
 
 
503
  
 
 
32,118
  
 
 
32,621
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income
 
 
271,823
  
 
 
241,558
  
 
 
513,381
  
 
 
251,500
  
 
 
189,414
  
 
 
440,914
  
 
 
191,735
  
 
 
110,272
  
 
 
302,007
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unallocated expenses:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Investment income
 



 



 
 
201
  
 



 



 
 
305
  
 



 



 
 
195
  

 Realized gain/(loss) on securities, net
 



 



 
 
686
  
 



 



 
 
95
  
 



 



 
 
(2,332
) 

 Interest expense
 



 



 
 
(53,847
) 
 



 



 
 
(34,664
) 
 



 



 
 
(35,265
) 


 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 

 Consolidated income before income taxes
 



 



 
$
460,421
  
 



 



 
$
406,650
  
 



 



 
$
264,605
  


 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 

 Capital expenditures, including non-cash purchases of fixed assets and capital lease obligations
 
$
11,890
  
 
$
56,486
  
 
$
68,376
  
 
$
8,323
  
 
$
32,622
  
 
$
40,945
  
 
$
8,373
  
 
$
35,368
  
 
$
43,741
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  108



Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
Operating segment revenue by type of service is provided below: 
   
















 
  
December 31,2011
 
  
December 31,2010
 
  
December 31,2009
 

 Risk Assessment
  



  



  




 Industry-standard insurance programs
  
$
371,894
  
  
$
353,501
  
  
$
341,079
  

 Property-specific rating and underwriting information
  
 
137,133
  
  
 
137,071
  
  
 
132,027
  

 Statistical agency and data services
  
 
31,518
  
  
 
29,357
  
  
 
28,619
  

 Actuarial services
  
 
22,816
  
  
 
22,209
  
  
 
22,251
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Risk Assessment
  
 
563,361
  
  
 
542,138
  
  
 
523,976
  

 Decision Analytics
  



  



  




 Insurance
  
 
451,216
  
  
 
372,843
  
  
 
331,587
  

 Mortgage and financial services
  
 
134,702
  
  
 
137,365
  
  
 
105,627
  

 Healthcare
  
 
103,722
  
  
 
57,972
  
  
 
50,064
  

 Specialized markets
  
 
78,839
  
  
 
28,025
  
  
 
15,850
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Decision Analytics
  
 
768,479
  
  
 
596,205
  
  
 
503,128
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total consolidated revenues
  
$
1,331,840
  
  
$
1,138,343
  
  
$
1,027,104
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

19.     Related Parties: 
The Company considers its Verisk Class A and Class B stockholders that own more
than 5% of the outstanding stock within the respective class to be related parties as defined within ASC 850, Related Party Disclosures. In 2011, the Company’s Class B-1 and Class B-2 shares converted to Class A. As a result of the
conversion, the Company had no related parties owning more than 5% of the entire class of stock as of December 31, 2011. 
At December 31, 2010, there were four Class A and four Class B stockholders, each owning more than 5% of
the respective outstanding classes. The Company’s related parties had accounts receivable, net of $515 and fees received in advance of $1,231 as of December 31, 2010. 
In addition, the Company had revenues from related parties for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 of $13,882, $49,788
and $60,192, respectively. The Company incurred expenses associated with the payment of insurance coverage premiums to certain of the related parties aggregating $0, $41 and $138 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. These costs are included in “Cost of revenues” and “Selling, general and administrative” expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. 
  109



Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
20.     Commitments and Contingencies: 
The Company’s operations are conducted on leased premises. Approximate minimum rentals under long-term
noncancelable leases for all leased premises, computer equipment and automobiles are as follows:     












 Years Ending
  
OperatingLeases
 
  
CapitalLeases
 

 2012
  
$
28,192
  
  
$
5,391
  

 2013
  
 
28,622
  
  
 
3,285
  

 2014
  
 
26,006
  
  
 
373
  

 2015
  
 
23,137
  
  
 
75
  

 2016
  
 
22,623
  
  
 
—
  

 2017-2021
  
 
77,016
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net minimum lease payments
  
$
205,596
  
  
$
9,124
  


  
  
  
 
  




 Less amount representing interest
  



  
 
182
  


  



  
  
  
 

 Present value of net minimum lease capital payments
  



  
$
8,942
  


  



  
  
  
 

Most of the leases require payment of property taxes and utilities and, in certain cases, contain renewal options.
Operating leases consist of office space. Capital leases consist of computer equipment, office equipment, and leased automobiles. Rent expense on operating leases approximated $27,902, $23,898 and $22,985 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

In addition, the Company is a party to legal proceedings with respect to a
variety of matters in the ordinary course of business, including those matters described below. With respect to the ongoing matter, the Company is unable, at the present time, to determine the ultimate resolution of or provide a reasonable estimate
of the range of possible loss attributable to this matter or the impact it may have on the Company’s results of operations, financial position or cash flows. This is primarily because this case remains in its early stages and discovery has not
yet commenced. Although the Company believes it has strong defenses and intends to vigorously defend this matter, the Company could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on its
results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 
Claims Outcome Advisor Litigation  Hensley, et al. v. Computer Sciences Corporation et al. was a putative nationwide class action complaint, filed in February 2005, in Miller County, Arkansas state court. Defendants included
numerous insurance companies and providers of software products used by insurers in paying claims. The Company was among the named defendants. Plaintiffs alleged that certain software products, including the Company’s Claims Outcome Advisor
product and a competing software product sold by Computer Sciences Corporation, improperly estimated the amount to be paid by insurers to their policyholders in connection with claims for bodily injuries. 
The Company entered into settlement agreements with plaintiffs asserting claims relating to the use of Claims Outcome Advisor by
defendants Hanover Insurance Group, Progressive Car Insurance and Liberty Mutual Insurance Group. Each of these settlements was granted final approval by the court and together the settlements resolve the claims asserted in this case against the
Company with respect to the above insurance companies, who settled the claims against them as well. A provision was made in 2006 for this proceeding and the total amount the Company paid in 2008 with respect to these settlements was less than
$2,000. A fourth defendant, The Automobile Club of California, which is alleged to have used Claims Outcome Advisor, was dismissed from the action. On August 18, 2008, pursuant to the agreement of the parties the Court ordered that the claims
against the Company be dismissed with prejudice. 
  110



Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
Subsequently, Hanover Insurance Group made a demand for reimbursement, pursuant to an
indemnification provision contained in a December 30, 2004 License Agreement between Hanover and the Company, of its settlement and defense costs in the Hensley class action. Specifically, Hanover demanded $2,536 including $600 in
attorneys’ fees and expenses. The Company disputed that Hanover is entitled to any reimbursement pursuant to the License Agreement. In July 2010, after the Company and Hanover were unable to resolve the dispute in mediation, Hanover served a
summons and complaint seeking indemnity and contribution from the Company. The parties resolved this matter with no material adverse consequences to the Company in a Settlement Agreement and Release executed on August 25, 2011. 
Xactware Litigation  The following two lawsuits were filed by or on behalf of groups of Louisiana insurance policyholders who claim, among other things, that certain insurers who used products and price information supplied
by the Company’s Xactware subsidiary (and those of another provider) did not fully compensate policyholders for property damage covered under their insurance policies. The plaintiffs seek to recover compensation for their damages in an amount
equal to the difference between the amount paid by the defendants and the fair market repair/restoration costs of their damaged property.  Schafer v. State Farm Fire & Cas. Co., et al. was a putative class action pending against the Company and State Farm Fire & Casualty Company filed in March 2007 in the Eastern
District of Louisiana. The complaint alleged antitrust violations, breach of contract, negligence, bad faith, and fraud. The court dismissed the antitrust claim as to both defendants and dismissed all claims against the Company other than fraud.
Judge Duval denied plaintiffs’ motion to certify a class with respect to the fraud and breach of contract claims on August 3, 2009. After the single action was reassigned to Judge Africk plaintiffs agreed to settle the matter with the
Company and State Farm and a Settlement Agreement and Release was executed by all parties in June 2010. The terms of the settlement were not considered material to the Company. 
Mornay v. Travelers Ins. Co., et al. was a putative class action pending against the Company and Travelers Insurance Company filed
in November 2007 in the Eastern District of Louisiana. The complaint alleged antitrust violations, breach of contract, negligence, bad faith, and fraud. As in Schafer, the court dismissed the antitrust claim as to both defendants and dismissed all
claims against the Company other than fraud. Judge Duval stayed all proceedings in the case pending an appraisal of the lead plaintiff’s insurance claim. The matter was re-assigned to Judge Barbier, who on September 11, 2009 issued an
order administratively closing the matter pending completion of the appraisal process. After the appraisal process was completed and the court lifted the stay, defendants filed a motion to strike the class allegations and dismiss the fraud claim.
The plaintiffs agreed to settle the matter and a Settlement Agreement and Release were executed by all parties on January 5, 2012. The terms of the settlement were not considered material to the Company.  
iiX Litigation  In April 2010, the Company’s subsidiary, Insurance Information Exchange or iiX, as well as other information providers in the State of Missouri were served with a summons and class action complaint
filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Missouri alleging violations of the Driver Privacy Protection Act, or the DPPA, entitled Janice Cook, et al. v. ACS State & Local Solutions, et al. Plaintiffs
brought the action on their own behalf and on behalf of all similarly situated individuals whose personal information is contained in any motor vehicle record maintained by the State of Missouri and who have not provided express consent to the State
of Missouri for the distribution of their personal information for purposes not enumerated by the DPPA and whose personal information has been knowingly obtained and used by the defendants. The class

  111



Table of Contents
VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

complaint alleged that the defendants knowingly obtained personal information for a purpose not authorized by the DPPA and sought liquidated damages in the amount of two thousand five hundred
dollars for each instance of a violation of the DPPA, punitive damages and the destruction of any illegally obtained personal information. The court granted iiX’s motion to dismiss the complaint based on a failure to state a claim on
November 19, 2010. Plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal on December 17, 2010 and oral argument was heard by the Eighth Circuit on September 18, 2011. The Eighth Circuit affirmed the District Court’s dismissal on December 15,
2011.  Interthinx Litigation  In September 2009, the Company’s subsidiary, Interthinx, Inc., was served with a putative class action entitled Renata Gluzman v. Interthinx, Inc. The plaintiff, a former Interthinx employee,
filed the class action on August 13, 2009 in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Los Angeles on behalf of all Interthinx information technology employees for unpaid overtime and missed meals and rest breaks, as well as
various related claims claiming that the information technology employees were misclassified as exempt employees and, as a result, were denied certain wages and benefits that would have been received if they were properly classified as non-exempt
employees. The pleadings included, among other things, a violation of Business and Professions Code 17200 for unfair business practices, which allowed plaintiffs to include as class members all information technology employees employed at Interthinx
for four years prior to the date of filing the complaint. The complaint sought compensatory damages, penalties that are associated with the various statutes, restitution, interest costs, and attorney fees. On June 2, 2010, plaintiffs agreed to
settle their claims with Interthinx and the court granted final approval to the settlement on February 23, 2011. The terms of the settlement were not considered material to the Company. 
Citizens Insurance Litigation  The Company has received notice of a complaint filed on February 7, 2012 in the Florida State Circuit Court for Pasco County naming Citizens Property Insurance Corporation (“Citizens”) and
the Company’s Xactware subsidiary. The complaint does not seek monetary relief against Xactware. It alleges a class action seeking declaratory relief against defendants and is brought on behalf of “all individuals who have purchased a new
or renewed a property casualty insurance policy from Citizens” where Citizens used an Xactware product to determine replacement value of the property. The complaint has not yet been served on Xactware. At this time, it is not possible to
determine the ultimate resolution of or estimate the liability related to this matter. 
21.     Condensed Consolidated Financial Information for Guarantor Subsidiaries and Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries

In April and December 2011, Verisk Analytics, Inc. (the “Parent Company”) registered senior notes with full
and unconditional and joint and several guarantees by certain of its 100 percent wholly-owned subsidiaries and issued certain other debt securities with full and unconditional and joint and several guarantees by certain of its subsidiaries.
Accordingly, presented below is condensed consolidating financial information for (i) the Parent Company, (ii) the guarantor subsidiaries of the Parent Company on a combined basis, and (iii) all other non-guarantor subsidiaries of the
Parent Company on a combined basis, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 and for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. The condensed consolidating financial information has been presented using the equity method of accounting, to
show the nature of assets held, results of operations and cash flows of the Parent Company, the guarantor subsidiaries and the non-guarantor subsidiaries assuming all guarantor subsidiaries provide both full and unconditional, and joint and several
guarantees to the Parent Company at the beginning of the periods presented. Effective as of December 31, 2011, ISO Staff Services, Inc. (“ISOSS”), a guarantor of the senior notes, merged with and into ISO, also a guarantor of the senior
notes, pursuant to which ISO was the surviving corporation. By virtue of the merger, ISO expressly assumed all of the obligations of ISOSS, including the guarantee by ISOSS of the senior notes. 
  112



Table of Contents
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET 
As of December 31, 2011   
























 
 
VeriskAnalytics, Inc.
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
EliminatingEntries
 
 
Consolidated
 

 
 
(In thousands)
 








ASSETS
 



 



 



 



 




 Current assets:
 



 



 



 



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
76,238
  
 
$
76,813
  
 
$
38,552
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
191,603
  

 Available-for-sale securities
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,066
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,066
  

 Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $4,158
 
 
—
  
 
 
128,214
  
 
 
25,125
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
153,339
  

 Prepaid expenses
 
 
—
  
 
 
20,090
  
 
 
1,815
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
21,905
  

 Deferred income taxes, net
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,557
  
 
 
1,261
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3,818
  

 Federal and foreign income taxes receivable
 
 
7,905
  
 
 
23,024
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(5,687
) 
 
 
25,242
  

 State and local income taxes receivable
 
 
618
  
 
 
10,392
  
 
 
423
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
11,433
  

 Intercompany receivables
 
 
250,177
  
 
 
482,172
  
 
 
147,996
  
 
 
(880,345
) 
 
 
—
  

 Other current assets
 
 
—
  
 
 
26,094
  
 
 
15,154
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
41,248
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
 
 
334,938
  
 
 
774,422
  
 
 
230,326
  
 
 
(886,032
) 
 
 
453,654
  

 Noncurrent assets:
 



 



 



 



 




 Fixed assets, net
 
 
—
  
 
 
102,202
  
 
 
17,209
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
119,411
  

 Intangible assets, net
 
 
—
  
 
 
81,828
  
 
 
144,596
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
226,424
  

 Goodwill
 
 
—
  
 
 
481,736
  
 
 
228,208
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
709,944
  

 Deferred income taxes, net
 
 
—
  
 
 
50,267
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(39,787
) 
 
 
10,480
  

 Investment in subsidiaries
 
 
601,380
  
 
 
104,430
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(705,810
) 
 
 
—
  

 Other assets
 
 
6,218
  
 
 
13,059
  
 
 
1,916
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
21,193
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
 
$
942,536
  
 
$
1,607,944
  
 
$
622,255
  
 
$
(1,631,629
) 
 
$
1,541,106
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ (DEFICIT)/EQUITY
 



 



 



 



 




 Current liabilities:
 



 



 



 



 




 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
 
$
6,328
  
 
$
117,759
  
 
$
38,905
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
162,992
  

 Acquisition related liabilities
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
250
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
250
  

 Short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,161
  
 
 
393
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,554
  

 Pension and postretirement benefits, current
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,012
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,012
  

 Fees received in advance
 
 
—
  
 
 
152,948
  
 
 
23,894
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
176,842
  

 Intercompany payables
 
 
338,041
  
 
 
354,362
  
 
 
187,942
  
 
 
(880,345
) 
 
 
—
  

 Federal and foreign income taxes payable
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,687
  
 
 
(5,687
) 
 
 
—
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
 
 
344,369
  
 
 
634,242
  
 
 
257,071
  
 
 
(886,032
) 
 
 
349,650
  

 Noncurrent liabilities:
 



 



 



 



 




 Long-term debt
 
 
696,657
  
 
 
403,586
  
 
 
89
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,100,332
  

 Pension and postretirement benefits
 
 
—
  
 
 
127,748
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
127,748
  

 Deferred income taxes, net
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
39,787
  
 
 
(39,787
) 
 
 
—
  

 Other liabilities
 
 
—
  
 
 
58,158
  
 
 
3,708
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
61,866
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
 
 
1,041,026
  
 
 
1,223,734
  
 
 
300,655
  
 
 
(925,819
) 
 
 
1,639,596
  

 Total stockholders’ (deficit)/equity
 
 
(98,490
) 
 
 
384,210
  
 
 
321,600
  
 
 
(705,810
) 
 
 
(98,490
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ (deficit)/equity
 
$
942,536
  
 
$
1,607,944
  
 
$
622,255
  
 
$
(1,631,629
) 
 
$
1,541,106
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  113



Table of Contents
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET 
As of December 31, 2010   
























 
 
VeriskAnalytics, Inc.
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
EliminatingEntries
 
 
Consolidated
 

 
 
(In thousands)
 








ASSETS
 



 



 



 



 




 Current assets:
 



 



 



 



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
1
  
 
$
31,576
  
 
$
23,397
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
54,974
  

 Available-for-sale securities
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,653
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,653
  

 Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $4,028
 



 



 



 



 




 (including amounts from related parties of $515)
 
 
—
  
 
 
98,817
  
 
 
27,747
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
126,564
  

 Prepaid expenses
 
 
—
  
 
 
15,566
  
 
 
2,225
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
17,791
  

 Deferred income taxes, net
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,745
  
 
 
936
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3,681
  

 Federal and foreign income taxes receivable
 
 
—
  
 
 
13,590
  
 
 
2,193
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
15,783
  

 State and local income taxes receivable
 
 
—
  
 
 
7,882
  
 
 
1,041
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
8,923
  

 Intercompany receivables
 
 
101,470
  
 
 
668,906
  
 
 
59,021
  
 
 
(829,397
) 
 
 
—
  

 Other current assets
 
 
—
  
 
 
6,720
  
 
 
346
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
7,066
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
 
 
101,471
  
 
 
851,455
  
 
 
116,906
  
 
 
(829,397
) 
 
 
240,435
  

 Noncurrent assets:
 



 



 



 



 




 Fixed assets, net
 
 
—
  
 
 
78,928
  
 
 
14,481
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
93,409
  

 Intangible assets, net
 
 
—
  
 
 
75,307
  
 
 
124,922
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
200,229
  

 Goodwill
 
 
—
  
 
 
449,065
  
 
 
183,603
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
632,668
  

 Deferred income taxes, net
 
 
—
  
 
 
64,421
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(42,542
) 
 
 
21,879
  

 State income taxes receivable
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,773
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,773
  

 Investment in subsidiaries
 
 
326,387
  
 
 
20,912
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(347,299
) 
 
 
—
  

 Other assets
 
 
—
  
 
 
10,248
  
 
 
16,449
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
26,697
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
 
$
427,858
  
 
$
1,552,109
  
 
$
456,361
  
 
$
(1,219,238
) 
 
$
1,217,090
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ (DEFICIT)/EQUITY
 



 



 



 



 




 Current liabilities:
 



 



 



 



 




 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
 
$
 —
  
 
$
95,425
  
 
$
16,570
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
111,995
  

 Acquisition related liabilities
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3,500
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3,500
  

 Short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt
 
 
—
  
 
 
437,457
  
 
 
260
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
437,717
  

 Pension and postretirement benefits, current
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,663
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,663
  

 Fees received in advance (including amounts from related parties of $1,231)
 
 
—
  
 
 
137,521
  
 
 
25,486
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
163,007
  

 Intercompany payables
 
 
542,300
  
 
 
165,681
  
 
 
121,416
  
 
 
(829,397
) 
 
 
—
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
 
 
542,300
  
 
 
840,747
  
 
 
167,232
  
 
 
(829,397
) 
 
 
720,882
  

 Noncurrent liabilities:
 



 



 



 



 




 Long-term debt
 
 
—
  
 
 
401,788
  
 
 
38
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
401,826
  

 Pension and postretirement benefits
 
 
—
  
 
 
118,611
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
118,611
  

 Deferred income taxes, net
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
42,542
  
 
 
(42,542
) 
 
 
—
  

 Other liabilities
 
 
—
  
 
 
71,663
  
 
 
18,550
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
90,213
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
 
 
542,300
  
 
 
1,432,809
  
 
 
228,362
  
 
 
(871,939
) 
 
 
1,331,532
  

 Total stockholders’ (deficit)/equity
 
 
(114,442
) 
 
 
119,300
  
 
 
227,999
  
 
 
(347,299
) 
 
 
(114,442
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ (deficit)/equity
 
$
427,858
  
 
$
1,552,109
  
 
$
456,361
  
 
$
(1,219,238
) 
 
$
1,217,090
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  114



Table of Contents
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF
OPERATIONS  For The Year Ended December 31, 2011 
 
























 
 
VeriskAnalytics, Inc.
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
EliminatingEntries
 
 
Consolidated
 

 
 
(In thousands)
 








 Revenues
 
$
 —
  
 
$
1,181,396
  
 
$
167,044
  
 
$
(16,600
) 
 
$
1,331,840
  

 Expenses:
 



 



 



 



 




 Cost of revenues (exclusive of items shown separately below)
 
 
—
  
 
 
466,445
  
 
 
75,603
  
 
 
(8,313
) 
 
 
533,735
  

 Selling, general and administrative
 
 
—
  
 
 
165,091
  
 
 
52,665
  
 
 
(8,287
) 
 
 
209,469
  

 Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets
 
 
—
  
 
 
36,007
  
 
 
7,820
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
43,827
  

 Amortization of intangible assets
 
 
—
  
 
 
20,351
  
 
 
14,441
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
34,792
  

 Acquisition related liabilities adjustment
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2,800
) 
 
 
(564
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3,364
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expenses
 
 
—
  
 
 
685,094
  
 
 
149,965
  
 
 
(16,600
) 
 
 
818,459
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income
 
 
—
  
 
 
496,302
  
 
 
17,079
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
513,381
  

 Other income/(expense):
 



 



 



 



 




 Investment income
 
 
36
  
 
 
3,025
  
 
 
22
  
 
 
(2,882
) 
 
 
201
  

 Realized gain on securities, net
 
 
—
  
 
 
686
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
686
  

 Interest expense
 
 
(23,239
) 
 
 
(33,319
) 
 
 
(171
) 
 
 
2,882
  
 
 
(53,847
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other expense, net
 
 
(23,203
) 
 
 
(29,608
) 
 
 
(149
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(52,960
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 (Loss)/income before equity in net income of subsidiary and income taxes
 
 
(23,203
) 
 
 
466,694
  
 
 
16,930
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
460,421
  

 Equity in net income of subsidiary
 
 
297,439
  
 
 
6,891
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(304,330
) 
 
 
—
  

 Provision for income taxes
 
 
8,522
  
 
 
(180,578
) 
 
 
(5,607
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(177,663
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
 
$
282,758
  
 
$
293,007
  
 
$
11,323
  
 
$
(304,330
) 
 
$
282,758
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS 
For The Year Ended December 31, 2010   
























 
 
VeriskAnalytics, Inc.
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
EliminatingEntries
 
 
Consolidated
 

 
 
(In thousands)
 








 Revenues
 
$
 —
  
 
$
1,086,211
  
 
$
68,731
  
 
$
(16,599
) 
 
$
1,138,343
  

 Expenses:
 



 



 



 



 




 Cost of revenues (exclusive of items shown separately below)
 
 
—
  
 
 
434,247
  
 
 
40,764
  
 
 
(11,538
) 
 
 
463,473
  

 Selling, general and administrative
 
 
—
  
 
 
146,005
  
 
 
24,841
  
 
 
(4,472
) 
 
 
166,374
  

 Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets
 
 
—
  
 
 
35,974
  
 
 
5,260
  
 
 
(506
) 
 
 
40,728
  

 Amortization of intangible assets
 
 
—
  
 
 
24,205
  
 
 
3,193
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
27,398
  

 Acquisition related liabilities adjustment
 
 
—
  
 
 
(544
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(544
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expenses
 
 
—
  
 
 
639,887
  
 
 
74,058
  
 
 
(16,516
) 
 
 
697,429
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income/(loss)
 
 
—
  
 
 
446,324
  
 
 
(5,327
) 
 
 
(83
) 
 
 
440,914
  

 Other income/(expense):
 



 



 



 



 




 Investment income
 
 
—
  
 
 
223
  
 
 
82
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
305
  

 Realized gain on securities, net
 
 
—
  
 
 
95
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
95
  

 Interest expense
 
 
—
  
 
 
(34,605
) 
 
 
(142
) 
 
 
83
  
 
 
(34,664
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other expense, net
 
 
—
  
 
 
(34,287
) 
 
 
(60
) 
 
 
83
  
 
 
(34,264
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income/(loss) before equity in net income of subsidiary and income taxes
 
 
—
  
 
 
412,037
  
 
 
(5,387
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
406,650
  

 Equity in net income/(loss) of subsidiary
 
 
242,552
  
 
 
(2,550
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(240,002
) 
 
 
—
  

 Provision for income taxes
 
 
—
  
 
 
(166,340
) 
 
 
2,242
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(164,098
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income/(loss)
 
$
242,552
  
 
$
243,147
  
 
$
(3,145
) 
 
$
(240,002
) 
 
$
242,552
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  115



Table of Contents
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS 
For The Year Ended December 31, 2009   
























 
  
VeriskAnalytics, Inc.
 
  
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
EliminatingEntries
 
 
Consolidated
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 








 Revenues
  
$
 —
  
  
$
1,001,275
  
 
$
41,787
  
 
$
(15,958
) 
 
$
1,027,104
  

 Expenses:
  



  



 



 



 




 Cost of revenues (exclusive of items shown separately below)
  
 
—
  
  
 
474,526
  
 
 
27,500
  
 
 
(10,732
) 
 
 
491,294
  

 Selling, general and administrative
  
 
—
  
  
 
150,288
  
 
 
15,683
  
 
 
(3,367
) 
 
 
162,604
  

 Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets
  
 
—
  
  
 
35,238
  
 
 
5,114
  
 
 
(1,774
) 
 
 
38,578
  

 Amortization of intangible assets
  
 
—
  
  
 
30,622
  
 
 
1,999
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
32,621
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expenses
  
 
—
  
  
 
690,674
  
 
 
50,296
  
 
 
(15,873
) 
 
 
725,097
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income/(loss)
  
 
—
  
  
 
310,601
  
 
 
(8,509
) 
 
 
(85
) 
 
 
302,007
  

 Other income/(expense):
  



  



 



 



 




 Investment income
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,469
  
 
 
59
  
 
 
(1,333
) 
 
 
195
  

 Realized loss on securities, net
  
 
—
  
  
 
(2,332
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2,332
) 

 Interest expense
  
 
—
  
  
 
(35,251
) 
 
 
(1,432
) 
 
 
1,418
  
 
 
(35,265
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other expense, net
  
 
—
  
  
 
(36,114
) 
 
 
(1,373
) 
 
 
85
  
 
 
(37,402
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income/(loss) before equity in net income/(loss) of subsidiary and income taxes
  
 
—
  
  
 
274,487
  
 
 
(9,882
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
264,605
  

 Equity in net income/(loss) of subsidiary
  
 
126,614
  
  
 
(7,000
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(119,614
) 
 
 
—
  

 Provision for income taxes
  
 
—
  
  
 
(140,873
) 
 
 
2,882
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(137,991
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income/(loss)
  
$
126,614
  
  
$
126,614
  
 
$
(7,000
) 
 
$
(119,614
) 
 
$
126,614
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  116



Table of Contents
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT
OF CASH FLOWS  For The Year Ended December 31, 2011 
 
























 
 
VeriskAnalytics, Inc.
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
EliminatingEntries
 
 
Consolidated
 

 
 
(In thousands)
 








 Net cash (used in)/provided by operating activities
 
$
(14,821
) 
 
$
346,820
  
 
$
43,722
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
375,721
  

 Cash flows from investing activities:
 



 



 



 



 




 Acquisitions, net of cash acquired of $590
 
 
—
  
 
 
(121,721
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(121,721
) 

 Purchases of fixed assets
 
 
—
  
 
 
(50,813
) 
 
 
(9,016
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(59,829
) 

 Earnout payments
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3,500
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3,500
) 

 Escrow funding associated with acquisitions
 
 
—
  
 
 
(19,560
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(19,560
) 

 Advances provided to other subsidiaries
 
 
(10,052
) 
 
 
(54,701
) 
 
 
(81,824
) 
 
 
146,577
  
 
 
—
  

 Repayments received from other subsidiaries
 
 
—
  
 
 
9,714
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(9,714
) 
 
 
—
  

 Proceeds from repayment of intercompany note receivable
 
 
—
  
 
 
617,796
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(617,796
) 
 
 
—
  

 Purchases of available-for-sale securities
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,549
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,549
) 

 Proceeds from sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,730
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,730
  

 Other investing activities
 
 
—
  
 
 
300
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
300
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash (used in)/provided by investing activities
 
 
(10,052
) 
 
 
381,196
  
 
 
(94,340
) 
 
 
(480,933
) 
 
 
(204,129
) 

 Cash flows from financing activities:
 



 



 



 



 




 Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt, net of original issue discount
 
 
696,559
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
696,559
  

 Repayment of current portion of long-term debt
 
 
—
  
 
 
(125,000
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(125,000
) 

 Repayment of short-term debt refinanced on a long-term basis
 
 
—
  
 
 
(440,000
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(440,000
) 

 Proceeds from issuance of short-term debt with original maturities greater than three months
 
 
—
  
 
 
120,000
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
120,000
  

 Proceeds of short-term debt, net
 
 
—
  
 
 
10,000
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
10,000
  

 Repurchase of Verisk Class A common stock
 
 
—
  
 
 
(381,776
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(381,776
) 

 Repayments of advances provided to other subsidiaries
 
 
(7,204
) 
 
 
(2,510
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
9,714
  
 
 
—
  

 Repayment of intercompany note payable
 
 
(617,796
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
617,796
  
 
 
—
  

 Advances received from other subsidiaries
 
 
34,038
  
 
 
46,013
  
 
 
66,526
  
 
 
(146,577
) 
 
 
—
  

 Payment of debt issuance cost
 
 
(4,487
) 
 
 
(3,348
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(7,835
) 

 Excess tax benefits from exercised stock options
 
 
—
  
 
 
53,195
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
53,195
  

 Proceeds from stock options exercised
 
 
—
  
 
 
43,345
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
43,345
  

 Other financing
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2,746
) 
 
 
(522
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3,268
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by/(used in) financing activities
 
 
101,110
  
 
 
(682,827
) 
 
 
66,004
  
 
 
480,933
  
 
 
(34,780
) 

 Effect of exchange rate changes
 
 
—
  
 
 
48
  
 
 
(231
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(183
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
76,237
  
 
 
45,237
  
 
 
15,155
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
136,629
  

 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period
 
 
1
  
 
 
31,576
  
 
 
23,397
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
54,974
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period
 
$
76,238
  
 
$
76,813
  
 
$
38,552
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
191,603
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental disclosures:
 



 



 



 



 




 Increase in intercompany balances from the purchase of treasury stock by Verisk funded directly by ISO
 
$
381,776
  
 
$
381,776
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase in intercompany balances from proceeds received by ISO related to issuance of Verisk common stock from options
exercised
 
$
43,345
  
 
$
43,345
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Issuance of intercompany note payable/(receivable) from amounts previously recorded as intercompany
payables/(receivables)
 
$
615,000
  
 
$
(615,000
) 
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  117



Table of Contents
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
For The Year Ended December 31, 2010   
























 
 
VeriskAnalytics, Inc.
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
EliminatingEntries
 
 
Consolidated
 

 
 
(In thousands)
 








 Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities
 
$
 —
  
 
$
336,661
  
 
$
(629
) 
 
$
 —
  
 
$
336,032
  

 Cash flows from investing activities:
 



 



 



 



 




 Acquisitions, net of cash acquired of $10,524
 
 
—
  
 
 
(189,578
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(189,578
) 

 Proceeds from release of acquisition related escrows
 
 
—
  
 
 
283
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
283
  

 Escrow funding associated with acquisitions
 
 
—
  
 
 
(15,980
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(15,980
) 

 Advances provided to other subsidiaries
 
 
—
  
 
 
(50,978
) 
 
 
(4,506
) 
 
 
55,484
  
 
 
—
  

 Purchases of available-for-sale securities
 
 
—
  
 
 
(516
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(516
) 

 Proceeds from sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities
 
 
—
  
 
 
743
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
743
  

 Purchases of fixed assets
 
 
—
  
 
 
(32,680
) 
 
 
(5,961
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(38,641
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
 
 
—
  
 
 
(288,706
) 
 
 
(10,467
) 
 
 
55,484
  
 
 
(243,689
) 

 Cash flows from financing activities:
 



 



 



 



 




 Proceeds from issuance of short-term debt with maturities of three months or greater
 
 
—
  
 
 
215,000
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
215,000
  

 Proceeds from issuance of short-term debt, net
 
 
—
  
 
 
35,000
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
35,000
  

 Repurchase of Verisk Class A common stock
 
 
—
  
 
 
(210,246
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(210,246
) 

 Repurchase of Verisk Class B-1 common stock
 
 
—
  
 
 
(199,936
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(199,936
) 

 Repurchase of Verisk Class B-2 common stock
 
 
—
  
 
 
(9,879
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(9,879
) 

 Net share settlement of taxes upon exercise of stock options
 
 
—
  
 
 
(15,051
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(15,051
) 

 Advances received from other subsidiaries
 
 
—
  
 
 
41,223
  
 
 
14,261
  
 
 
(55,484
) 
 
 
—
  

 Payment of debt issuance cost
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,781
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,781
) 

 Excess tax benefits from exercised stock options
 
 
—
  
 
 
49,015
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
49,015
  

 Proceeds from stock options exercised
 
 
—
  
 
 
35,482
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
35,482
  

 Other financing
 
 
—
  
 
 
(6,350
) 
 
 
(41
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(6,391
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash (used in)/provided by financing activities
 
 
—
  
 
 
(67,523
) 
 
 
14,220
  
 
 
(55,484
) 
 
 
(108,787
) 

 Effect of exchange rate changes
 
 
—
  
 
 
139
  
 
 
(248
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(109
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 (Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
—
  
 
 
(19,429
) 
 
 
2,876
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(16,553
) 

 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period
 
 
1
  
 
 
51,005
  
 
 
20,521
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
71,527
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period
 
$
1
  
 
$
31,576
  
 
$
23,397
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
54,974
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental disclosures:
 



 



 



 



 




 Changes in intercompany balances due to acquisitions funded directly by ISO
 
$
197,670
  
 
$
197,670
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase in investment in subsidiaries due to assets transferred to non-guarantors in exchange for common stock
 
$
197,670
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
197,670
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Non-cash capital contribution
 
$
 —
  
 
$
26,555
  
 
$
26,555
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase in intercompany balances from the purchase of treasury stock by Verisk funded directly by ISO
 
$
435,112
  
 
$
435,112
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase in intercompany balances from proceeds received by ISO related to issuance of Verisk common stock from options
exercised
 
$
35,482
  
 
$
35,482
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  118



Table of Contents
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
For The Year Ended December 31, 2009   
























 
 
VeriskAnalytics, Inc.
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
EliminatingEntries
 
 
Consolidated
 

 
 
(In thousands)
 








 Net cash provided by operating activities
 
$
 —
  
 
$
320,657
  
 
$
5,744
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
326,401
  

 Cash flows from investing activities:
 



 



 



 



 




 Acquisitions, net of cash acquired of $9,477
 
 
—
  
 
 
(58,848
) 
 
 
(2,502
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(61,350
) 

 Earnout payments
 
 
—
  
 
 
(78,100
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(78,100
) 

 Proceeds from release of acquisition related escrows
 
 
—
  
 
 
129
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
129
  

 Escrow funding associated with acquisitions
 
 
—
  
 
 
(7,400
) 
 
 
(236
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(7,636
) 

 Advances provided to other subsidiaries
 
 
—
  
 
 
(19,580
) 
 
 
(3,579
) 
 
 
23,159
  
 
 
—
  

 Purchases of available-for-sale securities
 
 
—
  
 
 
(575
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(575
) 

 Proceeds from sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities
 
 
—
  
 
 
886
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
886
  

 Purchases of fixed assets
 
 
—
  
 
 
(34,042
) 
 
 
(4,343
) 
 
 
(309
) 
 
 
(38,694
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
 
 
—
  
 
 
(197,530
) 
 
 
(10,660
) 
 
 
22,850
  
 
 
(185,340
) 

 Cash flows from financing activities:
 



 



 



 



 




 Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt
 
 
—
  
 
 
80,000
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
80,000
  

 Repayments of current portion of long-term debt
 
 
—
  
 
 
(100,000
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(100,000
) 

 Repayments of short-term debt, net
 
 
—
  
 
 
(59,207
) 
 
 
(37
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(59,244
) 

 Redemption of ISO Class A common stock
 
 
—
  
 
 
(46,740
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(46,740
) 

 Advances received from other subsidiaries
 
 
—
  
 
 
11,109
  
 
 
11,741
  
 
 
(22,850
) 
 
 
—
  

 Payment of debt issuance cost
 
 
—
  
 
 
(4,510
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(4,510
) 

 Excess tax benefits from exercised stock options
 
 
—
  
 
 
19,976
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
19,976
  

 Proceeds from stock options exercised
 
 
—
  
 
 
7,709
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
7,709
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash (used in)/provided by financing activities
 
 
—
  
 
 
(91,663
) 
 
 
11,704
  
 
 
(22,850
) 
 
 
(102,809
) 

 Effect of exchange rate changes
 
 
—
  
 
 
155
  
 
 
(65
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
90
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
—
  
 
 
31,619
  
 
 
6,723
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
38,342
  

 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period
 
 
1
  
 
 
19,386
  
 
 
13,798
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
33,185
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period
 
$
1
  
 
$
51,005
  
 
$
20,521
  
 
 
—
  
 
$
71,527
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental disclosures:
 



 



 



 



 




 Increase in intercompany balances from proceeds received by ISO related to issuance of Verisk common stock from options
exercised
 
$
5,097
  
 
$
5,097
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 
************** 
  119



Table of Contents
Schedule
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves
Schedule II  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves  For the Years Ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009  (In thousands) 
 




















 Description
  
Balance atBeginningof Year
 
  
Charged toCosts andExpenses(1)
 
  
Deductions—Write-offs(2)
 
 
Balance atEnd of Year
 

 Year ended December 31, 2011:
  



  



  



 




 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
$
4,028
  
  
$
1,278
  
  
$
(1,148
) 
 
$
4,158
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Valuation allowance for income taxes
  
$
1,485
  
  
$
130
  
  
$
—
  
 
$
1,615
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Year ended December 31, 2010:
  



  



  



 




 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
$
3,844
  
  
$
648
  
  
$
(464
) 
 
$
4,028
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Valuation allowance for income taxes
  
$
2,110
  
  
$
352
  
  
$
(977
) 
 
$
1,485
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Year ended December 31, 2009:
  



  



  



 




 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
$
6,397
  
  
$
916
  
  
$
(3,469
) 
 
$
3,844
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Valuation allowance for income taxes
  
$
2,098
  
  
$
12
  
  
$
—
  
 
$
2,110
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Primarily additional reserves for bad debts.   


(2)
Primarily accounts receivable balances written off, net of recoveries, and the expiration of loss carryforwards. 
  120



Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on February 28, 2012.   




 VERISK ANALYTICS, INC. (Registrant)



 /s/    Frank J. Coyne

Frank J. Coyne

 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on February 28, 2012.   






 Signature
  
 Capacity




 /s/    Frank J. Coyne Frank J. Coyne
  
 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer (principal executive
officer)




 /s/    Mark V. Anquillare Mark V. Anquillare
  
 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(principal financial officer and principal accounting officer)




 /s/    J. Hyatt Brown J. Hyatt Brown
  
 Director




 /s/    Glen A. Dell Glen A. Dell
  
 Director




 /s/    Christopher M. Foskett
Christopher M. Foskett
  
 Director




 /s/    Constantine P. Iordanou
Constantine P. Iordanou
  
 Director




 /s/    John F. Lehman, Jr. John F. Lehman, Jr.
  
 Director




 /s/    Samuel G. Liss Samuel G. Liss
  
 Director




 /s/    Andrew G. Mills Andrew G. Mills
  
 Director




 /s/    Thomas F. Motamed Thomas F. Motamed
  
 Director




 /s/    Arthur J. Rothkopf Arthur J. Rothkopf
  
 Director




 /s/    David B. Wright David B. Wright
  
 Director

  121



Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX 
 






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description




  3.1
  
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Amendment No. 6 to the Company’s Registration Statement on
Form S-1, dated September 21, 2009.




  3.2
  
Amended and Restated By-Laws, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Amendment No. 6 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1, dated
September 21, 2009.




  4.1
  
Form of Common Stock Certificate, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Amendment No. 6 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1, dated
September 21, 2009.




  4.2
  
Prudential Uncommitted Master Shelf Agreement, dated as of June 13, 2003, among Insurance Services Office, Inc., The Prudential Insurance Company of America, U.S. Private Placement
Fund, Baystate Investments, LLC, United of Omaha Life Insurance Company and Prudential Investment Management, Inc., incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Amendment No. 2 to the Company’s Registration Statement on
Form S-1, dated November 20, 2008.




  4.3
  
Amendment No. 1 to the Prudential Uncommitted Master Shelf Agreement, dated February 1, 2005, among Insurance Services Office, Inc., The Prudential Insurance Company of
America, Prudential Investment Management, Inc. and the other purchasers party thereto, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Amendment No. 2 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1, dated November 20,
2008.




  4.4
  
Amendment No. 2 to the Prudential Uncommitted Master Shelf Agreement, dated June 1, 2005, among Insurance Services Office, Inc., The Prudential Insurance Company of
America, Prudential Investment Management, Inc. and the other purchasers party thereto, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Amendment No. 2 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1, dated November 20,
2008.




  4.5
  
Amendment No. 3 to the Prudential Uncommitted Master Shelf Agreement, dated January 23, 2006, among Insurance Services Office, Inc., The Prudential Insurance Company of
America, Prudential Investment Management, Inc. and the other purchasers party thereto, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to Amendment No. 2 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1, dated November 20,
2008.




  4.6
  
Waiver and Amendment No. 4 to the Prudential Uncommitted Master Shelf Agreement, dated February 28, 2007, among Insurance Services Office, Inc., The Prudential Insurance
Company of America, Prudential Investment Management, Inc. and the other purchasers party thereto, incorporated herein by reference herein to Exhibit 4.6 to Amendment No. 2 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1, dated
November 20, 2008.




  4.7
  
Amendment No. 5 to the Prudential Uncommitted Master Shelf Agreement, dated August 30, 2010, among Insurance Services Office, Inc., The Prudential Insurance Company of America,
Prudential Investment Management, Inc. and the other purchasers party thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1, dated September 16, 2010.




  4.8
  
Waiver, Consent and Amendment No. 6 to the Prudential Uncommitted Master Shelf Agreement, dated March 28, 2011, among Verisk Analytics, Inc., Insurance Services Office,
Inc., The Prudential Insurance Company of America, Prudential Investment Management, Inc. and the other purchasers party thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-3, dated March 29,
2011.




  4.9
  
New York Life Uncommitted Master Shelf Agreement, dated as of March 16, 2007, among Insurance Services Office, Inc., New York Life Insurance Company and the other purchasers
party thereto, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to Amendment No. 2 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1, dated November 20,
2008.
  122



Table of Contents






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description




4.10
  
Waiver, Consent and Amendment No. 2 to the New York Life Uncommitted Master Shelf Agreement, dated March 28, 2011, among Verisk Analytics, Inc., Insurance Services Office,
Inc., New York Life Insurance Company and the other purchasers party thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.11 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-3, dated March 29, 2011.




4.11
  
Third Amended and Restated Sharing Agreement, dated as of March 28, 2011, among Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and the other Lenders party thereto,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.12 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-3, dated March 29, 2011.




4.12
  
Senior Notes Indenture, dated as of April 6, 2011, among Verisk Analytics, Inc., the guarantors named therein and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee,
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 6, 2011.




4.13
  
First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 6, 2011, among Verisk Analytics, Inc., the guarantors named therein and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee,
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 6, 2011.




4.14
  
Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 8, 2011, among Verisk Analytics, Inc., the guarantors named therein and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee,
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 8, 2011.




10.1
  
401(k) Savings Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1, dated
August 12, 2008.




10.2
  
Verisk Analytics, Inc. 2009 Equity Incentive Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Amendment No. 6 to the Company’s Registration Statement on
Form S-1, dated September 21, 2009.




10.3
  
Form of Letter Agreement, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Amendment No. 1 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1, dated
October 7, 2008.




10.4
  
Form of Master License Agreement and Participation Supplement, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Amendment No. 1 to the Company’s Registration
Statement on Form S-1, dated October 7, 2008.




10.5
  
Schedule of Master License Agreements Substantially Identical in All Material Respects to the Form of Master License Agreement and Participation Supplement, incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Amendment No. 2 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1, dated November 20, 2008.




10.6
  
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated October 25, 2011 among Verisk Analytics, Inc., as co-borrower, Insurance Services Office, Inc., as co-borrower, the guarantors party
thereto, and the lenders party thereto, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 26, 2011.




10.7
  
Employment Agreement with Frank J. Coyne, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to Amendment No. 6 to the Company’s Registration Statement on
Form S-1, dated September 21, 2009.




10.8
  
Form of Change of Control Severance Agreement, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Amendment No. 6 to the Company’s Registration Statement on
Form S-1, dated September 21, 2009.




10.9
  
Insurance Services Office, Inc. 1996 Incentive Plan and Form of Stock Option Agreement thereunder, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Amendment No. 7 to
the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1, dated September 29, 2009.




10.10
  
Form of Stock Option Award Agreement, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, dated November 16,
2009.
  123



Table of Contents






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description




21.1
  
Subsidiaries of the Registrant, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 21.1 to Amendment No. 6 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1, dated
September 21, 2009.




23.1
  
Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP.*




31.1
  
Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of Verisk Analytics, Inc. pursuant to Rule 13a-14 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.*




31.2
  
Certification of the Chief Financial Officer of Verisk Analytics, Inc. pursuant to Rule 13a-14 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.*




32.1
  
Certification of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Verisk Analytics, Inc. pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.*
  


*
Filed herewith. 
  124




