
10-K
1
d260652d10k.htm
10-K


10-K


Table of Contents
  UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549
 FORM 10-K  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)  OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934  For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011 
Commission file number 001-35054  Marathon Petroleum Corporation  (Exact name of registrant as specified in
its charter)   






Delaware
 
27-1284632

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
 
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 539 South Main Street, Findlay, OH 45840-3229 
(Address of principal executive offices)  (419) 422-2121  (Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act 
 






 Title of Each Class
 
 Name of Each Exchange on Which
Registered

Common Stock, par value $.01
 
New York Stock Exchange
    
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes  þ    No    ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. Yes ¨ No þ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes þ
No ¨  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
electronically and posted on its corporate web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes þ No ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K. ¨  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definition of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act. (Check one):  Large accelerated filer þ    Accelerated
filer ¨    Non-accelerated filer ¨    Smaller reporting
company ¨  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes ¨ No þ  The aggregate market value of Common Stock held by non-affiliates as of June 30, 2011 was approximately $14.7 billion. This amount is based on the closing price of the registrant’s Common Stock
on the New York Stock Exchange “When Issued” market on June 30, 2011 and the number of shares of registrant’s Common Stock issued pursuant to its spinoff from Marathon Oil Corporation on June 30, 2011. The registrant’s
Common Stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange “Regular Way” market on July 1, 2011. Shares of Common Stock held by executive officers and directors of the registrant are not included in the computation. The registrant,
solely for the purpose of this required presentation, has deemed its directors and executive officers to be affiliates.  There
were 347,614,133 shares of Marathon Petroleum Corporation Common Stock outstanding as of February 15, 2012.  Documents
Incorporated By Reference  Portions of the registrant’s proxy statement relating to its 2012 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are incorporated by reference to the extent set forth in Part III, Items 10-14 of this report. 


Table of Contents
MARATHON PETROLEUM CORPORATION 
Unless otherwise stated or the context otherwise indicates, all references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to “MPC,”
“us,” “our,” “we” or “the Company” mean Marathon Petroleum Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries, and for periods prior to its spinoff from Marathon Oil Corporation, the Refining, Marketing &
Transportation Business of Marathon Oil Corporation.  Table of Contents 
 












 
 
 
  
 
  
Page
 

 PART I
 

  

  










 
 Item 1.
  
 Business
  
 
3
  







 
 Item 1A.
  
 Risk Factors
  
 
21
  







 
 Item 1B.
  
 Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
35
  







 
 Item 2.
  
 Properties
  
 
35
  







 
 Item 3.
  
 Legal Proceedings
  
 
35
  







 
 Item 4.
  
 Mine Safety Disclosures
  
 
37
  






 PART II
 

  

  










 
 Item 5.
  
 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
  
 
38
  







 
 Item 6.
  
 Selected Financial Data
  
 
39
  







 
 Item 7.
  
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  
 
40
  







 
 Item 7A.
  
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
  
 
68
  







 
 Item 8.
  
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
71
  







 
 Item 9.
  
 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
 
124
  







 
 Item 9A.
  
 Controls and Procedures
  
 
124
  







 
 Item 9B.
  
 Other Information
  
 
124
  






 PART III
 

  

  










 
 Item 10.
  
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
125
  







 
 Item 11.
  
 Executive Compensation
  
 
125
  







 
 Item 12.
  
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
  
 
126
  







 
 Item 13.
  
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
126
  







 
 Item 14.
  
 Principal Accounting Fees and Services
  
 
127
  






 PART IV
 

  

  










 
 Item 15.
  
 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
  
 
128
  







 

  
 SIGNATURES
  
 
131
  



Table of Contents
Disclosures Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly Item 1A. Risk Factors, Item 3. Legal Proceedings, Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk, includes forward-looking statements. You can identify our forward-looking statements by words such
as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “goal,” “intend,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “seek,” “target,”
“could,” “may,” “should” or “would” or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. In accordance with “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the
forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to, or
statements that are subject to risks, contingencies or uncertainties that relate to:   


 
•
 
 future levels of revenues, refining and marketing gross margins, retail gasoline and distillate gross margins, merchandise margins, income from
operations, net income or earnings per share;   


 
•
 
 anticipated volumes of feedstock, throughput, sales or shipments of refined products; 
 


 
•
 
 anticipated levels of regional, national and worldwide prices of crude oil and refined products; 
 


 
•
 
 anticipated levels of crude oil and refined product inventories; 
 


 
•
 
 future levels of capital, environmental or maintenance expenditures, general and administrative and other expenses; 
 


 
•
 
 the success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital or maintenance projects; 
 


 
•
 
 expectations regarding the acquisition or divestiture of assets; 
 


 
•
 
 the effect of restructuring or reorganization of business components; 
 


 
•
 
 the potential effects of judicial or other proceedings on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; and
  


 
•
 
 the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as competitors, or federal, foreign, state or local regulatory authorities, or plaintiffs
in litigation.  We have based our forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and
projections about our industry and our company. We caution that these statements are not guarantees of future performance and you should not rely unduly on them, as they involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that we cannot predict. In
addition, we have based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. While our management considers these assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant
business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, our actual results may differ materially from the future
performance that we have expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements. Differences between actual results and any future performance suggested in our forward-looking statements could result from a variety of factors, including the
following:   


 
•
 
 changes in general economic, market or business conditions; 
 


 
•
 
 domestic and foreign supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks; 
 


 
•
 
 the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) to agree on and to influence crude oil price and
production controls; 
  1 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 domestic and foreign supplies of refined products such as gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, home heating oil and petrochemicals;
  


 
•
 
 foreign imports of refined products;   


 
•
 
 refining industry overcapacity or undercapacity;   


 
•
 
 changes in the cost or availability of third-party vessels, pipelines and other means of transportation for crude oil, feedstocks and refined
products;   


 
•
 
 the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels and alternative-fuel vehicles and laws mandating such fuels or vehicles;
  


 
•
 
 fluctuations in consumer demand for refined products, including seasonal fluctuations; 
 


 
•
 
 political and economic conditions in nations that consume refined products, including the United States, and in crude oil producing regions,
including the Middle East, Africa and South America;   


 
•
 
 actions taken by our competitors, including pricing adjustments, expansion of retail activities, and the expansion and retirement of refining
capacity in response to market conditions;   


 
•
 
 changes in fuel and utility costs for our facilities; 
 


 
•
 
 delay of, cancellation of or failure to implement planned capital projects and realize the benefits projected for such projects, or cost overruns
associated with such projects;   


 
•
 
 accidents or other unscheduled shutdowns affecting our refineries, machinery, pipelines or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers;
  


 
•
 
 unusual weather conditions and natural disasters, which can unforeseeably affect the price or availability of crude oil and other feedstocks and
refined products;   


 
•
 
 acts of war, terrorism or civil unrest that could impair our ability to produce or transport refined products or receive feedstocks;
  


 
•
 
 legislative or regulatory action, which may adversely affect our business or operations; 
 


 
•
 
 rulings, judgments or settlements in litigation or other legal, tax or regulatory matters, including unexpected environmental remediation costs, in
excess of any reserves or insurance coverage;   


 
•
 
 labor and material shortages;   


 
•
 
 the maintenance of satisfactory relationships with labor unions and joint venture partners; 
 


 
•
 
 the ability and willingness of parties with whom we have material relationships to perform their obligations to us; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and trade credit, changes in the availability of unsecured credit and changes
affecting the credit markets generally; and   


 
•
 
 the other factors described Item 1A. Risk Factors.  We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements except to the extent required by applicable law. 
  2 


Table of Contents
PART I  Item 1. Business  Overview 
Marathon Petroleum Corporation (“MPC”) was incorporated in Delaware on November 9, 2009 in connection with an internal
restructuring of Marathon Oil Corporation (“Marathon Oil”). On May 25, 2011, the Marathon Oil board of directors approved the spinoff of its Refining, Marketing & Transportation Business (“RM&T Business”) into
an independent, publicly traded company, MPC, through the distribution of MPC common stock to the stockholders of Marathon Oil common stock. In accordance with a separation and distribution agreement between Marathon Oil and MPC, the distribution of
MPC common stock was made on June 30, 2011, with Marathon Oil stockholders receiving one share of MPC common stock for every two shares of Marathon Oil common stock held (the “Spinoff”). Marathon Oil received a private letter ruling
from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of shares of MPC common stock in the Spinoff qualifies as tax-free to Marathon Oil, MPC and Marathon Oil stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes
under Sections 355 and 368(a) and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. Following the Spinoff, Marathon Oil retained no ownership interest in MPC, and each company had separate public ownership, boards of directors and management.
A registration statement on Form 10, as amended through the time of its effectiveness, describing the Spinoff was filed by MPC with the Securities and Exchange Commission and was declared effective on June 6, 2011. All subsidiaries and equity
method investments not contributed by Marathon Oil to MPC remained with Marathon Oil. On July 1, 2011, our common stock began trading “regular-way” on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the ticker symbol
“MPC”.  We are one of the largest petroleum product refiners, marketers and transporters in the United States. Our
operations consist of three business segments:   


 
•
 
 Refining & Marketing—refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our six refineries in the Gulf Coast and Midwest regions of the United
States, purchases ethanol and refined products for resale and distributes refined products through various means, including barges, terminals and trucks that we own or operate. We sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically
and internationally, to buyers on the spot market, to our Speedway business segment and to dealers and jobbers who operate
Marathon® retail outlets; 
 


 
•
 
 Speedway—sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market in the Midwest, primarily through Speedway® convenience stores; and 
 


 
•
 
 Pipeline Transportation—transports crude oil and other feedstocks to our refineries and other locations, delivers refined products to wholesale
and retail market areas and includes, among other transportation-related assets, a majority interest in LOOP LLC, which is the owner and operator of the only U.S. deepwater oil port. 
See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 8 for operating segment and geographic financial information,
which is incorporated herein by reference.  On December 1, 2010, we completed the sale of most of our
Minnesota Assets. These assets included the 74,000 barrel-per-day St. Paul Park refinery and associated terminals, 166 convenience stores primarily branded SuperAmerica® (including six stores in Wisconsin) along with the SuperMom’s® bakery (a baked goods and sandwich supply operation) and certain associated trademarks, SuperAmerica Franchising LLC, interests in pipeline assets in Minnesota and
associated inventories. We refer to these assets as the “Minnesota Assets.” The operating statistics included in this section reflect the exclusion of these assets, except as otherwise indicated. See Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data – Note 5 for additional information on the disposition of these assets. 
  3 


Table of Contents
Our Competitive Strengths  High Quality Asset Base  We believe we are the largest crude oil refiner in
the Midwest and the fifth largest in the United States based on crude oil refining capacity. We currently own a six-plant refinery network with approximately 1.2 million barrels per calendar day (“mmbpcd”) of crude oil throughput
capacity. Our refineries process a wide range of crude oils, including heavy and sour crude oils, which can generally be purchased at a discount to sweet crude, and produce transportation fuels such as gasoline and distillates, as well as other
refined products.  Strategic Location  The geographic locations of our refineries and our extensive midstream distribution system provide us with strategic advantages. Located in Petroleum Administration for Defense District (“PADD”)
II and PADD III, which consist of states in the Midwest and the Gulf Coast regions of the United States, our refineries have the ability to procure crude oil from a variety of supply sources, including domestic, Canadian and other foreign sources,
which provides us with flexibility to optimize supply costs. For example, geographic proximity to Canadian crude oil supply sources allows our refineries to incur lower transportation costs than competitors transporting Canadian crude oil to the
Gulf Coast for refining. Our refinery locations and midstream distribution system also allow us to access export markets and to serve a broad range of key end-user markets across the United States quickly and cost-effectively. 
  

 Attractive Growth Opportunities Through Internal Projects 
We believe that we have attractive growth opportunities through internal capital projects. In 2009, we completed a major expansion project
at our Garyville, Louisiana refinery, which initially expanded the crude oil refining capacity of this refinery by 180 thousand barrels per calendar day (“mbpcd”) to 436 mbpcd. We have continued

  4 


Table of Contents

to debottleneck the expanded refinery and have increased the crude oil refining capacity to 490 mbpcd as of December 31, 2011. The Garyville major expansion project has enhanced our scale
efficiency, our feedstock flexibility and access to global markets. We are also continuing work on a $2.2 billion (excluding capitalized interest) heavy oil upgrading and expansion project at our Detroit, Michigan refinery. We expect construction
will be completed in the third quarter of 2012 with full integration into the refinery by year-end 2012. The project will enable the refinery to process additional heavy, sour crude oils, including Canadian bitumen blends, which have traded at a
steep discount to light sweet crude oil, and is expected to increase the refinery’s crude oil refining capacity by approximately 15 thousand barrels per day (“mbpd”).  Extensive Midstream Distribution Networks  We believe the relative scale of
our transportation and distribution assets and operations distinguishes us from other refining and marketing companies. We currently own, lease or have ownership interests in approximately 8,300 miles of crude oil and refined product pipelines. We
are one of the largest petroleum pipeline companies in the United States on the basis of total volume delivered. We also own one of the largest private domestic fleets of inland petroleum product barges and one of the largest terminal operations in
the United States, as well as trucking and rail assets. We operate this system in coordination with our refining and marketing network, which enables us to optimize feedstock and raw material supplies and refined product distribution. This in turn
results in economy-of-scale advantages that contribute to profitability.  Competitively Positioned Marketing Operations 
We are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers within our market area. We have
two strong retail brands: Speedway® and Marathon®. We believe our 1,371
Speedway® convenience stores, which we operate through a wholly owned subsidiary, Speedway LLC, comprise the
fourth largest chain of company-owned and operated retail gasoline and convenience stores in the United States. The Marathon brand is an established motor fuel brand in the Midwest and Southeast regions of the United States, and is available through
more than 5,000 retail outlets operated by jobbers and dealers in 18 states. We believe our distribution system allows us to maximize the sales value of our products and minimize cost. 
  5 


Table of Contents
Established Track Record of Profitability and Diversified Income Stream 
We have demonstrated an ability to achieve positive financial results throughout all stages of the recent business cycle. Our historical
net income in 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $2.39 billion, $623 million and $449 million, respectively. We believe our business mix and strategies position us well to continue to achieve competitive financial results. 
As shown in the following chart, income from operations attributable to the Speedway and Pipeline Transportation segments is less
sensitive to business cycles while income from operations for the Refining & Marketing segment fluctuates to a greater degree.   


 Our Business Strategies  Maintain Investment Grade Credit Profile  As of December 31, 2011, we
had $3.08 billion in cash and cash equivalents and $3.0 billion in unused committed credit facilities. We also had $3.31 billion of debt at year-end, which represented only 26 percent of our total capitalization. This strong balance sheet and
liquidity position helped support our investment-grade credit profile that we have had since the Spinoff and continues to be a strategic objective as we go forward.  Balance Investments in the Business with Return of Capital to Stockholders 
A significant decision we make is how to use the cash that we generate to maximize stockholder value. In October 2011, the board of
directors authorized a 25 percent increase in the quarterly dividend and in February 2012, the repurchase of up to $2.0 billion of our common stock over the next two years. We also seek to increase stockholder value by investing in acquisitions,
capital additions and other commercial opportunities.  Pursue Growth by Expanding and Upgrading Existing Asset Base 
We continually evaluate opportunities to expand our existing asset base and consider capital projects that enhance our core
competitiveness in the refining, marketing and transportation businesses. Examples include our Garyville refinery major expansion project completed in 2009 and our on-going heavy oil upgrading and expansion project at our Detroit, Michigan refinery.
We will continue to pursue other organic growth opportunities that provide an attractive return on capital. 
  6 


Table of Contents
Increase Profitability Through Margin Improvement 
We intend to increase the profitability of our existing assets by pursuing a number of margin improvement opportunities, including
increasing our feedstock flexibility and our production of high-value end products.  Selectively Pursue Acquisitions 
We will continue to evaluate potential acquisitions, with the aim of increasing earnings while maintaining financial discipline. For
example, our Speedway segment completed the acquisition of 23 convenience stores in the Chicago market in 2011 and we announced on February 9, 2012 that Speedway signed an agreement to acquire an additional 88 convenience stores throughout
Indiana and Ohio from GasAmerica Services, Inc. We intend to continue growing the Speedway segment, in part, by acquisition.  Evaluate
Strategic Alternatives for Midstream Assets  On February 1, 2012, we announced that we are evaluating strategic
alternatives with respect to certain of our midstream assets, including, but not limited to, the possible formation and initial public offering of a master limited partnership (“MLP”). Midstream assets are generally considered those
involved in transportation, storage and logistics operations. If we determine to further pursue an initial public offering of an MLP, we would not expect to file a registration statement before the end of the second quarter of 2012. 
The above discussion contains forward-looking statements with respect to our business strategies, including our midstream asset
evaluation. There can be no assurance that we will be successful, in whole or in part, in pursuing our business strategies, including whether our evaluation of our midstream assets will lead to an initial public offering of an MLP or any other
transaction, or that if any transaction is further pursued, that it will be consummated. Some of the factors that could affect the midstream asset evaluation and the outcome of such evaluation include risks relating to securities markets generally,
the impact of adverse market conditions affecting our midstream business, adverse changes in laws including with respect to tax and regulatory matters and other risks.  Refining & Marketing  We currently own and operate six refineries
in the Gulf Coast and Midwest regions of the United States with an aggregate crude oil refining capacity of approximately 1.2 mmbpcd as of December 31, 2011. During 2011, our refineries processed 1,177 mbpd of crude oil and 181 mbpd of
other charge and blend stocks. During 2010 (including the St. Paul Park refinery until December 1), our refineries processed 1,173 mbpd of crude oil and 162 mbpd of other charge and blend stocks. The table below sets forth the location and
crude oil refining capacity of each of our refineries.   








 Refinery
  
December 31, 2011Crude Oil Refining Capacity (mbpcd) (a) 
 




 Garyville, Louisiana
  
 
490  
  




 Catlettsburg, Kentucky
  
 
233  
  




 Robinson, Illinois
  
 
206  
  




 Detroit, Michigan
  
 
106  
  




 Texas City, Texas
  
 
80  
  




 Canton, Ohio
  
 
                           
 78  
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
1,193  
  


  
  
  
 
  


 
(a) 
 Refining throughput can exceed crude oil capacity due to the processing of other feedstocks in addition to crude oil and the timing of planned
turnaround and major maintenance activity. 
 
  7 


Table of Contents
Our refineries include crude oil atmospheric and vacuum distillation, fluid catalytic
cracking, catalytic reforming, desulfurization and sulfur recovery units. The refineries process a wide variety of crude oils and produce numerous refined products, ranging from transportation fuels, such as reformulated gasolines, blend-grade
gasolines intended for blending with fuel ethanol and ultra-low-sulfur diesel fuel, to heavy fuel oil and asphalt. Additionally, we manufacture aromatics, propane, propylene, cumene and sulfur. Our refineries are integrated with each other via
pipelines, terminals and barges to maximize operating efficiency. The transportation links that connect our refineries allow the movement of intermediate products between refineries to optimize operations, produce higher margin products and utilize
our processing capacity efficiently. For example, naphtha may be moved from Texas City to Robinson where excess reforming capacity is available. Also, by shipping intermediate products between facilities during partial refinery shutdowns, we are
able to utilize processing capacity that is not directly affected by the shutdown work.  Garyville, Louisiana Refinery.
Our Garyville, Louisiana refinery is located along the Mississippi River in southeastern Louisiana between New Orleans and Baton Rouge. The Garyville refinery is configured to process heavy sour crude oil into products such as gasoline, distillates,
asphalt, polymer grade propylene, propane, isobutane, sulfur and fuel-grade coke. An expansion project was completed in the fourth quarter of 2009 that increased Garyville’s crude oil refining capacity, making it one of the largest refineries
in the U.S. Our Garyville refinery has earned designation as a U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) Voluntary Protection Program (“VPP”) Star site. 
Catlettsburg, Kentucky Refinery. Our Catlettsburg, Kentucky refinery is located in northeastern Kentucky on the western bank of
the Big Sandy River, near the confluence with the Ohio River. The Catlettsburg refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into products such as gasoline, distillates, asphalt, cumene, petrochemicals, propane and propylene. 
Robinson, Illinois Refinery. Our Robinson, Illinois refinery is located in southeastern Illinois. The Robinson refinery processes
sweet and sour crude oils into products such as multiple grades of gasoline, distillates, anode-grade coke, propane, butane and propylene. The Robinson refinery has earned designation as an OSHA VPP Star site. 
Detroit, Michigan Refinery. Our Detroit, Michigan refinery is located near Interstate 75 in southwest Detroit. It is the only
petroleum refinery currently operating in Michigan. The Detroit refinery processes light sweet and heavy sour crude oils, including Canadian crude oils, into products such as gasoline, distillates, asphalt, slurry, propane, and propylene. Our
Detroit refinery earned designation as a Michigan VPP Star site in 2010. In 2007, we approved a heavy oil upgrading and expansion project at this refinery, with a current projected cost of $2.2 billion (excluding capitalized interest). This project
will enable the refinery to process an additional 80 mbpd of heavy sour crude oils, including Canadian bitumen blends, and will increase its total crude oil refining capacity by approximately 15 mbpd. Construction began in the first half of 2008 and
overall progress reached 85 percent completion at December 31, 2011. The project is expected to complete construction in the third quarter of 2012 with full integration into the refinery by year-end 2012. 
Canton, Ohio Refinery. Our Canton, Ohio refinery is located approximately 60 miles southeast of Cleveland, Ohio. The Canton
refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into products such as gasoline, distillates, asphalt, propane, slurry and roofing flux.  Texas City, Texas Refinery. Our Texas City, Texas refinery is located on the Texas Gulf Coast approximately 30 miles south of Houston, Texas. The refinery processes sweet crude oil into products
such as gasoline, chemical grade propylene, propane, slurry and aromatics.  Planned maintenance activities, or turnarounds,
requiring temporary shutdown of certain refinery operating units, are periodically performed at each refinery. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional detail.

  8 


Table of Contents
The above discussion includes forward-looking statements concerning the Detroit refinery
heavy oil upgrading and expansion project. Some factors that could affect this project include transportation logistics, availability of materials and labor, unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions, delays in obtaining or conditions imposed by
necessary government and third-party approvals and other risks customarily associated with construction projects.  Refined Product
Yields  The following table sets forth our refinery production (including the St. Paul Park refinery until
December 1, 2010) by product group for each of the last three years.   
















 Refined Product Yields (mbpd)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 






 Gasoline
  
 
739  
  
  
 
726  
  
  
 
669  
  






 Distillates
  
 
433  
  
  
 
409  
  
  
 
326  
  






 Propane
  
 
25  
  
  
 
24  
  
  
 
23  
  






 Feedstocks and special products
  
 
109  
  
  
 
97  
  
  
 
62  
  






 Heavy fuel oil
  
 
21  
  
  
 
24  
  
  
 
24  
  






 Asphalt
  
 
56  
  
  
 
76  
  
  
 
66  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
        1,383  
  
  
 
        1,356  
  
  
 
        1,170  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Crude Oil Supply  We obtain most of the crude oil we refine through negotiated contracts and purchases or exchanges on the spot market. Our crude oil supply contracts are generally term contracts with market-related
pricing provisions. The following table provides information on our sources of crude oil for each of the last three years (including the St. Paul Park refinery until December 1, 2010). The crude oil sourced outside of North America was
acquired from various foreign national oil companies, production companies and trading companies.   
















 Sources of Crude Oil Refined (mbpd)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 






 United States
 
 
668  
  
 
 
720  
  
 
 
613  
  






 Canada
 
 
177  
  
 
 
115  
  
 
 
136  
  






 Middle East and Africa
 
 
286  
  
 
 
250  
  
 
 
154  
  






 Other international
 
 
46  
  
 
 
88  
  
 
 
54  
  







 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Total
 
 
1,177  
  
 
 
1,173  
  
 
 
957  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Average cost of crude oil throughtput (dollars per barrel)
 
 
  $    102.83  
  
 
 
  $    78.57  
  
 
 
  $    62.10  
  
 Our refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks and distribute our refined products through a
variety of channels, including pipelines, trucks, railcars, ships and barges.  Refined Product Marketing and Distribution
 We believe we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers
and consumers within our 17-state market area in the Midwest, Gulf Coast and Southeast regions of the United States. Independent retailers, wholesale customers, Marathon-branded jobbers, our
Speedway® convenience stores, airlines, transportation companies and utilities comprise the core of our customer
base. In addition, we sell distillates and asphalt for export to international customers, primarily out of the Garyville refinery. Sales destined for export comprised approximately 16 percent of our distillate sales and 11 percent of our asphalt
sales in 2011. 
  9 


Table of Contents
The following table sets forth, as a percentage of total refined product sales, sales of
refined products to our different customer types for the past three years (including the Minnesota Assets until December 1, 2010).   
















 Refined Product Sales by Customer Type
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 






 Private-brand marketers, commercial and industrial customers, including spot market
 
 
    72%  
  
 
 
    70%  
  
 
 
    68%  
  






 Marathon branded dealers and jobbers
 
 
17%  
  
 
 
17%  
  
 
 
18%  
  







Speedway®
convenience stores
 
 
11%  
  
 
 
13%  
  
 
 
14%  
  
 The following table sets forth the approximate number of retail outlets (by state) where dealers and
jobbers maintain Marathon-branded retail outlets, as of December 31, 2011:   








 State
 
Approximate Number ofMarathon® Retail Outlets
 

 Alabama
 
 
138  
  




 Florida
 
 
262  
  




 Georgia
 
 
266  
  




 Illinois
 
 
439  
  




 Indiana
 
 
652  
  




 Kentucky
 
 
599  
  




 Maryland
 
 
1  
  




 Michigan
 
 
779  
  




 Minnesota
 
 
82  
  




 North Carolina
 
 
314  
  




 Ohio
 
 
871  
  




 Pennsylvania
 
 
24  
  




 South Carolina
 
 
128  
  




 Tennessee
 
 
172  
  




 Texas
 
 
1  
  




 Virginia
 
 
138  
  




 West Virginia
 
 
99  
  




 Wisconsin
 
 
                           
     81  
  


 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 
5,046  
  


 
  
  
 
 The following table sets forth our refined products sales volumes by product group and our average sales
price for each of the last three years (including the Minnesota Assets until December 1, 2010).   
















 Refined Product Sales (mbpd)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Gasoline
  
 
908  
  
  
 
912  
  
  
 
819  
  






 Distillates
  
 
459  
  
  
 
434  
  
  
 
355  
  






 Propane
  
 
25  
  
  
 
24  
  
  
 
23  
  






 Feedstocks and special products
  
 
111  
  
  
 
103  
  
  
 
75  
  






 Heavy fuel oil
  
 
19  
  
  
 
23  
  
  
 
24  
  






 Asphalt
  
 
59  
  
  
 
77  
  
  
 
69  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
1,581  
  
  
 
1,573  
  
  
 
1,365  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 Average sales price, including consumer excise taxes (dollars per barrel)
  
 
  $    123.14  
  
  
 
  $    94.13  
  
  
 
  $    77.91  
  

  10 


Table of Contents
As of December 31, 2011, we owned and operated 62 light product and 21 asphalt
terminals. In addition, we distribute through approximately 52 third-party light product and 12 third-party asphalt terminals in our market area. As of that date, our marine transportation operations included 15 towboats, as well as 167 owned and 14
leased barges that transport refined products on the Ohio, Mississippi and Illinois rivers and their tributaries, as well as the Intercoastal Waterway. We lease or own approximately 1,950 railcars of various sizes and capacities for movement and
storage of refined products. In addition, we own 124 transport trucks for the movement of refined products. 
Gasoline and Distillates. We sell gasoline, gasoline blendstocks and distillates (including No. 1 and
No. 2 fuel oils, kerosene, jet fuel and diesel fuel) to wholesale customers, Marathon-branded jobbers and dealers and our Speedway® convenience stores in the Midwest, Gulf Coast and Southeast regions of the United States and on the spot market. In addition, we sell diesel fuel for export to
international customers. We sold 56 percent of our gasoline sales volumes and 89 percent of our distillates sales volumes on a wholesale or spot market basis in 2011. The demand for gasoline and distillates is seasonal in many of our markets, with
demand typically at its highest levels during the summer months.  We have blended ethanol into gasoline for more than 20 years
and began expanding our blending program in 2007, in part due to federal regulations that require us to use specified volumes of renewable fuels. Ethanol volumes sold in blended gasoline (including the Minnesota Assets until December 1, 2010)
were 70 mbpd in 2011, 68 mbpd in 2010 and 60 mbpd in 2009. The future expansion or contraction of our ethanol blending program will be driven by the economics of the ethanol supply and by government regulations. We sell reformulated gasoline, which
is also blended with ethanol, in parts of our marketing territory, including: Chicago, Illinois; Louisville, Kentucky; northern Kentucky; and Milwaukee, Wisconsin. We also sell biodiesel-blended diesel fuel in Illinois, Kentucky, North Carolina,
Florida, Georgia and Pennsylvania.  We hold a 36 percent interest in an entity which owns and operates a
110-million-gallon-per-year ethanol production facility in Clymers, Indiana. We also own a 50 percent interest in an entity which owns a 110-million-gallon-per-year ethanol production facility in Greenville, Ohio. Both of these facilities are
managed by a co-owner.  Propane. We produce propane at all six of our refineries. Propane is primarily used for home
heating and cooking, as a feedstock within the petrochemical industry, for grain drying and as a fuel for trucks and other vehicles. Our propane sales are typically split evenly between the home heating market and industrial consumers. 
Feedstocks and Special Products. We are a producer and marketer of feedstocks and specialty products. Product availability varies
by refinery and includes propylene, cumene, dilute naphthalene oil, molten sulfur, toluene, benzene and xylene. We market all products domestically to customers in the chemical, agricultural and fuel blending industries. In addition, we have the
capacity to produce 1,400 tons per calendar day of anode-grade coke at our Robinson refinery, which is used to make carbon anodes for the aluminum smelting industry, and 5,800 tons per calendar day of fuel-grade coke at the Garyville refinery, which
is used for power generation and in miscellaneous industrial applications.  Heavy Fuel Oil. We produce and market heavy
residual fuel oil or related components at all six of our refineries. Heavy residual fuel oil is primarily used in the utility and ship bunkering (fuel) industries, though there are other more specialized uses of the product. 
Asphalt. We have refinery-based asphalt production capacity of up to 92 mbpcd. We market asphalt through 33 owned or leased
terminals throughout the Midwest and Southeast. We have a broad customer base, including asphalt-paving contractors, government entities (states, counties, cities and townships) and asphalt roofing shingle manufacturers. We sell asphalt in the
domestic and export wholesale markets via rail, barge and vessel. We also produce asphalt cements, polymer modified asphalt, emulsified asphalt and industrial asphalts. 
  11 


Table of Contents
Speedway  Our Speedway segment sells gasoline and merchandise through convenience stores that it owns and operates, primarily under the Speedway brand. Diesel fuel is also sold at the vast majority of these
convenience stores. Speedway-branded convenience stores offer a wide variety of merchandise, such as prepared foods, beverages and non-food items, including a number of private-label items. Speedy Rewards™, an industry-leading customer loyalty
program, has achieved significant customer engagement over the years since its introduction in 2004. The average monthly active membership in 2011 was more than 3 million customers. 
As of December 31, 2011, Speedway had 1,371 convenience stores in seven states. Revenues from sales of merchandise (including sales
from convenience stores we sold as part of the December 1, 2010 sale of the Minnesota Assets) totaled $2.92 billion in 2011, $3.20 billion in 2010 and $3.11 billion in 2009. The demand for gasoline is seasonal, with the highest demand usually
occurring during the summer driving season. Margins from the sale of merchandise tend to be less volatile than margins from the retail sale of gasoline and diesel fuel.  As of December 31, 2011, the Speedway segment’s convenience stores were located in the following states:   








 State
  
Number ofConvenience Stores
 

 Illinois
  
 
108  
  

 Indiana
  
 
237  
  

 Kentucky
  
 
131  
  

 Michigan
  
 
301  
  

 Ohio
  
 
471  
  

 West Virginia
  
 
60  
  

 Wisconsin
  
 
                        63  

  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
1,371  
  


  
  
  
 
 Harris Interactive’s annual Harris Poll EquiTrend® brand equity study named Speedway the number one gasoline brand with consumers for each of the past three years. For
2011, Speedway was presented with a Convenience Retailing Award from CSP Information Group, Inc., for consumer experience provided by the Speedy Rewards™ program.  Pipeline Transportation  We own common carrier pipeline systems through
Marathon Pipe Line LLC (“MPL”) and Ohio River Pipe Line LLC (“ORPL”), both of which are wholly owned subsidiaries. These pipeline systems transport crude oil and refined products, primarily in the Midwest and Gulf Coast regions,
to our refineries, our terminals and other pipeline systems. Our common carrier pipeline systems are subject to state and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission regulations and guidelines, including published tariffs for the transportation of crude
oil and refined products. Our MPL and ORPL wholly owned and undivided interest common carrier systems consist of 1,707 miles of crude oil lines and 1,825 miles of refined product lines comprising 31 systems located in 11 states, as of
December 31, 2011. In addition, MPL leases and operates 217 miles of common carrier refined product pipelines.  Our major
MPL owned and operated crude oil lines run from: Patoka, Illinois to Catlettsburg Kentucky; Patoka, Illinois to Robinson, Illinois; Patoka, Illinois to Lima, Ohio; and Samaria, Michigan to Detroit, Michigan. In addition, MPL owns a 33 percent
undivided joint interest in the Capline system, a large diameter crude oil pipeline extending from St. James, Louisiana to Patoka, Illinois; and a 26 percent undivided joint interest in the Maumee Pipeline System, a large diameter crude oil pipeline
extending from Lima, Ohio to Samaria, Michigan. Our major common carrier refined product pipelines include the owned and
operated Cardinal Products Pipeline and the Wabash Pipeline. The Cardinal Products Pipeline delivers refined products from Kenova, West Virginia, 
  12 


Table of Contents

to Columbus, Ohio. The Wabash Pipeline system delivers refined products from Robinson, Illinois, to various terminals in the area of Chicago, Illinois. Other significant refined product pipelines
owned and operated by MPL extend from: Robinson, Illinois to Louisville, Kentucky; Robinson, Illinois to Lima, Ohio; Wood River, Illinois to Indianapolis, Indiana; Garyville, Louisiana to Zachary, Louisiana; and Texas City, Texas to Pasadena, Texas.
 The MPL common carrier pipeline network is one of the largest petroleum pipeline systems in the United States, based on total
volume delivered. Third parties generated 17 percent of the crude oil and refined product shipments on our MPL and ORPL common carrier pipelines in 2011. Our MPL and ORPL common carrier pipelines transported the volumes shown in the following table
for each of the last three years.   
















 Pipeline Barrels Handled (mbpd)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Crude oil trunk lines (a)
  
 
1,184  
  
  
 
1,204  
  
  
 
1,113  
  

 Refined products trunk lines
  
 
        1,031  
  
  
 
        968  
  
  
 
        953  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
2,215  
  
  
 
2,172  
  
  
 
2,066  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
(a)
 For all periods presented, excludes volumes transported on a crude oil system that was transferred from common carrier to private service in the
fourth quarter of 2009.  As of December 31, 2011, we had partial ownership interests in the following
pipeline companies that have approximately 110 miles of crude oil pipelines and 3,600 miles of refined products pipelines, including about 970 miles operated by MPL:   


 
•
 
 Centennial Pipeline LLC (“Centennial”) – We hold a 50% interest in Centennial which owns a refined products pipeline system
connecting the Gulf Coast region with the Midwest market;   


 
•
 
 Explorer Pipeline Company (“Explorer”) – We hold a 17% interest in Explorer, a refined products pipeline system extending from the
Gulf Coast to the Midwest;   


 
•
 
 LOCAP LLC (“LOCAP”) – We hold a 59% interest in LOCAP which owns a crude oil pipeline connecting the Louisiana Offshore Oil Port and
the Capline system;   


 
•
 
 LOOP LLC (“LOOP”) – We hold a 51% interest in LOOP, the owner and operator of the Louisiana Offshore Oil Port, which is the only U.S.
deepwater oil port capable of receiving crude oil from very large crude carriers, located 18 miles off the coast of Louisiana, and a crude oil pipeline connecting the port facility to storage caverns and tanks at Clovelly, Louisiana;
  


 
•
 
 Muskegon Pipeline LLC (“Muskegon”) – We hold a 60% interest in Muskegon, which owns a refined products pipeline extending from
Griffith, Indiana to North Muskegon, Michigan; and   


 
•
 
 Wolverine Pipe Line Company (“Wolverine”) – We hold a 6 percent interest in Wolverine, a refined products pipeline system extending
from Chicago, Illinois to Toledo, Ohio.  We also own 175 miles of private crude oil pipelines, 693 miles of
private refined products pipelines and private storage facilities that are operated, by MPL, for the benefit of our Refining & Marketing segment on a cost recovery basis. Our major private crude oil lines run from Lima, Ohio to Canton,
Ohio; and St. James, Louisiana to Garyville, Louisiana. Our major private refined products pipelines run from Robinson, Illinois to Lima, Ohio; Martinsville, Illinois to Indianapolis, Indiana; and Princeton, Indiana to Robinson, Illinois. In
addition, we own a 65 percent undivided joint interest in the Louisville-Lexington system, a refined products pipeline system extending from Louisville to Lexington, Kentucky.  Competition and Market Conditions  The downstream petroleum business is
highly competitive, particularly with regard to accessing crude oil and other feedstock supply and the marketing of refined products. We compete with a large number of other companies to acquire crude oil for refinery processing and in the
distribution and marketing of a full array of 
  13 


Table of Contents

petroleum products. Based upon the “The Oil & Gas Journal 2011 Worldwide Refinery Survey,” we ranked fifth among U.S. petroleum companies on the basis of U.S. crude oil
refining capacity as of January 1, 2012. We compete in four distinct markets for the sale of refined products—wholesale, spot, branded and retail distribution. We believe we compete with about 70 companies in the sale of refined products
to wholesale marketing customers, including private-brand marketers and large commercial and industrial consumers; about 90 companies in the sale of refined products in the spot market; 11 refiners or marketers in the supply of refined products to
refiner-branded dealers and jobbers; and approximately 240 retailers in the retail sale of refined products. In addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the
requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. We do not produce any of the crude oil we refine.  We
also face strong competition for sales of retail gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise. Our competitors include service stations and convenience stores operated by fully integrated major oil companies and their dealers and jobbers and other
well-recognized national or regional convenience stores and travel centers, often selling gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise at aggressively competitive prices. Non-traditional retailers, such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, have
affected the convenience store industry with their entrance into the retail transportation fuel business. Energy Analysts International, Inc. estimates such retailers had 12 percent of the U.S. gasoline market in 2011. 
Our pipeline transportation operations are highly regulated, which affects the rates that our common carrier pipelines can charge for
transportation services and the return we obtain from such pipelines.  Market conditions in the oil and gas industry are
cyclical and subject to global economic and political events and new and changing governmental regulations. Our operating results are affected by price changes in crude oil, natural gas and refined products, as well as changes in competitive
conditions in the markets we serve. Price differentials between sweet and sour crude oil also affect our operating results. 
Demand for gasoline, diesel fuel and asphalt is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our
markets, primarily due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and construction. As a result, the operating results for each of our segments for the first and fourth quarters are generally lower than for those in the second and third quarters of
each calendar year.  Environmental Matters  Our management is responsible for ensuring that our operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that support and foster our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and for
reviewing our overall performance associated with various environmental compliance programs. We also have a Crisis Management Team, composed primarily of senior management, that oversees our response to any major environmental or other emergency
incident involving us or any of our facilities.  We believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention to issues
concerning the extent, causes of and responsibility for climate change will continue, with the potential for further regulations that could affect our operations. Currently, various legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gases are
in various phases of review, discussion or implementation. The cost to comply with these laws and regulations cannot be estimated at this time, but could be significant. For additional information, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. We estimate and
publicly report greenhouse gas emissions from our operations and products we produce. Additionally, we continuously strive to improve operational and energy efficiencies through resource and energy conservation where practicable and cost effective.
 Our operations are also subject to numerous other laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These
environmental laws and regulations include, among others, the Clean Air Act with respect to air emissions, the Clean Water Act (“CWA”) with respect to water discharges, the Resource Conservation and

  14 


Table of Contents

Recovery Act (“RCRA”) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
(“CERCLA”) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA-90”) with respect to oil pollution and response. In addition, many states where we operate have similar laws
dealing with similar matters. New laws are being enacted and regulations are being adopted by various regulatory agencies on a continuing basis, and the costs of compliance with any new laws and regulations are very difficult to estimate at this
time. In some cases, existing environmental laws can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup of a contaminated site on any responsible party without regard to negligence or fault and impose liability on us for the conduct of others or
conditions others have caused, or for our acts that complied with all applicable requirements when we performed them. The ultimate cost of cleanup under such laws can be difficult to accurately predict. In other cases, the ultimate impact of
complying with existing laws and regulations may not be clearly known or determinable because certain implementing regulations for some environmental laws have not yet been finalized or, in some instances, are undergoing revision. These
environmental laws and regulations, particularly the 1990 Amendments to the Clean Air Act and its implementing regulations, new water quality requirements and stricter fuel regulations, could result in increased capital, operating and compliance
costs. For a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and costs of compliance for air, water, solid waste and
remediation, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Environmental Matters and Compliance Costs.  Air  We are subject to substantial requirements in connection with
air emissions from our operations. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) issued an “endangerment finding” in 2009 to the effect that greenhouse gases contribute to air pollution and endanger public health and welfare.
Related to this endangerment finding, in April 2010, the EPA finalized a greenhouse gas emissions standard for mobile sources (cars and light duty vehicles). The endangerment finding along with the mobile source standard and EPA’s determination
that greenhouse gases are subject to regulation under the Clean Air Act, was expected to lead to widespread regulation of stationary sources of greenhouse gas emissions. As a result, the EPA issued a so-called “tailoring rule” to limit the
applicability of the EPA’s major permitting programs to larger sources of greenhouse gas emissions, such as our refineries. Although legal challenges have been filed against these EPA actions, no court decisions are expected until sometime in
2012. The EPA has also issued its plan for establishing specific greenhouse gas emission requirements under the Clean Air Act. Under this plan, the EPA is expected to propose broad standards for refineries in early 2012, and is expected to issue
final standards as soon as November 2012. Congress may continue to consider legislation on greenhouse gas emissions, which may include a delay in the implementation of greenhouse gas regulations by the EPA or a limitation on EPA authority to
regulate greenhouse gases. Although there may be an adverse financial impact (including compliance costs, potential permitting delays and potential reduced demand for certain refined products made from crude oil) associated with any legislation,
regulation or other action, the extent and magnitude of that impact cannot be reliably or accurately estimated due to the fact that requirements have only recently been adopted and the present uncertainty regarding the additional measures and how
they will be implemented. Private parties have sued various emitters of greenhouse gas emissions, but we have not been named in any of those lawsuits. Private-party litigation is also pending against federal and certain state governmental entities
seeking additional greenhouse gas emission reductions beyond those currently being undertaken.  Of particular significance to
our refining operations were EPA Mobile Source Air Toxics II (“MSAT II”) regulations that require reduced benzene levels in refined products. We have completed all MSAT II projects and all MSAT II compliance units were in operation as of
December 31, 2011. We spent approximately $620 million over a four-year period that began in 2008 to comply with the MSAT II regulations.  The EPA is in the process of implementing regulations to address the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (the “NAAQS”) for fine particulate emissions and ozone. The EPA has proposed and
finalized rules directed at 
  15 


Table of Contents

electric generating units but not refineries. However, a federal court has stayed some requirements and other requirements are expected to be finalized during 2012. We cannot reasonably estimate
any final financial impact of these rules until the EPA has finalized rules directed at refineries, resolved legal challenges, and the costs for implementation of the final rules have been evaluated. 
The EPA has reviewed and has revised or will propose to revise NAAQS for criteria air pollutants. The EPA promulgated a revised ozone
standard in March 2008, and commenced a multi-year process to develop the implementing rules required by the Clean Air Act. In 2009, the EPA announced that it would reconsider the level of the ozone standard, but then in 2011, it was announced that
the ozone standard would not be further revised but would be further reviewed as part of EPA’s next periodic review of that standard. Also, in 2010, the EPA adopted new short term standards for nitrogen dioxide and sulfur dioxide. We anticipate
the EPA will issue a proposed revision to the fine particulate matter (PM 2.5) standard in 2012. We cannot reasonably estimate the final financial impact of these revised NAAQS standards until the standards are finalized, implementing rules are
established and judicial challenges over the revised NAAQS standards are resolved.  The EPA Boiler and Process Heater Maximum
Achievable Control Technology (“Boiler MACT”) rule was finalized in March 2011 with work practice standards that are applicable to refinery and natural gas fired equipment. Under the Boiler MACT rule, we anticipate limited financial
impacts from implementing the EPA’s work practice standards for existing equipment by the March 23, 2014 compliance deadline. However, the EPA is currently reconsidering most provisions of this rule and on December 23, 2011, the EPA
proposed additional revisions to the Boiler MACT rule as part of its reconsideration. We cannot reasonably estimate the ultimate financial impact of the Boiler MACT rule until after the reconsideration by the EPA. 
Water  We
maintain numerous discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA and have implemented systems to oversee our compliance efforts. In addition, we are regulated under OPA-90, which amended
the CWA. Among other requirements, OPA-90 requires the owner or operator of a tank vessel or a facility to maintain an emergency plan to respond to releases of oil or hazardous substances. Also, in case of any such release, OPA-90 requires the
responsible company to pay resulting removal costs and damages. OPA-90 also provides for civil penalties and imposes criminal sanctions for violations of its provisions.  Additionally, OPA-90 requires that new tank vessels entering or operating in U.S. waters be double-hulled and that existing tank vessels that are not double-hulled be retrofitted or removed from U.S.
service, according to a phase-out schedule. All of the barges used for river transport of our raw materials and refined products meet the double-hulled requirements of OPA-90. We operate facilities at which spills of oil and hazardous substances
could occur. Some coastal states in which we operate have passed state laws similar to OPA-90, but with expanded liability provisions, including provisions for cargo owner responsibility as well as ship owner and operator responsibility. We have
implemented emergency oil response plans for all of our components and facilities covered by OPA-90 and we have established Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasures (“SPCC”) plans for facilities subject to CWA SPCC requirements.
 Solid Waste  We continue to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting waste disposal
practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of underground storage tanks (“USTs”) containing regulated substances. We have ongoing RCRA
treatment and disposal operations at one of our facilities and primarily utilize offsite third-party treatment and disposal facilities. Ongoing RCRA-related costs, however, are not expected to be material to our results of operations or cash flows.

  16 


Table of Contents
Remediation  We own or operate, or have owned or operated, certain retail outlets where, during the normal course of operations, releases of refined products from USTs have occurred. Federal and state laws require
that contamination caused by such releases at these sites be assessed and remediated to meet applicable standards. The enforcement of the UST regulations under RCRA has been delegated to the states, which administer their own UST programs. Our
obligation to remediate such contamination varies, depending on the extent of the releases and the stringency of the laws and regulations of the states in which we operate. A portion of these remediation costs may be recoverable from the appropriate
state UST reimbursement funds once the applicable deductibles have been satisfied. We also have ongoing remediation projects at a number of our refinery, terminal and pipeline locations. Penalties or other sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance.
 Claims under CERCLA and similar state acts have been raised with respect to the clean-up of various waste disposal and other
sites. CERCLA is intended to facilitate the clean-up of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the hazardous
substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among
them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and clean-up costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, we are unable to reasonably estimate our ultimate cost of compliance with
CERCLA; however, we do not believe such costs will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
Mileage Standards and Renewable Fuels Requirements  In 2007, the U.S. Congress passed the Energy Independence and Security Act (“EISA”), which, among other things, set a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light
trucks in the United States by model year 2020, and contains a second Renewable Fuel Standard (the “RFS2”). The EPA announced the final RFS2 regulations on February 4, 2010. The RFS2 required 13.95 billion gallons of renewable fuel
usage in 2011, increasing to 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. In the near term, the RFS2 will be satisfied primarily with fuel ethanol blended into gasoline. The RFS2 presents production and logistic challenges for both the fuel ethanol and petroleum
refining and marketing industries. The RFS2 has required, and may in the future continue to require, additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased fuel ethanol use. Within the overall 36.0 billion gallon RFS2, EISA
established an advanced biofuel RFS2 volume of 1.35 billion gallons in 2011 and increases to 21.0 billion gallons by 2022. Subsets within the advanced biofuel RFS2 include 0.80 billion gallons of biomass-based diesel in 2011, which is capped at 1.0
billion gallons starting in 2012, and 0.25 billion gallons of cellulosic biofuel in 2011, increasing to 16.0 billion gallons by 2022. The EPA determined that 0.25 billion gallons of cellulosic biofuel would not be produced in 2011, and lowered the
requirement to 6.6 million gallons. In addition, the requirement of 0.5 billion gallons of cellulosic biofuel for 2012 will also not be produced and the EPA has lowered the requirement to 8.65 million gallons. The advanced biofuels
programs will present specific challenges in that we may have to enter into arrangements with other parties to meet our obligations to use advanced biofuels, including biomass-based diesel and cellulosic biofuel, with potentially uncertain supplies
of these new fuels. The advanced requirements for 2011 and 2012 require a substantial level of Brazilian sugarcane ethanol imports since other sources of advanced renewable fuels are not available. 
We have made investments in infrastructure capable of expanding biodiesel blending capability in 2011, to be operational in 2012, to help
comply with the biodiesel RFS2 requirement with physical blending as well as buying needed biodiesel Renewable Identification Numbers (“RINs”) in the EPA-created biodiesel RINs market. 
On October 13, 2010, the EPA issued a partial waiver decision under the Clean Air Act to allow for an increase in the amount of
ethanol permitted to be blended into gasoline from 10 percent (“E10”) to 15 percent (“E15”) for 2007 and newer light-duty motor vehicles. Then on January 21, 2011, the EPA issued a second waiver for the use of E15 in
vehicles model year 2001-2006. There are numerous issues, including state and federal regulatory issues, that would need to be addressed before E15 can be marketed for use in any traditional gasoline engines. As of the end of 2011, E15 is still not
a legal fuel except in flex fuel vehicles in states that do not require an ASTM International fuel. 
  17 


Table of Contents
There will be compliance costs and uncertainties regarding how we will comply with the
various requirements contained in EISA and related regulations. We may experience a decrease in demand for refined petroleum products due to an increase in combined fleet mileage or due to refined petroleum products being replaced by renewable
fuels.  Trademarks, Patents and Licenses  Our Marathon trademark is material to the conduct of our refining and marketing operations, and our Speedway trademark is material to the conduct of our retail marketing operations. We currently hold a
number of U.S. and foreign patents and have various pending patent applications. Although in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important to us, we do not regard any single patent or license or group of related patents or licenses as
critical or essential to our business as a whole. In general, we depend on our technological capabilities and the application of know-how rather than patents and licenses in the conduct of our operations. 
Employees  We had
approximately 24,210 regular employees as of December 31, 2011, which includes approximately 16,739 employees of Speedway. Approximately 182 of these employees were working in the operations conducted through the Minnesota Assets, which we sold
in December 2010. Approximately 2,473 employees were transitioned to the buyer in 2011, primarily from Speedway, and the remaining 182 employees transitioned in January 2012.  Certain hourly employees at our Catlettsburg, Canton and Texas City refineries are represented by the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers
Union under labor agreements that were due to expire in 2012. New labor agreements were negotiated in Canton and Texas City with expiration dates of January 2015 and March 2015, respectively. The labor agreement in Catlettsburg was temporarily
extended while negotiations continue on a new agreement. The International Brotherhood of Teamsters represents certain hourly employees at our Detroit refinery under a labor agreement that is scheduled to expire in January 2014. 
Executive Officers of the Registrant  The executive officers of MPC and their ages as of February 1, 2012, are as follows:   








 Name
  
 Age
  
 Position with MPC

 Gary R. Heminger
  
 58
  
 President and Chief Executive Officer





 Pamela K.M. Beall
  
 55
  
 Vice President, Investor Relations and Government & Public Affairs





 Richard D. Bedell
  
 57
  
 Senior Vice President, Refining





 Michael G. Braddock
  
 54
  
 Vice President and Controller





 Timothy T. Griffith
  
 42
  
 Vice President of Finance and Treasurer





 Thomas M. Kelley
  
 52
  
 Senior Vice President, Marketing





 Anthony R. Kenney
  
 58
  
 President, Speedway LLC





 Rodney P. Nichols
  
 59
  
 Vice President, Human Resources and Administrative Services





 C. Michael Palmer
  
 58
  
 Senior Vice President, Supply, Distribution and Planning





 Garry L. Peiffer
  
 60
  
 Executive Vice President, Corporate Planning and Investor & Government Relations





 George P. Shaffner
  
 52
  
 Senior Vice President, Transportation and Logistics





 John S. Swearingen
  
 52
  
 Vice President, Health, Envirnmental, Safety & Security





 Donald C. Templin
  
 48
  
 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer





 Donald W. Wehrly
  
 52
  
 Vice President and Chief Information Officer





 J. Michael Wilder
  
 59
  
 Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

  18 


Table of Contents
With the exception of Mr. Griffith and Mr. Templin, all of the executive officers
have held responsible management or professional positions with MPC, its affiliates or prior to the Spinoff with Marathon Oil or its affiliates, for more than five years.  Mr. Heminger was appointed president and chief executive officer effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Heminger was president of Marathon Petroleum Company LP (formerly
known as Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC and Marathon Petroleum Company LLC), currently a wholly owned subsidiary of MPC and prior to the Spinoff, a wholly owned subsidiary of Marathon Oil. He assumed responsibility as president of Marathon Petroleum
Company LP in September 2001.  Ms. Beall was appointed vice president, Investor Relations and Government &
Public Affairs effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Ms. Beall was vice president, Products Supply and Optimization of Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in June 2010. She served as vice president of Global Procurement
for Marathon Oil Company between 2007 and 2010 and prior to that as organizational vice president, Business Development—Downstream.  Mr. Bedell was appointed senior vice president, Refining effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Bedell served in the same capacity for Marathon Petroleum Company LP
beginning in June 2010 and as manager, Louisiana Refining Division beginning in 2001.  Mr. Braddock was appointed vice
president and controller effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Braddock was controller of Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in 2008 and manager, Internal Audit between 2005 and 2008. 
Mr. Griffith was appointed vice president of Finance and treasurer effective August 1, 2011. Mr. Griffith was vice
president and treasurer of Cooper-Standard Automotive, a global automotive supplier, in Novi, Michigan, from 2006 to 2008. Subsequent to his position at Cooper-Standard, Mr. Griffith was vice president Investor Relations and treasurer of
Smurfit-Stone Container Corporation, a packaging manufacturer, in St. Louis, Missouri.  Mr. Kelley was appointed senior
vice president, Marketing effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Kelley served in the same capacity for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in January 2010. Previously, he served as director of Crude Supply and
Logistics for Marathon Petroleum Company LP from January 2008, and as a Brand Marketing manager for eight years prior to that. 
Mr. Kenney has served as president of Speedway LLC since August 2005.  Mr. Nichols was appointed vice president, Human Resources and Administrative Services effective June 30, 2011 and served in the same capacity for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in April
1998.  Mr. Palmer was appointed senior vice president, Supply Distribution & Planning effective June 30,
2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Palmer served as vice president, Supply Distribution & Planning for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in June 2010. He served as Crude Supply and Logistics director for Marathon Petroleum
Company LP beginning in February 2010, as senior vice president, Oil Sands Operations and Commercial Activities for Marathon Oil Canada Corporation beginning in 2007, and as manager of Business Development for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning
in 1999.  Mr. Peiffer was appointed executive vice president of Corporate Planning and Investor & Government
Relations effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Peiffer was senior vice president of Finance and Commercial Services for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in 1998. 
  19 


Table of Contents
Mr. Shaffner was appointed senior vice president, Transportation and Logistics
effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Shaffner served in the same capacity for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in June 2010. Previously, Mr. Shaffner served as division manager of the St. Paul Park, Minnesota
refinery beginning in 2003 and as Michigan Refining Division manager beginning in October 2006.  Mr. Swearingen was
appointed vice president of Health, Environmental, Safety & Security effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Swearingen was president of Marathon Pipe Line LLC beginning in 2009 and the Illinois Refining Division
manager beginning in November 2001.  Mr. Templin was appointed senior vice president and chief financial officer
effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Templin was a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an audit, tax and advisory services provider, with various audit and management responsibilities beginning in 1996. 
Mr. Wehrly was appointed vice president and chief information officer effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment,
Mr. Wehrly was the manager of Information Technology Services for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in 2003. 
Mr. Wilder was appointed vice president, general counsel and secretary effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment,
Mr. Wilder was associate general counsel of Marathon Oil Company beginning in 2010 and general counsel and secretary of Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in 1997.  Available Information  General information about MPC, including Corporate
Governance Principles and Charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, can be found at www.marathonpetroleum.com. In addition, our Code of Business Conduct and Code of Ethics for
Senior Financial Officers are available at http://www.marathonpetroleum.com/Investor_Center/.  MPC uses its website,
www.marathonpetroleum.com, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, financial information and market data. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q
and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished with the SEC. These documents are
also available in hard copy, free of charge, by contacting our Investor Relations office. In addition, our website allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to automatically receive email alerts when we post news releases and
financial information on our website. Information contained on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other securities filings. 
  20 


Table of Contents
Item 1A. Risk Factors 
You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form
10-K in evaluating us and our common stock. Some of these risks relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate, while others relate principally to our Spinoff from Marathon Oil, the ownership of our common stock and
securities markets generally.  Our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be
materially and adversely affected by any of these risks, and, as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline.  Risks
Relating to Our Industry and Our Business  A substantial or extended decline in refining and marketing gross margins
would reduce our operating results and cash flows and could materially adversely impact our future rate of growth and the carrying value of our assets.  Our operating results, cash flows, future rate of growth and the carrying value of our assets are highly dependent on the margins we realize on our refined products. The measure of the difference between
market prices for refined products and crude oil, or crack spread, is commonly used by the industry as a proxy for refining and marketing gross margins. Historically, refining and marketing gross margins have been volatile, and we believe they will
continue to be volatile in the future. Our margins and cost of producing gasoline and other refined products are influenced by a number of conditions, including the price of crude oil. We do not produce crude oil and must purchase all of the crude
oil we refine. The price of crude oil and the price at which we can sell our refined products may fluctuate independently due to a variety of regional and global market conditions. The overall change in crack spreads will impact our refining and
marketing gross margins. Many of the factors influencing the change in crack spreads and refining and marketing gross margins are beyond our control. These factors include: 
 


 
•
 
 worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for crude oil and refined products; 
 


 
•
 
 the cost of crude oil to be manufactured into refined products; 
 


 
•
 
 utilization rates of refineries;   


 
•
 
 natural gas and electricity supply costs incurred by refineries; 
 


 
•
 
 the ability of the members of OPEC to agree to and maintain production controls; 
 


 
•
 
 political instability or armed conflict in oil and natural gas producing regions; 
 


 
•
 
 local weather conditions;   


 
•
 
 natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornados; 
 


 
•
 
 the price and availability of alternative and competing forms of energy; 
 


 
•
 
 domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and 
 


 
•
 
 local, regional, national and worldwide economic conditions. 
Some of these factors can vary by region and may change quickly, adding to market volatility, while others may have long-term effects.
The long-term effects of these and other factors on refining and marketing gross margins are uncertain. 
  21 


Table of Contents
We purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before refining and selling the refined products.
Price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial results. We also purchase refined products manufactured by others for sale to
our customers. Price level changes during the periods between purchasing and selling those refined products also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 
Lower refining and marketing gross margins may reduce the amount of refined product that we produce, which may reduce our revenues,
operating income and cash flows. Significant reductions in refining and marketing gross margins could require us to reduce our capital expenditures or impair the carrying value of our assets. 
The availability of crude oil and increases in crude oil prices may reduce our profitability and refining and marketing gross margin.
 The profitability of our operations depends largely on the difference between the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks
that we refine and the selling prices we obtain for refined products. A portion of our crude oil is purchased from various foreign national oil companies, producing companies and trading companies, including suppliers from the Middle East. These
purchases are subject to political, geographic and economic risks attendant to doing business with suppliers located in that area of the world. Our overall profitability could be materially adversely affected by the availability of supply and rising
crude oil and other feedstock prices that we do not recover in the marketplace. Refining and marketing gross margins historically have been volatile and vary with the level of economic activity in various marketing areas, the regulatory climate,
logistical capabilities and the available supply of refined products. Our overall profitability could be materially adversely affected by factors that affect those margins, such as rising refined product prices that we are not able to recover in the
retail marketplace.  Changes in environmental or other laws or regulations may reduce our refining and marketing gross margin.
 Various environmental, safety, health, security, marketing and pricing laws and regulations have imposed, and are expected
to continue to impose, increasingly stringent and costly requirements on our operations, which may reduce our refining and marketing gross margin. Environmental laws and regulations, in particular, are subject to frequent change, and many of them
have become and will continue to become more stringent.  We believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention
to issues concerning the extent of, causes of, and responsibility for climate change will continue, with the potential for further laws and regulations that could affect our operations. Currently, various legislative and regulatory measures to
address greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) are in various phases of review, discussion or implementation in the United States. These include EPA programs to control greenhouse gas emissions and state
actions to develop statewide or regional programs, each of which could impose reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. These actions could result in increased (1) costs to operate and maintain our facilities, (2) capital expenditures to
install new emission controls on our facilities and (3) costs to administer and manage any potential greenhouse gas emissions regulations or carbon trading or tax programs. Although uncertain, these developments could increase our costs, reduce
the demand for the products we sell and create delays in our obtaining air pollution permits for new or modified facilities. 
Increases in fuel mileage standards and renewable fuels mandates may reduce demand for refined products. Tax incentives and other
subsidies have made renewable fuels more competitive with refined products than they otherwise would have been, which may have reduced and may further reduce refined product margins and their ability to compete with renewable fuels. In 2007, the
U.S. Congress passed the EISA, which, among other things, sets a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light trucks in the United States by model year 2020, and contains a second Renewable Fuel Standard commonly referred
to as RFS2. In December 2011, the EPA and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration jointly proposed regulations that would establish average industry fleet fuel economy standards as high as 49.6 miles per gallon by model year 2025. The

  22 


Table of Contents

RFS2 was 13.95 billion gallons of renewable fuel in 2011, and will increase to 36.0 billion gallons in 2022. In the near term, the RFS2 will be satisfied primarily with fuel ethanol blended into
gasoline. The RFS2 presents production and logistics challenges for both the fuel ethanol and petroleum refining industries. The RFS2 has required, and may in the future continue to require, additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to
accommodate increased fuel ethanol use. Within the overall 36.0 billion gallon RFS2, the EISA established an advanced biofuel RFS2 volume of 1.35 billion gallons in 2011 and increases to 21.0 billion gallons in 2022. Subsets within the advanced
biofuel RFS2 include 0.08 billion gallons of biomass-based diesel in 2011, which is capped at 1.0 billion gallons beginning in 2012, and 0.25 billion gallons of cellulosic biofuel in 2011, increasing to 16.0 billion gallons by 2022. The EPA
determined that 0.25 billion gallons of cellulosic biofuel would not be produced in 2011 and has lowered the requirement to 6.6 million gallons. The advanced biofuels programs will present specific challenges in that we may have to enter into
arrangements with other parties to meet our obligations to use advanced biofuels, including biomass-based diesel and cellulosic biofuel, with potentially uncertain supplies of these new fuels. There will be compliance costs and uncertainties
regarding how we will comply with the various requirements contained in this law and related regulations. We may experience a decrease in demand for refined petroleum products due to an increase in combined fleet mileage or due to refined petroleum
products being replaced by renewable fuels.  Our operations and those of our predecessors could expose us to civil claims by
third parties for alleged liability resulting from contamination of the environment or personal injuries caused by releases of crude oil, motor fuel and other substances. For example, we have been, and presently are, a defendant in a lawsuit
involving products liability and other claims related to alleged contamination of groundwater with the gasoline oxygenate methyl tertiary butyl ether (“MTBE”). We may become involved in further litigation or other proceedings, or we may be
held responsible in existing or future litigation or proceedings, the costs of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 
We have in the past operated convenience stores with underground storage tanks (“USTs”), in various jurisdictions, and are
currently operating convenience stores that have USTs in numerous states in the United States. Federal and state regulations and legislation govern the USTs, and compliance with those requirements can be costly. The operation of USTs also poses
certain other risks, including damages associated with soil and groundwater contamination. Leaks from USTs which may occur at one or more of our convenience stores, or which may have occurred at our previously operated convenience stores, may impact
soil or groundwater and could result in substantial cleanup costs, fines or civil liability for us. The discovery of additional contamination or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations at these or other convenience stores in the future
could result in significant additional costs.  We have in the past and will continue to dispose of various wastes at lawful
disposal sites. Environmental laws including CERCLA, and similar state laws can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup on any responsible party, without regard to negligence or fault, and impose liability on us for the conduct of others or
conditions others have caused, or for our acts that complied with all applicable requirements when we performed them.  If
foreign ownership of our stock exceeds certain levels, we could be prohibited from operating inland river vessels, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 
We are subject to a variety of U.S. federal statutes and regulations, including the Shipping Act of 1916, as amended, and the Merchant
Marine Act of 1920, as amended, that govern the ownership and operation of certain vessels used to carry cargo between U.S. ports which we refer to collectively as the Maritime Laws. Generally, the Maritime Laws require that vessels engaged in U.S.
coastwise trade, and corporations operating such vessels, must be owned by U.S. citizens. Although our restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions intended to assure compliance with these provisions of the Maritime Laws, if we fail to
maintain compliance we would be prohibited from operating vessels in the U.S. inland waters during any period in which we did not comply with these regulations. Such a prohibition could materially and adversely affect our business, financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows. 
  23 


Table of Contents
If we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and in a timely
manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 
Delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities (including
the upgrading and expansion of our Detroit refinery and improvements and repairs to our other facilities) could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results. Delays in making required
changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we produce. Such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors, many of which are beyond
our control, including:   


 
•
 
 denial of or delay in receiving requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits; 
 


 
•
 
 unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; 
 


 
•
 
 disruptions in transportation of components or construction materials; 
 


 
•
 
 adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our
facilities, or those of vendors or suppliers;   


 
•
 
 shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; 
 


 
•
 
 market-related increases in a project’s debt or equity financing costs; and 
 


 
•
 
 nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or subcontractors. 
Any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our ongoing capital projects, including the upgrading and expansion
of our Detroit refinery. If we were unable to make up the delays associated with such factors or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows.  We will continue to incur substantial capital expenditures and operating costs as a result of
compliance with, and changes in, environmental, health, safety and security laws and regulations, and as a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 
Our businesses are subject to numerous laws, regulations and other requirements relating to the protection of the environment, including
those relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, pollution prevention, greenhouse gas emissions, and characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, as well as laws and regulations relating to public
and employee safety and health, and to facility security. We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of these laws and regulations. To the extent these
expenditures, as is the case with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our operating results will be adversely affected. The specific impact of these laws and regulations on us and our competitors may
vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of operating facilities, marketing areas, crude oil and feedstock sources and production processes. We may also be required to make expenditures to modify operations, install
pollution control equipment, perform site cleanups or curtail operations that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may become subject to liabilities that we currently do
not anticipate in connection with new, amended or more stringent requirements, stricter interpretations of existing requirements or the future discovery of contamination. In addition, any failure by us to comply with existing or future laws or
regulations could result in civil penalties or criminal fines and other sanctions and enforcement actions against us. 
  24 


Table of Contents
Legislation or regulatory activity that impacts or could impact our operations includes,
among others:   


 
•
 
 In 2009, the EPA issued a finding that greenhouse gas emissions contribute to air pollution that endangers public health and welfare. Related to the
endangerment finding, in April 2010, the EPA finalized a greenhouse gas emission standard for mobile sources (cars and other light duty vehicles). The endangerment finding, along with the mobile source standard and EPA’s determination that
greenhouse gases are subject to regulation under the U.S. Clean Air Act, as amended (the “Clean Air Act”), was expected to lead to widespread regulation of stationary sources of greenhouse gas emissions. The EPA has issued a so-called
tailoring rule to limit the applicability of the EPA’s major permitting programs to larger sources of greenhouse gas emissions, such as our refineries. Although legal challenges have been filed against these EPA actions, no court decisions are
expected until sometime later in 2012. The EPA has also issued its plan for establishing specific greenhouse gas emission standards under the Clean Air Act. Under this plan, the EPA is expected to propose standards for refineries in 2012 and issue
final standards as soon as November 2012. Congress may continue to consider legislation on greenhouse gas emissions, which may include a delay in the implementation of greenhouse gas emissions regulations by the EPA or a limitation on EPA authority
to regulate greenhouse gases.   


 
•
 
 The United States pledge in 2009, as part of the Copenhagen Accord, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020, remains
in effect. Meetings of the United Nations Climate Change Conference, however, have produced no legally binding emission reduction requirements that apply to the United States. 
 


 
•
 
 The State of California enacted legislation effective in 2007 capping California’s greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 levels by 2020 and
California has established a cap-and-trade program which will start capping emissions in 2013 for significant sources of greenhouse gases. We do not conduct business in California, but other states where we have operations could adopt similar
greenhouse gas legislation.  Although there may be adverse financial impacts (including compliance costs,
potential permitting delays and potential reduced demand for certain refined products made from crude oil) associated with any legislation, regulation, EPA action or other action, the extent and magnitude of that impact cannot be reliably or
accurately estimated due to the fact that various requirements have only recently been adopted and there exists present uncertainty regarding additional measures and how they may be implemented. Private-party litigation has also been brought against
various emitters of greenhouse gas emissions, but we have not been named in any of those lawsuits. Private party litigation is also pending against federal and certain state governmental entities seeking additional greenhouse gas emission reductions
beyond those currently being undertaken.  Worldwide political and economic developments could materially and adversely
impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Local political and economic factors in
global markets could have a material adverse effect on us. Continued hostilities in the Middle East and the occurrence or threat of future terrorist attacks could adversely affect the economies of the United States and other developed countries. A
lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could cause our revenues and margins to decline and limit our future growth prospects. These risks could lead to increased volatility in prices for refined
products. Additionally, these risks could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult or costly for us to access capital and to obtain the insurance coverage that we consider adequate. 
In addition, a significant portion of our feedstock requirements is satisfied through supplies originating in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait,
Canada, Mexico and various other foreign countries. We are, therefore, subject to the political, geographic and economic risks attendant to doing business with suppliers located in, and supplies originating from, those areas. If one or more of our
supply sources were eliminated, or if political events disrupt our traditional crude oil supply, we believe that adequate alternative supplies of crude oil would be available, but it is 
  25 


Table of Contents

possible that we would be unable to find alternative sources of supply. If we are unable to obtain adequate crude oil volumes or are able to obtain such volumes only at unfavorable prices, our
operations could be adversely affected, including reduced sales volumes of refined products or reduced margins as a result of higher crude oil costs, materially and adversely impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations and
cash flows.  Actions of governments through tax and other legislation, executive order and commercial restrictions could
reduce our operating profitability. The U.S. government can prevent or restrict us from doing business with foreign countries. 
Competitors that produce their own supply of feedstocks, have more extensive retail outlets, or have greater financial resources may
have a competitive advantage.  The downstream petroleum business is highly competitive, particularly with regard to
accessing crude oil and feedstock supply and marketing refined products. We compete with many companies for available supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks and for outlets for our refined products. In addition, we compete with producers and
marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. We do not produce any of our crude oil supply. Many of our competitors, however,
obtain a significant portion of their crude oil from their own exploration and production activities and some have more extensive retail outlets than we have. Competitors that have their own exploration and production activities are at times able to
offset losses from downstream operations with profits from upstream operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refined product margins or feedstock shortages. 
Some of our competitors also have significantly greater financial and other resources than we have. Those competitors may have a greater
ability to respond to volatile industry or market conditions, such as shortages of crude oil or other feedstocks or intense price fluctuations.  We also face strong competition in the market for the sale of retail gasoline, diesel and merchandise. Our competitors include service stations and convenience stores owned or operated by fully integrated
major oil companies or their dealers or jobbers and other well-recognized national or regional retail outlets, often selling gasoline or merchandise at very competitive prices. Several non-traditional retailers such as supermarkets, club stores and
mass merchants, are in the retail fuel business. These non-traditional gasoline retailers have obtained a significant share of the transportation fuels market, and we expect their market share to grow. Because of their diversity, integration of
operations, experienced management and greater resources, these companies may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions or levels of low or no profitability in the retail segment of the market. In addition, these retailers may use
promotional pricing or discounts, both at the pump and in the store, to encourage in-store merchandise sales. These activities by our competitors could pressure us to offer similar discounts, adversely affecting our profit margins. Additionally, the
loss of market share by our convenience stores to these and other retailers relating to either gasoline or merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 
Our operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses. We do not insure against all potential losses and, therefore, our business,
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected liabilities and increased costs.  Our operations are subject to business interruptions due to scheduled refinery turnarounds and unplanned events such as explosions, fires, pipeline ruptures or other interruptions, crude oil or refined
product spills, severe weather and labor disputes. For example, some of our pipelines provide the almost exclusive form of transportation of crude oil to, or refined products from, some of our refineries, and a prolonged interruption in service of
any of these pipelines as a result of a pipeline rupture or due to any other reason could materially and adversely affect the operations, profitability and cash flows of the connected refinery. Similar risks may apply to third parties who transport
crude oil and refined products to, from and among our facilities. Any prolonged,  unplanned interruption in our operations
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial 
  26 


Table of Contents

condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operations are also subject to the additional hazards of pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks. These
hazards could result in serious personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property and equipment, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to us. Various hazards have adversely affected us in the
past, and damages resulting from a catastrophic occurrence in the future involving us or any of our assets or operations may result in our being named as a defendant in one or more lawsuits asserting potentially substantial claims or in our being
assessed potentially substantial fines by governmental authorities.  We maintain insurance against many, but not all,
potential losses or liabilities arising from operating hazards in amounts that we believe to be prudent. Uninsured losses and liabilities arising from operating hazards could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Historically, we have maintained insurance coverage for physical damage and resulting business interruption to our major facilities,
with significant self-insured retentions. In the future, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance
policies have increased substantially and could escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, due to hurricane activity in recent years, the
availability of insurance coverage for our facilities for windstorms in the Gulf of Mexico region has been reduced.  In
addition, our information technology systems and network infrastructure are subject to unauthorized access or attack, which could result in the loss of sensitive business information, systems interruptions or the disruption of our business
operations. To protect against such attempts of unauthorized access or attack, we have implemented infrastructure protection technologies and disaster recovery plans. The level of protection and disaster recovery capability varies from site to site,
and there can be no guarantee that such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be totally effective.  We are subject to interruptions
of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil and refined products. 
We utilize the services of third parties to transport crude oil and refined products to and from our refineries. In addition to our own
operational risks discussed above, we could experience interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined products to market if the ability of the pipelines or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of
weather events, accidents, governmental regulations or third-party actions. A prolonged disruption of the ability of a pipeline or vessels to transport crude oil or refined product to or from one or more of our refineries could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Our operating results are seasonal and
generally are lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year.  Demand for gasoline and diesel is higher during the
spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets due to seasonal increases in highway traffic. As a result, our operating results for the first and fourth quarters are generally lower than for those in the second and
third quarters of each year.  We may incur losses as a result of our forward-contract activities and derivative transactions.
 We currently use commodity derivative instruments, and we expect to enter into these types of transactions in the future,
as well as derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and interest rate cap agreements. Given the impact a failure of a broker or counterparty to perform would have on the effectiveness of these transactions, we also include broker
and counterparty credit reviews as a part of our overall effectiveness assessment. To the extent the instruments we utilize to manage these exposures are not effective, we may incur losses related to the ineffective portion of the derivative
transaction or costs related to moving the derivative positions to another broker or counterparty once a failure has occurred. 
  27 


Table of Contents
We have substantial debt obligations that could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed by a deterioration of our credit profile, a decrease in debt capacity and unsecured
commercial credit available to us, or by factors adversely affecting the credit markets generally.  On February 1,
2011, we completed the offering of $3.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of outstanding notes. At December 31, 2011, our total indebtedness for borrowed money and capital lease obligations was $3.31 billion. We may incur substantial
additional indebtedness in the future.  Our indebtedness may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could have
material adverse consequences, including:   


 
•
 
 increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; 
 


 
•
 
 limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry;
  


 
•
 
 limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders; 
 


 
•
 
 limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and 
 


 
•
 
 requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for
working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes.  A decrease in overall debt and
commercial credit capacity, including unsecured credit extended by third-party suppliers, or a deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money and limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, which
could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  During the past
three years, the credit markets and the financial services industry experienced a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of
intervention from the United States federal government. These circumstances and events led to reduced credit availability, tighter lending standards and higher interest rates on loans. While we cannot predict the future conditions of the credit
markets, future turmoil in the credit markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and cash flows, particularly if our ability to borrow money from lenders or access the capital markets to finance our
operations were to be impaired.  Compliance with and changes in tax laws could materially and adversely affect our performance.
 We are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal and state income taxes and transactional taxes such as
excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise, withholding and property taxes. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations could result in increased expenditures by us for tax liabilities in the future. Many of these
liabilities are subject to periodic audits by taxing authorities. Subsequent changes to our tax liabilities as a result of these audits could subject us to interest and penalties. 
Litigation by private plaintiffs or government officials could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows.  We currently are defending litigation and anticipate that we will be required to
defend new litigation in the future. The subject matter of such litigation may include releases of hazardous substances from our facilities, products liability, consumer credit or privacy laws, product pricing or antitrust laws or any other laws or
regulations that apply to our operations. While an adverse outcome in most litigation matters would not be 
  28 


Table of Contents

expected to be material to us, in some litigation the plaintiff or plaintiffs seek alleged damages involving large classes of potential litigants, and may allege damages relating to extended
periods of time or other alleged facts and circumstances that could increase the amount of potential damages. Attorneys general and other government officials may pursue litigation in which they seek to recover civil damages from companies on behalf
of a state or its citizens for a variety of claims, including violation of consumer protection and product pricing laws or natural resources damages. We are defending litigation of that type and anticipate that we will be required to defend new
litigation of that type in the future. If we are not able to successfully defend such litigation, it may result in liability to our company that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows. We do not have insurance covering all of these potential liabilities. In addition to substantial liability, plaintiffs in litigation may also seek injunctive relief which, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our future
business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  A portion of our workforce is unionized, and we may
face labor disruptions that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Approximately 30 percent of our refining employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The contract for the hourly workers at our Catlettsburg refinery was due to expire in January 2012. It
has been temporarily extended while negotiations continue on a new collective bargaining agreement. The contracts for the hourly workers at our Detroit, Canton and Texas City refineries are scheduled to expire in January 2014, January 2015 and
March 2015, respectively. We cannot provide assurance that these contracts will not be renewed at an increased cost to us or that we will not experience work stoppages in the future as a result of labor disagreements. 
Risks Relating to our Spinoff from Marathon Oil  Our historical consolidated financial information does not necessarily reflect what our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would have been as an independent public company during
the periods presented.  The historical consolidated financial information we have included in this Annual Report on Form
10-K does not necessarily reflect what our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would have been as an independent public company during the periods prior to the Spinoff from Marathon Oil. This is primarily a result of the
following factors:   


 
•
 
 our historical consolidated financial results for periods prior to the Spinoff reflect allocations of expenses for services historically provided by
Marathon Oil, and those allocations may be significantly lower than the comparable expenses we would have incurred as an independent company;   


 
•
 
 our working capital requirements historically were satisfied as part of Marathon Oil’s corporate-wide cash management programs, and our cost of
debt and other capital may be significantly different from that reflected in our historical consolidated financial statements;   


 
•
 
 the historical consolidated financial information may not fully reflect the increased costs associated with being an independent public company,
including significant changes that occurred in our cost structure, management, financing arrangements and business operations as a result of our Spinoff from Marathon Oil, including all the costs related to being an independent public company; and
  


 
•
 
 the historical consolidated financial information may not fully reflect the effects of certain liabilities that were assumed by our company.

  29 


Table of Contents
We incurred significant costs to create the corporate infrastructure necessary to operate
as an independent public company, and we will continue to experience increased ongoing costs in connection with being an independent public company.  Marathon Oil performed many important corporate infrastructure functions for us prior to the Spinoff on a cost allocation basis spread among all of the Marathon Oil businesses. These functions included
some information technology, treasury, tax administration, accounting, financial reporting, human resources services, incentive compensation, legal and other services. With completion of the Spinoff, we established our own corporate infrastructure,
which resulted in the incurrence of significant costs. The ongoing costs associated with maintaining a corporate infrastructure as an independent public company and performing these services may significantly exceed the amounts reflected in our
historical consolidated financial statements.  We are subject to continuing contingent liabilities of Marathon Oil following the Spinoff.
 Although the Spinoff has occurred, there are several significant areas where liabilities of Marathon Oil may become our
obligations. For example, under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the “Code”) and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the Marathon Oil consolidated tax reporting group during any taxable period or
portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the Spinoff is jointly and severally liable for the federal income tax liability of the entire Marathon Oil consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. In
connection with the Spinoff, we entered into a tax sharing agreement with Marathon Oil that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the Marathon Oil consolidated tax reporting group between us and Marathon Oil. However, if Marathon
Oil is unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes. Other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing
tax-qualified pension plans as well as other contingent liabilities.  If the Spinoff were ultimately determined not to
qualify as a tax-free transaction, Marathon Oil and its stockholders could be subject to material amounts of taxes and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify Marathon Oil for material taxes pursuant to indemnification
obligations under the tax sharing agreement.  Marathon Oil received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue
Service (the “IRS”), to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of shares of MPC common stock in the Spinoff qualifies as tax-free to Marathon Oil, us and Marathon Oil stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes under
Sections 355 and 368(a) and related provisions of the Code. If the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then Marathon Oil would not be able to continue
to rely on the ruling. Furthermore, the IRS does not rule on whether a distribution such as the Spinoff satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code. Rather, the private letter ruling is
based on representations by Marathon Oil that those requirements have been satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling.  We are not aware of any facts or circumstances that would cause the assumptions or representations that were relied on in the private letter ruling to be inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect.
If, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling, the Spinoff were determined not to qualify under Section 355 of the Code, Marathon Oil would be subject to tax as if it had sold its shares of common stock of our company in a taxable
sale for their fair market value and would recognize taxable gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of such shares over its tax basis in such shares.  With respect to taxes and other liabilities that could be imposed on Marathon Oil in connection with the Spinoff (and certain related transactions) as a result of a final determination that is
inconsistent with the anticipated tax consequences, as set forth in the private letter ruling, under the terms of the tax sharing agreement we entered into with Marathon Oil, we will be liable to Marathon Oil for any such taxes or liabilities
attributable to actions taken by or with respect to us, any of our affiliates, or any person that, after the Spinoff, is our affiliate. We may 
  30 


Table of Contents

be similarly liable if we breach specified representations or covenants set forth in the tax sharing agreement. If we are required to indemnify Marathon Oil for taxes incurred as a result of the
Spinoff (or certain related transactions) being taxable to Marathon Oil, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 
Potential liabilities associated with certain assumed obligations under the tax sharing agreement cannot be precisely quantified at
this time.  Under the tax sharing agreement we entered into with Marathon Oil, following the Spinoff we are responsible
generally for all taxes attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries, whether accruing before, on or after the Spinoff. We also agreed to be responsible for, and indemnify Marathon Oil with respect to, all taxes arising as a result of the Spinoff
(or certain internal restructuring transactions) failing to qualify as transactions under Sections 368(a) and 355 of the Code for U.S. federal income tax purposes (which could result, for example, from a merger or other transaction involving an
acquisition of our stock) to the extent such tax liability arises as a result of any breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or other obligation by us or certain affiliates made in connection with the issuance of the private letter ruling
relating to the Spinoff or in the tax sharing agreement. As described above, such tax liability would be calculated as though Marathon Oil (or its affiliate) had sold its shares of common stock of our company in a taxable sale for their fair market
value, and Marathon Oil (or its affiliate) would recognize taxable gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of such shares over its tax basis in such shares. In addition, we agreed to indemnify Marathon Oil for specified
tax-related liabilities associated with the 2005 transaction in which we acquired the minority interest in our refining joint venture from Ashland Inc. Our indemnification obligations to Marathon Oil and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are
not limited in amount or subject to any cap. If we are required to indemnify Marathon Oil and its subsidiaries and their respective officers and directors under the circumstances set forth in the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to
substantial liabilities. At this time, we cannot precisely quantify the amount of these liabilities that have been assumed pursuant to the tax sharing agreement and there can be no assurances as to their final amounts. The tax liabilities described
in this paragraph could have a material adverse effect on our company.  We may not be able to engage in desirable strategic
or capital raising transactions for two years following the Spinoff. In addition, under some circumstances, we could be liable for any adverse tax consequences resulting from engaging in significant strategic or capital raising transactions.
 Even if the Spinoff’s status as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Code remains intact, the
Spinoff may result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to Marathon Oil under applicable provisions of the Code if 50% or more of Marathon Oil’s stock or our stock (in each case, by vote or value) is treated as having been
acquired, directly or indirectly, by one or more persons as part of a plan (or series of related transactions) that includes the Spinoff. Under those provisions, any acquisitions of Marathon Oil stock or our stock (or similar acquisitions), or any
understanding, arrangement or substantial negotiations regarding an acquisition of Marathon Oil stock or our stock (or similar acquisitions), within two years before or after the Spinoff are subject to special scrutiny. The process for determining
whether an acquisition triggering those provisions has occurred is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case. If a direct or indirect acquisition of Marathon Oil stock or our stock
resulted in a change in control as contemplated by those provisions, Marathon Oil (but not its stockholders) would recognize taxable gain.  Under the tax sharing agreement, there are restrictions on our ability to take actions that could cause the separation to fail to qualify as a tax-free distribution, and we are required to indemnify
Marathon Oil against any such tax liabilities attributable to actions taken by or with respect to us or any of our affiliates, or any person that, after the Spinoff, is our affiliate. We may be similarly liable if we breach certain other
representations or covenants set forth in the tax sharing agreement. We are also subject to restrictions on our ability to issue shares of our stock without satisfying certain conditions within the tax sharing agreement. As a result of the
foregoing, we may be unable to engage in strategic or capital raising transactions that our stockholders might consider favorable, or to structure potential transactions in the manner most favorable to us, without adverse tax consequences, if at
all. 
  31 


Table of Contents
Potential indemnification liabilities to Marathon Oil pursuant to the separation and
distribution agreement could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  In connection with the Spinoff, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with Marathon Oil that provides for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions that were required to
effect the Spinoff, certain conditions to the Spinoff and provisions governing the relationship between our company and Marathon Oil with respect to and resulting from the Spinoff. Among other things, the separation and distribution agreement
provides for indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our downstream business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the Spinoff, as well as those
obligations of Marathon Oil assumed by us pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement. Our obligations to indemnify Marathon Oil under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement could subject us to substantial
liabilities.  In connection with our separation from Marathon Oil, Marathon Oil will indemnify us for certain liabilities.
However, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Marathon Oil’s ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future.
 Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, Marathon Oil agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities.
However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that Marathon Oil agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from Marathon Oil will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of
such liabilities, or that Marathon Oil will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Marathon Oil any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to
bear these losses ourselves. If Marathon Oil is unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations, the underlying liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
 Additionally, Marathon Oil’s insurers may deny coverage to us for liabilities associated with occurrences prior to the
Spinoff. Even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from such insurance providers, we may be required to temporarily bear such denial of coverage.  Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock  The market price and trading volume of
our common stock may be volatile and fluctuate significantly.  The market price and trading volume of our common stock
could fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:   


 
•
 
 fluctuations in our quarterly or annual earnings results or those of other companies in our industry; 
 


 
•
 
 failures of our operating results to meet the estimates of securities analysts or the expectations of our stockholders or changes by securities
analysts in their estimates of our future earnings;   


 
•
 
 announcements by us or our customers, suppliers, investors or competitors; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in laws or regulations which adversely affect our industry or us; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; 
 


 
•
 
 general economic, industry and stock market conditions; 
 


 
•
 
 future sales of our common stock by our stockholders; 
  32 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 future issuances of our common stock by us; and   


 
•
 
 the other factors described in Item 1A. Risk Factors. 
Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even if that change
may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders.  The existence of some provisions within our restated certificate
of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and Delaware law generally, could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us that a stockholder may consider favorable. These include provisions: 
 


 
•
 
 providing that our board of directors fixes the number of members of the board; 
 


 
•
 
 providing for the division of our board of directors into three classes with staggered terms; 
 


 
•
 
 providing that only our board may fill board vacancies; 
 


 
•
 
 limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders; 
 


 
•
 
 prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring stockholder action to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders;
  


 
•
 
 establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be
acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings;   


 
•
 
 establishing supermajority vote requirements for certain amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and stockholder proposals for
amendments to our amended and restated bylaws;   


 
•
 
 providing that our directors may only be removed for cause; 
 


 
•
 
 authorizing a large number of shares of common stock that are not yet issued, which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons
friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of our management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us; and 
 


 
•
 
 authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of
outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt.  In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the
Delaware General Corporation Law, which may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board of directors, including discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price
for shares of our common stock.  We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair
takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However,
these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of us and our stockholders. 
  33 


Table of Contents
Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation that limit ownership of our
capital stock by non-U.S. citizens may adversely affect the liquidity of our capital stock.  To facilitate compliance with
the Maritime Laws, our restated certificate of incorporation limits the aggregate percentage ownership by non-U.S. citizens of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock to 23% of the outstanding shares. We may prohibit transfers that
would cause ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock by non-U.S. citizens to exceed 23%. Our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to effect any and all measures necessary or desirable to monitor and
limit foreign ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock. These limitations could have an adverse impact on the liquidity of the market for our common stock if holders are unable to transfer shares to non-U.S. citizens due
to the limitations on ownership by non-U.S. citizens. Any such limitation on the liquidity of the market for our common stock could adversely impact the market price of our common stock.  We may issue preferred stock with terms that could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock.  Our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences
and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of
preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. For example, we could grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or
the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock. 
  34 


Table of Contents
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 
None. 
Item 2. Properties  The location and general character of our refineries, convenience stores, pipeline systems and other important physical properties have been described by segment under Item 1. Business, which
descriptions are incorporated herein by reference. The plants and facilities have been constructed or acquired over a period of years and vary in age and operating efficiency. In addition, we believe that our properties and facilities are adequate
for our operations and that our facilities are adequately maintained. As of December 31, 2011, we were the lessee under a number of cancellable and noncancellable leases for certain properties, including land and building space, office
equipment, storage facilities and transportation equipment. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 22 for additional information regarding our leases.  Item 3. Legal Proceedings  We are the subject
of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Some of these matters are discussed below. The ultimate
resolution of some of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material.  Kentucky Emergency Pricing Litigation
 In May 2007, the Kentucky attorney general filed a lawsuit against us and Marathon Oil in state court in Franklin
County, Kentucky for alleged violations of Kentucky’s emergency pricing and consumer protection laws following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005. The lawsuit alleges that we overcharged customers by $89 million during September and October
2005. The complaint seeks disgorgement of these sums, as well as penalties, under Kentucky’s emergency pricing and consumer protection laws. We are vigorously defending this litigation. If the lawsuit is resolved unfavorably, it could
materially impact our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. We believe that this is the first lawsuit for damages and injunctive relief under the Kentucky emergency pricing laws to progress this far and it contains
many novel issues. In May 2011, the Kentucky attorney general amended his complaint to include a request for immediate injunctive relief as well as unspecified damages and penalties related to our wholesale gasoline pricing in April and May 2011
under statewide price controls that were activated by the Kentucky governor on April 26, 2011 and which have since expired. The court denied the attorney general’s request for immediate injunctive relief, and the remainder of the 2011
claims likely will be resolved along with those dating from 2005. The ultimate outcome of the 2007 lawsuit, including the claims related to our 2011 pricing, and any financial effect on us, remains uncertain. Management does not believe an estimate
of a reasonably possible loss (or a range of loss) can be made for this lawsuit at this time.  MTBE Litigation 
During 2011, we were a defendant, along with other refining and marketing companies, in eight lawsuits pending in six states, in which a
total of fourteen plaintiffs sought to recover damages alleged to have resulted from MTBE contamination in groundwater. We, along with other refining and marketing companies, settled a number of lawsuits pertaining to MTBE in 2008. We settled
additional MTBE-related lawsuits in 2009 and 2010. In 2011, we agreed to and subsequently paid a non-material amount to settle seven of the pending lawsuits and similar claims by three additional parties that did not file lawsuits. In settling these
lawsuits and claims and the previous lawsuits, we did not admit liability. We remain a defendant in one MTBE-related lawsuit pending in a multi-district litigation in the Southern District of New York for pretrial proceedings, where the New Jersey

  35 


Table of Contents

Department of Environmental Protection seeks to recover the cost of remediating MTBE contamination of ground and surface water not being used for public water supply purposes, as well as natural
resources damages allegedly resulting from such contamination. We are vigorously defending this pending lawsuit. Based upon our experience and amounts paid in connection with the settlement of other MTBE lawsuits, we do not expect our share of
liability for this lawsuit or any future MTBE lawsuits to materially impact our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. However, the ultimate outcome of the pending or future MTBE lawsuits, including any financial
effect on us, remains uncertain. We voluntarily discontinued distributing gasoline containing MTBE in, at the latest, 2002. 
We are a defendant in a number of other lawsuits and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. While the ultimate
outcome and impact to us cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that the resolution of these other lawsuits and proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
 Environmental Proceedings  The following is a summary of certain environmental proceedings involving us that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2011 under federal and state environmental laws. 
We have been in discussions with the EPA to proactively enter into a consent decree regarding the operation of our flares at our six
refineries in order to minimize flare emissions. Once finalized, the consent decree will likely include a civil penalty in excess of $100,000.  During 2001, we entered into a New Source Review consent decree and settlement of alleged Clean Air Act and other violations with the EPA covering all of our refineries. The settlement committed us to
specific control technologies and implementation schedules for environmental expenditures and improvements to our refineries, which are now complete. We are working with the EPA to terminate the New Source Review consent decree. 
In September 2011, Marathon Petroleum Company LP received an Enforcement Notice from the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality
(the “MDEQ”) regarding a product release at a facility in Stockbridge, Michigan. In the Enforcement Notice, MDEQ alleges certain environmental violations involving Michigan’s water protection laws, but does not propose a civil penalty
amount. However, it is possible that the MDEQ could seek penalties in excess of $100,000 in connection with the release.  In
January 2011, the EPA notified us of 18 alleged violations of various statutory and regulatory provisions related to motor fuels, some of which we had previously self-reported to the EPA. No formal enforcement action has been commenced and no demand
for penalties has been asserted by the EPA in connection with these alleged violations. However, it is possible that the EPA could seek penalties in excess of $100,000 in connection with one or more of the alleged violations. 
On October 3, 2011, we received a revised Stipulation Agreement from the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (“MPCA”). The
MPCA alleged six violations of environmental law, including whether we stored, treated and disposed of hazardous waste in a lagoon without a permit. In November 2011, we executed the Stipulation Agreement and paid a civil penalty of $700,000. On
January 3, 2012, the MPCA acknowledged that we have fulfilled the requirements of the Stipulation Agreement and officially terminated the agreement.  We have been subject to a pending enforcement matter with the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and the Illinois attorney general’s office since 2002 concerning self-reporting of possible
emission exceedences and permitting issues related to storage tanks at the Robinson, Illinois refinery. There were no significant developments in this matter in 2011.  On November 7, 2011, the EPA issued Marathon Petroleum Company LP a Notice of Violation (“NOV”) alleging violations of the Renewable Fuel Standard (“RFS”) regulations.
Specifically, the NOV alleged violations 
  36 


Table of Contents

related to the use of invalid RINs to meet our renewable volume obligation under the RFS regulations. The resolution of this matter may result in a penalty in excess of $100,000. 
We are involved in a number of other environmental enforcement matters arising in the ordinary course of business. While the ultimate
outcome and impact to us cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that the resolution of each of these other matters is not likely to result in a penalty in excess of $100,000 and that collectively, the environmental proceedings described
above and these other environmental enforcement matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.  Administrative Proceedings  The U.S. Department of Transportation Pipeline
and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (“PHMSA”) issued a Notice of Probable Violation, Proposed Civil Penalty, and Proposed Compliance Order to MPL related to a March 10, 2009 incident at St. James, Louisiana. The NOPV
included a proposed civil penalty of approximately $1 million. Negotiations between PHMSA and MPL continue in an effort to resolve this matter. 
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures  Not applicable. 
  37 


Table of Contents
PART II  Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
Our common stock is listed on the NYSE and traded under the symbol “MPC”. As of February 15, 2012, there were 42,887 registered
holders of MPC common stock.  The following table reflects intraday high and low sales prices of and dividends declared on our
common stock for each quarter starting July 1, 2011, the date on which our stock began trading “regular-way” on the NYSE:   
















 
  
Sales Price of theCommon Stock
 
  
DividendsPerCommon 
Share
 

 
  
High
 
  
Low
 
  

 Calendar Year 2011:
  



  



  




 Quarter 3
  
$
    47.43
  
  
$
    26.35
  
  
$
        0.20
  

 Quarter 4
  
 
39.55
  
  
 
26.61
  
  
 
0.25
  
 Dividends  Our board of directors intends to declare and pay dividends on MPC common stock based on the financial condition and consolidated results of operations of MPC. On February 1, 2012, our board of
directors approved a 25 cents per share dividend, payable March 12, 2012 to stockholders of record at the close of business on February 16, 2012.  Dividends on MPC common stock are limited to our legally available funds.  Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities  The following table sets forth a summary of MPC purchases during the quarter ended December 31,
2011, of equity securities that are registered by MPC pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934:   




















  
 
column (a)
 
 
column (b)
 
 
column (c)
 
 
column (d)
 

Period
 
Total Numberof SharesPurchased (a)
 
 
AveragePrice Paidper Share
 
 

Total Number ofShares Purchased asPart of PubliclyAnnounced Plans
or Programs
 
 
 Maximum Number
of Shares thatMay Yet Be PurchasedUnder the Plansor Programs
 

 10/01/11 - 10/31/11
 
 
289  
  
 
$
        27.21  
  
 
 
-    
  
 
 
-    
  

 11/01/11 - 11/30/11
 
 
                2,616  
  
 
$
36.21  
  
 
 
-    
  
 
 
-    
  

 12/01/11 - 12/31/11
 
 
-    
  
 
$
 -    
  
 
 
                        -   
 
  
 
 
-    
  


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Total
 
 
2,905  
  
 
$
35.31  
  
 
 
-    
  
 
 
 
 



 
(a)
 2,905 shares of our common stock were delivered by employees to MPC, upon
vesting of restricted stock, to satisfy tax withholding requirements. 
  38 


Table of Contents
Item 6. Selected Financial Data 
 
























 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 (In millions, except per share data)
  
2011
 
 
2010 (a)
 
 
2009 (a)
 
 
2008 (a)
 
 
2007 (a)
 

 Statements of Income Data
  



 



 



 



 




 Revenues
  
$
    78,638
  
 
$
    62,487
  
 
$
    45,530
  
 
$
    64,939
  
 
$
    55,004
  

 Income from operations
  
 
3,745
  
 
 
1,011
  
 
 
654
  
 
 
1,855
  
 
 
3,261
  

 Net income
  
 
2,389
  
 
 
623
  
 
 
449
  
 
 
1,215
  
 
 
2,262
  








 Per Share Data(b)
  



 



 



 



 




 Basic:
  



 



 



 



 




 Net income
  
$
6.70
  
 
$
1.75
  
 
$
1.26
  
 
$
3.41
  
 
$
6.35
  

 Diluted:
  



 



 



 



 




 Net income
  
$
6.67
  
 
$
1.74
  
 
$
1.25
  
 
$
3.39
  
 
$
6.32
  








 Dividends per share
  
$
0.45
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  








 Statements of Cash Flows Data
  



 



 



 



 




 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
$
3,309
  
 
$
2,217
  
 
$
2,455
  
 
$
684
  
 
$
3,156
  

 Additions to property, plant and equipment
  
 
(1,185
) 
 
 
(1,217
) 
 
 
(2,891
) 
 
 
(2,787
) 
 
 
(1,403
) 

 Dividends paid
  
 
(160
) 
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  




 
  
December 31,
 

 (In millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Balance Sheets Data
  



 



 



 



 




 Total assets
  
$
25,745
  
 
$
23,232
  
 
$
21,254
  
 
$
18,177
  
 
$
17,746
  

 Long-term debt, including capitalized leases(c)
  
 
3,307
  
 
 
279
  
 
 
254
  
 
 
182
  
 
 
104
  

 Long-term debt payable to Marathon Oil and subsidiaries(d)
  
 
-  
  
 
 
3,618
  
 
 
2,358
  
 
 
2,343
  
 
 
280
  
  


 
(a) 
 On December 1, 2010, we disposed of our Minnesota Assets. All periods prior to the disposition include amounts for those operations.
  


 
(b) 
 For comparative purposes and to provide a more meaningful calculation, for basic weighted average shares we assumed the 356 million shares
distributed to Marathon Oil stockholders in conjunction with the Spinoff were outstanding as of the beginning of each period prior to the Spinoff. In addition, for dilutive weighted average share calculations, we assumed the 358 million
dilutive securities outstanding at June 30, 2011 were also outstanding for each period prior to the Spinoff.   


 
(c) 
 Includes amounts due within one year. During 2011, we issued $3.0 billion in senior notes, which replaced a portion of the debt payable to Marathon
Oil and subsidiaries.   


 
(d) 
 Includes amounts due within one year owed to Marathon Oil and subsidiaries, which were repaid prior to the Spinoff. 
  39 


Table of Contents


Item 7:
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the
information included under Item 1. Business, Item 1A. Risk Factors, Item 6. Selected Financial Data and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations includes various forward-looking statements
concerning trends or events potentially affecting our business. You can identify our forward-looking statements by words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,”
“goal,” “intend,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “seek,” “target,” “could,” “may,” “should” or “would” or other similar expressions that
convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. In accordance with “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important
factors, though not necessarily all such factors, which could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward-looking statements.  The Spinoff and Basis of Presentation  On May 25, 2011, the Marathon
Oil board of directors approved the spinoff of its RM&T Business into an independent, publicly traded company, MPC, through the distribution of MPC common stock to the stockholders of Marathon Oil common stock. In accordance with a separation
and distribution agreement between Marathon Oil and MPC, the distribution of MPC common stock was made on June 30, 2011, with Marathon Oil stockholders receiving one share of MPC common stock for every two shares of Marathon Oil common stock.
Marathon Oil received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of shares of MPC common stock in the Spinoff qualifies as tax-free to Marathon Oil, MPC and Marathon Oil
stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a) and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. Following the Spinoff, Marathon Oil retained no ownership interest in MPC, and each company had separate
public ownership, boards of directors and management. On July 1, 2011, our common stock began trading “regular-way” on the NYSE under the ticker symbol “MPC”. 
Prior to the Spinoff on June 30, 2011, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows consisted of the RM&T
Business, which represented a combined reporting entity. Subsequent to the Spinoff, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows consist of consolidated MPC activities and balances. The assets and liabilities in our consolidated
financial statements have been reflected on a historical basis, as immediately prior to the Spinoff all of the assets and liabilities presented were wholly owned by Marathon Oil and were transferred within the Marathon Oil consolidated group. All
significant intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated. The consolidated statements of income for periods prior to the Spinoff include expense allocations for certain corporate functions historically performed by Marathon Oil,
including allocations of general corporate expenses related to executive oversight, accounting, treasury, tax, legal, procurement and information technology. Those allocations were based primarily on specific identification, headcount or computer
utilization. Our management believes the assumptions underlying the consolidated financial statements, including the assumptions regarding allocating general corporate expenses from Marathon Oil, are reasonable. However, the consolidated financial
statements do not include all of the actual expenses that would have been incurred had we been a stand-alone company during those periods presented prior to the Spinoff and may not reflect our consolidated results of operations, financial position
and cash flows had we been a stand-alone company during the periods presented. Actual costs that would have been incurred if we had been a stand-alone company would depend on multiple factors, including organizational structure and strategic
decisions made in various areas, including information technology and infrastructure. Subsequent to the Spinoff, we are performing these functions using internal resources or services provided by third parties, certain of which are being provided by
Marathon Oil during a transition period pursuant to a transition services agreement. 
  40 


Table of Contents
Corporate Overview  We are an independent petroleum refining, marketing and transportation company. We currently own and operate six refineries, all located in the United States, with an aggregate crude oil refining capacity
of approximately 1.2 mmbpcd. Our refineries supply refined products to resellers and consumers within our market areas, including the Midwest, Gulf Coast and Southeast regions of the United States. We distribute refined products to our customers
through one of the largest private domestic fleets of inland petroleum product barges, one of the largest terminal operations in the United States, and a combination of MPC-owned and third-party-owned trucking and rail assets. We currently own,
lease or have ownership interests in approximately 8,300 miles of crude oil and refined product pipelines to deliver crude oil to our refineries and other locations and refined products to wholesale and retail market areas. We are one of the largest
petroleum pipeline companies in the United States on the basis of total volumes delivered.  Our operations consist of three
reportable operating segments: Refining & Marketing; Speedway; and Pipeline Transportation. Each of these segments is organized and managed based upon the nature of the products and services they offer. See Item 1. Business for additional
information on our segments.   


 
•
 
 Refining & Marketing—refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our six refineries in the Gulf Coast and Midwest regions of the United
States, purchases ethanol and refined products for resale and distributes refined products through various means, including barges, terminals and trucks that we own or operate. We sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically
and internationally, to buyers on the spot market, to our Speedway business segment and to dealers and jobbers who operate
Marathon® retail outlets; 
 


 
•
 
 Speedway—sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market in the Midwest, primarily through Speedway® convenience stores; and 
 


 
•
 
 Pipeline Transportation—transports crude oil and other feedstocks to our refineries and other locations, delivers refined products to wholesale
and retail market areas and includes, among other transportation-related assets, a majority interest in LOOP LLC, which is the owner and operator of the only U.S. deepwater oil port. 
On December 1, 2010, we completed the sale of the Minnesota Assets. These assets included the 74,000 barrel per
day St. Paul Park refinery and associated terminals, 166 convenience stores primarily branded SuperAmerica®
(including six stores in Wisconsin) along with the SuperMom’s bakery and commissary (a baked goods and sandwich supply operation) and certain associated trademarks, SuperAmerica Franchising LLC, interests in pipeline assets in Minnesota and
associated inventories. Our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and operating statistics for all periods prior to the disposition include amounts for the Minnesota Assets. 
We reported net income of $2.39 billion, or $6.67 per diluted share, for 2011 compared to net income of $623 million, or $1.74 per
diluted share, for 2010. The increase was primarily due to our Refining & Marketing segment operations, which generated income from operations of $3.59 billion in 2011 compared to $800 million in 2010. The increase in Refining &
Marketing segment income from operations was due to an improved refining and marketing gross margin, which was primarily a result of wider differentials between West Texas Intermediate crude oil (“WTI”) and other light sweet crudes such as
Light Louisiana Sweet crude oil (“LLS”), larger LLS 6-3-2-1 crack spreads and wider sweet/sour differentials.  The
Detroit refinery heavy oil upgrading and expansion project continues to be a significant part of our capital spending. As of December 31, 2011, the project was approximately 85 percent complete and on schedule to complete construction in the
third quarter of 2012. Immediately following the completion of construction, there will be a 70-day turnaround with the expanded Detroit refinery anticipated to be online by year end. In addition,

  41 


Table of Contents

we continued to optimize our other refineries in 2011, with increases in our crude oil refining capacity as of December 31, 2011 at our Garyville refinery from 464 mbpcd to 490 mbpcd, at our
Catlettsburg refinery from 212 mbpcd to 233 mbpcd and at our Texas City refinery from 76 mbpcd to 80 mbpcd.  Our Speedway
segment generated income from operations of $271 million for 2011 compared to income from operations of $293 million for 2010. Increases in light product and merchandise margins were more than offset by the decrease in income attributed to the sale
of 166 convenience stores that were part of the Minnesota Assets disposition in December 2010.  In 2011, Speedway purchased 23
convenience stores in Illinois and Indiana. All of the locations have been rebranded and are now integrated into Speedway’s operations. We intend to grow our Speedway segment through a combination of new construction and selective acquisitions.
 Our Pipeline Transportation segment continued to generate steady income, with income from operations of $199 million for 2011
compared to income from operations of $183 million for 2010.  As a result of the Spinoff, we issued $3.0 billion of senior
notes in February 2011. We used a portion of the proceeds to repay our long-term debt payable to Marathon Oil. As additional sources of liquidity, during 2011 we entered into a four-year revolving credit agreement with an initial borrowing capacity
of $2.0 billion and a three-year trade receivables securitization facility with an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $1.0 billion. As of December 31, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents of $3.08 billion and no borrowings or letters of
credit outstanding under either the revolving credit agreement or the trade receivables securitization facility.  The above
discussion includes forward-looking statements with respect to the Detroit refinery heavy oil upgrading and expansion project and Speedway segment growth. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking
statements include transportation logistics, availability of materials and labor, unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions, delays in obtaining or conditions imposed by necessary government and third-party approvals, other risks customarily
associated with construction projects, and our ability to successfully implement growth opportunities. These factors (among others) could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. 
Overview of Segments 
Refining & Marketing  Refining & Marketing segment income from operations depends largely on our refining and marketing gross margin and refinery throughputs. 
Our refining and marketing gross margin is the difference between the prices of refined products sold and the costs of crude oil and
other charge and blendstocks refined, including the costs to transport these inputs to our refineries, the costs of purchased products and manufacturing expenses, including depreciation and amortization. The crack spread is a measure of the
difference between market prices for refined products and crude oil, commonly used by the industry as a proxy for the refining margin. Crack spreads can fluctuate significantly, particularly when prices of refined products do not move in the same
relationship as the cost of crude oil. As a performance benchmark and a comparison with other industry participants, we calculate Midwest (Chicago) and U.S. Gulf Coast (“USGC”) crack spreads that we believe most closely track our
operations and slate of products. LLS prices and a 6-3-2-1 ratio of products (6 barrels of LLS crude oil producing 3 barrels of unleaded regular gasoline, 2 barrels of ultra-low sulfur diesel and 1 barrel of 3 percent sulfur residual fuel) are used
for these crack-spread calculations.  Our refineries can process significant amounts of sour crude oil, which typically can be
purchased at a discount to sweet crude oil. The amount of this discount, the sweet/sour differential, can vary significantly, causing our refining and marketing gross margin to differ from crack spreads based on sweet crude. In general, a larger
sweet/sour differential will enhance our refining and marketing gross margin. 
  42 


Table of Contents
Historically, WTI has traded at prices similar to LLS. During 2011, WTI traded at prices
significantly less than LLS, which favorably impacted our refining and marketing gross margin.  The following table provides
sensitivities showing the estimated change in net income due to potential changes in market conditions:   








 (In millions, after-tax)
  
 
 

 LLS 6-3-2-1 crack spread sensitivity (a) (per $1.00/barrel change)
  
$
    300
  




 Sweet/sour differential sensitivity (b) (per $1.00/barrel change)
  
 
150
  




 LLS-WTI differential sensitivity (c) (per $1.00/barrel change)
  
 
65
  
  


 
(a) 
 Weighted 52% Chicago and 48% USGC LLS 6-3-2-1 crack spreads and assumes all other differentials and pricing relationships remain unchanged.



 
(b) 
 LLS (prompt) - [delivered cost of sour crude oil: Arab Light, Kuwait, Maya, Western Canadian Select and Mars]. 


 
(c) 
 Assumes 25% of crude oil throughput volumes are WTI-based domestic crudes. 
In addition to the market changes indicated by the crack spreads, the sweet/sour differential and the discount of WTI to LLS, our
refining and marketing gross margin is impacted by factors such as:   


 
•
 
 the types of crude oil and other charge and blendstocks processed; 
 


 
•
 
 the selling prices realized for refined products;   


 
•
 
 the impact of commodity derivative instruments used to manage price risk; 
 


 
•
 
 the cost of products purchased for resale; and   


 
•
 
 changes in manufacturing costs, which include depreciation and amortization. 
Changes in manufacturing costs are primarily driven by the cost of energy used by our refineries and the level of maintenance costs.
Planned major maintenance activities, or turnarounds, requiring temporary shutdown of certain refinery operating units, are periodically performed at each refinery. The following table lists the refineries that had significant planned turnaround and
major maintenance activities for each of the last three years:   






 Year
  
 Refinery




 2011
  
 Canton and Catlettsburg




 2010
  
 Catlettsburg, Detroit, Garyville, Robinson and Texas City




 2009
  
 Catlettsburg, Garyville and Robinson
 The table below sets forth the location and daily crude oil refining capacity of each of our refineries
at December 31 of each year.   
















 
 
Crude Oil Refining Capacity (mbpcd)
 

 Refinery
 
      2011      
 
 
      2010      
 
 
      2009      
 






 Garyville, Louisiana
 
 
490  
  
 
 
464  
  
 
 
436  
  






 Catlettsburg, Kentucky
 
 
233  
  
 
 
212  
  
 
 
212  
  






 Robinson, Illinois
 
 
206  
  
 
 
206  
  
 
 
206  
  






 Detroit, Michigan
 
 
106  
  
 
 
106  
  
 
 
106  
  






 Texas City, Texas
 
 
80  
  
 
 
76  
  
 
 
76  
  






 Canton, Ohio
 
 
78  
  
 
 
78  
  
 
 
78  
  






 St. Paul Park, Minnesota (a)
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
74  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Total
 
 
        1,193  
  
 
 
        1,142  
  
 
 
        1,188  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


 
(a) 
 The St. Paul Park, Minnesota refinery was sold in December 2010. 
  43 


Table of Contents
Speedway  Our retail marketing gross margin for gasoline and distillate, which is the price paid by consumers less the cost of refined products, including transportation and consumer excise taxes, and the cost of
bankcard processing fees, impacts the Speedway segment profitability. Numerous factors impact gasoline and distillate demand throughout the year, including local competition, seasonal demand fluctuations, the available wholesale supply, the level of
economic activity in our marketing areas and weather conditions. The demand for gasoline in the Midwest region of the U.S. is estimated to have declined more than two percent in 2011 associated with higher prices, following essentially flat demand
during 2010 and 2009. After decreasing in 2009, distillate demand in the Midwest region of the U.S. increased in 2010. Higher prices contributed to an estimated one percent decrease in distillate demand in 2011. Market demand increases for gasoline
and distillates generally increase the product margin we can realize. The gross margin on merchandise sold at convenience stores historically has been less volatile.  Pipeline Transportation  The profitability of our pipeline
transportation operations primarily depends on tariff rates and the volumes shipped through the pipelines. A majority of the crude oil and refined product shipments on our common carrier pipelines serve our Refining & Marketing segment. The
volume of crude oil that we transport is directly affected by the supply of, and refiner demand for, crude oil in the markets served directly by our crude oil pipelines. Key factors in this supply and demand balance are the production levels of
crude oil by producers in various regions or fields, the availability and cost of alternative modes of transportation, the volumes of crude oil processed at refineries and refinery and transportation system maintenance levels. The volume of refined
products that we transport is directly affected by the production levels of, and user demand for, refined products in the markets served by our refined product pipelines. In most of our markets, demand for gasoline and distillates peaks during the
summer driving season, which extends from May through September of each year, and declines during the fall and winter months. As with crude oil, other transportation alternatives and system maintenance levels influence refined product movements.

  44 


Table of Contents
Results of Operations  Years Ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010  Consolidated
Results of Operations   
















 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
Variance
 

 Revenues and other income:
  



  



  




 Sales and other operating revenues (including consumer excise taxes)
  
$
    78,583 
  
  
$
    62,387 
  
  
$
    16,196 
  

 Sales to related parties
  
 
55 
  
  
 
100 
  
  
 
(45)
  

 Income from equity method investments
  
 
50 
  
  
 
70 
  
  
 
(20)
  

 Net gain on disposal of assets
  
 
12 
  
  
 
11 
  
  
 
1 
  

 Other income
  
 
59 
  
  
 
37 
  
  
 
22 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total revenues and other income
  
 
78,759 
  
  
 
62,605 
  
  
 
16,154 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Costs and expenses:
  



  



  




 Cost of revenues (excludes items below)
  
 
65,748 
  
  
 
51,685 
  
  
 
14,063 
  

 Purchases from related parties
  
 
1,916 
  
  
 
2,593 
  
  
 
(677)
  

 Consumer excise taxes
  
 
5,114 
  
  
 
5,208 
  
  
 
(94)
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
891 
  
  
 
941 
  
  
 
(50)
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
1,106 
  
  
 
920 
  
  
 
186 
  

 Other taxes
  
 
239 
  
  
 
247 
  
  
 
(8)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total costs and expenses
  
 
75,014 
  
  
 
61,594 
  
  
 
13,420 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from operations 
  
 
3,745 
  
  
 
1,011 
  
  
 
2,734 
  

 Related party net interest and other financial income
  
 
35 
  
  
 
24 
  
  
 
11 
  

 Net interest and other financial income (costs)
  
 
(61)
  
  
 
(12)
  
  
 
(49)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
 
3,719 
  
  
 
1,023 
  
  
 
2,696 
  

 Provision for income taxes
  
 
1,330 
  
  
 
400 
  
  
 
930 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
2,389 
  
  
$
623 
  
  
$
1,766 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Consolidated net income was $1.77 billion higher in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to a higher
refining and marketing gross margin, which increased to $7.75 per barrel in 2011 from $2.81 per barrel in 2010.  Sales and
other operating revenues (including consumer excise taxes) increased $16.20 billion in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to higher refined product selling prices.  Sales to related parties decreased $45 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease resulted from sales to Marathon Oil after the Spinoff no longer being classified as related party and lower refined
product volumes sold to Centennial, partially offset by higher refined product selling prices.  Income from equity method
investments decreased $20 million from 2010 to 2011, primarily due to $12 million of increased losses from our investment in Centennial. Centennial experienced a significant reduction in shipment volumes in the second half of 2011 compared to the
corresponding period of 2010. Also, 2010 included $4 million of income from an investment in a pipeline company that was included in the Minnesota Assets disposition.  Other income increased $22 million in 2011 compared with 2010, due primarily to income from transition services provided to the purchaser of the Minnesota Assets and to Marathon Oil. 
Cost of revenues increased $14.06 billion in 2011 from 2010. The increase was primarily the result of higher acquisition costs of crude
oil, refinery charge and blendstocks and refined products in the Refining & Marketing segment, largely due to higher market prices. Crude oil acquisition prices were up 31 percent, charge and blendstock prices were up 28 percent and
purchased refined product prices were up 40 percent. 
  45 


Table of Contents
Purchases from related parties decreased $677 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease
was primarily due to purchases of crude oil from Marathon Oil after the Spinoff not being classified as related party transactions.  Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $186 million in 2011 compared with 2010. Employee compensation and benefits expenses comprised $81 million of the increase, which is partially due to
an increase in the number of administrative employees associated with being a stand-alone public company, higher incentive compensation accruals related to 2011 performance and increased pension and postretirement benefit costs. Contract services
expenses increased $62 million, primarily due to higher information technology costs associated with being a separate stand-alone company. In addition, bankcard processing fees related to Marathon brand sales increased $41 million, primarily
due to higher transportation fuel selling prices. Following the Spinoff, we no longer receive allocated corporate overhead costs from Marathon Oil.  Related party net interest and other financial income increased $11 million in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily reflecting higher average balances of our short-term investments in preferred stock of MOC
Portfolio Delaware, Inc. (“PFD”), a subsidiary of Marathon Oil, prior to the Spinoff. The agreement with PFD was terminated on June 30, 2011. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 4 for further discussion
of the PFD preferred stock.  Net interest and other financial costs increased $49 million in 2011 compared with 2010,
primarily reflecting increased interest expense associated with the $3.0 billion of long-term debt we issued in February 2011. We capitalized third-party interest of $104 million in 2011 compared to $17 million in 2010. See Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 18 for further details relating to our debt.  Provision for income taxes increased
$930 million from 2010 to 2011, primarily due to the $2.70 billion increase in income before income taxes. The effective income tax rate decreased from 39 percent in 2010 to 36 percent in 2011. The 2011 effective income tax rate was favorably
impacted by an increase in income qualifying for the domestic manufacturing deduction and a decrease in the effective tax rate for state taxes. The year 2011 included a $19 million adverse tax impact of state legislative changes, primarily in
Michigan, and 2010 included a $26 million adverse tax impact of federal legislative changes. The provision for income taxes for periods prior to the Spinoff has been computed as if we were a stand-alone company. See Item 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data - Note 11 for further details.  Segment Results 
Revenues are summarized by segment in the following table: 
 












 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Refining & Marketing
  
  $
73,381 
  
  
  $
57,333 
  

 Speedway
  
 
13,490 
  
  
 
12,494 
  

 Pipeline Transportation
  
 
403 
  
  
 
401 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Segment revenues
  
 
87,274 
  
  
 
70,228 
  





 Elimination of intersegment revenues
  
 
(8,636)
  
  
 
(7,741)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total revenues
  
  $
      78,638 
  
  
  $
      62,487 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 





 Items included in both revenues and costs:
  



  




 Consumer excise taxes
  
  $
5,114 
  
  
  $
5,208 
  

  46 


Table of Contents
Refining & Marketing segment revenues increased $16.05 billion in 2011 from 2010,
primarily due to increased refined product selling prices. Our average refined product selling prices were $2.93 per gallon in 2011 compared to $2.24 per gallon in 2010. The table below shows the average refined product benchmark prices for our
marketing areas.   












 (Dollars per gallon)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Chicago spot unleaded regular gasoline
  
  $
2.79 
  
  
  $
2.09 
  





 Chicago spot ultra-low sulfur diesel
  
 
  2.98 
  
  
 
  2.17 
  





 USGC spot unleaded regular gasoline
  
 
  2.75 
  
  
 
  2.05 
  





 USGC spot ultra-low sulfur diesel
  
 
            2.97 
  
  
 
            2.16 
  
 Refining & Marketing intersegment sales to our Speedway segment were $8.30 billion in 2011
compared to $7.39 billion in 2010. Intersegment refined product sales volumes were 2.66 billion gallons in 2011 compared to 3.11 billion gallons in 2010, with the decreased volumes primarily due to the Minnesota Assets disposition. 
Speedway segment revenues increased $996 million from 2010 to 2011, mainly due to higher gasoline and distillate selling prices, which
averaged $3.44 per gallon in 2011 compared to $2.70 per gallon in 2010. These impacts were partially offset by decreased gasoline and distillate sales volumes and lower merchandise sales primarily due to the Minnesota Assets disposition in December
2010.  Income before income taxes and income from operations by segment are summarized in the following table: 
 












 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Income from operations by segment:
  



  








 Refining & Marketing
  
  $
3,591 
  
  
  $
800 
  





 Speedway
  
 
271 
  
  
 
293 
  





 Pipeline Transportation
  
 
199 
  
  
 
183 
  





 Items not allocated to segments:
  



  








 Corporate and other unallocated items (a)
  
 
(316)
  
  
 
(236)
  





 Impairments (b)
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(29)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
3,745 
  
  
 
1,011 
  





 Net interest and other financial income (costs) (c)
  
 
(26)
  
  
 
12 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 





 Income before income taxes
  
  $
        3,719 
  
  
  $
        1,023 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
(a) 
 Corporate and other unallocated items consists primarily of MPC’s corporate administrative expenses, including allocations from Marathon Oil
for periods prior to the Spinoff, and costs related to certain non-operating assets. 


 
(b) 
 The impairment in 2010 was related to a maleic anhydride plant. 


 
(c) 
 Includes related party net interest and other financial income. 
The following table presents certain market indicators that we believe are helpful in understanding the results of our
Refining & Marketing segment’s business.   












 (Dollars per barrel)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Chicago LLS 6-3-2-1 (a) (b)
  
  $
3.81 
  
  
  $
3.02 
  





 USGC LLS 6-3-2-1 (a)
  
 
2.84 
  
  
 
2.13 
  





 Blended 6-3-2-1 (a)(c)
  
 
3.35 
  
  
 
2.64 
  





 LLS
  
 
      112.37 
  
  
 
      82.83 
  





 WTI
  
 
95.11 
  
  
 
79.61 
  





 LLS - WTI differential (a)
  
 
17.26 
  
  
 
3.22 
  





 Sweet/Sour differential (a) (d)
  
 
9.11 
  
  
 
7.57 
  
  


 
(a) 
 All spreads and differentials are measured against prompt LLS. 


 
(b) 
 Calculation utilizes USGC 3% Bunker value as a proxy for Chicago residual fuel price. 


 
(c) 
 Blended Chicago/USGC crack spread is 53%/47% in 2011 and 57%/43% in 2010 based on MPC’s refining capacity by region in each period.



 
(d) 
 LLS (prompt) - [delivered cost of sour crude oil: Arab Light, Kuwait, Maya, Western Canadian Select and Mars]. 
  47 


Table of Contents
Refining & Marketing segment income from operations increased $2.79 billion in 2011
from 2010, primarily due to a higher refining and marketing gross margin per barrel, which averaged $7.75 per barrel in 2011 compared to $2.81 per barrel in 2010. Our realized refining and marketing gross margin for 2011 improved from 2010 primarily
due to wider differentials between WTI and other light sweet crudes such as LLS, larger LLS 6-3-2-1 crack spreads, and wider sweet/sour differentials. The discount of WTI to LLS increased $14.04 per barrel as a result of logistical constraints in
the U.S. mid-continent markets which prevented the price of WTI from rising with the prices of crudes produced in other regions. We estimate this had a $1.69 billion positive impact on our refining and marketing gross margin. The Chicago and USGC
LLS 6-3-2-1 crack spreads increased $0.79 per barrel and $0.71 per barrel, respectively, and we estimate this had a $349 million positive impact on our refining and marketing gross margin. The sweet/sour differential widened $1.54 per barrel and we
estimate this had a $277 million positive impact on our refining and marketing gross margin. Within our refining system, sour crude accounted for 52 percent and 54 percent of our crude oil processed in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Direct operating
costs declined $248 million from 2010 to 2011, primarily due to a $188 million reduction in planned turnaround and major maintenance costs, which also contributed to the increase in gross margin. 
Our total refinery throughputs of 1,358 mbpd were two percent higher in 2011 compared to 2010, which included throughputs at our former
St. Paul Park refinery. The increased throughputs in 2011 were the result of improved refinery utilization and decreased turnaround activity compared to 2010, primarily at our Garyville refinery. Crude oil refined was essentially flat in 2011
compared to 2010, while other charge and blendstock throughputs increased 12 percent over the same period.  The following
table includes certain key operating statistics for the Refining & Marketing segment for 2011 and 2010:   












  
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Refining & Marketing gross margin (Dollars per barrel) (a)
  
  $
7.75  
  
  
  $
2.81  
  





 Direct operating costs in Refining & Marketing gross margin (Dollars per barrel): (b)
  



  








 Planned turnaround and major maintenance
  
  $
0.78  
  
  
  $
1.19  
  





 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
1.29  
  
  
 
1.32  
  





 Other manufacturing (c)
  
 
3.16  
  
  
 
3.32  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
  $
        5.23  
  
  
  $
        5.83  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Refined products sales volumes (Thousands of barrels per day) (d)
  
 
1,581  
  
  
 
1,573  
  
  


 
(a) 
 Sales revenue less cost of refinery inputs, purchased products and manufacturing expenses, including depreciation and amortization, divided by
Refining & Marketing segment refined products sales volumes. 


 
(b) 
 Per barrel of total refinery throughputs. 


 
(c) 
 Includes utilities, labor, routine maintenance and other operating costs. 


 
(d) 
 Includes intersegment sales.  Speedway segment income from operations decreased $22 million from 2010 to 2011, with $45 million attributable to the sale of 166 convenience stores that were part of the Minnesota Assets disposition in
December 2010 and $33 million attributable to increased operating expenses partially due to higher employee costs. These decreases were partially offset by a $30 million increase associated with a higher gasoline and distillate gross margin and a
$26 million increase associated with a higher merchandise gross margin. Speedway’s gasoline and distillate gross margin per gallon averaged 13.08 cents in 2011, compared with 12.07 cents in 2010. Gasoline and distillate sales volumes declined
in 2011 primarily reflecting the sale of the Minnesota Assets. Merchandise gross margin was $719 million in 2011 compared to $789 million in 2010, also reflecting the Minnesota Assets disposition. 
Same-store gasoline sales volume decreased 1.7 percent in 2011 compared to 2010, while same-store merchandise sales increased 1.1 percent
for the same period. The primary factor affecting same store gasoline sales volume was the higher average retail price of gasoline. 
  48 


Table of Contents
Pipeline Transportation segment income from operations increased $16 million in 2011 from
2010. The increase primarily reflects the absence of non-routine maintenance and impairment expenses incurred in 2010, partially offset by a reduction in income from pipeline equity method investments. Refined product trunk line volumes increased
seven percent in 2011 compared to 2010, while crude oil trunk line volumes decreased two percent in the same period. 
Corporate and other unallocated items increased $80 million in 2011 compared to 2010 due to higher information technology, employee
benefits and other administrative expenses, partially resulting from costs associated with being a stand-alone company. Following the Spinoff, we no longer receive allocated corporate overhead costs from Marathon Oil. 
Impairment expense in 2010 was a $29 million property impairment related to a maleic anhydride plant, which was operated by our
Refining & Marketing segment.  Years Ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 
Consolidated Results of Operations   
















 (In millions)
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
Variance
 

 Revenues and other income:
  



  



  









 Sales and other operating revenues (including consumer excise taxes)
  
  $
62,387 
  
  
  $
45,461 
  
  
  $
16,926 
  






 Sales to related parties
  
 
100 
  
  
 
69 
  
  
 
31 
  






 Income from equity method investments
  
 
70 
  
  
 
30 
  
  
 
40 
  






 Net gain on disposal of assets
  
 
11 
  
  
 
4 
  
  
 
7 
  






 Other income
  
 
37 
  
  
 
75 
  
  
 
(38)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 Total revenues and other income
  
 
62,605 
  
  
 
45,639 
  
  
 
16,966 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Costs and expenses:
  



  



  









 Cost of revenues (excludes items below)
  
 
51,685 
  
  
 
37,003 
  
  
 
14,682 
  






 Purchases from related parties
  
 
2,593 
  
  
 
1,317 
  
  
 
1,276 
  






 Consumer excise taxes
  
 
5,208 
  
  
 
4,924 
  
  
 
284 
  






 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
941 
  
  
 
670 
  
  
 
271 
  






 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
920 
  
  
 
842 
  
  
 
78 
  






 Other taxes
  
 
247 
  
  
 
229 
  
  
 
18 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 Total costs and expenses
  
 
        61,594 
  
  
 
        44,985 
  
  
 
        16,609 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 Income from operations 
  
 
1,011 
  
  
 
654 
  
  
 
357 
  






 Related party net interest and other financial income
  
 
24 
  
  
 
45 
  
  
 
(21)
  






 Net interest and other financial income (costs)
  
 
(12)
  
  
 
(14)
  
  
 
2 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
 
1,023 
  
  
 
685 
  
  
 
338 
  






 Provision for income taxes
  
 
400 
  
  
 
236 
  
  
 
164 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 Net income
  
  $
623 
  
  
  $
449 
  
  
  $
174 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  49 


Table of Contents
Consolidated net income was $174 million higher in 2010 as compared to 2009, primarily due
to a higher refining and marketing gross margin, which increased to $2.81 per barrel in 2010 from $2.42 per barrel in 2009. 
Sales and other operating revenues (including consumer excise taxes) increased by $16.93 billion in 2010 as compared to 2009, primarily
due to higher refined product selling prices.  Income from equity method investments increased $40 million in 2010 from 2009,
primarily due to higher earnings from our investments in crude oil pipeline companies, which increased approximately $22 million, and ethanol production facilities, which increased approximately $10 million. 
Cost of revenues increased $14.68 billion in 2010 from 2009. The increase was primarily the result of higher acquisition costs for crude
oil, charge and blendstocks and purchased refined products in the Refining & Marketing segment, largely due to higher market prices. Crude oil acquisition prices increased 26 percent, charge and blendstock prices increased 30 percent and
purchased refined product prices increased 19 percent. These price-related impacts accounted for approximately $8.68 billion of the total increase. Volumes of purchased crude oil were 20 percent higher, which also contributed to increased costs of
approximately $4.22 billion, primarily reflecting impacts of the Garyville major expansion project.  Purchases from related
parties increased $1.28 billion from 2009 to 2010, primarily reflecting both higher acquisition costs of crude oil from Marathon Oil and increased volumes. Higher crude oil volumes accounted for approximately $630 million of the increase and higher
crude prices accounted for about $600 million of the increase.  Depreciation and amortization increased $271 million in 2010
from 2009, primarily related to the Garyville major expansion project, which we completed near the end of 2009.  Related party
net interest and other financial income decreased $21 million in 2010 from 2009, primarily reflecting lower average balances of short-term investments in PFD preferred stock. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 4 for
further discussion of the PFD preferred stock.  Provision for income taxes increased $164 million from 2009 to 2010, primarily
due to the $338 million increase in income before income taxes and a $26 million expense for legislative changes, which are described in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 11. The effective income tax rate increased from
34 percent in 2009 to 39 percent in 2010, primarily due to legislative changes and a decrease in the effect of deductions for dividends received from a related party. The provision for income taxes was computed as if we were a stand-alone company.
 Segment Results  Revenues are summarized by segment in the following table:   












 (In millions)
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Refining & Marketing
  
  $
        57,333  
  
  
  $
        40,665  
  

 Speedway
  
 
12,494  
  
  
 
10,838  
  

 Pipeline Transportation
  
 
401  
  
  
 
381  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Segment revenues
  
 
70,228  
  
  
 
51,884  
  

 Elimination of intersegment revenues
  
 
(7,741) 
  
  
 
(6,354) 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total revenues
  
  $
62,487  
  
  
  $
45,530  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 





 Items included in both revenues and costs:
  



  




 Consumer excise taxes
  
  $
5,208  
  
  
  $
4,924  
  

  50 


Table of Contents
Refining & Marketing segment revenues increased $16.67 billion in 2010 from 2009,
consistent with relative price level changes. Our average refined product selling prices were $2.24 per gallon in 2010 as compared to $1.86 per gallon in 2009, with the higher prices in 2010 contributing about 55 percent of the increase in segment
revenues. In addition, refined product sales volumes increased 15 percent in 2010, in part due to the higher production from our Garyville refinery following the completion of the major expansion project, contributing about 35 percent of the segment
revenue increase. The table below shows the average refined product benchmark prices for our marketing areas.   












 (Dollars per gallon)
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Chicago spot unleaded regular gasoline
  
  $
            2.09  
  
  
  $
            1.69  
  

 Chicago spot ultra-low sulfur diesel
  
 
2.17  
  
  
 
1.66  
  

 USGC spot unleaded regular gasoline
  
 
2.05  
  
  
 
1.64  
  

 USGC spot ultra-low sulfur diesel
  
 
2.16  
  
  
 
1.66  
  
 Refining & Marketing intersegment sales to our Speedway segment were $7.39 billion in 2010 as
compared to $6.02 billion in 2009. Intersegment refined product sales volumes were 3.11 billion gallons in 2010 as compared to 3.03 billion gallons in 2009.  Speedway segment revenues increased $1.66 billion from 2009 to 2010, mainly due to higher gasoline and distillate prices, which increased nearly 20 percent and accounted for approximately $1.40 billion of
the increase in segment revenues.  Income before income taxes and income from operations by segment are summarized in the
following table:   












 (In millions)
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Income from operations by segment:
  



  




 Refining & Marketing
  
  $
            800  
  
  
  $
            452  
  

 Speedway
  
 
293  
  
  
 
212  
  

 Pipeline Transportation
  
 
183  
  
  
 
172  
  

 Items not allocated to segments:
  



  




 Corporate and other unallocated items (a)
  
 
(236) 
  
  
 
(172) 
  

 Impairments (b)
  
 
(29) 
  
  
 
(10) 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
1,011  
  
  
 
654  
  

 Net interest and other financial income (c)
  
 
12  
  
  
 
31  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
  $
1,023  
  
  
  $
685  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
(a) 
 Corporate and other unallocated items consists primarily of MPC’s corporate administrative expenses, including allocations from Marathon Oil
for periods prior to the Spinoff, and costs related to certain non-operating assets. 
   


 
(b) 
 The impairment in 2010 was related to a maleic anhydride plant. The impairment in 2009 reflects the write-down of our equity method investment in a
pipeline company. 
   


 
(c) 
 Includes related party net interest and other financial income. 
 
  51 


Table of Contents
The following table presents certain market indicators that we believe are helpful in
understanding the results of our Refining & Marketing segment’s business.   












 (Dollars per barrel)
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Chicago LLS 6-3-2-1 (a) (b)
  
  $
            3.02  
  
  
  $
            3.47  
  

 USGC LLS 6-3-2-1 (a)
  
 
2.13  
  
  
 
2.46  
  

 Blended 6-3-2-1 (a)(c)
  
 
2.64  
  
  
 
3.14  
  

 LLS
  
 
82.83  
  
  
 
64.54  
  

 WTI
  
 
79.61  
  
  
 
62.09  
  

 LLS - WTI differential (a)
  
 
3.22  
  
  
 
2.45  
  

 Sweet/Sour differential (a) (d)
  
 
7.57  
  
  
 
5.72  
  
  


 
(a) 
 All spreads and differentials are measured against prompt LLS. 
   


 
(b) 
 Calculation utilizes USGC 3% Bunker value as a proxy for Chicago residual fuel price. 
   


 
(c) 
 Blended Chicago/USGC crack spread is 57%/43% in 2010 and 67%/33% in 2009 based on MPC’s refining capacity by region in each period.

   


 
(d) 
 LLS (prompt) - [delivered cost of sour crude oil: Arab Light, Kuwait, Maya, Western Canadian Select and Mars]. 
  Refining & Marketing segment income from operations increased
$348 million in 2010 from 2009, primarily due to a higher refining and marketing gross margin per barrel, which averaged $2.81 per barrel in 2010 compared to $2.42 per barrel in 2009, and accounted for approximately $240 million of the increase in
segment income. The gross margin increase was primarily a result of a $1.85 per barrel widening of the sweet/sour differential, thereby decreasing the relative cost of crude processed by our refineries. We estimate that the widening of the
sweet/sour differential positively impacted our refining and marketing gross margin by $766 million. Within our refining system, sour crude accounted for 54 percent and 50 percent of our crude oil processed in 2010 and 2009 respectively. These
favorable impacts to the refining and marketing gross margin were partially offset by lower LLS 6-3-2-1 crack spreads in 2010 compared to 2009 and increased manufacturing costs incurred related to the additional units at the Garyville refinery.
 Also contributing to the increase in segment income from operations were increases in our refined product sales volumes, due
primarily to increased refinery production, which accounted for approximately $185 million of the increase in segment income. We averaged 1,173 mbpd of crude oil throughput in 2010 and 957 mbpd in 2009. Total refinery throughputs averaged 1,335 mbpd
in 2010 and 1,153 mbpd in 2009. These throughputs were higher in 2010 than in 2009, primarily due to the Garyville major expansion, slightly offset by the reduction caused by the sale of the St. Paul Park refinery effective December 1, 2010.
 The following table includes certain key operating statistics for the Refining & Marketing segment for 2010 and
2009.   












  
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Refining & Marketing gross margin (Dollars per barrel) (a)
 
  $
        2.81  
  
 
  $
        2.42  
  

 Direct operating costs in Refining & Marketing gross margin (Dollars per barrel): (b)
 



 




 Planned turnaround and major maintenance
 
  $
1.19  
  
 
  $
0.88  
  

 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
1.32  
  
 
 
0.93  
  

 Other manufacturing (c)
 
 
3.32  
  
 
 
3.49  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
  $
5.83  
  
 
  $
5.30  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Refined products sales volumes (Thousands of barrels per day) (d)
 
 
1,573  
  
 
 
1,365  
  
  


 
(a) 
 Sales revenue less cost of refinery inputs, purchased products and manufacturing expenses, including depreciation and amortization, divided by
Refining & Marketing segment refined products sales volumes. 
   


 
(b) 
 Per barrel of total refinery throughputs. 
   


 
(c) 
 Includes utilities, labor, routine maintenance and other operating costs. 
   


 
(d) 
 Includes intersegment sales. 
 
  52 


Table of Contents
Speedway segment income from operations increased $81 million from 2009 to 2010, primarily
due to a higher gasoline and distillates gross margin, which averaged 12.07 cents per gallon in 2010 compared to 10.30 cents per gallon in 2009.  Same-store gasoline sales volume increased 3.0 percent compared to 2009, while same-store merchandise sales increased by 4.4 percent for the same period. 
Pipeline Transportation segment income from operations increased $11 million in 2010 from 2009, primarily due to higher earnings from our
equity method investments in crude oil pipeline companies. This was partially offset by increased depreciation expense, primarily reflecting an impairment charge for the 2010 cancellation of a pipeline project associated with the Detroit refinery
heavy oil upgrading and expansion project and the impact of pipeline assets associated with the Garyville major expansion project, which were placed in service near the end of 2009. 
Corporate and other unallocated items reflected an increase in expenses of $64 million from 2009 to 2010, primarily due to higher
benefits-related costs.  Liquidity and Capital Resources  Cash Flows  Net cash provided from operating activities totaled
$3.31 billion in 2011, compared to $2.22 billion in 2010 and $2.46 billion in 2009. The $1.09 billion increase in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to higher net income in 2011, partially offset by changes in working capital. Changes in
working capital were a net $13 million source of cash in 2011, compared to a net $318 million source of cash in 2010, primarily due to the impact of higher crude oil and refined product prices on accounts payable and accounts receivable at year-end
2011 compared to year-end 2010 and higher inventory volumes at December 31, 2011. The $238 million decrease in 2010 compared to 2009 was mainly due to a smaller cash source from working capital changes, primarily reflecting the impact of higher
crude oil and refined product prices on accounts payable and accounts receivable at year-end 2010 as compared to year-end 2009. 
Net cash provided by investing activities totaled $1.30 billion in 2011, compared to net cash used in investing activities of $2.15
billion in 2010 and $2.64 billion in 2009. The $3.45 billion change in 2011 from 2010 was primarily due to net redemptions of related party debt securities in 2011, as further discussed below. The favorable $499 million change in 2010 from 2009 was
primarily due to decreased capital spending resulting from completion of our Garyville major expansion project at the end of 2009 and increased cash received from asset disposals, partially offset by net purchases of related party debt securities in
2010.  The consolidated statements of cash flows exclude changes to the consolidated balance sheets that did not affect cash.
A reconciliation of additions to property, plant and equipment to reported total capital expenditures and investments follows for each of the last three years:   
















 (In millions)
  
2011  
 
  
2010  
 
 
2009  
 

 Additions to property, plant and equipment
  
$
1,185
  
  
$
1,217
  
 
$
2,891
  

 Acquisitions (a)
  
 
74
  
  
 
-
  
 
 
-
  

 Increase (decrease) in capital accruals
  
 
53
  
  
 
(51
) 
 
 
(312
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total capital expenditures
  
 
1,312
  
  
 
1,166
  
 
 
2,579
  

 Investments in equity method investees
  
 
11
  
  
 
7
  
 
 
6
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total capital expenditures and investments
  
$
    1,323
  
  
$
    1,173
  
 
$
    2,585
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


 
(a) 
 Speedway’s acquisition of 23 convenience stores in 2011. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 15.

 
  53 


Table of Contents
Capital expenditures and investments for each of the last three years are summarized by
segment below:   
















 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

         Refining & Marketing
  
$
900
  
  
$
961
  
  
$
2,241
  

         Speedway (a)
  
 
164
  
  
 
84
  
  
 
49
  

         Pipeline Transportation
  
 
121
  
  
 
24
  
  
 
56
  

         Corporate and Other (b)
  
 
138
  
  
 
104
  
  
 
239
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

         Total
  
$
    1,323
  
  
$
    1,173
  
  
$
    2,585
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
(a)
 Includes $74 million acquisition of 23 convenience stores in 2011. See
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 15. 
   


 
(b)
 Includes capitalized interest of $114 million, $103 million and $236
million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  The Detroit refinery heavy oil upgrading and expansion project comprised 59
percent, 50 percent and 14 percent (excluding capitalized interest associated with this project) of our Refining & Marketing segment capital spending in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, the Detroit refinery
heavy oil upgrading and expansion project was approximately 85 percent complete and on schedule to complete construction in the third quarter of 2012.  The above discussion includes forward-looking statements with respect to the Detroit refinery heavy oil upgrading and expansion project. Factors that could affect the project include transportation
logistics, availability of materials and labor, unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions, delays in obtaining or conditions imposed by necessary government and third-party approvals, and other risks customarily associated with construction
projects. These factors (among others) could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.  The Garyville major expansion project was a major component of our 2009 spending, accounting for approximately 64 percent (excluding capitalized interest associated with this project) of our
Refining & Marketing segment’s capital spending in 2009.  The $74 million cash used in acquisitions in 2011
resulted from our Speedway segment’s purchase of 23 convenience stores in Illinois and Indiana.  Disposal of assets
totaled $144 million, $763 million and $53 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The $144 million of cash from asset disposals in 2011 primarily included the collection of a receivable associated with the sale of the Minnesota Assets. In
2010, disposal of assets primarily included proceeds from the sale of the Minnesota Assets.  Net investments in related party
debt securities was a source of cash of $2.40 billion in 2011, a use of cash of $1.69 billion in 2010 and a source of cash of $160 million in 2009. All such activity reflected the net cash flow from redemptions and purchases of PFD preferred stock.
Prior to the Spinoff, all investments in PFD preferred stock were redeemed, and the agreement with PFD was terminated. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 4 for further discussion of our investments in PFD preferred
stock.  Net cash used in financing activities totaled $1.64 billion in 2011, compared with cash used in financing activities
of $82 million in 2010 and cash provided by financing activities of $209 million in 2009. The use of cash in 2011 was primarily due to the net repayment of debt payable to Marathon Oil and its subsidiaries and net distributions to Marathon Oil,
partially offset by cash provided from the issuance of long-term debt. These activities were undertaken to effect the Spinoff. The year 2011 also included a use of cash of $60 million for debt issuance costs associated with the $3.0 billion of
senior notes, our $2.0 billion revolving credit facility and our $1.0 billion trade receivables securitization facility. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 18 for additional information on our long-term debt.

  54 


Table of Contents
Net borrowings and repayments under our long-term debt payable to Marathon Oil and its
subsidiaries was a use of cash of $3.62 billion in 2011 compared with sources of cash of $1.26 billion in 2010 and $15 million in 2009. The agreements with Marathon Oil and its subsidiaries were terminated in 2011. In 2010, net borrowings included
$1.26 billion under the revolving credit agreement with PFD. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 4 for further discussion of these financing agreements. 
Contributions from (distributions to) Marathon Oil totaled net distributions of $783 million in 2011 and $1.33 billion in 2010 and a net
contribution of $207 million in 2009. The net distribution in 2011 was primarily related to $1.47 billion in net cash distributions paid to Marathon Oil, partially offset by income taxes it incurred on our behalf. The net distribution in 2010 was
primarily related to $1.48 billion in cash distributions paid to Marathon Oil. The net contribution in 2009 was primarily capitalized interest and corporate overhead cost allocations incurred by Marathon Oil on our behalf. 
In accordance with the separation and distribution agreement between Marathon Oil and us relating to the Spinoff, Marathon Oil determined
that our cash and cash equivalents balance as of June 30, 2011 should be approximately $1.625 billion. Our actual cash and cash equivalents balance as of June 30, 2011 was $1.622 billion and it increased to $3.08 billion at
December 31, 2011 due to the factors discussed above.  Derivative Instruments 
See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk for a discussion of derivative instruments and associated
market risk.  Capital Resources  As of December 31, 2011 our liquidity totaled $6.08 billion consisting of:   








 (In millions)
  
December 31,2011
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
3,079
  

 Revolving credit facility
  
 
2,000
  

 Trade receivables securitization facility
  
 
1,000
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
        6,079
  


  
  
  
 
 Because of the alternatives available to us, including internally generated cash flow and access to
capital markets, we believe that our short-term and long-term liquidity is adequate to fund not only our current operations, but also our near-term and long-term funding requirements, including capital spending programs, the repurchase of shares of
our common stock, dividend payments, defined benefit plan contributions, repayment of debt maturities and other amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies. 
On February 1, 2011, we completed a private placement of $3.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior
notes (collectively, the “Notes”), consisting of $750 million aggregate principal amount of our
3 1/2% Senior Notes due March 1, 2016, $1.0
billion aggregate principal amount of our 5 1/8% Senior Notes due March 1, 2021 and $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of our 6 1/2% Senior Notes due March 1, 2041. On November 18, 2011 we completed a registered exchange offer for the Notes. Interest on each series of Notes is
payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year. 
  55 


Table of Contents
The indenture governing the Notes includes covenants that, among other things, limit our
ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries, to incur debt secured by mortgages and other liens with respect to principal properties, enter into sale and leaseback transactions with respect to principal properties and merge or consolidate with any
other entity or sell or convey all or substantially all of our assets. These covenants are subject to a number of important qualifications and limitations as set forth in the indenture. In addition, if we experience a “change of control
repurchase event” (as defined in the indenture) with respect to a series of Notes, we will be required, unless we have exercised our right to redeem the Notes of such series, to offer to purchase the Notes of such series at a purchase price
equal to 101 percent of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  We entered into a four-year revolving
credit agreement dated March 11, 2011, as amended and effective July 1, 2011 (the “Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of lenders, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as administrative agent. 
Under the Credit Agreement, we have an initial borrowing capacity of up to $2.0 billion. We have the right to seek an increase of the
total amount available under the Credit Agreement to $2.5 billion, subject to certain conditions. We may obtain up to $1.5 billion of letters of credit and up to $100 million of swingline loans under the Credit Agreement. We may, subject to certain
conditions, request that the term of the Credit Agreement be extended for up to two additional one-year periods. Each such extension would be subject to the approval of lenders holding greater than 50 percent of the commitments then outstanding, and
the commitment of any lender that does not consent to an extension of the maturity date will be terminated on the then-effective maturity date. At December 31, 2011, we had no borrowings or letters of credit outstanding under this Credit
Agreement.  The Credit Agreement contains covenants that we consider usual and customary for an agreement of this type,
including a maximum ratio of Net Consolidated Indebtedness as of the end of each fiscal quarter to Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Agreement) for each consecutive four fiscal quarter period of 3.0 to 1.0 and a minimum ratio of
Consolidated EBITDA to Consolidated Interest Expense (as defined in the Credit Agreement) for each consecutive four fiscal quarter period of 3.5 to 1.0. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with these debt covenants with a ratio of
Net Consolidated Indebtedness to Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of 0.6 to 1.0 and a ratio of Consolidated EBITDA to Consolidated Interest Expense (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of 78.4 to 1.0. The Credit Agreement
includes limitations on indebtedness of our subsidiaries, other than subsidiaries that guarantee our obligations under the Credit Agreement.  Borrowings of revolving loans under the Credit Agreement bear interest, at our option, at either (i) the sum of the Adjusted LIBO Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement), plus a margin ranging
between 1.75 percent to 3.00 percent, depending on our credit ratings, or (ii) the sum of the Alternate Base Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement), plus a margin ranging between 0.75 percent to 2.00 percent, depending on our credit ratings.
The Credit Agreement also provides for customary fees, including administrative agent fees, commitment fees of 0.30 percent of the unused portion, fees in respect of letters of credit and other fees. 
On July 1, 2011, we entered into a three-year trade receivables securitization facility with a syndicate group of committed
purchasers, conduit purchasers and letter of credit issuers arranged by J.P. Morgan Securities LLC for an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $1.0 billion. The facility involves one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, Marathon Petroleum Company
LP (“MPC LP”), selling or contributing on an on-going basis all of its trade receivables (other than receivables arising in connection with the extension of credit under proprietary credit card services), together with all related security
and interests in the proceeds thereof, without recourse, to another wholly owned, bankruptcy-remote, subsidiary, MPC Trade Receivables Company LLC (“TRC”) in exchange for a combination of cash, equity or a subordinated note issued by TRC
to MPC LP. TRC, in turn, has the ability to sell undivided percentage ownership interests in qualifying trade receivables, together with all related security and interests in the proceeds thereof, without recourse, to certain commercial paper
conduit purchasers and/or financial institutions in exchange for cash proceeds. Effective October 1, 2011, we amended and restated the trade receivables securitization facility to, among other things, include trade receivables originated by our
wholly owned subsidiary, Marathon Petroleum Trading Canada LLC (“MPTC”). 
  56 


Table of Contents
To the extent that TRC retains an ownership interest in the receivables it has purchased or
received from MPC LP or MPTC, such interest will be included in our consolidated financial statements solely as a result of the consolidation of the financial statements of TRC with those of MPC. The receivables sold or contributed to TRC are
available first and foremost to satisfy claims of the creditors of TRC and are not available to satisfy the claims of creditors of MPC LP, MPTC or MPC.  Proceeds from the sale of undivided percentage ownership interests in qualifying receivables under this facility will be reflected as debt on our consolidated balance sheet. We will remain responsible for
servicing the receivables sold to third-party entities and financial institutions and will pay certain fees related to our sale of receivables under this facility. At December 31, 2011, we had no borrowings or letters of credit outstanding
under this facility.  The facility includes representations and covenants that we consider usual and customary for
arrangements of this type. Trade receivables are subject to customary criteria, limits and reserves before being deemed to qualify for sale by TRC pursuant to the facility. In addition, further purchases of qualified trade receivables under the
facility are subject to termination upon the occurrence of certain amortization events that we consider usual and customary for an arrangement of this type.  As of December 31, 2011, the credit ratings on our senior unsecured debt were at or above investment grade level as follows: 
 








 Rating Agency
  
 Rating
  
 

 Moody’s
  
Baa2 (stable outlook)
  


 Standard & Poor’s
  
BBB (stable outlook)
  

 The ratings reflect the respective views of the rating agencies. Although it is our intention to maintain
a credit profile that supports an investment grade rating, there is no assurance that these ratings will continue for any given period of time. The ratings may be revised or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies if, in their respective
judgments, circumstances so warrant.  Neither our Credit Agreement nor our trade receivables securitization facility contains
credit rating triggers that would result in the acceleration of interest, principal or other payments in the event that our credit ratings are downgraded. However, any downgrades of our senior unsecured debt to below investment grade ratings would
increase the applicable interest rates, yields and other fees payable under our revolving credit facility and trade receivables securitization facility. In addition, a downgrade of our senior unsecured debt rating to below investment grade levels
could, under certain circumstances, decrease the amount of trade receivables that are eligible to be sold under our trade receivables securitization facility. 
  57 


Table of Contents
Debt-to-Capital Ratios 
Our cash-adjusted debt-to-capital ratio (total debt-minus-cash to total debt-plus-stockholders’ equity-minus-cash) was 2 percent at
December 31, 2011, compared to 16 percent at June 30, 2011, when we became a stand-alone company. Our debt-to-total capital ratio (total debt to total debt-plus-stockholders’ equity) was 26 percent at December 31, 2011, compared
to 27 percent at June 30, 2011.   












 (In millions)
  
December 31,2011
 
  
June 30,2011
 

 Long-term debt due within one year
  
$
15
  
  
$
12
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
3,292
  
  
 
3,262
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total debt
  
$
3,307
  
  
$
3,274
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 





 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
3,079
  
  
$
1,622
  

 Stockholders’ equity
  
 
9,505
  
  
 
8,977
  





 Calculation of cash-adjusted debt-to-capital ratio:
  



  




 Total debt
  
$
3,307
  
  
$
3,274
  

 Minus cash
  
 
3,079
  
  
 
1,622
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total debt minus cash
  
$
228
  
  
$
1,652
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 





 Total debt
  
$
3,307
  
  
$
3,274
  

 Plus stockholders’ equity
  
 
9,505
  
  
 
8,977
  

 Minus cash
  
 
3,079
  
  
 
1,622
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total debt plus stockholders’ equity minus cash
  
$
9,733
  
  
$
10,629
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 





 Cash-adjusted debt-to-capital ratio
  
 
2%
  
  
 
16%
  





 Calculation of debt-to-total capital ratio:
  



  




 Total debt
  
$
3,307
  
  
$
3,274
  

 Plus stockholders’ equity
  
 
9,505
  
  
 
8,977
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total debt plus stockholders’ equity
  
$
        12,812
  
  
$
        12,251
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 





 Debt-to-total capital ratio
  
 
26%
  
  
 
27%
  
 Capital Requirements  We have a capital and investment budget of $1.42 billion, excluding capitalized interest, for 2012. Additional details related to the 2012 capital and investment budget are discussed in the Outlook
section below.  We plan to make contributions of approximately $240 million to our funded pension plans in 2012. 
Dividends of 45 cents per share or $160 million were paid in 2011. On February 1, 2012, our board of directors approved a 25 cents
per share dividend, payable March 12, 2012 to stockholders of record at the close of business on February 16, 2012. 
On February 1, 2012, we announced that our board of directors authorized a share repurchase plan, enabling us to purchase up to $2.0
billion of MPC common stock over a two-year period. We may utilize various methods to effect the repurchases, which could include open market purchases, negotiated block transactions, accelerated share repurchases (“ASR”) or open market
solicitations for shares. On February 3, 2012, we entered into an $850 million ASR program with a major financial institution as part of this authorization. The total number of shares to be repurchased will be based generally on the
volume-weighted average price of MPC common stock during the repurchase period, subject to provisions that set a minimum and maximum number of shares. Under the ASR, we received 9.986 million shares of MPC common stock on February 3, 2012
and expect to receive a majority of the additional shares by the end of the first quarter of 2012. As received, shares will be reflected in our treasury stock component of stockholders’ equity in the first quarter of 2012. The remaining shares
under the ASR will be 
  58 


Table of Contents

delivered to us over the term of the transaction, with all shares to be delivered by the end of the third quarter of 2012. The timing of repurchases, if any, outside of the ASR will depend upon
several factors, including market and business conditions, and such repurchases may be discontinued at any time.  The above
discussion includes forward-looking statements with respect to the share repurchase authorization. Factors that could affect the share repurchase program and its timing include, but are not limited to business conditions, availability of liquidity,
and the market price of our common stock.  Contractual Cash Obligations 
The table below provides aggregated information on our consolidated obligations to make future payments under existing contracts as of
December 31, 2011.   
























 (In millions)
 
Total
 
 
2012
 
 
2013-2014
 
 
2015-2016
 
 
Later Years
 

 Long-term debt (excludes interest) (a)
 
$
3,000
  
 
$
-
  
 
$
-
  
 
$
750
  
 
$
2,250
  

 Capital lease obligations
 
 
576
  
 
 
34
  
 
 
88
  
 
 
88
  
 
 
366
  

 Operating lease obligations
 
 
663
  
 
 
141
  
 
 
247
  
 
 
174
  
 
 
101
  

 Purchase obligations:
 



 



 



 



 




 Crude oil, feedstock, refined product and ethanol contracts (b)
 
 
9,906
  
 
 
8,538
  
 
 
795
  
 
 
383
  
 
 
190
  

 Transportation and related contracts
 
 
624
  
 
 
129
  
 
 
130
  
 
 
100
  
 
 
265
  

 Contracts to acquire property, plant and equipment (c)
 
 
347
  
 
 
326
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  

 Service and materials contracts (d)
 
 
1,304
  
 
 
261
  
 
 
345
  
 
 
244
  
 
 
454
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total purchase obligations
 
 
12,181
  
 
 
9,254
  
 
 
1,291
  
 
 
727
  
 
 
909
  

 Other long-term liabilities reported in the consolidated balance sheet (e)
 
 
1,549
  
 
 
284
  
 
 
346
  
 
 
340
  
 
 
579
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total contractual cash obligations
 
$
    17,969
  
 
$
      9,713
  
 
$
      1,972
  
 
$
      2,079
  
 
$
      4,205
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


 
(a) 
 We anticipate cash payments for interest of $159 million for 2012, $318 million for 2013-2014, $304 million for 2015-2016 and $2.22 billion for
later years for a total of $3.00 billion. 
   


 
(b) 
 These contracts include variable price arrangements. 
   


 
(c) 
 Includes obligations to advance funds to equity method investees. 
   


 
(d) 
 Includes contracts to purchase services such as utilities, supplies and various other maintenance and operating services. 
   


 
(e) 
 Primarily includes obligations for pension and other postretirement benefits including medical and life insurance, which we have estimated through
2021. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 20. 
  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
Off-balance sheet arrangements comprise those arrangements that may potentially impact our liquidity, capital resources and results of
operations, even though such arrangements are not recorded as liabilities under 
  59 


Table of Contents

accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Although off-balance sheet arrangements serve a variety of our business purposes, we are not dependent on these arrangements to
maintain our liquidity and capital resources, and we are not aware of any circumstances that are reasonably likely to cause the off-balance sheet arrangements to have a material adverse effect on liquidity and capital resources. 
We have provided various guarantees related to equity method investees. In conjunction with the Spinoff, we entered into various
indemnities and guarantees to Marathon Oil. These arrangements are described in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 23.  Outlook  We have a capital and investment budget of $1.42 billion,
excluding capitalized interest, for 2012. This represents about a 17 percent increase from our 2011 spending. The primary focus of the 2012 budget is continuation of the Detroit refinery heavy oil upgrading and expansion project, which is expected
to complete construction in the third quarter of 2012 with full integration into the refinery by year-end 2012. The budget also includes increased spending on transportation, logistics and marketing projects as well as amounts designated for
corporate activities. We continuously evaluate our capital budget and make changes as conditions warrant.  Refining & Marketing
 The 2012 capital budget includes $745 million for Refining & Marketing segment projects, with approximately $350
million representing continued spending on the Detroit refinery heavy oil upgrading and expansion project. When completed, this project will increase the refinery’s heavy oil upgrading capacity, including Canadian bitumen blends, by about 80
mbpd, and will increase its total crude oil refining capacity by approximately 15 mbpd. The remainder of the budget is primarily allocated to maintaining facilities and meeting regulatory requirements. 
Speedway  The 2012
capital budget includes $353 million for our Speedway segment, relating to new construction and acquisitions to expand our markets and remodeling and rebuilding projects for existing convenience stores to upgrade and enhance our existing facilities.
Also included in the capital budget are expenditures for dispenser, equipment and technology upgrades. The Speedway segment capital budget includes funding to acquire 88 convenience stores situated throughout Indiana and Ohio from GasAmerica
Services Inc. (“GasAmerica”), plus several parcels of undeveloped real estate for future development. The GasAmerica transaction is anticipated to close by the end of May 2012, subject to receipt of regulatory approvals, customary due
diligence and satisfaction of other customary closing conditions.  Pipeline Transportation 
The 2012 capital budget includes $230 million for our Pipeline Transportation segment, relating primarily to upgrades to replace or
enhance our existing facilities and projects for new infrastructure. Included in new infrastructure is $20 million, which will be used to construct a new section of pipeline to connect an existing pipeline to our Detroit refinery. This connection
will allow us to deliver additional supplies of Canadian crude to that refinery.  Corporate and Other 
The remaining 2012 capital budget includes $91 million related to corporate activities. 
In addition, we expect to record $116 million in capitalized interest, primarily associated with the Detroit refinery heavy oil upgrading
and expansion project. 
  60 


Table of Contents
Midstream Asset Evaluation  On February 1, 2012, we announced that we are evaluating strategic alternatives with respect to certain of our midstream assets, including, but not limited to, the possible formation and initial
public offering of an MLP. Midstream assets are generally considered those involved in transportation, storage and logistics operations. If we determine to further pursue an initial public offering of an MLP, we would not expect to file a
registration statement before the end of the second quarter of 2012.  The above discussion includes forward-looking statements
with respect to our midstream asset evaluation. There can be no assurance that this evaluation will lead to an initial public offering of an MLP or any other transaction, or that if any transaction is further pursued, that it will be consummated.
Some of the factors that could affect the midstream asset evaluation and the outcome of such evaluation include risks relating to securities markets generally, the impact of adverse market conditions affecting our midstream business, adverse changes
in laws including with respect to tax and regulatory matters and other risks.  Our opinions concerning liquidity and capital
resources and our ability to avail ourselves in the future of the financing options mentioned in the above forward-looking statements are based on currently available information. If this information proves to be inaccurate, future availability of
financing may be adversely affected. Factors that affect the availability of financing include our performance (as measured by various factors, including cash provided by operating activities), the state of worldwide debt and equity markets,
investor perceptions and expectations of past and future performance, the global financial climate, and, in particular, with respect to borrowings, the levels of our outstanding debt and credit ratings by rating agencies. The discussion of liquidity
and capital resources above also contains forward-looking statements regarding expected capital and investment spending. The forward-looking statements about our capital and investment budget are based on current expectations, estimates and
projections and are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations, estimates and projections and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control
and are difficult to predict. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include prices of and demand for crude oil and refinery feedstocks, natural gas and refined products, actions of competitors, delays in obtaining
necessary third-party approvals, disruptions or interruptions of our refining operations due to the shortage of skilled labor and unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions, acts of war or terrorist acts and the governmental or military response,
and other operating and economic considerations.  Transactions with Related Parties 
Following completion of the Spinoff on June 30, 2011, Marathon Oil retained no ownership interest in us and is no longer a related
party.  Purchases of crude oil and natural gas from Marathon Oil accounted for five percent or less of our total cost of
revenues and purchases from related parties for the periods prior to the Spinoff. Related party purchases of crude oil and natural gas from Marathon Oil were at market-based contract prices. The crude oil prices were based on indices that
represented market value for time and place of delivery and that were also used in third-party contracts. The natural gas prices equaled the price at which Marathon Oil purchased the natural gas from third parties plus the cost of transportation.
 We believe that transactions with related parties, other than certain transactions with Marathon Oil to effect the Spinoff
and related to the provision of administrative services, were conducted under terms comparable to those with unrelated parties. 
On May 25, 2011, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement and several other agreements with Marathon Oil to effect
the Spinoff and to provide a framework for our relationship with Marathon Oil. Because 
  61 


Table of Contents

the terms of our separation from Marathon Oil and these agreements were entered into in the context of a related-party transaction, the terms may not be comparable to terms that would be obtained
in a transaction between unaffiliated parties. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 4 for further discussion of activity with related parties.  Environmental Matters and Compliance Costs  We have incurred and may
continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. If these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products
and services, our operating results will be adversely affected. We believe that substantially all of our competitors must comply with similar environmental laws and regulations. However, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a
number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities, marketing areas, production processes and whether it is also engaged in the petrochemical business or the marine transportation of crude oil and refined products.
 Legislation and regulations pertaining to fuel specifications, climate change and greenhouse gas emissions have the potential
to materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including costs of compliance and permitting delays. The extent and magnitude of these adverse impacts cannot be reliably or accurately estimated
at this time because specific regulatory and legislative requirements have not been finalized and uncertainty exists with respect to the measures being considered, the costs and the time frames for compliance, and our ability to pass compliance
costs on to our customers. For additional information see Item 1A. Risk Factors.  Our environmental expenditures, based
on the American Petroleum Institute’s definition of environmental expenditures, for each of the last three years were:   
















 (In millions)
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 
  
    2009    
 

 Capital
  
  $
167  
  
  
$
223  
  
  
$
308  
  

 Compliance:
  



  



  




 Operating and maintenance
  
 
354  
  
  
 
403  
  
  
 
350  
  

 Remediation(a)
  
 
27  
  
  
 
20  
  
  
 
27  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
  $
        548  
  
  
$
        646  
  
  
$
        685  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 



 
(a) 
 These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, where permissible, but exclude non-cash provisions recorded for environmental
remediation. 
  We accrue for environmental remediation activities when the responsibility
to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs can be reasonably estimated. As environmental remediation matters proceed toward ultimate resolution or as additional remediation obligations arise, charges in excess of those previously
accrued may be required.  New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase our environmental costs, may arise
in the future. We believe we comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since not all of them are fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation or regulations, it
is not possible to predict all of the ultimate costs of compliance, including remediation costs that may be incurred and penalties that may be imposed.  Our environmental capital expenditures accounted for 13 percent of capital expenditures in 2011, 19 percent of capital expenditures in 2010 and 12 percent in 2009. Our environmental capital expenditures
are expected to approximate $64 million, or 5 percent, of total capital expenditures in 2012. Predictions beyond 2012 can only be broad-based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific

  62 


Table of Contents

regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies, among other matters. Based on currently identified projects, we
anticipate that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $64 million in 2013; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in
regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed.  We
have spent $620 million from 2008 through December 31, 2011 to comply with MSAT II regulations relating to benzene content in refined products. We have finalized our strategic approach to comply with MSAT II regulations and all MSAT II
compliance units were in operation as of December 31, 2011.  For more information on environmental regulations that
impact us, or could impact us, see Item 1. Business—Environmental Matters, Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 3. Legal Proceedings.  Critical Accounting Estimates  The preparation of financial statements in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“US GAAP”) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the respective reporting periods. Accounting estimates are considered to be critical if (1) the nature of the estimates
and assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change; and (2) the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial
condition or operating performance is material. Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions used.  Fair Value
Estimates  Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. There are three approaches for measuring the fair value of assets and liabilities: the market approach, the income approach and the cost approach, each of which includes
multiple valuation techniques. The market approach uses prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or liabilities. The income approach uses valuation techniques to measure fair
value by converting future amounts, such as cash flows or earnings, into a single present value amount using current market expectations about those future amounts. The cost approach is based on the amount that would currently be required to replace
the service capacity of an asset. This is often referred to as current replacement cost. The cost approach assumes that the fair value would not exceed what it would cost a market participant to acquire or construct a substitute asset of comparable
utility, adjusted for obsolescence.  The fair value accounting standards do not prescribe which valuation technique should be
used when measuring fair value and does not prioritize among the techniques. These standards establish a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used in applying the various valuation techniques. Inputs broadly refer to the assumptions that
market participants use to make pricing decisions, including assumptions about risk. Level 1 inputs are given the highest priority in the fair value hierarchy while Level 3 inputs are given the lowest priority. The three levels of the fair value
hierarchy are as follows:   


 
•
 
 Level 1 – Observable inputs that reflect unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets as of the measurement
date. Active markets are those in which transactions for the asset or liability occur in sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. 
  63 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Level 2 – Observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data. These are inputs other than quoted prices
in active markets included in Level 1, which are either directly or indirectly observable as of the measurement date.   


 
•
 
 Level 3 – Unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data and may be used with internally developed methodologies that result in
management’s best estimate of fair value.  Valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable
inputs are favored. Assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest priority level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value
measurement requires judgment and may affect the placement of assets and liabilities within the levels of the fair value hierarchy. We use a market or income approach for recurring fair value measurements and endeavor to use the best information
available. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 16 for disclosures regarding our fair value measurements.  Significant uses of fair value measurements include:   


 
•
 
 assessment of impairment of long-lived assets;   


 
•
 
 assessment of impairment of goodwill;   


 
•
 
 assessment of impairment of equity method investments; 
 


 
•
 
 recorded value of derivative instruments; and   


 
•
 
 recorded value of investments in debt and equity securities.  Impairment Assessments of Long-Lived Assets, Goodwill and Equity Method Investments  Fair value calculated for the purpose of testing our long-lived assets, goodwill and equity method investments for impairment is estimated using the expected present value of future cash flows method and
comparative market prices when appropriate. Significant judgment is involved in performing these fair value estimates since the results are based on forecasted assumptions. Significant assumptions include: 
 


 
•
 
 Future margins on products produced and sold.    Our estimates of future product margins are based on our analysis of
various supply and demand factors, which include, among other things, industry-wide capacity, our planned utilization rate, end-user demand, capital expenditures and economic conditions. Such estimates are consistent with those used in our planning
and capital investment reviews.   


 
•
 
 Future volumes.    Our estimates of future pipeline throughput volumes are based on internal forecasts prepared by our Pipeline
Transportation segment operations personnel.   


 
•
 
 Discount rate commensurate with the risks involved.    We apply a discount rate to our cash flows based on a variety of
factors, including market and economic conditions, operational risk, regulatory risk and political risk. This discount rate is also compared to recent observable market transactions, if possible. A higher discount rate decreases the net present
value of cash flows.   


 
•
 
 Future capital requirements.    These are based on authorized spending and internal forecasts.
 We base our fair value estimates on projected financial information which we believe to be reasonable.
However, actual results may differ from these projections.  The need to test for impairment can be based on several
indicators, including a significant reduction in prices of or demand for products produced, a poor outlook for profitability, a significant reduction in pipeline throughput volumes, significant reduction in refining margins, other changes to
contracts or changes in the regulatory environment in which the asset or equity method investment is located.   
  64 


Table of Contents
Long-lived assets used in operations are assessed for impairment whenever changes in facts
and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. For purposes of impairment evaluation, long-lived assets must be grouped at the lowest level for which independent cash flows can be identified, which generally
is the refinery and associated distribution system level for Refining & Marketing segment assets, site level for Speedway segment convenience stores or the pipeline system level for Pipeline Transportation segment assets. If the sum of the
undiscounted estimated pretax cash flows is less than the carrying value of an asset group, fair value is calculated, and the carrying value is written down if greater than the calculated fair value. 
Unlike long-lived assets, goodwill must be tested for impairment at least annually, or between annual tests if an event occurs or
circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level. At December 31, 2011 we had a total of $842 million of
goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. The fair value of our reporting units exceeded book value appreciably for each of our reporting units in 2011.  Equity method investments are assessed for impairment whenever factors indicate an other than temporary loss in value. Factors providing evidence of such a loss include the fair value of an investment
that is less than its carrying value, absence of an ability to recover the carrying value or the investee’s inability to generate income sufficient to justify our carrying value. At December 31, 2011 we had $302 million of investments in
equity method investments recorded in our consolidated balance sheet.  An estimate of the sensitivity to net income resulting
from impairment calculations is not practicable, given the numerous assumptions (e.g., pricing, volumes and discount rates) that can materially affect our estimates. That is, unfavorable adjustments to some of the above listed assumptions may be
offset by favorable adjustments in other assumptions.  Derivatives 
We record all derivative instruments at fair value. A large volume of our commodity derivatives are exchange-traded and require few
assumptions in arriving at fair value. Fair value estimation for all our derivative instruments is discussed in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 16. Additional information about derivatives and their valuation may be
found in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.  Investments in Debt and Equity Securities
 We record all of our investments in debt and equity securities at fair value. Our investments in related party debt
securities were redeemable on any business day at a stated price which had been determined to approximate fair value. Our investments in other equity securities are exchange-traded, and fair value is determined from quoted market prices. 
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Obligations  Accounting for pension and other postretirement benefit obligations involves numerous assumptions, the most significant of which relate to the following: 
 


 
•
 
 the discount rate for measuring the present value of future plan obligations; 


 
•
 
 the expected long-term return on plan assets; 


 
•
 
 the rate of future increases in compensation levels; and 


 
•
 
 health care cost projections.  We develop our demographics and utilize the work of third-party actuaries to assist in the measurement of these obligations. We have selected different discount rates for our funded pension plans and our
unfunded retiree health care plans due to the different projected benefit payment patterns. The selected rates are compared to 
  65 


Table of Contents

various similar bond indexes for reasonableness. In determining the assumed discount rates, we use our third-party actuary’s discount rate model. This model calculates an equivalent single
discount rate for the projected benefit plan cash flows using a yield curve derived from Aa bond yields. The yield curve represents a series of annualized individual spot discount rates from 0.5 to 99 years. The bonds used are rated Aa or higher by
a recognized rating agency and only non-callable bonds are included. Outlier bonds that have a yield to maturity that deviate significantly from the average yield within each maturity grouping are not included. Each issue is required to have at
least $250 million par value outstanding.  Of the assumptions used to measure the year-end obligations and estimated annual
net periodic benefit cost, the discount rate has the most significant effect on the periodic benefit cost reported for the plans. Decreasing the discount rates of 4.30 percent for our pension plans and 4.65 percent for our other postretirement
benefit plans by 0.25 would increase pension obligations and other postretirement benefit plan obligations by $131 million and $21 million, respectively, and would increase defined benefit pension expense and other postretirement benefit plan
expense by $11 million and $1 million, respectively.  The asset rate of return assumption considers the asset mix of the plans
(currently targeted at approximately 75 percent equity securities and 25 percent fixed income securities for the funded pension plans), past performance and other factors. Certain components of the asset mix are modeled with various assumptions
regarding inflation and returns. Our long term asset rate of return assumption is compared to those of other companies and to historical returns for reasonableness. After evaluating activity in the capital markets, we reduced the asset rate of
return from 8.50 percent to 7.50 percent effective for 2012 defined benefit pension expense. Decreasing the 7.50 percent asset rate of return assumption by 0.25 would increase our defined benefit pension expense by $4 million. 
Compensation change assumptions are based on historical experience, anticipated future management actions and demographics of the benefit
plans.  Health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook and an
assessment of likely long-term trends.  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 20 includes detailed
information about the assumptions used to calculate the components of our annual defined benefit pension and other postretirement plan expense, as well as the obligations and accumulated other comprehensive loss reported on the year-end balance
sheets.  Contingent Liabilities  We accrue contingent liabilities for legal actions, claims, litigation, environmental remediation, tax deficiencies related to operating taxes and third party indemnities for specified tax matters when
such contingencies are both probable and estimable. We regularly assess these estimates in consultation with legal counsel to consider resolved and new matters, material developments in court proceedings or settlement discussions, new information
obtained as a result of ongoing discovery and past experience in defending and settling similar matters. Actual costs can differ from estimates for many reasons. For instance, settlement costs for claims and litigation can vary from estimates based
on differing interpretations of laws, opinions on degree of responsibility and assessments of the amount of damages. Similarly, liabilities for environmental remediation may vary from estimates because of changes in laws, regulations and their
interpretation; additional information on the extent and nature of site contamination; and improvements in technology.  We
generally record losses related to these types of contingencies as cost of revenues or selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of income, except for tax deficiencies unrelated to income taxes, which are recorded
as other taxes. For additional information on contingent liabilities, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Environmental Matters and Compliance Costs. 
  66 


Table of Contents
An estimate of the sensitivity to net income if other assumptions had been used in recording
these liabilities is not practical because of the number of contingencies that must be assessed, the number of underlying assumptions and the wide range of reasonably possible outcomes, in terms of both the probability of loss and the estimates of
such loss.  Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted  In December 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an accounting standards update that requires disclosure of additional information related to recognized financial and
derivative instruments that are offset or are not offset but are subject to an enforceable netting agreement. The purpose of the requirement is to help users evaluate the effect or potential effect of offsetting and related netting arrangements on
an entity’s financial position. The update is to be applied retrospectively and is effective for annual periods that begin on or after January 1, 2013 and interim periods within those annual periods. Adoption of this update will not have
an impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.  In September 2011, the FASB issued an
accounting standards update giving an entity the option to use a qualitative assessment to determine whether or not the entity is required to perform the two step goodwill impairment test. If, through a qualitative assessment, an entity determines
that it is not more likely than not that fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying amount, the entity is not required to perform the two step goodwill impairment test. The amendments in the update are effective for annual and interim
goodwill testing performed in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption is permitted. The adoption of this accounting standards update will not have an impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or
cash flows.  In May 2011, the FASB issued an update amending the accounting standards for fair value measurement and
disclosure, resulting in common principles and requirements under US GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). The amendments change the wording used to describe certain of the US GAAP requirements either to
clarify the intent of existing requirements, to change measurement or expand disclosure principles or to conform to the wording used in IFRS. The amendments are to be applied prospectively and will be effective in interim and annual periods
beginning with the first quarter of 2012 for us. Early application is not permitted. We do not expect adoption of these amendments to have a significant impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 
  67 


Table of Contents
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
 General 
We are exposed to market risks related to the volatility of crude oil and refined product prices. We employ various strategies, including
the use of commodity derivative instruments, to manage the risks related to these price fluctuations. We are also exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We use financial derivative
instruments to manage the risks related to interest rate fluctuations. We are at risk for changes in fair value of all of our derivative instruments; however, such risk should be mitigated by price or rate changes related to the underlying commodity
or financial transaction.  We believe that our use of derivative instruments, along with our risk assessment procedures and
internal controls, does not expose us to material adverse consequences. While the use of derivative instruments could materially affect our results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods, we believe that the use of these instruments
will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity.  See Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data - Notes 16 and 17 for more information about the fair value measurement of our derivatives, as well as the amounts recorded in our consolidated balance sheets and statements of income. We do not designate any of our commodity
derivative instruments as hedges for accounting purposes. We designate our interest rate derivative instruments as fair value hedges. 
Commodity Price Risk 
Our strategy is to obtain competitive prices for our products and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by
supply and demand. We use a variety of commodity derivative instruments, including futures, forwards, swaps and combinations of options, as part of an overall program to manage commodity price risk. We also may utilize the market knowledge gained
from these activities to do a limited amount of trading not directly related to our physical transactions.  We use commodity
derivative instruments on crude oil and refined product inventories to manage price risk associated with inventories above or below last-in, first-out inventory targets. We also use derivative instruments related to the acquisition of
foreign-sourced crude oil and ethanol blended with refined petroleum products to manage price risk associated with market volatility between the time we purchase the product and when we use it in the refinery production process or it is blended. In
addition, we may use commodity derivative instruments on fixed price contracts for the sale of refined products to manage risk by converting the refined product sales to market-based prices. The majority of these derivatives are exchange-traded
contracts for crude oil, refined products and ethanol.  We closely monitor and manage our exposure to market risk on a daily
basis in accordance with policies approved by our board of directors. Our positions are monitored daily by a risk control group to ensure compliance with our stated risk management policy. 
  68 


Table of Contents
Open Derivative Positions and Sensitivity Analysis 
The table below sets forth information relating to our significant open commodity derivative contracts as of December 31, 2011.
  


















 
 
December 31, 2011        

  
 
Position
 
 
Total Barrels(In thousands)
 
 
Weighted Average Price(Per barrel)
 
    
 Benchmark

 Crude Oil (a)
 



 



 



    


 Exchange-traded
 
 
Long
  
 
 
7,653
  
 
$
98.44
  
    
CME 
Crude(b)

 Exchange-traded
 
 
Short
  
 
 
(19,382
) 
 
$
97.74
  
    
CME 
Crude(b)







 
 
Position
 
 
Total Barrels(In thousands)
 
 
Weighted Average Price(Per gallon)
 
    
 Benchmark

 Refined Products (c)
 



 



 



    


 Exchange-traded
 
 
Long
  
 
 
1,711
  
 
$
2.82
  
    
CME Heating Oil and RBOB(b)(d)

 Exchange-traded
 
 
Short
  
 
 
(3,413
) 
 
$
2.78
  
    
CME Heating Oil and RBOB(b)(d)
  


 
(a) 
 98.6 percent of these contracts expire in the first quarter of 2012. 


 
(b) 
 Chicago Mercantile Exchange (“CME”). 


 
(c) 
 100 percent of these contracts expire in the first quarter of 2012. 


 
(d) 
 Reformulated Gasoline Blendstock for Oxygenate Blending (“RBOB”). 
Sensitivity analysis of the incremental effects on income from operations (“IFO”) of hypothetical 10 percent and 25 percent
increases and decreases in commodity prices for open commodity derivative instruments as of December 31, 2011 is provided in the following table.   




















  
  
Incremental Changein IFO from aHypothetical PriceIncrease of
 
 
Incremental Changein IFO from aHypothetical PriceDecrease 
of
 

 (In millions)
  
    10%    
 
 
    25%    
 
 
    10%    
 
  
    25%    
 

 As of December 31, 2011
  



 



 



  




 Crude
  
$
    (107
) 
 
$
    (264
)  
 
$
    116  
  
  
$
    289  
  

 Refined products
  
 
(12
)  
 
 
(31
)  
 
 
12  
  
  
 
31  
  
 We remain at risk for possible changes in the market value of commodity derivative instruments; however,
such risk should be mitigated by price changes in the underlying physical commodity. Effects of these offsets are not reflected in the above sensitivity analysis.  We evaluate our portfolio of commodity derivative instruments on an ongoing basis and add or revise strategies in anticipation of changes in market conditions and in risk profiles. Changes to the
portfolio after December 31, 2011 would cause future IFO effects to differ from those presented above.  Interest Rate Risk
 We are impacted by interest rate fluctuations related to our debt obligations. At December 31, 2011, our debt was
primarily comprised of the $3.0 billion fixed rate senior notes issued on February 1, 2011.  In 2011, we entered into
interest rate swap derivative instruments to manage our interest rate risk associated with a portion of the fixed interest rate debt in our portfolio. As of December 31, 2011, we had interest rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $500
million at a weighted average, LIBOR-based, floating rate of 2.02 percent. This interest rate swap is designated as a fair value hedge, which effectively results in an exchange of existing obligations to pay fixed interest rates for an obligation to
pay floating rates. 
  69 


Table of Contents
Sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 100-basis-point
shift in interest rates on financial assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2011 is provided in the following table.   












 (In millions)
  
Fair Value
 
 
IncrementalChange inFair Value
 

 Financial assets (liabilities) (a)
  



 




 Interest rate swap agreements
  
$
19 
    (b) 
 
$
18
    (c) 

 Long-term debt (d)
  
 
    
(3,203)
    (b) 
 
 
    
324
    (c) 
  


 
(a) 
 Fair value of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively
insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short-term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. 


 
(b) 
 Fair value was based on market prices, where available, or current borrowing rates for financings with similar terms and maturities.



 
(c) 
 For the interest rate swap agreements, this assumes a 100-basis-point decrease in the effective swap rate at December 31, 2011. For long-term
debt, this assumes a 100-basis-point decrease in the weighted average yield-to-maturity at December 31, 2011. 


 
(d) 
 Excludes capital leases.  At December 31, 2011, our portfolio of long-term debt was substantially comprised of fixed-rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to interest rate
fluctuations. Our sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases in the fair value of our debt portfolio unfavorably affects our results of operations and cash flows only when we elect to repurchase or otherwise retire fixed-rate
debt at prices above carrying value.  Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk 
We are impacted by foreign exchange rate fluctuations related to some of our purchases of crude oil denominated in Canadian Dollars. We
did not utilize derivatives to manage our market risk exposure to these foreign exchange rate fluctuations in 2011.  Counterparty Risk
 We are also exposed to financial risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties or brokers. We regularly review the
creditworthiness of counterparties and brokers and enter into master netting agreements when appropriate.  Forward-Looking Statements
 These quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward-looking statements with respect to
management’s opinion about risks associated with the use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for crude oil, other refinery feedstocks,
refined products and ethanol. If these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to our use of derivative instruments may differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. 
  70 


Table of Contents
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 
Index   








 
  
Page
 




 Management’s Responsibilities for Financial Statements
  
 
72
  




 Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
  
 
72
  




 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
73
  




 Audited Consolidated Financial Statements:
  







 Consolidated Statements of Income
  
 
74
  




 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
  
 
75
  




 Consolidated Balance Sheets
  
 
76
  




 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
  
 
77
  




 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity / Net Investment
  
 
78
  




 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
79
  




 Select Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
  
 
121
  




 Supplementary Statistics (Unaudited)
  
 
122
  

  71 


Table of Contents
Management’s Responsibilities for Financial Statements
 To the Stockholders of Marathon Petroleum Corporation: 
The accompanying consolidated financial statements of Marathon Petroleum Corporation and its subsidiaries (“MPC”) are the
responsibility of management and have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. They necessarily include some amounts that are based on best judgments and estimates. The financial
information displayed in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is consistent with these consolidated financial statements.  MPC seeks to assure the objectivity and integrity of its financial records by careful selection of its managers, by organizational arrangements that provide an appropriate division of responsibility and
by communications programs aimed at assuring that its policies and methods are understood throughout the organization.  The
board of directors pursues its oversight role in the area of financial reporting and internal control over financial reporting through its Audit Committee. This committee, composed solely of independent directors, regularly meets (jointly and
separately) with the independent registered public accounting firm, management and internal auditors to monitor the proper discharge by each of their responsibilities relative to internal accounting controls and the consolidated financial
statements.   












 /s/ Gary R. Heminger
 

 
 /s/ Donald C. Templin
 

 
 /s/ Michael G. Braddock

 President and Chief Executive Officer
 

 
 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 

 
 Vice President and Controller
 Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
MPC’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Rule 13a - 15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). An evaluation of the design and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, based on the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, was conducted under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer. Based on the results of this
evaluation, MPC’s management concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011.  The effectiveness of MPC’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as
stated in their report which is included herein.   










 /s/ Gary R. Heminger
 

 
 /s/ Donald C. Templin
 


 President and Chief Executive Officer
 

 
 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 


  72 


Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
To the Stockholders of Marathon Petroleum Corporation:  In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity/net investment, and cash flows present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Marathon Petroleum Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2011 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for these
financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits (which was an integrated audit in 2011). We conducted
our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  Toledo, Ohio  February 29, 2012 
  73 


Table of Contents
Marathon Petroleum Corporation 
Consolidated Statements of Income 
 
















 (In millions, except per share data)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Revenues and other income:
  



 



 




 Sales and other operating revenues (including consumer excise taxes)
  
$
    78,583
  
 
$
    62,387
  
 
$
    45,461
  

 Sales to related parties
  
 
55
  
 
 
100
  
 
 
69
  

 Income from equity method investments
  
 
50
  
 
 
70
  
 
 
30
  

 Net gain on disposal of assets
  
 
12
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
4
  

 Other income
  
 
59
  
 
 
37
  
 
 
75
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenues and other income
  
 
78,759
  
 
 
62,605
  
 
 
45,639
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Costs and expenses:
  



 



 




 Cost of revenues (excludes items below)
  
 
65,748
  
 
 
51,685
  
 
 
37,003
  

 Purchases from related parties
  
 
1,916
  
 
 
2,593
  
 
 
1,317
  

 Consumer excise taxes
  
 
5,114
  
 
 
5,208
  
 
 
4,924
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
891
  
 
 
941
  
 
 
670
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
1,106
  
 
 
920
  
 
 
842
  

 Other taxes
  
 
239
  
 
 
247
  
 
 
229
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total costs and expenses
  
 
75,014
  
 
 
61,594
  
 
 
44,985
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
3,745
  
 
 
1,011
  
 
 
654
  

 Related party net interest and other financial income
  
 
35
  
 
 
24
  
 
 
45
  

 Net interest and other financial income (costs)
  
 
(61
) 
 
 
(12
) 
 
 
(14
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
 
3,719
  
 
 
1,023
  
 
 
685
  

 Provision for income taxes
  
 
1,330
  
 
 
400
  
 
 
236
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
2,389
  
 
$
623
  
 
$
449
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Per Share Data (See Note 7)
  



 



 




 Basic:
  



 



 




 Net Income per share
  
$
6.70
  
 
$
1.75
  
 
$
1.26
  

 Weighted average shares outstanding
  
 
356
  
 
 
356
  
 
 
356
  

 Diluted:
  



 



 




 Net Income per share
  
$
6.67
  
 
$
1.74
  
 
$
1.25
  

 Weighted average shares outstanding
  
 
357
  
 
 
358
  
 
 
358
  

 Dividends paid
  
$
0.45
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  74 


Table of Contents
Marathon Petroleum Corporation 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 
 
















 (In millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net income
  
$
    2,389
  
 
$
    623
  
 
$
    449
  

 Other comprehensive loss:
  



 



 




 Defined benefit postretirement and post-employment plans:
  



 



 




 Actuarial losses, net of tax of ($151), ($20) and ($168)
  
 
(248
) 
 
 
(108
) 
 
 
(267
) 

 Prior service costs, net of tax of $2, $3 and $3
  
 
4
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
5
  

 Other, net of tax of $-, $- and $-
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Other comprehensive loss
  
 
(245
) 
 
 
(103
) 
 
 
(262
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
  
$
    2,144
  
 
$
520
  
 
$
187
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  75 


Table of Contents
Marathon Petroleum Corporation 
Consolidated Balance Sheets 
 












  
  
December 31,
 

 (In millions, except per share data)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Assets
  



 




 Current assets:
  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
3,079
  
 
$
118
  

 Related party debt securities
  
 
-
  
 
 
2,404
  

 Receivables, less allowance for doubtful accounts of $3 and $4
  
 
5,459
  
 
 
4,393
  

 Receivables from related parties
  
 
2
  
 
 
5
  

 Inventories
  
 
3,320
  
 
 
3,071
  

 Other current assets
  
 
141
  
 
 
65
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
12,001
  
 
 
10,056
  

 Equity method investments
  
 
302
  
 
 
312
  

 Property, plant and equipment, net
  
 
12,228
  
 
 
11,724
  

 Goodwill
  
 
842
  
 
 
837
  

 Other noncurrent assets
  
 
372
  
 
 
303
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
25,745
  
 
$
23,232
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Liabilities
  



 




 Current liabilities:
  



 




 Accounts payable
  
$
8,169
  
 
$
6,453
  

 Payables to related parties
  
 
20
  
 
 
341
  

 Payroll and benefits payable
  
 
312
  
 
 
266
  

 Consumer excise taxes payable
  
 
337
  
 
 
286
  

 Accrued taxes
  
 
558
  
 
 
524
  

 Long-term debt payable within one year to Marathon Oil and subsidiaries
  
 
-
  
 
 
655
  

 Long-term debt due within one year
  
 
15
  
 
 
11
  

 Other current liabilities
  
 
180
  
 
 
84
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
9,591
  
 
 
8,620
  

 Long-term debt payable to Marathon Oil and subsidiaries
  
 
-
  
 
 
2,963
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
3,292
  
 
 
268
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
1,310
  
 
 
1,367
  

 Defined benefit postretirement plan obligations
  
 
1,783
  
 
 
1,493
  

 Deferred credits and other liabilities
  
 
264
  
 
 
277
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
16,240
  
 
 
14,988
  

 Commitments and contingencies (see Note 23)
  



 




 Stockholders’ Equity / Net investment
  



 




 Preferred stock - no shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2011 (par value $0.01 per share, 30 million shares
authorized)
  
 
-
  
 
 
-
  

 Common stock - 357 million shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2011 (par value $0.01 per share, 1 billion shares
authorized)
  
 
4
  
 
 
-
  

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
9,482
  
 
 
-
  

 Retained earnings
  
 
898
  
 
 
-
  

 Net investment
  
 
-
  
 
 
8,867
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
  
 
(879
) 
 
 
(623
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total stockholders’ equity / net investment
  
 
9,505
  
 
 
8,244
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity / net investment
  
$
    25,745
  
 
$
    23,232
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  76 


Table of Contents
Marathon Petroleum Corporation 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
 
















 (In millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  



 



 




 Operating activities:
  



 



 




 Net income
  
$
2,389
  
 
$
623
  
 
$
449
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
  



 



 




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
891
  
 
 
941
  
 
 
670
  

 Pension and other postretirement benefits, net
  
 
(90
) 
 
 
13
  
 
 
(100
) 

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
123
  
 
 
308
  
 
 
225
  

 Net gain on disposal of assets
  
 
(12
) 
 
 
(11
) 
 
 
(4
) 

 Equity method investments, net
  
 
(2
) 
 
 
(34
) 
 
 
8
  

 Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments
  
 
(57
) 
 
 
(16
) 
 
 
59
  

 Changes in:
  



 



 




 Current receivables
  
 
(1,164
) 
 
 
(762
) 
 
 
(1,448
) 

 Inventories
  
 
(255
) 
 
 
(76
) 
 
 
(22
) 

 Current accounts payable and accrued liabilities
  
 
1,544
  
 
 
1,009
  
 
 
2,467
  

 Receivables from / payables to related parties
  
 
(55
) 
 
 
163
  
 
 
111
  

 All other, net
  
 
(3
) 
 
 
59
  
 
 
40
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities 
  
 
3,309
  
 
 
2,217
  
 
 
2,455
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investing activities:
  



 



 




 Additions to property, plant and equipment
  
 
(1,185
) 
 
 
(1,217
) 
 
 
(2,891
) 

 Acquisitions
  
 
(74
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  

 Disposal of assets
  
 
144
  
 
 
763
  
 
 
53
  

 Investments in related party debt securities – purchases
  
 
(10,326
) 
 
 
(9,709
) 
 
 
(16,755
) 


                        
                                         
    – redemptions
  
 
12,730
  
 
 
8,019
  
 
 
16,915
  

 Investments – loans and advances
  
 
(56
) 
 
 
(45
) 
 
 
(23
) 

                     –
repayments of loans
  
 
53
  
 
 
44
  
 
 
35
  

 All other, net
  
 
9
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
22
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
  
 
1,295
  
 
 
(2,145
) 
 
 
(2,644
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Financing activities:
  



 



 




 Long-term debt payable to Marathon Oil and subsidiaries – borrowings
  
 
7,748
  
 
 
18,804
  
 
 
15
  


                        
                                         
                           – repayments
  
 
(11,366
) 
 
 
(17,544
) 
 
 
-
  

 Long-term debt – borrowings
  
 
2,989
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  


                        
  – repayments
  
 
(12
) 
 
 
(12
) 
 
 
(13
) 

 Debt issuance costs
  
 
(60
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  

 Issuance of common stock
  
 
1
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  

 Dividends paid
  
 
(160
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  

 Contributions from (distributions to) Marathon Oil
  
 
(783
) 
 
 
(1,330
) 
 
 
207
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
  
 
(1,643
) 
 
 
(82
) 
 
 
209
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
2,961
  
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
20
  

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 
  
 
118
  
 
 
128
  
 
 
108
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 
  
$
3,079
  
 
$
118
  
 
$
128
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  77 


Table of Contents
Marathon Petroleum Corporation 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity / Net Investment 
 




























 (In millions)
  
CommonStock
 
  
AdditionalPaid-inCapital
 
 
RetainedEarnings
 
 
NetInvestment
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveLoss
 
  
TotalStockholders’Equity / NetInvestment
 

 Balance as of January 1, 2009
  
$
    -
  
  
$
    -
  
 
$
-
  
 
$
    9,194
  
 
$
(258
) 
  
$
    8,936
  

 Net income
  
 
-
  
  
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
449
  
 
 
-
  
  
 
449
  

 Contributions from Marathon Oil
  
 
-
  
  
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
49
  
 
 
-
  
  
 
49
  

 Other comprehensive loss
  
 
-
  
  
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
(262
) 
  
 
(262
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance as of December 31, 2009
  
$
-
  
  
$
-
  
 
$
-
  
 
$
9,692
  
 
$
(520
) 
  
$
9,172
  

 Net income
  
 
-
  
  
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
623
  
 
 
-
  
  
 
623
  

 Distributions to Marathon Oil
  
 
-
  
  
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
(1,448
) 
 
 
-
  
  
 
(1,448
) 

 Other comprehensive loss
  
 
-
  
  
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
(103
) 
  
 
(103
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance as of December 31, 2010
  
$
-
  
  
$
-
  
 
$
-
  
 
$
8,867
  
 
$
(623
) 
  
$
8,244
  

 Net income
  
 
-
  
  
 
-
  
 
 
1,058
  
 
 
1,331
  
 
 
-
  
  
 
2,389
  

 Dividends paid
  
 
-
  
  
 
-
  
 
 
(160
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
  
 
(160
) 

 Distributions to Marathon Oil
  
 
-
  
  
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
(726
) 
 
 
(11
) 
  
 
(737
) 

 Other comprehensive loss
  
 
-
  
  
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
(245
) 
  
 
(245
) 

 Shares issued - stock-based compensation
  
 
-
  
  
 
9
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
  
 
9
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
-
  
  
 
5
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
  
 
5
  

 Reclassification of net investment to additional paid-in capital
  
 
-
  
  
 
9,472
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
(9,472
) 
 
 
-
  
  
 
-
  

 Issuance of common stock at spinoff
  
 
4
  
  
 
(4
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
  
 
-
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance as of December 31, 2011
  
$
        4
  
  
$
    9,482
  
 
$
  898
  
 
$
-
  
 
$
    (879
) 
  
$
9,505
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 









 (Shares in millions)
  
CommonStock
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

 Balance as of December 31, 2010
  
 
-
  
  



 



 



 



  




 Shares issued - stock-based compensation
  
 
1
  
  



 



 



 



  




 Issuance of common stock at spinoff
  
 
356
  
  



 



 



 



  





  
  
  
 
  



 



 



 



  




 Balance as of December 31, 2011
  
 
357
  
  



 



 



 



  





  
  
  
 
  



 



 



 



  




The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  78 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 


 
1.
 Spinoff, Description of the Business and Basis of Presentation 
Spinoff – On May 25, 2011, the Marathon Oil Corporation (“Marathon
Oil”) board of directors approved the spinoff of its Refining, Marketing & Transportation Business (“RM&T Business”) into an independent, publicly traded company, Marathon Petroleum Corporation (“MPC”), through
the distribution of MPC common stock to the stockholders of Marathon Oil common stock. In accordance with a separation and distribution agreement between Marathon Oil and MPC, the distribution of MPC common stock was made on June 30, 2011, with
Marathon Oil stockholders receiving one share of MPC common stock for every two shares of Marathon Oil common stock held (the “Spinoff”).    Marathon Oil received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue
Service to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of shares of MPC common stock in the Spinoff qualifies as tax-free to Marathon Oil, MPC and Marathon Oil stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)
and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.  Following the Spinoff, Marathon Oil retained no ownership interest in MPC, and each company had separate public ownership, boards of directors and
management.    A registration statement on Form 10, as amended through the time of its effectiveness, describing the Spinoff was filed by MPC with the Securities and Exchange Commission and was declared effective on June 6,
2011.    All subsidiaries and equity method investments not contributed by Marathon Oil to MPC remained with Marathon Oil and, together with Marathon Oil, are referred to as the “Marathon Oil
Companies.”    On July 1, 2011, our common stock began trading “regular-way” on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “MPC”. 
Description of the Business – Our business consists of refining and marketing, retail marketing and
pipeline transportation operations conducted primarily in the Midwest, Gulf Coast and Southeast regions of the United States, through subsidiaries, including Marathon Petroleum Company LP, Speedway LLC and Marathon Pipe Line LLC. Until
December 1, 2010, we also had operations in the Upper Great Plains region of the United States.  See Note
8 for additional information about our operations.  Basis of Presentation – Prior to the
Spinoff on June 30, 2011, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows consisted of the RM&T Business, which represented a combined reporting entity. Subsequent to the Spinoff, our financial position, results of operations
and cash flows consist of consolidated MPC activities and balances.    The assets and liabilities in our consolidated financial statements have been reflected on a historical basis, as immediately prior to the Spinoff all of the
assets and liabilities presented were wholly owned by Marathon Oil and were transferred within the Marathon Oil consolidated group.  All significant intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated. 
The consolidated statements of income for periods prior to the Spinoff included expense allocations for certain corporate
functions historically performed by the Marathon Oil Companies, including allocations of general corporate expenses related to executive oversight, accounting, treasury, tax, legal, procurement and information
technology.    Those allocations were based primarily on specific identification, headcount or computer utilization.    Our management believes the assumptions underlying the consolidated financial statements,
including the assumptions regarding allocating general corporate expenses from the Marathon Oil Companies, are reasonable. However, these consolidated financial statements do not include all of the actual expenses that would have been incurred had
we been a stand-alone company during the periods presented prior to the Spinoff and may not reflect our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows had we been a stand-alone company during the periods
presented.    Actual costs that would have been incurred if we had been a stand-alone company would depend upon multiple factors, including organizational structure and strategic decisions made in various areas, including
information technology and infrastructure.    Subsequent to the Spinoff, we are performing these functions using internal resources or 
  79 


Table of Contents

services provided by third parties, certain of which are being provided by the Marathon Oil Companies during a transition period pursuant to a transition services agreement. See Note 4.
 Certain reclassifications of prior periods’ data have been made to conform to current
classifications.    On the 2010 consolidated balance sheet, current tax liabilities have been reclassified from other current liabilities to accrued taxes.    On the 2010 and 2009 consolidated statements of
cash flows, changes in current tax liabilities have been reclassified within operating activities, from all other, net to changes in current accounts payable and accrued liabilities. 
 


 
2.
 Summary of Principal Accounting Policies 
Principles applied in consolidation – These consolidated financial statements
include the accounts of our majority-owned and controlled subsidiaries.  Investments in entities over which we
have significant influence, but not control, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.    This includes entities in which we hold majority ownership but the minority shareholders have substantive participating
rights in the investee. Income from equity method investments represents our proportionate share of net income generated by the equity method investees.  Equity method investments are carried at our share of net assets plus loans and advances. Such investments are assessed for impairment whenever changes in the facts and circumstances indicate a loss in
value has occurred, if the loss is deemed to be other than temporary.    When the loss is deemed to be other than temporary, the carrying value of the equity method investment is written down to fair value, and the amount of the
write-down is included in net income.    Differences in the basis of the investments and the separate net asset values of the investees, if any, are amortized into net income over the remaining useful lives of the underlying
assets, except for the excess related to goodwill.  Use of estimates – The preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the respective reporting periods.  Revenue recognition – Revenues are recognized when products are shipped or services are provided to customers, title is transferred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and
collectability is reasonably assured.    Costs associated with revenues are recorded in cost of revenues.    Shipping and other transportation costs billed to customers are presented on a gross basis in
revenues and cost of revenues.  Rebates from vendors are recognized as a reduction of cost of revenues when
the initiating transaction occurs. Incentives that are derived from contractual provisions are accrued based on past experience and recognized in cost of revenues. 
Crude oil and refined product exchanges and matching buy/sell transactions – We enter into exchange
contracts and matching buy/sell arrangements whereby we agree to deliver a particular quantity and quality of crude oil or refined products at a specified location and date to a particular counterparty and to receive from the same counterparty the
same commodity at a specified location on the same or another specified date.    The exchange receipts and deliveries are nonmonetary transactions, with the exception of associated grade or location differentials that are settled
in cash.    The matching buy/sell purchase and sale transactions are settled in cash. Both exchange and matching buy/sell transactions are accounted for as exchanges of inventory and no revenues are recorded. The exchange
transactions are recognized at the carrying amount of the inventory transferred. 
  80 


Table of Contents
Consumer excise taxes – We are required by various
governmental authorities, including countries, states and municipalities, to collect and remit taxes on certain consumer products.    Such taxes are presented on a gross basis in revenues and costs and expenses in the
consolidated statements of income.  Cash and cash equivalents – Cash and cash equivalents
include cash on hand and on deposit and investments in highly liquid debt instruments with maturities generally of three months or less.  Accounts receivable and allowance for doubtful accounts – Our receivables primarily consist of customer accounts receivable, including proprietary credit card
receivables.    The allowance for doubtful accounts is the best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in our proprietary credit card receivables.    We determine the allowance based on historical
write-off experience and the volume of proprietary credit card sales.    We review the allowance quarterly and past-due balances over 180 days are reviewed individually for collectability.    All other
customer receivables are recorded at the invoiced amounts and generally do not bear interest. Account balances for these customer receivables are charged directly to bad debt expense when it becomes probable the receivable will not be collected.
 Approximately 47 percent and 48 percent of our accounts receivable balances at December 31, 2011 and
2010 are related to sales of crude oil or refinery feedstocks to customers with whom we have master netting agreements.    We have master netting agreements with more than 85 companies engaged in the crude oil or refinery
feedstock trading and supply business or the petroleum refining industry.    A master netting agreement generally provides for a once per month net cash settlement of the accounts receivable from and the accounts payable to a
particular counterparty.  Inventories – Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or
market value. Cost of inventories is determined primarily under the last-in, first-out (“LIFO”) method.  Derivative instruments – We use derivatives to manage a portion of our exposure to commodity price risk and interest rate risk.    We also have limited authority to
use selective derivative instruments that assume market risk. All derivative instruments are recorded at fair value.    Commodity derivatives are reflected on the consolidated balance sheets on a net basis by brokerage firm, as
they are governed by master netting agreements.    Cash flows related to derivatives used to manage commodity price risk and interest rate risk are classified in operating activities with the underlying transactions. 
Fair value hedges – We use interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to interest rate risk associated with
fixed interest rate debt in our portfolio.    Changes in the fair values of both the hedged item and the related derivative are recognized immediately in net income with an offsetting effect included in the basis of the hedged
item.    The net effect is to report in net income the extent to which the hedge is not effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value. 
Derivatives not designated as hedges –Derivatives that are not designated as hedges may include commodity
derivatives used to manage price risk on (1) inventories, (2) fixed price sales of refined products, (3) the acquisition of foreign-sourced crude oil and (4) the acquisition of ethanol for blending with refined
products.    Changes in the fair value of derivatives not designated as hedges are recognized immediately in net income.  Contingent credit features - Our derivative instruments contain no significant contingent credit features.  Concentrations of credit risk - All of our financial instruments, including derivatives, involve elements of credit and market risk.    The most significant portion of our
credit risk relates to nonperformance by counterparties.    The counterparties to our financial instruments consist primarily of major financial institutions and companies within the energy industry.    To
manage counterparty risk associated with financial instruments, we select and monitor counterparties based on an assessment of their financial strength and on credit ratings, if available. Additionally, we limit the level of exposure with any single
counterparty. 
  81 


Table of Contents
Property, plant and equipment – Property, plant and
equipment are recorded at cost and depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which range from 4 to 42 years.    Such assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.    If the sum of the expected undiscounted future cash flows from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition is less than the carrying
amount of the asset, an impairment loss is recognized based on the fair value of the asset.  When items of
property, plant and equipment depreciated on an individual basis are sold or otherwise disposed of, any gains or losses are reported in net income. Gains on the disposal of property, plant and equipment are recognized when earned, which is generally
at the time of closing. If a loss on disposal is expected, such losses are recognized when the assets are classified as held for sale.    Proceeds from the disposal of property, plant and equipment depreciated on a group basis
are credited to accumulated depreciation and amortization with no immediate effect on net income. 
Goodwill – Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of the
net assets acquired in the acquisition of a business.    Goodwill is not amortized, but rather is tested for impairment annually and when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit with
goodwill has been reduced below carrying value.    The impairment test requires allocating goodwill and other assets and liabilities to reporting units.    The fair value of each reporting unit is determined
and compared to the book value of the reporting unit.    If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the book value, including goodwill, the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated.    The
excess, if any, of the book value over the implied fair value of goodwill is charged to net income. 
Major maintenance activities – Costs for planned turnaround, major maintenance and engineered project
activities are expensed in the period incurred.    These types of costs include contractor repair services, materials and supplies, equipment rentals and our labor costs. 
Environmental costs – Environmental expenditures are capitalized if the costs mitigate or prevent
future contamination or if the costs improve environmental safety or efficiency of the existing assets.    We recognize remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated
costs can be reasonably estimated.    The timing of remediation accruals coincides with completion of a feasibility study or the commitment to a formal plan of action. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of
known environmental exposure and are discounted when the estimated amounts are reasonably fixed and determinable.    If recoveries of remediation costs from third parties are probable, a receivable is recorded and is discounted
when the estimated amount is reasonably fixed and determinable.  Asset retirement obligations
– The fair value of asset retirement obligations is recognized in the period in which the obligations are incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made.    Conditional asset retirement obligations for removal
and disposal of fire-retardant material from certain refining facilities have been recognized.    The fair values recorded for such obligations are based on the most probable current cost projections.    The
recorded asset retirement obligations are not material to the consolidated financial statements.  Asset
retirement obligations have not been recognized for some assets because the fair value cannot be reasonably estimated since the settlement dates of the obligations are indeterminate.    Such obligations will be recognized in the
period when sufficient information becomes available to estimate a range of potential settlement dates.    The asset retirement obligations principally include the removal of underground storage tanks at our owned and some of our
leased convenience stores at or near the time of closure and hazardous material disposal and removal or dismantlement requirements associated with the closure of certain refining, terminal and pipeline assets. 
  82 


Table of Contents
Our practice is to keep our assets in good operating condition through
routine repair and maintenance of component parts in the ordinary course of business and by continuing to make improvements based on technological advances.    As a result, we believe that these assets have no expected settlement
date for purposes of estimating asset retirement obligations since the dates or ranges of dates upon which we would retire these assets cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. 
Income taxes – For periods prior to the Spinoff, our taxable income was included in the consolidated
U.S. federal income tax returns of Marathon Oil and in a number of consolidated state income tax returns. In the accompanying consolidated financial statements, for periods prior to the Spinoff our provision for income taxes was computed as if we
were a stand-alone tax-paying entity.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated
future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases. Deferred tax assets are recorded when it is more likely than not that they will be
realized.    The realization of deferred tax assets is assessed periodically based on several factors, primarily our expectation to generate sufficient future taxable income. 
Stock-based compensation arrangements – The fair value of stock options and stock-settled stock
appreciation rights (collectively, “stock option awards”) granted to our employees is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.    The model employs various assumptions, based on
management’s estimates at the time of grant, which impact the calculation of fair value and ultimately, the amount of expense that is recognized over the vesting period of the stock option award.    Of the required
assumptions, the expected life of the stock option award and the expected volatility of our stock price have the most significant impact on the fair value calculation.    The average expected life is based on our historical
employee exercise behavior. We utilized the historical volatility of our peer group with similar business models to estimate our volatility.  The fair value of restricted stock awards granted to our employees is determined based on the fair market value of MPC common stock on the date of grant. 
Our stock-based compensation expense is recognized based on management’s estimate of the awards that are expected to
vest, using the straight-line attribution method for all service-based awards with a graded vesting feature.    If actual forfeiture results are different than expected, adjustments to recognized compensation expense may be
required in future periods.    Unearned stock-based compensation is charged to stockholders’ equity when restricted stock awards are granted.    Compensation expense is recognized over the vesting period
and is adjusted if conditions of the restricted stock award are not met. For periods prior to the Spinoff, we recorded Marathon Oil stock-based compensation expense as non-cash capital contributions. 
 


 
3.
 Accounting Standards 
Recently Adopted 
In September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an accounting standards update
requiring additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures for a company’s participation in multiemployer pension and multiemployer postretirement benefit plans.    The additional required disclosures are intended to
provide clarity about the plan itself and increase awareness about the commitments and potential future cash flows of an employer involved in a multiemployer plan.    The new disclosure requirements were adopted for the year
ended December 31, 2011, and were applied retrospectively for all prior periods presented. The adoption of this accounting standards update did not have an impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The
required disclosures appear in Note 20. 
  83 


Table of Contents
In June 2011, the FASB amended the reporting standards for comprehensive
income to eliminate the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders’ equity and to require reclassification adjustments from accumulated other comprehensive income to be
measured and presented by income statement line item in net income and also in other comprehensive income.    All non-owner changes in stockholders’ equity are required to be presented either in a single continuous statement
of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In the two statement approach, the first statement should present total net income and its components followed consecutively by a second statement that should present total other
comprehensive income, the components of other comprehensive income and the total of comprehensive income.    This accounting standards update does not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income or when
an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income.    In December 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to defer the presentation requirements of the reclassification adjustments from
accumulated other comprehensive income.    This accounting standards update, as modified, was adopted using the two statement approach in the fourth quarter of 2011 and was applied retrospectively for all prior periods
presented.    The adoption of this accounting standards update, as modified, did not have an impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 
Not Yet Adopted  In December 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that requires disclosure of additional information related to recognized financial and derivative instruments that are offset or are not
offset but are subject to an enforceable netting agreement.    The purpose of the requirement is to help users evaluate the effect or potential effect of offsetting and related netting arrangements on an entity’s financial
position.    The update is to be applied retrospectively and is effective for annual periods that begin on or after January 1, 2013 and interim periods within those annual periods.    Adoption of this
update will not have an impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. 
In September 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standards update giving an entity the option to use a qualitative
assessment to determine whether or not the entity is required to perform the two step goodwill impairment test.    If, through a qualitative assessment, an entity determines that it is not more likely than not that fair value of
a reporting unit is less than the carrying amount, the entity is not required to perform the two step goodwill impairment test.    The amendments in the update are effective for annual and interim goodwill testing performed in
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011.    The adoption of this accounting standards update will not have an impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 
In May 2011, the FASB issued an update amending the accounting standards for fair value measurement and disclosure,
resulting in common principles and requirements under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“US GAAP”) and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”).    The amendments change the wording
used to describe certain of the US GAAP requirements either to clarify the intent of existing requirements, to change measurement or expand disclosure principles or to conform to the wording used in IFRS.    The amendments
are to be applied prospectively and will be effective in interim and annual periods beginning with the first quarter of 2012 for us. Early application is not permitted.    We do not expect adoption of these amendments to have a
significant impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.   


 
4.
 Related Party Transactions 
During 2011, 2010 and 2009 our related parties included: 
 


 
•
 
 Marathon Oil Companies until June 30, 2011, the effective date of the Spinoff. 
  84 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 The Andersons Clymers Ethanol LLC (“TACE”), in which we have a 36 percent interest, and The Andersons Marathon Ethanol LLC
(“TAME”), in which we have a 50 percent interest.    These companies each own an ethanol production facility.   


 
•
 
 Centennial Pipeline LLC (“Centennial”), in which we have a 50 percent interest.    Centennial operates a refined
products pipeline and storage facility.   


 
•
 
 LOOP LLC (“LOOP”), in which we have a 51 percent noncontrolling interest.    LOOP operates an offshore oil port.
  


 
•
 
 Other equity method investees.  We believe that transactions with related parties, other than certain administrative transactions with the Marathon Oil Companies to effect the Spinoff and related to the provision of services, were
conducted on terms comparable to those with unrelated parties.    See below for a description of transactions with the Marathon Oil Companies. 
On May 25, 2011, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement and several other agreements with the
Marathon Oil Companies to effect the Spinoff and to provide a framework for our relationship with the Marathon Oil Companies.    These agreements govern the relationship between us and Marathon Oil subsequent to the completion of
the Spinoff and provide for the allocation between us and the Marathon Oil Companies of assets, liabilities and obligations attributable to periods prior to the Spinoff.    Because the terms of these agreements were entered into
in the context of a related party transaction, the terms may not be comparable to terms that would be obtained in a transaction between unaffiliated parties.  The separation and distribution agreement between us and the Marathon Oil Companies contains the key provisions relating to the separation of our business from Marathon Oil and the distribution of our
common stock to Marathon Oil stockholders.    The separation and distribution agreement identifies the assets that were transferred or sold, liabilities that were assumed or sold and contracts that were assigned to us by the
Marathon Oil Companies or by us to the Marathon Oil Companies in the Spinoff and describes how these transfers, sales, assumptions and assignments occurred.    In accordance with the separation and distribution agreement,
Marathon Oil determined that our aggregate cash and cash equivalents balance at June 30, 2011 should be approximately $1.625 billion.    The separation and distribution agreement also contains provisions regarding the
release of liabilities, indemnifications, insurance, nonsolicitation of employees, maintenance of confidentiality, payment of expenses and dispute resolution. See Note 23. 
We and Marathon Oil entered into a tax sharing agreement to govern the respective rights, responsibilities and
obligations of Marathon Oil and us with respect to taxes and tax benefits, the filing of tax returns, the control of audits, restrictions on us to preserve the tax-free status of the Spinoff and other tax matters. 
We and Marathon Oil entered into an employee matters agreement providing that each company has responsibility for our own
employees and compensation plans.    The agreement also contains provisions regarding stock-based compensation. See Note 21.  We have entered into certain transition services agreements with the Marathon Oil Companies under which we are providing each other with a variety of administrative services on an as-needed basis for a
period of time not to exceed one year following the Spinoff.    The charges under these transition service agreements are at cost-based rates that have been negotiated between us.    Services provided to us by
the Marathon Oil Companies include accounting, audit, treasury, tax, legal, information technology, administrative services, procurement of natural gas and health, environmental, safety and security.    Services provided by us to
the Marathon Oil Companies include legal, human resources, tax, accounting, audit, information technology and health, environmental, safety and security. 
  85 


Table of Contents
Sales to related parties were as follows: 
 
















 (In millions)
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 
  
    2009    
 

 Equity method investees:
  



  



  




 Centennial
  
  $
            35  
  
  
  $
            54  
  
  
  $
          34  
  

 Other equity method investees
  
 
7  
  
  
 
7  
  
  
 
4  
  

 Marathon Oil Companies
  
 
13  
  
  
 
39  
  
  
 
31  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
  $
55  
  
  
  $
100  
  
  
  $
69  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Related party sales to Centennial consist primarily of petroleum products. Related party
sales to the Marathon Oil Companies consisted primarily of crude oil and were based on contractual prices that were market-based.  Purchases from related parties were as follows:   
















 (In millions)
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 
  
    2009    
 

 Equity method investees:
  



  



  




 Centennial
  
  $
31  
  
  
  $
72  
  
  
  $
58  
  

 LOOP
  
 
66  
  
  
 
35  
  
  
 
40  
  

 TAME
  
 
153  
  
  
 
109  
  
  
 
99  
  

 TACE
  
 
46  
  
  
 
34  
  
  
 
44  
  

 Other equity method investees
  
 
30  
  
  
 
56  
  
  
 
46  
  

 Marathon Oil Companies
  
 
1,590  
  
  
 
2,287  
  
  
 
1,030  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
  $
    1,916  
  
  
  $
    2,593  
  
  
  $
    1,317  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Related party purchases from Centennial consist primarily of refinery feedstocks and
refined product transportation costs. Related party purchases from LOOP and other equity method investees consist primarily of crude oil transportation costs. Related party purchases from TAME and TACE consist of ethanol. Related party purchases
from the Marathon Oil Companies consisted primarily of crude oil and natural gas, which were recorded at contracted prices that were market-based.  The Marathon Oil Companies performed certain services for us prior to the Spinoff such as executive oversight, accounting, treasury, tax, legal, procurement and information technology services. We also
provided certain services to the Marathon Oil Companies prior to the Spinoff, such as legal, human resources and tax services. The two groups of companies charged each other for these shared services based on a rate that was negotiated between them.
Where costs incurred by the Marathon Oil Companies on our behalf could not practically be determined by specific utilization, these costs were primarily allocated to us based on headcount or computer utilization. Our management believes those
allocations were a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided. However, those allocations may not have fully reflected the expenses that would have been incurred had we been a stand-alone company during the periods presented. Net
charges from the Marathon Oil Companies for these services reflected within selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of income were $26 million, $43 million and $30 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
Current receivables from related parties were as follows: 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Equity method investees
  
  $
            2  
  
  
  $
            1  
  

 Marathon Oil Companies
  
 
-  
  
  
 
4  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
  $
2  
  
  
  $
5  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  86 


Table of Contents
Payables to related parties were as follows: 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Equity method investees:
  



  




 Centennial
  
$
7  
  
  
$
1  
  

 LOOP
  
 
5  
  
  
 
3  
  

 TAME
  
 
4  
  
  
 
5  
  

 TACE
  
 
2  
  
  
 
1  
  

 Other equity method investees
  
 
2  
  
  
 
2  
  

 Marathon Oil Companies
  
 
-  
  
  
 
329  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
            20  
  
  
$
            341  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 We have throughput and deficiency agreements with Centennial and LOOP. At
December 31, 2011, we had a prepaid tariff balance with Centennial of $11 million and a prepaid tariff balance with LOOP of $4 million, which are recorded in other noncurrent assets on the balance sheet. At December 31, 2010, our prepaid
tariff balance with Centennial included in other noncurrent assets was $2 million.  On July 18, 2007, we
entered into a credit agreement with MOC Portfolio Delaware, Inc. (“PFD”), a subsidiary of Marathon Oil, providing for a $2.9 billion revolving credit facility which was scheduled to terminate on May 4, 2012. On October 28, 2010,
we amended the credit agreement with PFD to increase the total amount available to $4.4 billion and extended the scheduled termination date to November 1, 2013. During 2011, we borrowed $7,748 million and repaid $10,319 million under the credit
facility. During 2010, we borrowed $18,804 million and repaid $17,544 million under this credit facility. There was no activity under this credit agreement during 2009. The outstanding balance was $2,571 million as of December 31, 2010, of
which $655 million was classified as current. The agreement was terminated on June 30, 2011, and there has been no subsequent activity. For U.S. Dollar loans under this credit facility, the interest rate was the higher of the prime rate or
the sum of 0.5 percent, plus the federal funds rate. For Euro Dollar loans under this credit facility, the interest rate was based on LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 0.25 percent to 1.125 percent. The margin varied based on our usage and credit
rating.  On July 18, 2007, we entered into a $1.1 billion revenue bonds proceeds subsidiary loan
agreement with Marathon Oil to finance a portion of our Garyville, Louisiana refinery major expansion project. Proceeds from the bonds were disbursed by Marathon Oil to us upon our request for reimbursement of expenditures related to the expansion.
During 2009, we borrowed $15 million under this agreement. There were no borrowings in 2011 and 2010. The loan balance outstanding as of December 31, 2010 of $1,047 million was repaid on February 1, 2011 and the loan was terminated
effective April 1, 2011. The loan had an interest rate of 5.125 percent annually.  In 2005, we entered
into agreements with PFD to invest our excess cash. Such investments consisted of shares of PFD Redeemable Class A, Series 1 Preferred Stock (“PFD Preferred Stock”). We had the right to redeem all or any portion of the PFD Preferred
Stock on any business day at $2,000 per share. Dividends on PFD Preferred Stock were declared and settled daily. At December 31, 2010, our investments in PFD Preferred Stock totaled $2,404 million. Our investments in PFD Preferred Stock were
accounted for as available-for-sale debt securities. All of our investments in PFD Preferred Stock were redeemed prior to the termination of this agreement on June 30, 2011. See Note 10. 
  87 


Table of Contents
Related party net interest and other financial income was as follows:
  
















 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Dividend income:
  



  



  




 PFD Preferred Stock
  
$
35 
  
  
$
24 
  
  
$
45 
  

 Interest expense:
  



  



  




 PFD revolving credit agreement
  
 
3 
  
  
 
12 
  
  
 
10 
  

 Marathon Oil loan agreement
  
 
5 
  
  
 
54 
  
  
 
54 
  

 Interest capitalized
  
 
(8)
  
  
 
(66)
  
  
 
(64)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net interest expense
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Related party net interest and other financial income
  
$
            35 
  
  
$
            24 
  
  
$
            45 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 We also recorded property, plant and equipment additions related to capitalized interest
incurred by Marathon Oil on our behalf of $2 million, $20 million and $158 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, which were reflected as contributions from Marathon Oil. 
Certain asset or liability transfers between us and Marathon Oil, including assets and liabilities contributed under the
separation and distribution agreement related to the Spinoff, and certain expenses, such as stock-based compensation, incurred by Marathon Oil on our behalf have been recorded as non-cash capital contributions or distributions. The net non-cash
capital contributions from (distributions to) Marathon Oil were $57 million, ($118 million) and ($158 million) in 2011, 2010 and 2009.   


 
5.
 Dispositions 
On December 1, 2010, we completed the sale of most of our Minnesota assets.
These assets included the 74,000 barrel-per-day St. Paul Park refinery and associated terminals, 166 convenience stores primarily branded SuperAmerica® (including six stores in Wisconsin), along with the SuperMom’s bakery (a baked goods and sandwich supply operation) and certain associated trademarks,
SuperAmerica Franchising LLC, interests in pipeline assets in Minnesota and associated inventories. We refer to these assets as the “Minnesota Assets.” The refinery and terminal assets were part of our Refining & Marketing
segment, the convenience stores and bakery were part of our Speedway segment, and the interests in pipeline assets were part of our Pipeline Transportation segment. This transaction value was approximately $935 million, which included approximately
$330 million for inventories. We received $740 million in cash, net of closing costs, but prior to post-closing adjustments. The terms of the sale included (1) a preferred stock interest in the entity that holds the Minnesota Assets with a
stated value of $80 million, (2) a maximum $125 million earnout provision payable to us over eight years, (3) a maximum $60 million of margin support payable to the buyer over two years, up to a maximum of $30 million per year, (4) a
receivable from the buyer of $107 million which was fully collected in 2011, and (5) guarantees with a maximum exposure of $11 million made by us on behalf of and to the buyer related to a limited number of convenience store sites. As a result
of this continuing involvement, the related gain on sale of $89 million was initially deferred. Any margin support obligation for the first year following the sale, when finalized, would be paid in 2012 and would reduce the deferred gain. The timing
and amount of deferred gain ultimately recognized in the income statement is subject to the resolution of our continuing involvement. No earnout was payable to us for the first year following the sale. 
We provided transition services to the buyer for approximately thirteen months following the sale. The buyer provided
management and operational strategy for the business and we provided personnel to operate and maintain these Minnesota Assets.   


 
6.
 Variable Interest Entity 
As described in Note 5, on December 1, 2010, we completed the sale of the Minnesota Assets.
Certain terms of the transaction resulted in the creation of variable interests in a variable interest entity (“VIE”) that owns 
  88 


Table of Contents

the Minnesota Assets. These variable interests include our ownership of a preferred equity interest in the VIE, operating margin support in the form of a capped liquidity guarantee and
reimbursements to us for costs incurred in connection with transition services provided to the buyer. Our preferred equity interest in this VIE was reflected at $80 million in other noncurrent assets on our consolidated balance sheets as of
December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, there was an additional $107 million receivable due from the buyer related to a portion of the inventories sold that was fully collected in 2011. We received $118 million
and $5 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, for transition services provided to the buyer.  We are not the
primary beneficiary of this VIE and, therefore, do not consolidate it because we lack the power to control or direct the activities that impact the VIE’s operations and economic performance. Our preferred equity interest does not allow us to
appoint a majority of the board of managers to the VIE and limits our voting ability to only certain matters. Also, individually and cumulatively, none of our variable interests expose us to residual returns or expected losses that are significant
to the VIE.  Our maximum exposure to loss due to this VIE at December 31, 2011 is $157 million, which was
quantified based on contractual arrangements related to the sale. We did not provide any financial assistance to the buyer outside of our contractual arrangements related to the sale. See Note 5 for information related to each individual variable
interest.   


 
7.
 Income per Common Share 
Basic income per share is based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding.
Diluted income per share assumes exercise of stock options and stock appreciation rights, provided the effect is not anti-dilutive.  On June 30, 2011, 356,337,127 shares of our common stock were distributed to Marathon Oil stockholders in conjunction with the Spinoff. For comparative purposes, and to provide a more meaningful
calculation for weighted average shares, we have assumed this amount to be outstanding as of the beginning of each period prior to the Spinoff presented in the calculation of basic weighted average shares. In addition, for the dilutive weighted
average share calculations, we have assumed the dilutive securities outstanding at June 30, 2011 were also outstanding at each of the periods prior to the Spinoff presented. Excluded from the diluted share calculation in 2011, 2010 and 2009 are
approximately four million shares related to stock options and stock appreciation rights as their effect would be anti-dilutive. 
  89 


Table of Contents
MPC grants certain incentive compensation awards to employees and
non-employee directors that are considered to be participating securities. Due to the presence of participating securities, we have calculated our earnings per share using the two-class method. 
 
















 (In millions, except per share data)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Basic earnings per share:
  



  



  




 Allocation of earnings:
  



  



  




 Net income
  
$
    2,389 
  
  
$
623 
  
  
$
449 
  

 Income allocated to participating securities
  
 
4 
  
  
 
1 
  
  
 
1 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income available to common stockholders - basic
  
$
2,385 
  
  
$
622 
  
  
$
448 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Weighted average common shares outstanding
  
 
356 
  
  
 
356 
  
  
 
356 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Basic earnings per share
  
$
6.70 
  
  
$
    1.75 
  
  
$
    1.26 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted earnings per share:
  



  



  




 Allocation of earnings:
  



  



  




 Net income
  
$
2,389 
  
  
$
623 
  
  
$
449 
  

 Income allocated to participating securities
  
 
4 
  
  
 
1 
  
  
 
1 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income available to common stockholders - diluted
  
$
2,385 
  
  
$
622 
  
  
$
448 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Weighted average common shares outstanding
  
 
356 
  
  
 
356 
  
  
 
356 
  

 Effect of dilutive securities
  
 
1 
  
  
 
2 
  
  
 
2 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Weighted average common shares, including dilutive effect
  
 
357 
  
  
 
358 
  
  
 
358 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted earnings per share
  
$
6.67 
  
  
$
1.74 
  
  
$
1.25 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


8.
 Segment Information 
We have three reportable operating segments: Refining & Marketing; Speedway; and Pipeline Transportation. Each
of these segments is organized and managed based upon the nature of the products and services they offer.   


 
•
 
 Refining & Marketing – refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our refineries in the Gulf Coast and Midwest regions of the United
States, purchases ethanol and refined products for resale and distributes refined products through various means, including barges, terminals and trucks that we own or operate. We sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically
and internationally, to buyers on the spot market, to our Speedway segment and to dealers and jobbers who operate
Marathon® retail outlets; 
 


 
•
 
 Speedway – sells transportation fuels and convenience products in retail markets in the Midwest, primarily through Speedway® convenience stores; and 
 


 
•
 
 Pipeline Transportation – transports crude oil and other feedstocks to our refineries and other locations, delivers refined products to
wholesale and retail market areas and includes, among other transportation-related assets, a majority interest in LOOP, which is the owner and operator of the only U.S. deepwater oil port. 
As discussed in Note 5, on December 1, 2010, we disposed of the Minnesota Assets, which were part of our Refining &
Marketing, Speedway and Pipeline Transportation segments. Segment information for all periods prior to the disposition includes amounts for these operations. 
  90 


Table of Contents
Segment income represents income from operations attributable to the operating segments.
Corporate administrative expenses, including those allocated from the Marathon Oil Companies prior to the Spinoff, and costs related to certain non-operating assets are not allocated to the operating segments. In addition, certain items that affect
comparability (as determined by the chief operating decision maker) are not allocated to the operating segments.   




















 (In millions)
 
Refining &Marketing
 
 
Speedway
 
 
PipelineTransportation
 
 
Total
 

 Year Ended December 31, 2011
 



 



 



 




 Revenues:
 



 



 



 




 Customer
 
  $
    65,028 
  
 
  $
    13,490 
  
 
  $
65 
  
 
  $
    78,583 
  

 Intersegment(a)
 
 
8,301 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
      335 
  
 
 
8,636 
  

 Related parties
 
 
52 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
3 
  
 
 
55 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Segment revenues
 
 
73,381 
  
 
 
13,490 
  
 
 
403 
  
 
 
87,274 
  

 Elimination of intersegment revenues
 
 
(8,301)
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
(335)
  
 
 
(8,636)
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenues
 
  $
65,080 
  
 
  $
13,490 
  
 
  $
68 
  
 
  $
78,638 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Segment income from operations
 
  $
3,591 
  
 
  $
271 
  
 
  $
199 
  
 
  $
4,061 
  

 Income from equity method investments
 
 
11 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
39 
  
 
 
50 
  

 Depreciation and amortization(b)
 
 
718 
  
 
 
110 
  
 
 
45 
  
 
 
873 
  

 Capital expenditures and investments(c)(d)
 
 
900 
  
 
 
164 
  
 
 
121 
  
 
 
1,185 
  







 (In millions)
 
Refining &Marketing
 
 
Speedway
 
 
PipelineTransportation
 
 
Total
 

 Year Ended December 31, 2010
 



 



 



 




 Revenues:
 



 



 



 




 Customer
 
  $
49,844 
  
 
  $
12,494 
  
 
  $
49 
  
 
  $
62,387 
  

 Intersegment(a)
 
 
7,394 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
347 
  
 
 
7,741 
  

 Related parties
 
 
95 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
5 
  
 
 
100 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Segment revenues
 
 
57,333 
  
 
 
12,494 
  
 
 
401 
  
 
 
70,228 
  

 Elimination of intersegment revenues
 
 
(7,394)
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
(347)
  
 
 
(7,741)
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenues
 
  $
49,939 
  
 
  $
12,494 
  
 
  $
54 
  
 
  $
62,487 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Segment income from operations
 
  $
800 
  
 
  $
293 
  
 
  $
183 
  
 
  $
1,276 
  

 Income from equity method investments
 
 
9 
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
61 
  
 
 
70 
  

 Depreciation and amortization(b)
 
 
739 
  
 
 
111 
  
 
 
62 
  
 
 
912 
  

 Capital expenditures and investments(c)
 
 
961 
  
 
 
84 
  
 
 
24 
  
 
 
1,069 
  

  91 


Table of Contents
 




















 (In millions)
  
Refining& Marketing
 
  
Speedway
 
  
PipelineTransportation
 
  
Total
 

 Year Ended December 31, 2009
  



  



  



  




 Revenues:
  



  



  



  




 Customer
  
  $
    34,578 
  
  
  $
    10,838 
  
  
  $
45 
  
  
  $
45,461 
  

 Intersegment(a)
  
 
6,022 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
332 
  
  
 
6,354 
  

 Related parties
  
 
65 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
4 
  
  
 
69 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Segment revenues
  
 
40,665 
  
  
 
10,838 
  
  
 
      381 
  
  
 
    51,884 
  

 Elimination of intersegment revenues
  
 
(6,022)
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(332)
  
  
 
(6,354)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total revenues
  
  $
34,643 
  
  
  $
10,838 
  
  
  $
49 
  
  
  $
45,530 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Segment income from operations
  
  $
452 
  
  
  $
212 
  
  
  $
172 
  
  
  $
836 
  

 Income (loss) from equity method investments(b)
  
 
(1)
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
41 
  
  
 
40 
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
498 
  
  
 
131 
  
  
 
41 
  
  
 
670 
  

 Capital expenditures and investments(c)
  
 
2,241 
  
  
 
49 
  
  
 
56 
  
  
 
2,346 
  
  


 
(a) 
 Management believes intersegment transactions were conducted under terms comparable to those with unrelated parties. 
 


 
(b) 
 Differences between segment totals and MPC totals represent amounts related to unallocated items and are included in “Items not allocated to
segments” in the reconciliation below.   


 
(c) 
 Capital expenditures include changes in capital accruals. 
 


 
(d) 
 Includes Speedway’s $74 million acquisition of 23 convenience stores in 2011. See Note 15. 
The following reconciles segment income from operations to income before income taxes as reported in the consolidated
statements of income:   
















 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Segment income from operations
  
  $
      4,061 
  
  
  $
      1,276 
  
  
  $
        836 
  

 Items not allocated to segments:
  



  



  




 Corporate and other unallocated items(a)
  
 
(316)
  
  
 
(236)
  
  
 
(172)
  

 Impairments(b)
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(29)
  
  
 
(10)
  

 Net interest and other financial income (costs)
  
 
(26)
  
  
 
12 
  
  
 
31 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
  $
3,719 
  
  
  $
1,023 
  
  
  $
685 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
(a) 
 Corporate and other unallocated items consists primarily of MPC’s corporate administrative expenses, including allocations from the Marathon
Oil Companies for periods prior to the Spinoff and costs related to certain non-operating assets.   


 
(b) 
 The impairments in 2010 and 2009 are further discussed in Note 16. 
The following reconciles segment capital expenditures and investments to total capital expenditures: 
 
















 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Segment capital expenditures and investments
  
  $
      1,185 
  
  
  $
      1,069 
  
  
  $
      2,346 
  

 Less: Investments in equity method investees
  
 
11 
  
  
 
7 
  
  
 
6 
  

 Plus: Items not allocated to segments:
  



  



  




 Capital expenditures not allocated to segments
  
 
24 
  
  
 
1 
  
  
 
3 
  

 Capitalized interest
  
 
114 
  
  
 
103 
  
  
 
236 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total capital expenditures(a)(b)
  
  $
1,312 
  
  
  $
1,166 
  
  
  $
2,579 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
(a) 
 Capital expenditures include changes in capital accruals. 
 


 
(b) 
 See Note 19 for a reconciliation of total capital expenditures to additions to property, plant and equipment as reported in the consolidated
statements of cash flows. 
  92 


Table of Contents
The following reconciles total revenues to sales and other operating
revenues (including consumer excise taxes) as reported in the consolidated statements of income:   
















 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Total revenues
  
  $
    78,638 
  
  
  $
    62,487 
  
  
$
    45,530 
  

 Less: Sales to related parties
  
 
55 
  
  
 
100 
  
  
 
69 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Sales and other operating revenues (including consumer excise taxes)
  
  $
78,583 
  
  
  $
62,387 
  
  
$
45,461 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Revenues by product line were: 
 
















 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Refined products
  
  $
    73,334 
  
  
  $
    56,025 
  
  
  $
    40,518 
  

 Merchandise
  
 
3,090 
  
  
 
3,369 
  
  
 
3,308 
  

 Crude oil and refinery feedstocks
  
 
1,972 
  
  
 
2,890 
  
  
 
1,533 
  

 Transportation and other
  
 
242 
  
  
 
203 
  
  
 
171 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total revenues
  
 
78,638 
  
  
 
62,487 
  
  
 
45,530 
  

 Less: Sales to related parties
  
 
55 
  
  
 
100 
  
  
 
69 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Sales and other operating revenues (including consumer excise taxes)
  
  $
78,583 
  
  
  $
62,387 
  
  
  $
45,461 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 No single customer accounted for more than 10 percent of annual revenues. 
We do not have significant operations in foreign countries. Therefore, revenues in foreign countries and long-lived assets
located in foreign countries, including property, plant and equipment and investments, are not material to our operations.  Total assets by reportable segment were:   












  
  
December 31,
 

 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Refining & Marketing(a)
  
  $
    17,294 
  
  
  $
    17,759 
  

 Speedway(b)
  
 
1,597 
  
  
 
2,156 
  

 Pipeline Transportation
  
 
1,556 
  
  
 
1,544 
  

 Corporate and Other(a)
  
 
5,298 
  
  
 
1,773 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total consolidated assets
  
  $
25,745 
  
  
  $
23,232 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
(a) 
 As of December 31, 2011, $2,267 million of trade receivables related to Refining & Marketing were transferred to Corporate and Other
in conjunction with the trade receivables securitization facility. See Note 18.   


 
(b) 
 Speedway assets include $691 million of PFD Preferred Stock at December 31, 2010. 
  93 


Table of Contents


 
9.
 Other Items 
Net interest and other financial income (costs) was: 
 
















 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Interest:
  



  



  




 Interest income
  
  $
3 
  
  
  $
2 
  
  
  $
3 
  

 Interest expense(a)
  
 
(164)
  
  
 
(18)
  
  
 
(15)
  

 Interest capitalized(a)
  
 
        104 
  
  
 
        17 
  
  
 
        14 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total interest
  
 
(57)
  
  
 
1 
  
  
 
2 
  

 Other:
  



  



  




 Net foreign currency gains (losses)
  
 
12 
  
  
 
(6)
  
  
 
(8)
  

 Bank service and other fees
  
 
(16)
  
  
 
(7)
  
  
 
(8)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total other
  
 
(4)
  
  
 
(13)
  
  
 
(16)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net interest and other financial income (costs)
  
  $
(61)
  
  
  $
(12)
  
  
  $
(14)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
(a) 
 See Note 4 for information on related party interest expense and capitalized interest. 
 


 
10.
 Investments in Debt and Equity Securities 
Our investments in debt and equity securities, which are classified as available-for-sale, consisted of
shares of PFD Preferred Stock and shares of publicly traded equity securities. See Note 4 for additional information on PFD Preferred Stock. On the consolidated balance sheets, PFD Preferred Stock is reflected as related party debt securities, and
other equity securities are recorded in other noncurrent assets.  The following table summarizes our
investments in debt and equity securities:   
















 (In millions)
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
  
Fair Value
 

 December 31, 2011
  



  



  




 Other equity securities
  
  $
        2  
  
  
  $
      -  
  
  
  $
        2  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 December 31, 2010
  



  



  




 PFD Preferred Stock
  
  $
    2,404  
  
  
  $
      -  
  
  
$
2,404  
  

 Other equity securities
  
 
2  
  
  
 
1  
  
  
 
3  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
  $
      2,406  
  
  
  $
        1  
  
  
  $
      2,407  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 We had no other-than-temporary impairments to our investments in debt and equity
securities in 2011, 2010 or 2009.  There were no realized gains or losses on our equity securities investments
in 2011, 2010 or 2009.  The following table summarizes the pretax gains or losses on available-for-sale equity
securities included in accumulated other comprehensive loss:   
















 (In millions)
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
  
    2009    
 

 Change in unrealized holding gain (loss)
  
$
      (1
) 
 
$
        -
  
  
$
        1
  
 There were no gains or losses reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive loss
into net income for 2011, 2010 or 2009. 
  94 


Table of Contents


 
11.
 Income Taxes 
 


 
Income
 tax provisions (benefits) were:   








































  
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 (In millions)
 
Current
 
 
Deferred
 
 
Total
 
 
Current
 
 
Deferred
 
 
Total
 
 
Current
 
 
Deferred
 
 
Total
 

 Federal
 
  $
  1,040  
  
 
  $
  139   
  
 
  $
  1,179  
  
 
  $
  81   
  
 
  $
  289  
  
 
  $
  370   
  
 
  $
   10 
  
 
  $
  209  
  
 
  $
  219  
  

 State and local
 
 
152  
  
 
 
(16)  
  
 
 
136  
  
 
 
15   
  
 
 
19  
  
 
 
34   
  
 
 
(3)
  
 
 
16  
  
 
 
13  
  

 Foreign
 
 
15  
  
 
 
-   
  
 
 
15  
  
 
 
(4)  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
(4)  
  
 
 
4 
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
4  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
  $
1,207  
  
 
  $
123   
  
 
  $
1,330  
  
 
  $
92   
  
 
  $
308  
  
 
  $
400   
  
 
  $
11 
  
 
  $
225  
  
 
  $
236  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The provision for income taxes for periods prior to the Spinoff have been computed as if
we were a stand-alone company.  A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate (35 percent) applied
to income before income taxes to the provision for income taxes follows:   
















  
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 

 Statutory rate applied to income before income taxes
  
 
    35 
% 
 
 
    35 
% 
 
 
    35 
% 

 State and local income taxes, net of federal income tax effects
  
 
2 
  
 
 
3 
  
 
 
2 
  

 Legislation(a)
  
 
- 
  
 
 
2 
  
 
 
- 
  

 Effect of dividends received deduction
  
 
- 
  
 
 
(1)
  
 
 
(2)
  

 Other
  
 
(1)
  
 
 
- 
  
 
 
(1)
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Provision for income taxes
  
 
36 
% 
 
 
39 
% 
 
 
34 
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


 
(a) 
 The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ("PPACA") and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law in March
2010. These new laws effectively changed the tax treatment of federal subsidies paid to sponsors of retiree health benefit plans that provide prescription drug benefits that are at least actuarially equivalent to the corresponding benefits provided
under Medicare Part D. The federal subsidy paid to employers was introduced as part of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (the "MPDIMA"). Under the MPDIMA, the federal subsidy did not reduce our income tax
deduction for the costs of providing such prescription drug plans, nor was it subject to income tax individually. Beginning in 2013, under the 2010 legislation, our income tax deduction for the costs of providing Medicare Part D-equivalent
prescription drug benefits to retirees will be reduced by the amount of the federal subsidy. As a result, we recorded a charge of $26 million in 2010 for the write-off of deferred tax assets to reflect the change in the tax treatment of the federal
subsidy. 
 
  95 


Table of Contents
Deferred tax assets and liabilities resulted from the following: 
 












  
  
        December 31,       
 
 

 (In millions)
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  



  




 Employee benefits
  
  $
820  
  
  
  $
693  
  

 Other
  
 
73  
  
  
 
59  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax assets
  
 
893  
  
  
 
752  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



  




 Property, plant and equipment
  
 
1,936  
  
  
 
1,854  
  

 Inventories
  
 
610  
  
  
 
607  
  

 Investments in subsidiaries and affiliates
  
 
79  
  
  
 
87  
  

 Derivative instruments
  
 
-  
  
  
 
9  
  

 Other
  
 
25  
  
  
 
2  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax liabilities
  
 
2,650  
  
  
 
2,559  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax liabilities
  
  $
  1,757  
  
  
  $
  1,807  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Net deferred tax liabilities were classified in the consolidated balance sheets as
follows:   












  
  
        December 31,       
 
 

 (In millions)
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 

 Liabilities:
  



  




 Accrued taxes
  
  $
    447  
  
  
  $
    440  
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
1,310  
  
  
 
1,367  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax liabilities
  
  $
  1,757  
  
  
  $
  1,807  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Due to the Spinoff, MPC will file short year consolidated income tax returns for the
period July through December 2011. Prior to the Spinoff date, MPC was included in the Marathon Oil income tax returns for all applicable years. After Marathon Oil files its consolidated income tax returns for 2011, we anticipate there will be a
settlement in 2012 between MPC and Marathon Oil under the tax sharing agreement related to income taxes for the period of 2011 prior to the Spinoff.  Marathon Petroleum Company LP, a subsidiary of MPC, is continuously undergoing examination of its U.S. federal income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service. Such audits have been completed through
the 2007 tax year. We believe adequate provision has been made for federal income taxes and interest which may become payable for years not yet settled. Further, we are routinely involved in U.S. state income tax audits. We believe all other audits
will be resolved with the amounts paid and/or provided for these liabilities. As of December 31, 2011, our income tax returns remain subject to examination in the following major tax jurisdictions for the tax years indicated: 
 






 United States Federal
  
2008 - 2010

 States
  
2004 - 2010
 As a result of the Spinoff and pursuant to the tax sharing agreement by Marathon Oil and
MPC, the unrecognized tax benefits related to MPC operations for which Marathon Oil was the taxpayer remain the responsibility of Marathon Oil and MPC has indemnified Marathon Oil. Before the Spinoff, MPC made a prepayment of a portion of the
unrecognized tax benefits to Marathon Oil, which is reflected in the table below as settlements. See Note 23. 
  96 


Table of Contents
The following table summarizes the activity in unrecognized tax benefits:
  
















 (In millions)
  
      2011     
 
  
      2010     
 
  
      2009     
 

 January 1 balance
  
  $
 14 
  
  
  $
 19 
  
  
  $
 16 
  

 Additions for tax positions of prior years
  
 
50 
  
  
 
7 
  
  
 
15 
  

 Reductions for tax positions of prior years
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(1)
  
  
 
(11)
  

 Settlements
  
 
(44)
  
  
 
(11)
  
  
 
(1)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 December 31 balance
  
  $
        20 
  
  
  $
        14 
  
  
  $
        19 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 If the unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2011 were recognized, $20 million
would affect our effective income tax rate. There were $7 million of uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2011 for which it is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits would significantly increase or decrease
during the next twelve months.  Interest and penalties related to income taxes are recorded as part of the
provision for income taxes. Such interest and penalties were net expenses of $5 million, $1 million and $1 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, $11 million and $4 million of interest and penalties were accrued
related to income taxes.   


 
12.
 Inventories 
 












  
  
    December 31,    
 

 (In millions)
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 

 Crude oil and refinery feedstocks
  
  $
    1,339  
  
  
  $
    1,118  
  

 Refined products
  
 
1,725  
  
  
 
1,716  
  

 Merchandise
  
 
65  
  
  
 
65  
  

 Supplies and sundry items
  
 
191  
  
  
 
172  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total (at cost)
  
  $
3,320  
  
  
  $
3,071  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The LIFO method accounted for 94 percent of total inventory value at December 31,
2011 and at December 31, 2010. Current acquisition costs were estimated to exceed the LIFO inventory value at December 31, 2011 and 2010 by $5,015 million and $4,119 million, respectively. Cost of revenues decreased and income from
operations increased by $4 million, $4 million and less than $1 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009 as a result of liquidations of LIFO inventories, excluding inventories liquidated in dispositions. 
 


 
13.
 Equity Method Investments 
 














  
  
Ownershipas ofDecember 
31,2011
 
    December 31,    
 

 (In Millions)
  
 
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 

 Centennial
  
50%
 
$
17  
  
  
  $
    26  
  

 LOCAP LLC
  
59%
 
 
25  
  
  
 
27  
  

 LOOP
  
51%
 
 
181  
  
  
 
181  
  

 TACE
  
36%
 
 
35  
  
  
 
35  
  

 TAME
  
50%
 
 
32  
  
  
 
30  
  

 Other
  

 
 
12  
  
  
 
13  
  


  

 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  

 
$
        302  
  
  
  $
    312  
  


  

 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  97 


Table of Contents
Summarized financial information for equity method investees is as follows:
  
















 (In millions)
  
      2011      
 
  
      2010      
 
  
    2009    
 

 Income statement data:
  



  



  




 Revenues and other income
  
$
    1,043
  
  
$
    939
  
  
$
    868
  

 Income from operations
  
 
128
  
  
 
196
  
  
 
137
  

 Net income
  
 
101
  
  
 
170
  
  
 
102
  

 Balance sheet data - December 31:
  



  



  




 Current assets
  
$
256
  
  
$
    266
  
  




 Noncurrent assets
  
 
    1,175
  
  
 
    1,162
  
  




 Current liabilities
  
 
126
  
  
 
111
  
  




 Noncurrent liabilities
  
 
690
  
  
 
731
  
  



 As of December 31, 2011, the carrying value of our equity method investments was $29
million higher than the underlying net assets of investees. This basis difference is being amortized or accreted into net income over the remaining estimated useful lives of the underlying net assets, except for $49 million of excess related to
goodwill.  Due to reduced shipment volumes in 2011 for Centennial, we evaluated the carrying value of our
equity method investment in Centennial and concluded no impairment was required. We will continue to monitor the carrying value of our equity investment in Centennial. 
Dividends and partnership distributions received from equity method investees (excluding distributions that represented a
return of capital previously contributed) were $48 million, $36 million and $39 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009.   


 
14.
 Property, Plant and Equipment 
 
















 
  
Estimated
 
  
December 31,
 

 (In millions)
  
  Useful Lives  
 
  
      2011      
 
  
      2010      
 

 Refining & Marketing
  
 
4 - 25 years
  
  
  $
14,221  
  
  
  $
13,234  
  

 Speedway
  
 
4 - 15 years
  
  
 
1,887  
  
  
 
1,703  
  

 Pipeline Transportation
  
 
16 - 42 years
  
  
 
1,593  
  
  
 
1,482  
  

 Corporate and Other
  
 
4 - 40 years
  
  
 
372  
  
  
 
205  
  


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  



  
 
18,073  
  
  
 
16,624  
  

 Less accumulated depreciation
  



  
 
5,845  
  
  
 
4,900  
  


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net property, plant and equipment
  



  
  $
    12,228  
  
  
  $
    11,724  
  


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Property, plant and equipment includes gross assets acquired under capital leases of $267
million and $259 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, with related amounts in accumulated depreciation of $61 million and $47 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Property, plant and equipment includes construction in progress of
$2,581 million and $1,997 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, which primarily relates to refinery projects. 
  98 


Table of Contents


 
15.
 Goodwill 
Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis and when events or changes in circumstances
indicate the fair value of a reporting unit with goodwill has been reduced below the carrying value. We performed our annual impairment tests for 2011 and 2010, and no impairment was required. 
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for 2011 and 2010 were as follows: 
 




















 (In millions)
  
Refining &    Marketing    
 
  
    Speedway    
 
  
Pipeline    Transportation    
 
  
    Total    
 

 2010
  



  



  



  




 Beginning balance
  
$
577 
  
  
  $
131 
  
  
  $
    164 
  
  
  $
872 
  

 Dispositions
  
 
(23)
  
  
 
(11)
  
  
 
(1)
  
  
 
(35)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Ending balance
  
$
554 
  
  
  $
    120 
  
  
  $
163 
  
  
  $
837 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 2011
  



  



  



  




 Beginning balance
  
$
554 
  
  
  $
120 
  
  
  $
163 
  
  
  $
837 
  

 Purchase price adjustment
  
 
(2)
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(1)
  
  
 
(3)
  

 Acquisition
  
 
- 
  
  
 
9 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
9 
  

 Disposition
  
 
(1)
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
- 
  
  
 
(1)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Ending balance
  
$
    551 
  
  
  $
129 
  
  
  $
162 
  
  
  $
    842 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 In 2011, Speedway purchased 23 convenience stores in Illinois and Indiana for $72 million,
as well as the associated inventory for $2 million. The purchase price allocation included $63 million for property, plant and equipment and $9 million for goodwill. The impact of this acquisition is not material to our consolidated financial
statements.   


 
16.
 Fair Value Measurements 
Fair Values – Recurring 
The following tables present assets and liabilities accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010 by fair value hierarchy level.   
























  
  
December 31, 2011
 

 (In millions)
  
Level 1 
 
  
Level 2  
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Collateral  
 
  
Total
 

 Commodity derivative instruments, assets
  
  $
26 
  
  
  $
1  
  
  
  $
-  
  
  
  $
107  
  
  
  $
134  
  

 Interest rate derivative instruments, assets
  
 
- 
  
  
 
19  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
19  
  

 Other assets
  
 
2 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
2  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets at fair value
  
  $
28 
  
  
  $
        20  
  
  
  $
-  
  
  
  $
    107  
  
  
  $
       155  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Commodity derivative instruments, liabilities
  
  $
      (45)
  
  
  $
(1) 
  
  
  $
            -  
  
  
  $
-  
  
  
  $
(46) 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  99 


Table of Contents
























  
  
December 31, 2010
 

 (In millions)
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Collateral  
 
  
Total
 

 Commodity derivative instruments, assets
  
  $
58 
  
  
  $
-  
  
  
  $
 1   
  
  
  $
78  
  
  
  $
137  
  

 PFD Preferred Stock
  
 
- 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
2,404   
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
2,404  
  

 Other assets
  
 
3 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-   
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
3  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets at fair value
  
  $
61 
  
  
  $
-  
  
  
  $
    2,405   
 
  
  $
       78  
  
  
  $
    2,544  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Commodity derivative instruments, liabilities
  
  $
    (103)
  
  
  $
          -  
  
  
  $
 (3)  
  
  
  $
-  
  
  
  $
(106) 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Commodity derivatives in Level 1 are exchange-traded contracts for crude oil and refined
products measured at fair value with a market approach using the close-of-day settlement prices for the market. Collateral deposits in broker accounts covered by master netting agreements related to Level 1 commodity derivatives are classified
as Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy.  Commodity derivatives in Level 2 are exchange-traded contracts for
crude oil and refined products measured at fair value with a market approach using monthly average close-of-day settlement prices for the market. Interest rate swap derivatives in Level 2 are measured at fair value using prices from Bloomberg L.P
and validated using market value information provided by the counterparties to the transactions.  Commodity
derivatives in Level 3 are measured at fair value with a market approach using prices obtained from third-party services such as Platt’s, a Division of McGraw-Hill Corporation, and price assessments from other independent brokers. Since we
are unable to independently verify information from the third-party service providers to active markets, all these measures are considered Level 3.  Our investments in related party debt securities, PFD Preferred Stock, were redeemable on any business day at their recorded value. See Note 4. The fair value of related party debt securities was measured
using an income approach where the recorded value approximated market value due to the daily redemption feature. Because the related party debt securities were not publicly traded, the projected cash flows were Level 3 inputs. 
The following is a reconciliation of the net beginning and ending balances recorded for net assets and liabilities
classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.   
















 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Beginning balance
  
  $
2,402   
  
  
  $
 865   
  
  
  $
989   
  

 Total realized and unrealized losses included in net income
  
 
-   
  
  
 
(1)  
  
  
 
(13)  
  

 Purchases of PFD Preferred Stock
  
 
10,326   
  
  
 
9,709   
  
  
 
16,755   
  

 Redemptions of PFD Preferred Stock
  
 
    (12,730)  
  
  
 
(8,019)  
  
  
 
    (16,915)  
  

 Settlements of derivative instruments
  
 
2   
  
  
 
(2)  
  
  
 
49   
  

 Distributions to Marathon Oil(a)
  
 
-   
  
  
 
(150)  
  
  
 
-   
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Ending balance
  
  $
-   
  
  
  $
    2,402   
  
  
  $
865   
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
(a)
 Due to the January 1, 2010, merger of two non-operating RM&T
Business legal entities into Marathon Oil.  Net income for 2011, 2010 and 2009 included
unrealized losses of less than $1 million, $1 million and $7 million related to Level 3 derivative instruments held as of December 31 of those years. See Note 17 for the income statement impacts of our derivative instruments. 
  100



Table of Contents
Fair Values – Nonrecurring 
The following table shows the values of assets, by major category, measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis in
periods subsequent to their initial recognition.   




























 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 (In millions)
  
Fair Value
 
  
Impairment
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
Impairment
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
Impairment
 

 Long-lived assets held for sale
  
$
        -
  
  
$
        -
  
  
$
        1
  
  
$
        29
  
  
$
-
  
  
$
-
  

 Equity method investment
  
 
-
  
  
 
-
  
  
 
-
  
  
 
-
  
  
 
        11
  
  
 
        10
  
 As a result of changing market conditions, a maleic anhydride supply agreement with a
major customer was revised in June 2010. An impairment of $29 million was recorded in 2010 for a plant that manufactured maleic anhydride. The plant was operated by our Refining & Marketing segment. The fair value of the plant was
measured using a market approach based upon comparable area land values, which are Level 3 inputs.  As a
result of declining throughput volumes, we impaired our Pipeline Transportation segment’s equity method investment in Southcap Pipe Line Company, an entity engaged in crude oil transportation, by $10 million in 2009. This investment was
determined to have sustained an other-than-temporary loss in value. The fair value was measured using a market approach based upon a third party offer to purchase our interest in the entity, which is a Level 3 input. 
Fair Values – Reported 
The following table summarizes financial instruments, excluding the PFD Preferred Stock and derivative financial
instruments reported above, by individual balance sheet line item at December 31, 2011 and 2010.   




















 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 (In millions)
  
Fair Value
 
  
CarryingValue
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
CarryingValue
 

 Financial assets:
  



  



  



  




 Other noncurrent assets
  
  $
320  
  
  
  $
 123  
  
  
  $
289  
  
  
  $
 126  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total financial assets
  
  $
320  
  
  
  $
 123  
  
  
  $
289  
  
  
  $
 126  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Financial liabilities:
  



  



  



  




 Long-term debt payable within one year to Marathon Oil and subsidiaries
  
  $
-  
  
  
  $
 -  
  
  
  $
655  
  
  
  $
 655  
  

 Long-term debt payable to Marathon Oil and subsidiaries
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
2,908  
  
  
 
2,963  
  

 Long-term debt(a)
  
 
3,203  
  
  
 
3,008  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  

 Deferred credits and other liabilities
  
 
21  
  
  
 
21  
  
  
 
22  
  
  
 
22  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total financial liabilities
  
  $
    3,224  
  
  
  $
    3,029  
  
  
  $
    3,585  
  
  
  $
    3,640  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
(a) 
 Excludes capital leases  Our current assets and liabilities include financial instruments, the most significant of which are trade accounts receivable and payables. We believe the carrying values of our current assets and
liabilities approximate fair value. Our fair value assessment incorporates a variety of considerations, including (1) the short-term duration of the instruments (e.g., less than 1 percent of our trade receivables and payables are outstanding
for greater than 90 days), (2) our investment-grade credit rating and (3) our historical incurrence of and expected future insignificance of bad debt expense, which includes an evaluation of counterparty credit risk. 
  101



Table of Contents
Fair values of our financial assets included in other noncurrent assets and
of our financial liabilities included in deferred credits and other liabilities are measured using an income approach and most inputs are internally generated, which results in a Level 3 classification. Estimated future cash flows are
discounted using a rate deemed appropriate to obtain the fair value.  Debt payable to Marathon Oil and
subsidiaries included a revolving credit agreement and a loan as discussed in Note 4. The revolving credit balance was measured using an income approach. The future debt service payments were discounted using the rate at which we expected to borrow.
All inputs to this calculation are Level 3. The carrying value approximated fair value. The fair value of the loan was measured using a market approach, based upon quotes from major financial institutions for comparable debt. Because these quotes
cannot be independently verified to the market, they are considered Level 3 inputs.  Fair value of long-term
debt is measured using a market approach, based upon the average of quotes from major financial institutions and a third-party service for our debt. Because these quotes cannot be independently verified to the market, they are considered Level 3
inputs.   


 
17.
 Derivatives 
For further information regarding the fair value measurement of derivative instruments, see Note 16.
See Note 2 for discussion of the types of derivatives we use and the reasons for them.  The following table
presents the gross fair values of derivative instruments, excluding cash collateral, and where they appear on the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010: 
 














 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
 

 (In millions)
  
    Asset    
 
  
    Liability    
 
  
     Balance Sheet
Location

 Commodity derivatives
  
  $
      26
  
  
  $
      45
  
  
 Other current assets      

 Interest rate derivatives
  
 
19
  
  
 
-
  
  
 Other noncurrent assets

 Commodity derivatives
  
 
1
  
  
 
1
  
  
 Other current liabilities





 
  
December 31, 2010
 
  
 

 (In millions)
  
Asset
 
  
Liability
 
  
     Balance Sheet
Location

 Commodity derivatives
  
  $
        58
  
  
  $
        103
  
  
 Other current assets      

 Commodity derivatives
  
 
1
  
  
 
3
  
  
 Other current liabilities
 Derivatives Designated as Fair Value Hedges 
As of December 31, 2011, we had interest rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $500 million at a weighted
average, LIBOR-based, floating rate of 2.02 percent. These agreements hedge changes in the fair value of our 3.50 percent senior notes due March 1, 2016. The interest rate swaps have no hedge ineffectiveness. 
The following table summarizes the pretax effect of derivative instruments designated as hedges of fair value in our
consolidated statements of income:   


















 
  
 
  
Gain (Loss)
 

 (In millions)
  
 Income Statement Location
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Derivative
  

  



  



  




 Interest rate
  
 Net interest and other financial income (costs)
  
  $
    19 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  







 Hedged Item
  

  



  



  




 Long-term debt
  
 Net interest and other financial income (costs)
  
  $
(19)
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  

  102



Table of Contents
Derivatives not Designated as Hedges 
Derivatives that are not designated as hedges may include commodity derivatives used to manage price risk on
(1) inventories, (2) fixed price sales of refined products, (3) the acquisition of foreign-sourced crude oil and (4) the acquisition of ethanol for blending with refined products. 
The table below summarizes open commodity derivative contracts as of December 31, 2011. 
 












 
  
   Position  
 
  
Total Barrels  
  (In thousands)  
 

 Crude oil(a)
  



  




 Exchange-traded
  
 
Long
  
  
 
7,653
  

 Exchange-traded
  
 
Short
  
  
 
(19,382
) 

 Refined Products(b)
  



  




 Exchange-traded
  
 
Long
  
  
 
1,711
  

 Exchange-traded
  
 
Short
  
  
 
(3,413
) 
  


 
(a) 
     98.6 percent of these contracts expire in the first quarter of 2012. 
 


 
(b) 
     100 percent of these contracts expire in the first quarter of 2012. 
The following table summarizes the effect of all commodity derivative instruments in our consolidated statements of
income:   
















(In millions)
  
Gain (Loss)
 

 Income Statement Location
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Sales and other operating revenues
  
  $
(34)  
  
  
  $
(1)  
  
  
  $
(13)  
  

 Cost of revenues
  
 
182   
  
  
 
(28)  
  
  
 
(70)  
  

 Other income
  
 
1   
  
  
 
6   
  
  
 
11   
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
  $
      149   
  
  
  $
      (23)  
  
  
  $
      (72)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
18.
 Debt 
Our outstanding borrowings at December 31, 2011 and 2010 consisted of the following: 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Marathon Petroleum Corporation:
  



  




 Revolving credit agreement due 2015
  
  $
-   
  
  
  $
-   
  

 3.500% senior notes due March 1, 2016
  
 
750   
  
  
 
-   
  

 5.125% senior notes due March 1, 2021
  
 
1,000   
  
  
 
-   
  

 6.500% senior notes due March 1, 2041
  
 
1,250   
  
  
 
-   
  

 Consolidated subsidiaries:
  



  




 Capital lease obligations due 2012-2027(a)
  
 
299   
  
  
 
279   
  

 Trade receivables securitization facility due 2014
  
 
-   
  
  
 
-   
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
3,299   
  
  
 
279   
  

 Unamortized discount
  
 
(11)  
  
  
 
-   
  

 Fair value adjustments (b)
  
 
19   
  
  
 
-   
  

 Amounts due within one year
  
 
(15)  
  
  
 
(11)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total long-term debt due after one year
  
  $
    3,292   
  
  
  $
    268   
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


 
(a) 
 These obligations as of December 31, 2011 include $94 million related to assets under construction at that date for which a capital lease will
commence upon completion of construction. The amounts currently reported are based upon the percent of construction completed as of December 31, 2011 and therefore do not reflect future lease obligations of $164 million related to the assets.
  


 
(b) 
 See Notes 16 and 17 for information on interest rate swaps. 
  103



Table of Contents
The following table shows five years of scheduled debt payments. 
 








 (In millions)
  
 
 

 2012
  
$
        15
  

 2013
  
 
17
  

 2014
  
 
18
  

 2015
  
 
20
  

 2016
  
 
770
  
 Revolving Credit Agreement - We entered into a four-year revolving credit agreement
dated March 11, 2011, as amended and effective July 1, 2011 (the “Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of lenders. Under the Credit Agreement, we have an initial borrowing capacity of up to $2.0 billion. We have the right to seek
an increase of the total amount available under the Credit Agreement to $2.5 billion, subject to certain conditions. We may obtain up to $1.5 billion of letters of credit and up to $100 million of swingline loans under the Credit Agreement. We may,
subject to certain conditions, request that the term of the Credit Agreement be extended for up to two additional one-year periods. Each such extension would be subject to the approval of lenders holding greater than 50 percent of the commitments
then outstanding, and the commitment of any lender that does not consent to an extension of the maturity date will be terminated on the then-effective maturity date. There were no borrowings or letters of credit outstanding under the Credit
Agreement at December 31, 2011.  The Credit Agreement contains covenants that we consider usual and
customary for an agreement of this type, including a maximum ratio of Net Consolidated Indebtedness as of the end of each fiscal quarter to Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Agreement) for each consecutive four fiscal quarter period of
3.0 to 1.0 and a minimum ratio of Consolidated EBITDA to Consolidated Interest Expense (as defined in the Credit Agreement) for each consecutive four fiscal quarter period of 3.5 to 1.0. We were in compliance with these covenants at
December 31, 2011. In addition, the Credit Agreement includes limitations on indebtedness of our subsidiaries, other than subsidiaries that guarantee our obligations under the Credit Agreement. 
Borrowings of revolving loans under the Credit Agreement bear interest, at our option, at either (i) the sum of the
Adjusted LIBO Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement), plus a margin ranging between 1.75 percent to 3.00 percent, depending on our credit ratings, or (ii) the sum of the Alternate Base Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement), plus a margin
ranging between 0.75 percent to 2.00 percent, depending on our credit ratings. The Credit Agreement also provides for customary fees, including administrative agent fees, commitment fees of 0.30 percent of the unused portion, fees in respect of
letters of credit and other fees.  Senior Notes - On February 1, 2011, we completed a private
placement of three series of Senior Notes aggregating $3.0 billion in principal amount (the “Notes”). The Notes replaced a portion of the debt payable to the Marathon Oil Companies. The Notes are unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of
ours that were guaranteed by Marathon Oil on a senior unsecured basis prior to the Spinoff. The holders of the Notes were entitled to the benefits of a registration rights agreement. Within 360 days after the issuance of the Notes, we were
obligated under the registration rights agreement to use commercially reasonable efforts to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission and cause to become effective a registration statement with respect to a registered exchange offer to
exchange the Notes for new notes. The registration statement was deemed effective on October 7, 2011 and the registered exchange offer for the Notes was completed on November 18, 2011. 
Trade receivables securitization facility – On July 1, 2011, we entered into a three-year trade
receivables securitization facility with a syndicate group of committed purchasers, conduit purchasers and letter of credit issuers arranged by J.P. Morgan Securities LLC for an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $1.0 billion.

  104



Table of Contents

The facility involves one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, Marathon Petroleum Company LP (“MPC LP”), selling or contributing on an on-going basis all of its trade receivables (other
than receivables arising in connection with the extension of credit under proprietary credit card services), together with all related security and interests in the proceeds thereof, without recourse, to another wholly owned, bankruptcy-remote,
subsidiary, MPC Trade Receivables Company LLC (“TRC”) in exchange for a combination of cash, equity or a subordinated note issued by TRC to MPC LP. TRC in turn, has the ability to sell undivided percentage ownership interests in qualifying
trade receivables, together with all related security and interests in the proceeds thereof, without recourse, to certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and/or financial institutions in exchange for cash proceeds. Effective October 1,
2011, we amended and restated the trade receivables securitization facility to, among other things, include trade receivables originated by our wholly owned subsidiary, Marathon Petroleum Trading Canada LLC (“MPTC”). 
To the extent that TRC retains an ownership interest in the receivables it has purchased or received from MPC LP or MPTC,
such interest will be included in our consolidated financial statements solely as a result of the consolidation of the financial statements of TRC with those of MPC. The receivables sold or contributed to TRC are available first and foremost to
satisfy claims of the creditors of TRC and are not available to satisfy the claims of creditors of MPC LP, MPTC or MPC.  Proceeds from the sale of undivided percentage ownership interests in qualifying receivables under this facility will be reflected as debt on our consolidated balance sheet. We will remain responsible for
servicing the receivables sold to third-party entities and financial institutions and will pay certain fees related to our sale of receivables under this facility. There were no borrowings under this facility at December 31, 2011. 
The facility includes representations and covenants that we consider usual and customary for arrangements of this type.
Trade receivables are subject to customary criteria, limits and reserves before being deemed to qualify for sale by TRC pursuant to the facility. In addition, further purchases of qualified trade receivables under the facility are subject to
termination upon the occurrence of certain amortization events that we consider usual and customary for an arrangement of this type.   


 
19.
 Supplemental Cash Flow Information 
 
















 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities included:
  



  



  




 Interest paid (net of amounts capitalized)
  
  $
    5  
  
  
  $
-  
  
  
  $
    2  
  

 Income taxes paid to taxing authorities(a)
  
 
617  
  
  
 
11  
  
  
 
11  
  

 Non-cash investing and financing activities:
  



  



  




 Property, plant and equipment contributed by Marathon Oil
  
  $
        81  
  
  
  $
-  
  
  
  $
        -  
  

 Capital lease obligations increase
  
 
26  
  
  
 
        32  
  
  
 
77  
  

 Preferred stock received in asset disposition
  
 
-  
  
  
 
80  
  
  
 
-  
  
  


 
(a) 
 U.S. federal and most state income taxes were paid by Marathon Oil for periods prior to the Spinoff. 
The consolidated statements of cash flows exclude changes to the consolidated balance sheets that did not affect cash. The
following is a reconciliation of additions to property, plant and equipment to total capital expenditures:   
















 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Additions to property, plant and equipment
  
  $
1,185  
  
  
  $
1,217  
  
 
  $
2,891  
  

 Acquistions (a)
  
 
74  
  
  
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  

 Increase (decrease) in capital accruals
  
 
53  
  
  
 
(51)
   
 
 
(312)
   


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total capital expenditures
  
  $
  1,312  
  
  
  $
  1,166  
  
 
  $
  2,579  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


 
(a) 
 Speedway’s $74 million acquisition of 23 convenience stores in 2011. See Note 15. 
  105



Table of Contents
The following is a reconciliation of contributions from (distributions to)
Marathon Oil:   
















 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Contributions from (distributions to) Marathon Oil per consolidated statements of cash flows
  
  $
  (783)
  
  
  $
  (1,330)  
  
  
  $
207 
  

 Net non-cash contributions from (distributions to) Marathon Oil
  
 
57 
  
  
 
(118)  
  
  
 
   (158)
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Contributions from (distributions to) Marathon Oil per consolidated statements of stockholders’ equity / net
investment
  
  $
(726)
  
  
  $
(1,448)  
  
  
  $
49 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 See Note 4 for information regarding non-cash contributions from (distributions to)
Marathon Oil.   


 
20.
 Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans 
We have noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all employees. Benefits
under these plans have been based primarily on age, years of service and final average pensionable earnings. The years of service component of this formula was frozen as of December 31, 2009. Benefits for service beginning January 1, 2010
are based on a cash balance formula with an annual percentage of eligible pay credited based upon age and years of service. Eligible Speedway employees accrue benefits under a defined contribution plan for service years beginning January 1,
2010.  We also have other postretirement benefits covering most employees. Health care benefits are provided
through comprehensive hospital, surgical and major medical benefit provisions subject to various cost-sharing features. Retiree life insurance benefits are provided to a closed group of retirees. Other postretirement benefits are not funded in
advance.  Obligations and funded status – The accumulated benefit obligation
for all defined benefit pension plans was $1,948 million and $1,611 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010.  The following summarizes our defined benefit pension plans that have accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets. 
 












  
  
December 31,
 

 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Projected benefit obligations
  
$
    2,685  
  
  
$
    2,266  
  

 Accumulated benefit obligations
  
 
1,948  
  
  
 
1,611  
  

 Fair value of plan assets
  
 
1,423  
  
  
 
1,233  
  
 The following summarizes the obligations and funded status for our defined benefit
pension and other postretirement plans:   




















 
  
Pension Benefits
 
  
Other Benefits
 

 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Change in benefit obligations:
  



  



  



  




 Benefit obligations at January 1
  
$
    2,266   
  
  
$
    2,103   
  
  
$
    483   
  
  
$
    400   
  

 Service cost
  
 
65   
  
  
 
62   
  
  
 
19   
  
  
 
14   
  

 Interest cost
  
 
110   
  
  
 
105   
  
  
 
27   
  
  
 
24   
  

 Actuarial loss
  
 
384   
  
  
 
180   
  
  
 
39   
  
  
 
60   
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(178)  
  
  
 
(184)  
  
  
 
(17)  
  
  
 
(15)  
  

 Liability gain due to curtailment
  
 
(4)  
  
  
 
-   
  
  
 
-   
  
  
 
-   
  

 Other (a)
  
 
42   
  
  
 
-   
  
  
 
-   
  
  
 
-   
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Benefit obligations at December 31
  
$
2,685   
  
  
$
2,266   
  
  
$
551   
  
  
$
483   
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  106



Table of Contents




















 
  
Pension Benefits
 
  
Other Benefits
 

 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Change in plan assets:
  



  



  



  




 Fair value of plan assets at January 1
  
  $
1,233   
  
  
  $
 1,123   
  
  
  $
-   
  
  
  $
 -   
  

 Actual return on plan assets
  
 
50   
  
  
 
147   
  
  
 
-   
  
  
 
-   
  

 Employer contributions
  
 
282   
  
  
 
151   
  
  
 
-   
  
  
 
-   
  

 Other (a)
  
 
36   
  
  
 
(4)  
  
  
 
-   
  
  
 
-   
  

 Benefits paid from plan assets
  
 
(178)  
  
  
 
(184)  
  
  
 
-   
  
  
 
-   
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Fair value of plan assets at December 31
  
  $
1,423   
  
  
  $
 1,233   
  
  
  $
-   
  
  
  $
 -   
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Funded status of plans at December 31
  
  $
  (1,262)  
  
  
  $
 (1,033)  
  
  
  $
    (551)  
  
  
  $
    (483)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets:
  



  



  



  




 Current liabilities
  
  $
(12)  
  
  
  $
 (6)  
  
  
  $
(18)  
  
  
  $
 (17)  
  

 Noncurrent liabilities
  
 
(1,250)  
  
  
 
(1,027)  
  
  
 
(533)  
  
  
 
(466)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Accrued benefit cost
  
  $
(1,262)  
  
  
  $
   (1,033)  
  
  
  $
(551)  
  
  
  $
(483)  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Pretax amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss: (b)
  



  



  



  




 Net loss
  
  $
1,319   
  
  
  $
 945   
  
  
  $
42   
  
  
  $
 3   
  

 Prior service cost
  
 
42   
  
  
 
48   
  
  
 
-   
  
  
 
-   
  
  


 
(a) 
 Includes adjustments related to the Spinoff. 


 
(b) 
 Amounts exclude those related to LOOP, an equity method investees with defined benefit pension and postretirement plans for which net losses of $20
million and $11 million were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss, reflecting our 51 percent share. 
  107



Table of Contents
Components of net periodic benefit cost and other comprehensive
loss – The following summarizes the net periodic benefit costs and the amounts recognized as other comprehensive loss for our defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. 
 




























 
 
Pension Benefits
 
 
Other Benefits
 

 (In millions)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Components of net periodic benefit cost:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Service cost
 
  $
65   
  
 
  $
62   
  
 
  $
94   
  
 
  $
 19  
  
 
  $
14   
  
 
  $
 13   
  

 Interest cost
 
 
110   
  
 
 
105   
  
 
 
100   
  
 
 
27  
  
 
 
24   
  
 
 
24   
  

 Expected return on plan assets
 
 
(97)  
  
 
 
(95)  
  
 
 
(94)  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-   
  
 
 
-   
  

 Amortization – prior service cost
 
 
6   
  
 
 
7   
  
 
 
7   
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
1   
  
 
 
1   
  

       – actuarial loss (gain)
 
 
71   
  
 
 
51   
  
 
 
9   
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
(2)  
  
 
 
(5)  
  

       – net settlement/curtailment
loss(a)
 
 
8   
  
 
 
13   
  
 
 
-   
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-   
  
 
 
-   
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net periodic benefit cost(b)
 
  $
163   
  
 
  $
143   
  
 
  $
116   
  
 
  $
 46  
  
 
  $
37   
  
 
  $
 33   
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive loss (pretax):
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Actuarial loss (gain)
 
  $
427   
  
 
  $
129   
  
 
  $
445   
  
 
  $
 39  
  
 
  $
61   
  
 
  $
(13)  
  

 Amortization of actuarial (loss) gain
 
 
(79)  
  
 
 
(64)  
  
 
 
(9)  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
2   
  
 
 
5   
  

 Amortization of prior service cost
 
 
(6)  
  
 
 
(7)  
  
 
 
(7)  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
(1)  
  
 
 
(1)  
  


Other(c)

 
 
6   
  
 
 
-   
  
 
 
-   
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-   
  
 
 
-   
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recognized in other comprehensive loss
 
  $
348   
  
 
  $
58   
  
 
  $
429   
  
 
  $
 39  
  
 
  $
62   
  
 
  $
 (9)  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recognized in net periodic benefit cost and other comprehensive loss
 
  $
    511   
  
 
  $
  201   
  
 
  $
    545   
  
 
  $
     85  
  
 
$
    99   
  
 
  $
    24   
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


 
(a) 
 A settlement loss was recorded due to lump sum payments exceeding the respective plan’s total service and interest costs expensed in 2011 and
2010. A curtailment gain was recorded in 2011 on the Speedway pension plan at the end of the transition services period related to the sale of most of our Minnesota Assets in 2010. See Note 5. 


 
(b) 
 Net periodic benefit cost reflects a calculated market-related value of plan assets which recognizes changes in fair value over three years.



 
(c) 
 Includes adjustments related to the Spinoff. 
The estimated net loss and prior service cost for our defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from
accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost in 2012 are $96 million and $8 million. The 2012 net loss amortization is expected to be higher than the 2011 actual amortization primarily as a result of the decrease in the
discount rate as shown in the table below. The estimated net loss for our other defined benefit postretirement plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost in 2012 is $1 million. 
  108



Table of Contents
Plan assumptions – The following summarizes the
assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations at December 31, and net periodic benefit cost for the defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans for 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
 




























  
  
Pension Benefits
 
  
Other Benefits
 

  
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligation:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Discount rate
  
 
4.30%
  
  
 
5.05%
  
  
 
5.50%
  
  
 
4.65%
  
  
 
5.55%
  
  
 
5.95%
  

 Rate of compensation increase
  
 
5.00%
  
  
 
5.00%
  
  
 
4.50%
  
  
 
5.00%
  
  
 
5.00%
  
  
 
4.50%
  

 Weighted average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Discount rate
  
 
4.98%
  
  
 
5.23%
  
  
 
6.90%
  
  
 
5.55%
  
  
 
6.85%
  
  
 
6.85%
  

 Expected long-term return on plan assets
  
 
8.50%
  
  
 
8.50%
  
  
 
8.50%
  
  
 
-    
  
  
 
-    
  
  
 
-    
  

 Rate of compensation increase
  
 
5.00%
  
  
 
4.50%
  
  
 
4.50%
  
  
 
5.00%
  
  
 
4.50%
  
  
 
4.50%
  
 Expected long-term return on plan assets 
The overall expected long-term return on plan assets assumption is determined based on an asset rate-of-return modeling
tool developed by a third party investment group. The tool utilizes underlying assumptions based on actual returns by asset category and inflation and takes into account our asset allocation to derive an expected long-term rate of return on those
assets. Capital market assumptions reflect the long-term capital market outlook. The assumptions for equity and fixed income investments are developed using a building-block approach, reflecting observable inflation information and interest rate
information available in the fixed income markets. Long-term assumptions for other asset categories are based on historical results, current market characteristics and the professional judgment of our internal and external investment teams. After
evaluating activity in the capital markets, we reduced the expected asset rate of return from 8.50 percent to 7.50 percent effective for 2012 defined benefit pension expense.  Assumed health care cost trend  The following
summarizes the assumed health care cost trend rates.   
















  
  
December 31
 

  
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 

 Health care cost trend rate assumed for the following year:
  



 



 




 Medical:
  



 



 




 Pre-65
  
 
7.50
% 
 
 
7.50
% 
 
 
7.00
% 

 Post-65
  
 
7.00
% 
 
 
7.00
% 
 
 
6.75
% 

 Prescription drugs
  
 
7.50
% 
 
 
7.50
% 
 
 
7.50
% 

 Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline (the ultimate trend rate):
  



 



 




 Medical:
  



 



 




 Pre-65
  
 
5.00
% 
 
 
5.00
% 
 
 
5.00
% 

 Post-65
  
 
5.00
% 
 
 
5.00
% 
 
 
5.00
% 

 Prescription drugs
  
 
5.00
% 
 
 
5.00
% 
 
 
5.00
% 

 Year that the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate:
  



 



 




 Medical:
  



 



 




 Pre-65
  
 
2018
  
 
 
2018
  
 
 
2014
  

 Post-65
  
 
2017
  
 
 
2017
  
 
 
2015
  

 Prescription drugs
  
 
2018
  
 
 
2018
  
 
 
2015
  

  109



Table of Contents
Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the
amounts reported for defined benefit retiree health care plans. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:   












 
  
1-Percentage-
 
  
1-Percentage-
 

 (In millions)
  
    Point Increase    
 
  
    Point Decrease    
 

 Effect on total of service and interest cost components
  
$
        8
  
  
$
        7
  

 Effect on other postretirement benefit obligations
  
 
91
  
  
 
73
  
 Plan investment policies and strategies 
The investment policies for our pension plan assets reflect the funded status of the plans and expectations regarding our
future ability to make further contributions. Long-term investment goals are to: (1) manage the assets in accordance with the legal requirements of all applicable laws; (2) produce investment returns which meet or exceed the rates
achievable in the capital markets, which are consistent with the risk parameters set by the plans’ investment committees; and (3) position the portfolios with a long-term investment horizon. 
Historical performance and future expectations suggest that common stocks will provide higher total investment returns
than fixed income securities over a long-term investment horizon. Short-term investments are utilized for pension payments, expenses and other liquidity needs. The plans’ targeted asset allocation is currently comprised of 75 percent equity
securities and 25 percent fixed income securities; however, the asset allocation may be modified in the future as deemed appropriate by management.  The plans’ assets are managed by a third party investment manager. The investment manager has limited discretion to move away from the target allocations based upon the manager’s judgment as to
current confidence or concern regarding the capital markets. Investments are diversified by industry and type, limited by grade and maturity. Limited derivative investments are allowable subject to strict guidelines, such that derivatives may only
be written against equity securities in the portfolio. Investment performance and risk is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through quarterly investment meetings and periodic asset and liability studies. 
Fair value measurements 
Plan assets are measured at fair value. The following provides a description of the valuation techniques employed for each
major plan asset category at December 31, 2011 and 2010.  Cash and cash equivalents – Cash and
cash equivalents include cash on deposit and an investment in a money market mutual fund that invests mainly in short-term instruments and cash, both of which are valued using a market approach and are considered Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy.
The money market mutual fund is valued at the net asset value (“NAV”) of shares held.  Equity
securities – Investments in public investment trusts and S&P 500 exchange-traded funds are valued using a market approach at the closing price reported in an active market and are therefore considered Level 1. Non-public investment
trusts are considered Level 2 and are valued using a market approach based on the underlying investments in the trust, which are publicly traded securities. Private equity investments include interests in limited partnerships which are valued based
on the sum of the estimated fair values of the investments held by each partnership, determined using a combination of market, income and cost approaches, plus working capital, adjusted for liabilities, currency translation and estimated performance
incentives. These private equity investments are considered Level 3.  Pooled funds – Investments in
two pooled funds are valued using a market approach at the NAV of units held, but investment opportunities in such funds are limited to the benefit plans of United States Steel Corporation, its subsidiaries and former affiliates. The funds consist
of an equity investment portfolio consisting only of short-term instruments and publicly traded equities and a fixed income investment portfolio consisting only of short-term instruments, publicly traded bonds and Rule 144A bonds. These investments
are considered Level 2. 
  110



Table of Contents
Real estate – Real estate investments consist of interests in
commingled funds. The valuation of total fund assets constitutes the sum of all individual investments plus working capital, adjusted for liabilities, currency translation and estimated performance incentives. The real estate investments are
considered Level 3.  Other – Other investments include investments in two limited liability
companies (“LLCs”) with no public market. The LLCs were formed to acquire timberland in the northwest United States. The values of the LLCs are determined by using appraised values plus net working capital and less any estimated
performance incentives. These assets are considered Level 3.  The following tables present the fair values of
our defined benefit pension plans’ assets, by level within the fair value hierarchy, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010.   




















  
  
December 31, 2011
 

 (In millions)
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Total
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
  $
205  
  
  
  $
-  
  
  
  $
-  
  
  
  $
205  
  

 Equity securities:
  



  



  



  




 Investment trusts
  
 
15  
  
  
 
81  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
96  
  

 Exchange-traded funds
  
 
14  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
14  
  

 Private equity
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
55  
  
  
 
55  
  

 Investment funds:
  



  



  



  




 Pooled funds - equity (a)
  
 
-  
  
  
 
758  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
758  
  

 Pooled funds - fixed income(b)
  
 
-  
  
  
 
229  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
229  
  

 Real estate(c)
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
49  
  
  
 
49  
  

 Other
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
17  
  
  
 
17  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total investments, at fair value
  
  $
    234  
  
  
  $
    1,068  
  
  
  $
    121  
  
  
  $
    1,423  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 




  
  
December 31, 2010
 

 (In millions)
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Total
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
  $
6  
  
  
  $
-  
  
  
  $
-  
  
  
  $
6  
  

 Equity securities:
  



  



  



  




 Investment trusts
  
 
17  
  
  
 
94  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
111  
  

 Exchange-traded funds
  
 
38  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
38  
  

 Private equity
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
46  
  
  
 
46  
  

 Investment funds:
  



  



  



  




 Pooled funds - equity(a)
  
 
-  
  
  
 
738  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
738  
  

 Pooled funds - fixed income(b)
  
 
-  
  
  
 
240  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
240  
  

 Real estate(c)
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
37  
  
  
 
37  
  

 Other
  
 
-  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
17  
  
  
 
17  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total investments, at fair value
  
  $
    61  
  
  
  $
    1,072  
  
  
  $
    100  
  
  
  $
    1,233  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 



(a)
 Includes approximately 70 percent of investments held in U.S. and
non-U.S. publicly traded common stocks in the consumer staples, consumer discretionary, technology, health and energy sectors and the remaining 30 percent of investments held amongst various other sectors. 


(b)
 Includes approximately 80 percent of investments held in U.S. and
non-U.S. publicly traded investment grade government and corporate bonds which include treasuries, mortgage-backed securities and industrials, and the remaining 20 percent of investments held amongst various other sectors.



(c)
 Includes investments diversified by property type and location. The
largest property sector holdings, which represent approximately 75 percent of investments held, are office, hotel, residential and land with the greatest percentage of investments made in the U.S. and Asia, which includes the emerging markets of
China and India. 
  111



Table of Contents
The following is a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances
recorded for plan assets classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy:   




















 
  
2011
 

 (In millions)
  
PrivateEquity
 
 
RealEstate
 
  
Other
 
  
Total
 

 Beginning balance
  
$
46  
  
 
$
 37  
  
  
$
17  
  
  
$
 100  
  

 Actual return on plan assets
  
 
7  
  
 
 
5  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
12  
  

 Purchases
  
 
10  
  
 
 
12  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
22  
  

 Sales
  
 
(9)
  
 
 
(6) 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
(15) 
  

 Other
  
 
1  
  
 
 
1  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
2  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Ending balance
  
$
    55  
  
 
$
    49  
  
  
$
    17  
  
  
$
    121  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




















  
  
2010
 

 (In millions)
  
PrivateEquity
 
  
RealEstate
 
  
Other
 
  
Total
 

 Beginning balance
  
$
29  
  
  
$
25  
  
  
$
16  
  
  
$
70  
  

 Actual return on plan assets
  
 
9  
  
  
 
3  
  
  
 
1  
  
  
 
13  
  

 Purchases
  
 
10  
  
  
 
11  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
21  
  

 Sales
  
 
(2) 
  
  
 
(2) 
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
(4) 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Ending balance
  
$
    46  
  
  
$
    37  
  
  
$
    17  
  
  
$
    100  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Cash Flows 
Contributions to defined benefit plans – We expect to make contributions to the funded pension plans of
approximately $240 million in 2012. Cash contributions to be paid from our general assets for the unfunded pension and postretirement plans are expected to be approximately $13 million and $19 million in 2012. 
Estimated future benefit payments – The following gross benefit payments, which reflect expected future
service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid in the years indicated.   












 (In millions)
  
Pension Benefits
 
  
Other Benefits (a)
 

 2012
  
$
    196
  
  
$
    19
  

 2013
  
 
205
  
  
 
21
  

 2014
  
 
213
  
  
 
24
  

 2015
  
 
217
  
  
 
26
  

 2016
  
 
222
  
  
 
29
  

 2017 through 2021
  
 
1,118
  
  
 
179
  
  


 
(a) 
 Expected Medicare reimbursements for 2012 through 2013 total $3 million. Effective 2013, as a result of the PPACA, future Medicare reimbursements
will no longer be tax deductible and must be used to reduce the costs of providing Medicare Part D equivalent prescription drug benefits to retirees. 
Contributions to defined contribution plans – We also contribute to several defined contribution plans for
eligible employees. Contributions to these plans totaled $60 million, $54 million and $40 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
  112



Table of Contents
Multiemployer Pension Plan 
We contribute to one multiemployer defined benefit pension plan under the terms of a collective-bargaining agreement that
covers some of our union-represented employees. The risks of participating in this multiemployer plan are different from single-employer plans in the following aspects:   


 
•
 
 Assets contributed to the multiemployer plan by one employer may be used to provide benefits to employees of other participating employers.



 
•
 
 If a participating employer stops contributing to the plan, the unfunded obligations of the plan may be borne by the remaining participating
employers. 


 
•
 
 If we choose to stop participating in the multiemployer plan, we may be required to pay that plan an amount based on the underfunded status of the
plan, referred to as a withdrawal liability.  Our participation in this plan for 2011, 2010
and 2009 is outlined in the table below. The “EIN” column provides the Employee Identification Number for the plan. The most recent Pension Protection Act zone status available in 2011 and 2010 is for the plan’s year ended
December 31, 2009, and December 31, 2008, respectively. The zone status is based on information that we received from the plan and is certified by the plan’s actuary. Among other factors, plans in the red zone are generally less than
65 percent funded. The “FIP/RP Status Pending/Implemented” column indicates a financial improvement plan or a rehabilitation plan has been implemented. The last column lists the expiration date of the collective-bargaining agreement to
which the plan is subject. There have been no significant changes that affect the comparability of 2011, 2010 and 2009 contributions. Our portion of the contributions does not make up more than 5% of total contributions to the plan. 
 








































 
 
 
 
 
Pension Protection
 
 
FIP/RP Status
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Expiration Date of
 

 
 
 
 
 
Act Zone Status
 
 
Pending/
 
 
MPC Contributions (In millions)
 
 
Surcharge
 
 
Collective - Bargaining
 

 Pension Fund
 
EIN
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
Implemented
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
Imposed
 
 
Agreement
 

 Central States, Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Plan
(a)
 
 
36-6044243
  
 
 
Red
  
 
 
Red
  
 
 
Implemented
  
 
$
    3
  
 
$
    3
  
 
$
    2
  
 
 
No
  
 
 
January 31, 2014
  
  


 
(a)
 This agreement has a minimum contribution requirement of $246.70 per week per employee for 2012 and $259.00 per week per employee for 2013. A total
of 271 employees participated in the plan as of December 31, 2011.  Multiemployer
Health and Welfare Plan  We contribute to one multiemployer health and welfare plan that covers both
active employees and retirees. Through the health and welfare plan employees receive medical, dental, vision, prescription and disability coverage. Our contributions to this plan totaled $4 million, $4 million and $3 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009.
  


 
21.
 Stock-Based Compensation Plans 
Description of the Plans 
Prior to the Spinoff, our employees participated in the Marathon Oil Corporation 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan (the
“2007 Plan”) and the Marathon Oil Corporation 2003 Incentive Compensation Plan (the “2003 Plan”) and received Marathon Oil restricted stock awards and options to purchase shares of Marathon Oil common stock. Effective
June 30, 2011, our employees and non-employee directors are eligible to receive equity awards under the Marathon Petroleum Corporation 2011 Second Amended and Restated Incentive Compensation Plan (the “MPC 2011 Plan”). 
The MPC 2011 Plan authorizes the Compensation Committee of our board of directors (“the Committee”) to grant
non-qualified or incentive stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock awards (including restricted 
  113



Table of Contents

stock and restricted stock unit awards), cash awards, and performance awards to our employees, non-employee directors and other plan participants. No more than 25 million shares of MPC
common stock may be delivered under the MPC 2011 Plan and no more than 10 million shares of MPC common stock may be the subject of awards that are not stock options or stock appreciation rights. In the sole discretion of the Committee,
10 million shares of MPC common stock may be granted as incentive stock options. Shares issued as a result of awards granted under the MPC 2011 Plan are funded through the issuance of new MPC common shares. 
In connection with the Spinoff, stock compensation awards granted under the 2007 Plan and the 2003 Plan and held by
grantees as of June 30, 2011 were adjusted or substituted as follows:   


 
•
 
 Vested stock options were adjusted and substituted so that the grantee holds options to purchase both MPC and Marathon Oil common stock.
  


 
•
 
 Unvested stock option awards held by MPC employees were replaced with substitute awards of options to purchase shares of MPC common stock.
  


 
•
 
 The adjustment to the Marathon Oil and MPC stock options, when combined, was intended to generally preserve the intrinsic value of each original
option grant and the ratio of the exercise price to the fair market value of Marathon Oil common stock on June 30, 2011.   


 
•
 
 Unvested restricted stock awards were replaced with adjusted, substitute awards for restricted shares or units, as applicable, of MPC common stock.
The new awards of restricted stock were intended to generally preserve the intrinsic value of the original award determined as of June 30, 2011.   


 
•
 
 Vesting periods of awards were unaffected by the adjustment and substitution. 
Awards granted in connection with the adjustment and substitution of awards originally issued under the 2007 Plan and the
2003 Plan are a part of the MPC 2011 Plan and reduce the maximum number of shares of MPC common stock available for delivery under the MPC 2011 Plan.  There were 393 MPC employees affected by the adjustment and substitution of awards. The adjustment and substitution of awards did not cause us to recognize incremental compensation expense. 
Stock-based awards under the Plan 
We expense all share-based payments to employees and non-employee directors based on the grant date fair value of the
awards over the requisite service period, adjusted for estimated forfeitures.  Stock Options - We grant
stock options under the MPC 2011 Plan to certain officer and non-officer employees and other plan participants. Stock options previously granted under the 2003 Plan and 2007 Plan remain held by employees, subject to the adjustment and substitution
of awards described above. Stock options awarded under the MPC 2011 plan represent the right to purchase shares of MPC common stock at its fair market value on the date of grant. Stock options have a maximum term of ten years from the date they are
granted, and generally vest over a requisite service period of three or four years. We use the Black Scholes option-pricing model to estimate the fair value of stock options granted, which requires the input of subjective assumptions. 
Stock Appreciation Rights (“SARs”) – Prior to 2005, SARs were granted under the 2003 Plan. No SARs
have been granted under the 2007 Plan or MPC 2011 Plan. Similar to stock options, SARs represent the right to receive a payment equal to the excess of the fair market value of shares of MPC or Marathon Oil common stock (in accordance with the
adjustment and substitution of awards described above) on the date the right is exercised over the grant price. SARs have a maximum term of ten years from the date they are granted and generally vest over a requisite service period of three or four
years. We use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to estimate the fair value of SARs granted, which requires the input of subjective assumptions. 
  114



Table of Contents
Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units – We grant
restricted stock and restricted stock units under the MPC 2011 Plan to employees and non-employee directors and other plan participants. Restricted stock and restricted stock units previously granted under the 2003 Plan and 2007 Plan remain held by
employees and non-employee directors, subject to the adjustment and substitution of awards described above. In general, restricted stock and restricted stock units granted to employees vest over a requisite service period of three or four years.
Restricted stock units granted to non-employee directors vest immediately at the time of the grant but are not issued until the director’s departure from the board of directors. Prior to vesting, all restricted stock recipients have the right
to vote such stock and receive dividends thereon. The non-vested shares are not transferable and are held by our transfer agent. The fair values of restricted stock are based on the fair value of MPC common stock on the grant date. Restricted stock
and restricted stock unit awards granted in 2012 will be subject to an additional one year holding period after the completion of the 36 month requisite service period. 
Performance Units – We grant performance unit awards under the MPC 2011 Plan to certain officer employees.
Current performance unit awards vest over a requisite service period of 18 or 30 months. Performance units are paid in cash at the end of the period at an amount per unit determined based on the total shareholder return of MPC common stock compared
to the total shareholder return of selected peer companies’ stock over the vesting period. Performance unit awards issued in 2012 will have a per unit payout determined based on the total shareholder return of MPC common stock compared to the
total shareholder return of a selected combination of peer companies and index fund shareholder return over an average of four periods during the 36 month requisite service period. These performance units will pay out 75 percent in cash and 25
percent in MPC common stock.  Total Stock-Based Compensation Expense 
Total employee stock-based compensation expense was $28 million, $16 million, and $18 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009,
while the total related income tax benefits were $11 million, $6 million, and $7 million, respectively. In 2011 for periods prior to the Spinoff, 2010 and 2009, cash received by Marathon Oil upon exercise of stock option awards by MPC employees was
$17 million, $5 million, and $2 million. In 2011 for the period subsequent to the Spinoff, cash received by MPC upon exercise of stock option awards was $1 million. In 2011 for periods prior to the Spinoff, 2010 and 2009, tax benefits realized by
Marathon Oil for deductions for stock awards exercised by MPC employees were $7 million, $1 million and $1 million. In 2011 for the period subsequent to the Spinoff, tax benefits realized by MPC for deductions for stock awards exercised were less
than $1 million.  Stock Option Awards 
The Black-Scholes values used to value stock option awards granted during 2011, 2010, and 2009 were determined based on
the following weighted average assumptions (information for periods prior to the Spinoff is based on stock option awards for Marathon Oil common stock):   




















 
  
2011 subsequentto Spinoff
 
  
2011 priorto Spinoff
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Weighted average exercise price per share
  
$
    36.18  
  
  
$
51.93  
  
  
$
30.12  
  
  
$
28.09  
  

 Expected annual dividends per share
  
 
0.95  
  
  
 
1.00  
  
  
 
0.97  
  
  
 
0.96  
  

 Expected life in years
  
 
5.8  
  
  
 
5.3  
  
  
 
5.1  
  
  
 
4.9  
  

 Expected volatility
  
 
48%  
  
  
 
40%  
  
  
 
41%  
  
  
 
41%  
  

 Risk-free interest rate
  
 
1.4%  
  
  
 
2.0%  
  
  
 
2.2%  
  
  
 
2.3%  
  

 Weighted average grant date fair value of stock option awards granted
  
$
 13.08  
  
  
$
    16.73  
  
  
$
    8.72  
  
  
$
    7.87  
  

  115



Table of Contents
The expected life of stock options granted is based on historical data and
represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be held prior to exercise. In the absence of adequate stock price history of MPC common stock, expected volatilities are based on the historical volatility of a selected group of
peer companies’ stock. Expected annual dividends per share is estimated using the most recent dividend payment per share as of the grant date. The risk-free rate for periods within the expected life of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury
yield curve in effect at the time of the grant.  The following is a summary of MPC common stock option activity
in 2011.   




















 
 
Number  
    of Shares    
 
 
Weighted Average  
    Exercise Price    
 
 
Weighted Average  
Remaining  
Contractual   
Term  
(in years)
 
 
Aggregate  
Intrinsic Value  
    (In millions)    
 

 Outstanding at June 30, 2011
 
 
9,034,356   
  
 
$
 32.86  
  
 



 




 Granted
 
 
481,518   
  
 
 
36.18  
  
 



 




 Exercised
 
 
(68,653)  
  
 
 
24.65  
  
 



 




 Forfeited, canceled or expired
 
 
(74,851)  
  
 
 
34.02  
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 



 




 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
 
 
      9,372,370   
  
 
 
33.08  
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 



 




 Vested and expected to vest at December 31, 2011
 
 
9,253,592   
  
 
 
              33.03  
  
 
 
                6.4  
  
 
$
50  
  

 Exercisable at December 31, 2011
 
 
5,783,124   
  
 
 
32.32  
  
 
 
5.0  
  
 
 
            36  
  
 The adjustment and substitution of the stock compensation awards occurred in conjunction
with the distribution of MPC common stock to Marathon Oil stockholders in the June 30, 2011 after-market distribution. As a result, no grant, exercise or cancellation activity occurred on MPC stock compensation awards during the six months
ended June 30, 2011.  The intrinsic value of options to purchase Marathon Oil common stock exercised by
MPC employees under the 2007 Plan and 2003 Plan during 2011 for periods prior to the Spinoff, 2010 and 2009 was $18 million, $2 million and $1 million. The intrinsic value of options exercised by MPC employees during 2011 for periods subsequent to
the Spinoff was $1 million.  As of December 31, 2011, unrecognized compensation cost related to stock
option awards was $23 million, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.1 years. 
Restricted Stock Awards 
The following is a summary of restricted stock award activity of MPC common stock in 2011: 
 




















 
 
Restricted Stock (“RS”)
 
 
Restricted Stock Units (“RSU”)
 

 
 
Number of  
     Shares    
 
 
    Weighted Average    
  Grant Date
  Fair Value
 
 
    Number of    
  Units
 
 
    Weighted Average    
  Grant Date
  Fair Value
 

 Outstanding at June 30, 2011
 
 
211,953   
  
 
$
 28.78  
  
 
 
284,901   
  
 
$
 28.83  
  

 Granted
 
 
153,516   
  
 
 
41.54  
  
 
 
37,012   
  
 
 
33.78  
  

 RS’s Vested/RSU’s Issued
 
 
(14,561)  
  
 
 
29.74  
  
 
 
(1,918)  
  
 
 
24.67  
  

 Forfeited
 
 
            (2,217)  
  
 
 
28.25  
  
 
 
(51)  
  
 
 
20.08  
  


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
 
 
348,691   
  
 
 
                34.36  
  
 
 
          319,944   
  
 
 
            29.43  
  


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 Of the 319,944 restricted units outstanding, 319,406 are vested and have a weighted
average grant date fair value of $29.42. These vested but unissued units are held by our non-employee directors, are non-forfeitable and are issuable upon the director’s departure from our board of directors. 
  116



Table of Contents
The following is a summary of the values related to restricted stock and
restricted stock unit awards held by MPC employees and non-employee directors (information for periods prior to the Spinoff is for restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards of Marathon Oil common stock): 
 




















  
  
Restricted Stock
 
  
Restricted Stock Units
 

  
  
Intrinsic Value
  of Awards
  Vesting During
  the Period
  (In millions)
 
  
Weighted Average
  Grant Date Fair
  Value of Awards
  Granted During
  the Period
 
  
Intrinsic Value
  of Awards
  Issued During
  the Period
  (In millions)
 
  
Weighted Average
  Grant Date Fair
  Value of Awards
  Granted During
  the Period
 

 2011 - Subsequent to the Spinoff
  
$
                1  
  
  
$
 41.54  
  
  
$
-  
  
  
$
 33.78
  

 2011 - Prior to the Spinoff
  
 
3  
  
  
 
48.53  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
45.22
  

 2010
  
 
3  
  
  
 
30.55  
  
  
 
-  
  
  
 
32.18
  

 2009
  
 
3  
  
  
 
                23.96  
  
  
 
                -  
  
  
 
                28.97
  
 As of December 31, 2011, unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock
awards was $8 million, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.3 years. There was no material unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock unit awards. 
 


 
22.
 Leases 
We lease a wide variety of facilities and equipment under operating leases, including land and building
space, office equipment, storage facilities and transportation equipment. Most long term leases include renewal options and, in certain leases, purchase options. Future minimum commitments as of December 31, 2011, for capital lease obligations
and for operating lease obligations having initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year are as follows:   












 (In millions)
  
Capital  
Lease  
Obligations(a)

 
 
Operating  
Lease  
Obligations
 

 2012
  
$
             34 
  
 
$
            141  
  

 2013
  
 
44 
  
 
 
130  
  

 2014
  
 
44 
  
 
 
117  
  

 2015
  
 
45 
  
 
 
107  
  

 2016
  
 
43 
  
 
 
67  
  

 Later years
  
 
366 
  
 
 
101  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total minimum lease payments
  
 
576 
  
 
$
663  
  


  



 
  
  
 

 Less imputed interest costs
  
 
(207)
   
 





  
  
  
 
 




 Present value of net minimum lease payments
  
$
 369 
  
 





  
  
  
 
 



  


 
(a) 
 Capital lease obligations include $164 million related to assets under construction as of December 31, 2011. These leases are currently
reported as long-term debt based on the percentage of construction completed at $94 million. 
Operating lease rental expense was:   
















 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Minimum rental
  
$
        123  
  
  
$
        135  
  
  
$
        124  
  

 Contingent rental
  
 
1  
  
  
 
1  
  
  
 
1  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Rental expense
  
$
124  
  
  
$
136  
  
  
$
125  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  117



Table of Contents


 
23.
 Commitments & Contingencies 
We are the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies
and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Some of these matters are discussed below. The ultimate resolution of some of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be
material.  Environmental matters – We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws
and regulations relating to the environment. These laws generally provide for control of pollutants released into the environment and require responsible parties to undertake remediation of hazardous waste disposal sites and certain other locations
including presently or formerly owned or operated retail marketing sites. Penalties may be imposed for noncompliance.  At December 31, 2011 and 2010, accrued liabilities for remediation totaled $117 million and $116 million, respectively. It is not presently possible to estimate the ultimate amount of all remediation
costs that might be incurred or the penalties if any that may be imposed. Receivables for recoverable costs from certain states, under programs to assist companies in clean-up efforts related to underground storage tanks at presently or formerly
owned or operated retail marketing sites, were $51 million and $56 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Lawsuits – In May 2007, the Kentucky attorney general filed a lawsuit against us and Marathon Oil in state court in Franklin County, Kentucky for alleged violations of Kentucky’s
emergency pricing and consumer protection laws following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005. The lawsuit alleges that we overcharged customers by $89 million during September and October 2005. The complaint seeks disgorgement of these sums, as well
as penalties, under Kentucky’s emergency pricing and consumer protection laws. We are vigorously defending this litigation. If the lawsuit is resolved unfavorably, it could materially impact our consolidated results of operations, financial
position or cash flows. We believe that this is the first lawsuit for damages and injunctive relief under the Kentucky emergency pricing laws to progress this far and it contains many novel issues. In May 2011, the Kentucky attorney general amended
his complaint to include a request for immediate injunctive relief as well as unspecified damages and penalties related to our wholesale gasoline pricing in April and May 2011 under statewide price controls that were activated by the Kentucky
governor on April 26, 2011 and which have since expired. The court denied the attorney general’s request for immediate injunctive relief, and the remainder of the 2011 claims likely will be resolved along with those dating from 2005. The
ultimate outcome of the 2007 lawsuit, including the claims related to our 2011 pricing, and any financial effect on us, remains uncertain. Management does not believe an estimate of a reasonably possible loss (or a range of loss) can be made for
this lawsuit at this time.  During 2011, we were a defendant, along with other refining and marketing
companies, in eight lawsuits pending in six states, in which a total of fourteen plaintiffs sought to recover damages alleged to have resulted from methyl tertiary-butyl ether (“MTBE”) contamination in groundwater. We, along with other
refining and marketing companies, settled a number of lawsuits pertaining to MTBE in 2008. We settled additional MTBE-related lawsuits in 2009 and 2010. In 2011, we agreed to and subsequently paid a non-material amount to settle seven of the
pending lawsuits and similar claims by three additional parties that did not file lawsuits. In settling these lawsuits and claims and the previous lawsuits, we did not admit liability. We remain a defendant in one MTBE-related lawsuit pending in a
multi-district litigation in the Southern District of New York for pretrial proceedings, where the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection seeks to recover the cost of remediating MTBE contamination of ground and surface water not being
used for public water supply purposes, as well as natural resources damages allegedly resulting from such contamination. We are vigorously defending this pending lawsuit. Based on our experience and amounts paid in connection with the settlement of
other MTBE lawsuits, we do not expect our share of liability for this lawsuit or any future MTBE lawsuits to materially impact our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. However, the ultimate outcome of the

  118



Table of Contents

pending or future MTBE lawsuits, including any financial effect on us, remains uncertain. We voluntarily discontinued distributing gasoline containing MTBE in, at the latest, 2002. 
We are a defendant in a number of other lawsuits and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. While
the ultimate outcome and impact to us cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that the resolution of these other lawsuits and proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or
cash flows.  Guarantees – We have provided certain guarantees, direct and indirect, of the
indebtedness of other companies. Under the terms of most of these guarantee arrangements, we would be required to perform should the guaranteed party fail to fulfill its obligations under the specified arrangements. In addition to these financial
guarantees, we also have various performance guarantees related to specific agreements.  Guarantees related
to indebtedness of equity method investees – We hold interests in an offshore oil port, LOOP, and a crude oil pipeline system, LOCAP LLC. Both LOOP and LOCAP LLC have secured various project financings with throughput and deficiency
agreements. Under the agreements, we are required to advance funds if the investees are unable to service their debt. Any such advances are considered prepayments of future transportation charges. The duration of the agreements vary but tend to
follow the terms of the underlying debt. Our maximum potential undiscounted payments under these agreements for the debt principal totaled $172 million as of December 31, 2011. 
We hold an interest in a refined products pipeline through our investment in Centennial, and have guaranteed the payment
of Centennial’s principal, interest and prepayment costs, if applicable, under a Master Shelf Agreement, which is scheduled to expire in 2024. The guarantee arose in order for Centennial to obtain adequate financing. Our maximum potential
undiscounted payments under this agreement for debt principal totaled $51 million as of December 31, 2011. 
We hold an interest in a ethanol production facility through our investment in TAME, and have guaranteed the repayment of
TAME’s tax exempt bond financing through our participation as a lender in the credit agreement under which a letter of credit has been issued to secure repayment of the tax exempt bonds. The credit agreement expires in 2018. Our maximum
potential undiscounted payments under this arrangement were $25 million at December 31, 2011. 
Marathon Oil indemnifications - In conjunction with the Spinoff, we have entered into indemnities and guarantees
to Marathon Oil with recorded values of $14 million as of December 31, 2011, which consist of unrecognized tax benefits related to MPC, its consolidated subsidiaries and the RM&T business operations prior to the Spinoff which are not
already reflected in the unrecognized tax benefits described in Note 11, and other contingent liabilities Marathon Oil may incur related to taxes. Furthermore, the separation and distribution agreement and other agreements with Marathon Oil to
effect the Spinoff provide for cross-indemnities between Marathon Oil and us. In general, Marathon Oil is required to indemnify us for any liabilities relating to Marathon Oil’s historical oil and gas exploration and production operations, oil
sands mining operations and integrated gas operations, and we are required to indemnify Marathon Oil for any liabilities relating to Marathon Oil’s historical refining, marketing and transportation operations. The terms of these
indemnifications are indefinite and the amounts are not capped.  Other guarantees – We have
entered into other guarantees with maximum potential undiscounted payments totaling $108 million as of December 31, 2011, which consist of a commitment to contribute cash to an equity method investee for certain catastrophic events, up to $50
million per event, in lieu of procuring insurance coverage, an indemnity to the co-lenders associated with an equity method investee’s credit agreement, and leases of assets containing general lease indemnities and guaranteed residual values.
 General guarantees associated with dispositions – Over the years, we have sold various assets in
the normal course of our business. Certain of the related agreements contain performance and general guarantees, 
  119



Table of Contents

including guarantees regarding inaccuracies in representations, warranties, covenants and agreements, and environmental and general indemnifications that require us to perform upon the occurrence
of a triggering event or condition. These guarantees and indemnifications are part of the normal course of selling assets. We are typically not able to calculate the maximum potential amount of future payments that could be made under such
contractual provisions because of the variability inherent in the guarantees and indemnities. Most often, the nature of the guarantees and indemnities is such that there is no appropriate method for quantifying the exposure because the underlying
triggering event has little or no past experience upon which a reasonable prediction of the outcome can be based.  Contractual commitments – At December 31, 2011 and 2010, our contractual commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment and advance funds to equity method investees totaled
$347 million and $768 million.   


 
24.
 Subsequent Events 
On February 1, 2012, we announced that our board of directors authorized a share repurchase plan,
enabling us to purchase up to $2.0 billion of MPC common stock over a two-year period. We may utilize various methods to effect the repurchases, which could include open market repurchases, negotiated block transactions, accelerated share
repurchases (“ASR”) or open market solicitations for shares. On February 3, 2012, we entered into an $850 million ASR program with a major financial institution as part of this authorization. The total number of shares to be
repurchased will be based generally on the volume-weighted average price of MPC common stock during the repurchase period, subject to provisions that set a minimum and maximum number of shares. Under the ASR, we received 9.986 million shares of
MPC common stock on February 3, 2012 and expect to receive a majority of the additional shares by the end of the first quarter of 2012. As received, shares will be reflected in our treasury stock component of stockholders’ equity in the
first quarter of 2012. The remaining shares under the ASR will be delivered to us over the term of the transaction, with all shares to be delivered by the end of the third quarter of 2012. The timing of repurchases, if any, outside of the ASR will
depend upon several factors, including market and business conditions, and such repurchases may be discontinued at any time.  On February 9, 2012, we announced that Speedway had signed an agreement in which it will acquire 88 convenience stores situated throughout Indiana and Ohio from GasAmerica Services Inc.
(“GasAmerica”), plus several parcels of undeveloped real estate for future development. The GasAmerica transaction is anticipated to close by the end of May 2012, subject to receipt of regulatory approvals, customary due diligence and
satisfaction of other customary closing conditions. 
  120



Table of Contents
Select Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) 
 




































  
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 (In millions, except per share data)
 
1st Qtr.
 
 
2nd Qtr.
 
 
3rd Qtr.
 
 
4th Qtr.
 
 
1st Qtr.
 
 
2nd Qtr.
 
 
3rd Qtr.
 
 
4th Qtr.
 

 Revenues
 
$
17,842  
  
 
$
20,760  
  
 
$
20,616  
  
 
$
19,420 
  
 
$
13,362 
  
 
$
15,795  
  
 
$
15,897  
  
 
$
17,433  
  

 Income (loss) from operations
 
 
819  
  
 
 
1,325  
  
 
 
1,759  
  
 
 
(158)
  
 
 
(419)
  
 
 
636  
  
 
 
443  
  
 
 
351  
  

 Net income (loss)
 
 
529  
  
 
 
802  
  
 
 
1,133  
  
 
 
(75)
  
 
 
(289)
  
 
 
405  
  
 
 
277  
  
 
 
230  
  











 Net income (loss) per share: (a)
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Basic
 
$
1.49  
  
 
$
2.25  
  
 
$
3.18  
  
 
$
(0.21)
  
 
$
(0.81)
  
 
$
1.14  
  
 
$
0.78  
  
 
$
0.64  
  

 Diluted
 
 
1.48  
  
 
 
2.24  
  
 
 
3.16  
  
 
 
(0.21)
  
 
 
(0.81)
  
 
 
1.13  
  
 
 
0.77  
  
 
 
0.64  
  

 Dividends paid per share
 
 
-      
  
 
 
-      
  
 
 
0.20  
  
 
 
0.25 
  
 
 
-    
  
 
 
-      
  
 
 
-      
  
 
 
-      
  
  


(a) 
 For comparative purposes, and to provide a more meaningful calculation for weighted average shares, we assumed the shares distributed to Marathon
Oil stockholders in conjunction with the Spinoff were outstanding as of the beginning of each period prior to the Spinoff. 
  121



Table of Contents
Supplementary Statistics (Unaudited) 
 
















 (In millions)
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 
  
    2009    
 






 Income from Operations by segment
  



  



  




 Refining & Marketing
  
$
        3,591  
  
  
$
800  
  
  
$
452  
  

 Speedway
  
 
271  
  
  
 
293  
  
  
 
212  
  

 Pipeline Transportation
  
 
199  
  
  
 
183  
  
  
 
172  
  

 Items not allocated to segments
  
 
(316) 
  
  
 
(265) 
  
  
 
(182) 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
$
3,745  
  
  
$
        1,011  
  
  
$
654  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Capital Expenditures and Investments(a)
  



  



  




 Refining & Marketing
  
$
900  
  
  
$
961  
  
  
$
2,241  
  

 Speedway(b)
  
 
164  
  
  
 
84  
  
  
 
49  
  

 Pipeline Transportation
  
 
121  
  
  
 
24  
  
  
 
56  
  

 Corporate and Other(c)
  
 
138  
  
  
 
104  
  
  
 
239  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
1,323  
  
  
$
1,173  
  
  
$
        2,585  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(a)
 Capital
expenditures include changes in capital accruals.   


(b) 
 Includes $74 million acquisition of 23 convenience stores in 2011. See Note 15 to audited consolidated financial statements.
  


(c) 
 Includes capitalized interest of $114 million, $103 million and $236 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  122



Table of Contents
Supplementary Statistics (Unaudited) 
 
















 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 MPC Consolidated Refined Product Sales Volumes (thousands of barrels per
day)(a)
 
 
1,599  
  
 
 
1,585  
  
 
 
1,378  
  

 Refining & Marketing Operating Statistics
 



 



 




 Refinery Throughputs (thousands of barrels per day):
 



 



 




 Crude oil refined
 
 
1,177  
  
 
 
1,173  
  
 
 
957  
  

 Other charge and blend stocks
 
 
181  
  
 
 
162  
  
 
 
196  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 
1,358  
  
 
 
1,335  
  
 
 
1,153  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Crude Oil Capacity Utilization percent(b)
 
 
103  
  
 
 
99  
  
 
 
94  
  

 Refined Product Yields (thousands of barrels per day):
 



 



 




 Gasoline
 
 
739  
  
 
 
726  
  
 
 
669  
  

 Distillates
 
 
433  
  
 
 
409  
  
 
 
326  
  

 Propane
 
 
25  
  
 
 
24  
  
 
 
23  
  

 Feedstocks and special products
 
 
109  
  
 
 
97  
  
 
 
62  
  

 Heavy fuel oil
 
 
21  
  
 
 
24  
  
 
 
24  
  

 Asphalt
 
 
56  
  
 
 
76  
  
 
 
66  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 
1,383  
  
 
 
1,356  
  
 
 
1,170  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Refining & Marketing Refined Product Sales Volumes(thousands of barrels per day)(c)
 
 
1,581  
  
 
 
1,573  
  
 
 
1,365  
  

 Refining & Marketing Gross Margin (dollars per barrel)(d)
 
  $
7.75  
  
 
  $
2.81  
  
 
  $
2.42  
  

 Direct Operating Costs in Refining & Marketing Gross Margin (dollars per barrel):(e)
 



 



 




 Planned turnaround and major maintenance
 
  $
0.78  
  
 
  $
1.19  
  
 
  $
0.88  
  

 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
1.29  
  
 
 
1.32  
  
 
 
0.93  
  

 Other manufacturing(f)
 
 
3.16  
  
 
 
3.32  
  
 
 
3.49  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
  $
5.23  
  
 
  $
5.83  
  
 
  $
5.30  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Speedway Operating Statistics
 



 



 




 Convenience stores at period-end
 
 
1,371  
  
 
 
1,358  
  
 
 
1,603  
  

 Gasoline & distillates sales (millions of gallons)
 
 
2,938  
  
 
 
3,300  
  
 
 
3,232  
  

 Gasoline & distillates gross margin (dollars per gallon)(g)
 
  $
    0.1308  
  
 
  $
    0.1207  
  
 
  $
    0.1030  
  

 Merchandise sales (in millions)
 
  $
2,924  
  
 
  $
3,195  
  
 
  $
3,109  
  

 Merchandise gross margin (in millions)
 
  $
719  
  
 
  $
789  
  
 
  $
775  
  

 Pipeline Transportation Operating Statistics
 



 



 




 Pipeline Barrels Handled (thousands of barrels per day)(h):
 



 



 




 Crude oil trunk lines
 
 
1,184  
  
 
 
1,204  
  
 
 
1,113  
  

 Refined products trunk lines
 
 
1,031  
  
 
 
968  
  
 
 
953  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 
2,215  
  
 
 
2,172  
  
 
 
2,066  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(a) 
 Total average daily volumes of refined product sales to wholesale, branded and retail (Speedway segment) customers. 


(b) 
 Based on calendar day capacity. 


(c) 
 Includes intersegment sales. 


(d) 
 Sales revenue less cost of refinery inputs, purchased products and manufacturing expenses, including depreciation and amortization, divided by
Refining & Marketing segment refined product sales volumes. 


(e) 
 Per barrel of total refinery throughputs. 


(f) 
 Includes utilities, labor, routine maintenance and other operating costs. 


(g) 
 The price paid by consumers, less the cost of refined products, including transportation and consumer excise taxes, and the cost of bankcard processing
fees, divided by gasoline and distilliates sales volumes. 


(h) 
 On owned common carrier pipelines, excluding equity method investments. 
  123



Table of Contents
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure  None.  
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures  Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
An evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13(a)-15(e)
and 15(d)-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer. Based upon that evaluation,
the chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that the design and operation of these disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2011, the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
and – Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. During the quarter ended December 31, 2011, there were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  Item 9B. Other Information
 None. 
  124



Table of Contents
PART III  Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  Information concerning our directors required by this item is incorporated by reference to the material appearing under the sub-heading “Proposal No. 1 - Election of Class I Directors”
located under the heading “Proposals of the Board” in our Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Information concerning our executive officers is included in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 Our Board of Directors has established the Audit Committee and determined our “Audit Committee Financial Experts.”
The related information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the material appearing under the sub-heading “Audit Committee Financial Expert” located under the heading “The Board of Directors and Corporate
Governance” in our Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  We have adopted a Code of Ethics for
Senior Financial Officers. It is available on our website at http://www.marathonpetroleum.com/Investor_Center/Corporate_Governance/Code_of_Ethics_for_Senior_Financial_Officers/.  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  Information
regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is set forth under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in our Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.  Item 11. Executive Compensation 
Information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the material appearing under the heading “Executive
Compensation;” under the sub-headings “Compensation Committee” and “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” under the heading “The Board of Directors and Corporate Governance;” under the
heading “Compensation of Directors;” and under the heading “Compensation Committee Report” in our Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. 
  125



Table of Contents
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
and Related Stockholder Matters  Information concerning security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management
required by this item is incorporated by reference to the material appearing under the headings “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers” in our Proxy Statement
for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plan 
The following table provides information as of December 31, 2011 with respect to shares of MPC common stock that may be issued under
our existing equity compensation plan, the MPC 2011 Plan:   
















 
 
Column (a)
 
 
Column (b)
 
 
Column (c)
 

 Plan category
 
Number
ofsecurities tobe issueduponexercise ofoutstandingoptions,warrantsand rights
 
 
Weightedaverageexerciseprice ofoutstandingoptions,warrantsand 
rights(b)
 
 
Number ofsecuritiesremainingavailable
forfutureissuanceunder equitycompensationplans
 

 Equity compensation plan approved by stockholders
 
 
        9,463,209 
  (a) 
 
  $
            33.08  
  
 
 
        14,958,995  
 (c) 

 Equity compensation plan not approved by stockholders
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  
 
 
-  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 
9,463,209 
  
 
 
N/A  
  
 
 
14,958,995 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(a) 
 Includes the following: 


 
1)
8,835,643 stock options granted pursuant to the MPC 2011 Plan and not forfeited, cancelled or expired as of December 31, 2011. Of these options, 8,354,125
represent options adjusted or substituted in connection with the Spinoff. 


 
2)
307,622 as the net number of shares that could be issued pursuant to the exercise of stock appreciation rights not forfeited, cancelled or expired as of
December 31, 2011 based on the closing price of MPC common stock on December 30, 2011 of $33.29. Shares available for issuance under the MPC 2011 Plan are reduced by the full number of stock appreciation rights exercised, even though the
net number of shares issued may be less. The full number of stock appreciation rights granted pursuant to the MPC 2011 Plan and not forfeited, cancelled or expired as of December 31, 2011 is 536,727, all of which represent awards adjusted or
substituted in connection with the Spinoff. 


 
3)
319,944 restricted stock units granted pursuant to the MPC 2011 Plan for shares unissued and not forfeited, cancelled or expired as of December 31, 2011. Of these
restricted stock units, 284,901 represent replacement awards granted in connection with the Spin- Off.  In
addition to the awards reported above, 348,691 shares of restricted stock were issued pursuant to the MPC 2011 Plan and outstanding as of December 31, 2011. Of these restricted stock awards, 211,953 represent replacement awards granted in
connection with the Spin- Off. 


(b) 
 Restricted stock and restricted stock units are not taken into account in the weighted-average exercise price as such awards have no exercise price.



(c) 
 Reflects the shares available for issuance pursuant to the MPC 2011 Plan. No more that 9,331,361 of these shares may be issued for awards other than
stock options or stock appreciation rights. In addition, shares related to grants that are forfeited, cancelled or expire unexercised become immediately available for issuance under the MPC 2011 Plan. 
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 
Information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the material appearing under the heading “Certain Relationships and
Related Person Transactions,” and under the sub-heading “Board and Committee Independence” under the heading “The Board of Directors and Corporate Governance” in our Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders. 
  126



Table of Contents
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 
Information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the material appearing under the heading “Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm’s Fees, Services and Independence” in our Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. 
  127



Table of Contents
PART IV  Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  A.
Documents Filed as Part of the Report   


1.
 Financial Statements (see Part II, Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding financial statements) 
 


2.
 Financial Statement Schedules  Financial statement schedules required under SEC rules but not included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is contained in the
consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.  3. Exhibits: 
 


















ExhibitNumber
  
 Exhibit Description
 
Incorporated by Reference
 
FiledHerewith
 
FurnishedHerewith

  
 
Form
 
Exhibit
 
FilingDate
 
SECFile No.
 
  
 
  










2
  
Plan of Acquisition, Reorganization, Arrangement, Liquidation or Succession
 

 

 

 

 

 











2.1 †
  
Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated as of May 25, 2011, among Marathon Oil Corporation, Marathon Oil Company and Marathon Petroleum Corporation
 
10
 
2.1
 
5/26/11
 
001-35054
 

 











3
  
Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws
 

 

 

 

 

 











3.1
  
Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Marathon Petroleum Corporation
 
8-K
 
3.1
 
6/22/11
 
001-35054
 

 











3.2
  
Amended and Restated Bylaws of Marathon Petroleum Corporation
 

 

 

 

 
X
 











4
  
Instruments Defining the Rights of Security Holders, Including Indentures
 

 

 

 

 

 











4.1
  
Indenture dated as of February 1, 2011 between Marathon Petroleum Corporation and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee
 
10
 
4.1
 
5/26/11
 
001-35054
 

 


4.2
  
Form of the terms of the 3 1/2% Senior Notes due 2016, 5 1/8% Senior Notes due 2021 and 6 1/2% Senior Notes due 2041 of Marathon Petroleum Corporation
 
10
 
4.2
 
5/26/11
 
001-35054
 

 


4.3
  
Form of 3 1/2% Senior Notes due 2016, 5 1/8% Senior Notes due 2021 and 6 1/2% Senior Notes due 2041 of Marathon Petroleum Corporation (included in Exhibit 4.2 above)
 
10
 
4.3
 
5/26/11
 
001-35054
 

 


4.4
  
Registration Rights Agreement among Marathon Petroleum Corporation, Marathon Oil Corporation and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
 
10
 
4.4
 
5/26/11
 
001-35054
 

 











10
  
Material Contracts
 

 

 

 

 

 











10.1
  
Tax Sharing Agreement dated as of May 25, 2011 by and among Marathon Oil Corporation, Marathon Petroleum Corporation and MPC Investment LLC
 
10
 
10.1
 
5/26/11
 
001-35054
 

 


10.2
  
Employee Matters Agreement dated as of May 25, 2011 by and between Marathon Oil Corporation and Marathon Petroleum Corporation
 
10
 
10.2
 
5/26/11
 
001-35054
 

 


10.3
  
Amendment to Employee Matters Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2011 by and between Marathon Oil Corporation and Marathon Petroleum Corporation
 
8-K
 
10.1
 
7/1/11
 
001-35054
 

 


10.4
  
Transition Services Agreement dated as of May 25, 2011 by and between Marathon Oil Corporation and Marathon Petroleum Corporation
 
10
 
10.3
 
5/26/11
 
001-35054
 

 

  128



Table of Contents


















ExhibitNumber
 
 Exhibit Description
 
Incorporated by Reference
 
FiledHerewith
 
FurnishedHerewith

 
 
Form
 
Exhibit
 
FilingDate
 
SECFile No.
 
  
 
  










10.5
 
Credit Agreement dated as of March 11, 2011 among Marathon Petroleum Corporation, the lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent,
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Syndication Agent, and Bank of America, N.A., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and The Royal Bank
of Scotland plc, as Co-Documentation Agents
 
10
 
4.5
 
5/26/11
 
001-35054
 

 


10.6
 
Amendment No. 1 to Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2011, among Marathon Petroleum Corporation, the lenders party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National
Association, as Administrative Agent
 
8-K
 
10.2
 
7/1/11
 
001-35054
 

 


10.7
 
Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 1, 2011, by and among Marathon Petroleum Company LP, MPC Trade Receivables Company LLC, JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. as Administrative Agent, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, as Sole Lead Arranger, certain committed purchasers and conduit purchasers that are parties thereto from time to time and other parties thereto from time to time
 
8-K
 
10.1
 
10/6/11
 
001-35054
 

 


10.8
 
Amended and Restated Receivables Sale Agreement, dated as of October 1, 2011, by and between Marathon Petroleum Company LP and MPC Trade Receivables Company LLC
 
8-K
 
10.2
 
10/6/11
 
001-35054
 

 


10.9 *
 
Marathon Petroleum Corporation Second Amended and Restated 2011 Incentive Compensation Plan
 
S-3ASR
 
4.3
 
12/7/11
 
333-175286
 

 


10.10 *
 
Marathon Petroleum Corporation Policy for Recoupment of Annual Cash Bonus Amounts
 

 

 

 

 
X
 


10.11 *
 
Marathon Petroleum Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors
 

 

 

 

 
X
 


10.12 *
 
Marathon Petroleum Excess Benefit Plan
 

 

 

 

 
X
 


10.13 *
 
Marathon Petroleum Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan
 

 

 

 

 
X
 


10.14 *
 
Marathon Petroleum Corporation Executive Tax, Estate, and Financial Planning Program
 

 

 

 

 
X
 


10.15 *
 
Speedway Excess Benefit Plan
 

 

 

 

 
X
 


10.16 *
 
Speedway Deferred Compensation Plan
 

 

 

 

 
X
 


10.17 *
 
Form of Marathon Petroleum Corporation Amended and Restated 2011 Incentive Compensation Plan - Section 16 Officer Restricted Stock Award Agreement (3 year pro rata
vesting)
 
8-K
 
10.4
 
7/7/11
 
001-35054
 

 


10.18 *
 
Form of Marathon Petroleum Corporation Amended and Restated 2011 Incentive Compensation Plan - Section 16 Officer Restricted Stock Award Agreement (3 year cliff
vesting)
 
8-K
 
10.5
 
7/7/11
 
001-35054
 

 


10.19 *
 
Form of Marathon Petroleum Corporation Amended and Restated 2011 Incentive Compensation Plan Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement – Section 16 Officer
 
8-K
 
10.6
 
7/7/11
 
001-35054
 

 


10.20 *
 
Form of Marathon Petroleum Corporation 2011 Incentive Compensation Plan Supplemental Restricted Stock Award Agreement – Section 16 Officer
 
8-K
 
10.1
 
12/7/11
 
001-35054
 

 


10.21 *
 
Form of Marathon Petroleum Corporation 2011 Incentive Compensation Plan Supplemental Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement – Section 16 Officer
 
8-K
 
10.2
 
12/7/11
 
001-35054
 

 


10.22 *
 
Form of Marathon Petroleum Corporation 2011 Incentive Compensation Plan Supplemental Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement – Non-Employee Director
 

 

 

 

 
X
 


10.23 *
 
Form of Marathon Petroleum Corporation Amended and Restated 2011 Incentive Compensation Plan – Performance Unit Award Agreement
 

 

 

 

 
X
 


10.24 *
 
Marathon Petroleum Corporation Amended and Restated Executive Change in Control Severance Benefits Plan
 

 

 

 

 
X
 

  129



Table of Contents






















ExhibitNumber
  
 Exhibit Description
 
Incorporated by Reference
 
FiledHerewith
 
 
FurnishedHerewith
 

  
 
Form
 
Exhibit
 
FilingDate
 
SECFile No.
 
  
 
 
  
 










12.1
  
Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
 

 

 

 

 
 
X
  
 




14.1
  
Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers
 

 

 

 

 
 
X
  
 




21.1
  
List of Subsidiaries
 

 

 

 

 
 
X
  
 




23.1
  
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 

 

 

 

 
 
X
  
 




24.1
  
Power of Attorney of directors and officers of Marathon Petroleum Corporation
 

 

 

 

 
 
X
  
 




31.1
  
Certification of President and Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13(a)-14 and 15(d)-14 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 

 

 

 

 
 
X
  
 




31.2
  
Certification of Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13(a)-14 and 15(d)-14 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 

 

 

 

 
 
X
  
 




32.1
  
Certification of President and Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350.
 

 

 

 

 
 
X
  
 




32.2
  
Certification of Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350.
 

 

 

 

 
 
X
  
 













101.INS  +
  
XBRL Instance Document.
 

 

 

 

 



 
 
X
  

101.SCH +
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema.
 

 

 

 

 



 
 
X
  

101.PRE +
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase.
 

 

 

 

 



 
 
X
  

101.CAL +
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase.
 

 

 

 

 



 
 
X
  

101.DEF +
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase.
 

 

 

 

 



 
 
X
  

101.LAB +
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.
 

 

 

 

 



 
 
X
  
  


  †
 The exhibits and schedules have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K and will be provided to the Securities and Exchange
Commission upon request.   


  *
 Indicates management contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement in which one or more directors or executive officers of the Registrant
may be participants.   


  +
 XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language) information is furnished and not filed or a part of a registration statement or prospectus for
purposes of sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, is deemed not filed for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and otherwise is not subject to liability under these sections. 
  130



Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   






February 29, 2012
  
MARATHON PETROLEUM CORPORATION





  
  By:    /s/ Michael G. Braddock





  
                 Michael G. Braddock
                Vice President and Controller
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by
the following persons on February 29, 2012 on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.   






 Signature
  
 Title




/s/ Gary R. Heminger
  
 President and Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer)

Gary R. Heminger
  




/s/ Donald C. Templin
  
 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)

Donald C. Templin
  




/s/ Michael G. Braddock
  
 Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)

Michael G. Braddock
  




*
  
Director

Evan Bayh
  




*
  
Director

David A. Daberko
  




*
  
Director

William L. Davis
  




*
  
Director

Donna A. James
  




*
  
Director

Charles R. Lee
  




*
  
Director

Seth E. Schofield
  




 
  
Director

John W. Snow
  




*
  
Director

John P. Surma
  




*
  
Chairman of the Board and Director

Thomas J. Usher
  

  131



Table of Contents
* The undersigned, by signing his name hereto, does sign and execute this report pursuant to
the Power of Attorney executed by the above-named directors and officers of the registrant, which is being filed herewith on behalf of such directors and officers.   






  By:    /s/ Gary R. Heminger
  
February 29, 2012




                 Gary R. Heminger
                Attorney-in-Fact
  


  132




