
10-K
1
stjude115853_10k.htm
FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011




Table of Contents 
 
 
 



 


 


 




UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
 COMMISSION




Washington, D.C. 20549




 


 


 




 




FORM 10-K




 


 


 




 



 



 


 




x


ANNUAL
 REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934




 


 




For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 




 




Commission File Number: 1-12441






 


 


 




 


 


 






 


 




 




ST.
JUDE MEDICAL, INC. 




(Exact
 name of registrant as specified in its charter)



 



 


 


 




Minnesota


 


41-1276891




(State
 or other jurisdiction of


 


(I.R.S.
 Employer Identification No.)




incorporation
 or organization)


 


 




 


 


 




One St. Jude Medical Drive


 


 (651) 756-2000




St. Paul, Minnesota 55117


 


(Registrant’s
 telephone number,




(Address
 of principal executive


 


including
 area code)




offices,
 including zip code)


 


 




 

 
 

 




 




Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:




 


 


 




Common Stock ($.10 par value)


 


New York Stock Exchange




(Title
 of class)


 


(Name
 of exchange on which registered)




 




Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
 None




 




 

 
 

 



 
Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the
Securities Act. 
Yes x
          No o
 
Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act. 
Yes o
          No x
 
Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days. 
Yes x
          No o
 
 Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate
web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and
posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post
such files). 
Yes x
          No o
 Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant
to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. o
Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a
non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
“large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company”
in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):



 


 


 




Large accelerated filer x



 


Accelerated filer o




 Non-accelerated filer o


(Do not check if a smaller
 reporting company)


Smaller reporting company o



 Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act). Yes o           No x
 The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting stock
held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $16.0 billion at July 1, 2011 (the
last trading day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal
quarter), when the closing sale price of such stock, as reported on the New
York Stock Exchange, was $48.58 per share. 
The registrant had
320,457,921 shares of its $0.10 par value Common Stock outstanding as of February 24, 2012.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the Company’s
Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, are
incorporated by reference into Parts I and II. Portions of the Company’s Proxy
Statement for its 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by
reference into Part III. 
 
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS



 


 


 


 


 


 


 




ITEM


 


 


DESCRIPTION


 


 


PAGE




 


 


 


 


 




 


 


PART I


 


 




 


 


 


 


 




1.


 


Business


 


1




1A.


 


Risk
 Factors


 


17




1B.


 


Unresolved
 Staff Comments


 


24




2.


 


Properties


 


24




3.


 


Legal
 Proceedings


 


25




4.


 


Mine
 Safety Disclosures


 


25




 


 


 


 


 




 


 


PART II


 


 




 


 


 


 


 




5.


 


Market for Registrant’s Common Equity,
 Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities


 


25




6.


 


Selected Financial Data


 


26




7.


 


Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
 Financial Condition and Results of Operations


 


26




7A.


 


Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
 About Market Risk


 


26




8.


 


Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


 


26




9.


 


Changes in and Disagreements with
 Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure


 


26




9A.


 


Controls and Procedures


 


26




9B.


 


Other Information


 


26




 


 


 


 


 




 


 


PART III


 


 




 


 


 


 


 




10.


 


Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
 Governance


 


27




11.


 


Executive Compensation


 


27




12.


 


Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
 Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters


 


27




13.


 


Certain Relationships and Related
 Transactions, and Director Independence


 


27




14.


 


Principal Accountant Fees and Services


 


27




 


 


 


 


 




 


 


PART
IV 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 




15.


 


Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules


 


28




 


 


 


 


 




 


 


Signatures


 


33




Table of Contents 
PART I



 


 




Item 1.


BUSINESS




General
St. Jude Medical, Inc.
develops, manufactures and distributes cardiovascular medical devices for the
global cardiac rhythm management, cardiology and cardiac surgery and atrial
fibrillation therapy areas and neurostimulation medical devices for the
management of chronic pain. Our four operating segments are Cardiac Rhythm
Management (CRM), Cardiovascular (CV), Atrial Fibrillation (AF) and
Neuromodulation (NMD). Our CV operating segment focuses on both the cardiology
and cardiac surgery therapy areas. Our principal products in each operating
segment are as follows: CRM – tachycardia implantable cardioverter
defibrillator systems (ICDs) and bradycardia pacemaker systems (pacemakers); CV
– vascular products, which include vascular closure products, pressure measurement
guidewires, optical coherence tomography (OCT) imaging products, vascular plugs
and other vascular accessories, and structural heart products, which include
heart valve replacement and repair products and structural heart defect
devices; AF – electrophysiology (EP) introducers and catheters, advanced
cardiac mapping, navigation and recording systems and ablation systems; and NMD
– neurostimulation products, which include spinal cord and deep brain
stimulation devices. References to “St. Jude Medical,” “St. Jude,” “the
Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are to St. Jude Medical, Inc. and its
subsidiaries. 
We market and sell our
products through both a direct sales force and independent distributors. The
principal geographic markets for our products are the United States, Europe,
Japan and Asia Pacific. St. Jude Medical was incorporated in Minnesota in 1976.

We aggregate our four
operating segments into two reportable segments based primarily upon their
similar operational and economic characteristics: CRM/NMD and CV/AF. Our
performance by reportable segment is included in Note 14 of the Consolidated
Financial Statements in the Financial Report included in our 2011 Annual Report
to Shareholders and filed as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K. 
We utilize a 52/53-week
fiscal year ending on the Saturday nearest December 31st. Fiscal
year 2011, 2010 and 2009 consisted of 52 weeks and ended on December 31, 2011,
January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010, respectively. 
The table below shows net
sales and percentage of total net sales contributed by each of our four
operating segments for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009: 



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Net Sales (in thousands)


 


2011


 


2010


 


2009


 




Cardiac Rhythm Management


 


$


3,033,930


 


$


3,039,953


 


$


2,769,034


 




Cardiovascular


 


 


1,337,313


 


 


1,036,683


 


 


953,620


 




Atrial Fibrillation


 


 


822,085


 


 


707,873


 


 


627,853


 




Neuromodulation


 


 


418,368


 


 


380,262


 


 


330,766


 




 


 


$


5,611,696


 


$


5,164,771


 


$


4,681,273


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Percentage
 of Total Net Sales


 


2011


 


2010


 


2009


 




Cardiac Rhythm Management


 


 


54.1


%


 


58.9


%


 


59.1


%




Cardiovascular


 


 


23.8


%


 


20.1


%


 


20.4


%




Atrial Fibrillation


 


 


14.6


%


 


13.7


%


 


13.4


%




Neuromodulation


 


 


7.5


%


 


7.3


%


 


7.1


%



In March 2010, significant
U.S. healthcare reform legislation, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act (PPACA) along with the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010
was enacted into law. As a U.S. headquartered company with significant sales in
the United States, this health care reform law will materially impact us.
Certain provisions of the health care reform are not effective for a number of
years and there are many programs and requirements for which the details have
not yet been fully established or consequences not fully understood, and it is
unclear what the full impacts will be from the legislation. The law does levy a
2.3% excise tax on all U.S. medical device sales beginning in 2013. Our U.S.
net sales represented approximately 47% of our worldwide consolidated net sales
in 2011 and we still expect the new tax will materially and adversely affect
our business, cash flows and results of operations. The law also focuses on a
number of Medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs.
It is uncertain at this point what impacts these provisions will have on
patient access to new technologies. The Medicare provisions also include
value-based payment programs, increased funding of comparative effectiveness
research, reduced hospital payments for avoidable readmissions and hospital
acquired conditions, and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment
methodologies that promote care coordination (such as bundled physician and
hospital payments). Additionally, the law includes a reduction in the annual
rate of inflation for hospitals that began in 2011 and the establishment of an
independent payment advisory board to recommend ways of reducing the rate of
growth in Medicare spending beginning in 2014. We cannot predict what healthcare
programs and regulations will be ultimately implemented at the federal or state
level, or the effect of any future legislation or regulation. However, any
changes that lower reimbursement for our products or reduce medical procedure
volumes could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 
1
Table of Contents 
Principal Products 
Cardiac Rhythm Management: CRM focuses on the research, development and
manufacture of products for cardiac arrhythmias, or irregular heartbeats. In
2011, we continued to expand our product pipeline with innovative technologies,
including ICDs that provide life-saving therapy to patients suffering from
lethal heart conditions, such as sudden cardiac arrest; cardiac
resynchronization therapy (CRT) devices to save and improve the lives of
patients suffering from heart failure (HF); pacemakers to help people whose
hearts beat too slowly or who suffer from other debilitating cardiac
arrhythmias; and leads (wires that connect our devices to the heart) to carry
electrical impulses to the heart and provide information to the device from the
heart. CRM also develops and markets programmers and remote monitoring
equipment that are used by physicians and healthcare professionals to program
and analyze data from our devices for the management of their patients. 
Our ICDs and cardiac
resynchronization therapy defibrillator (CRT-D) devices treat patients with
hearts that beat inappropriately fast, a condition known as tachycardia. ICDs
monitor the heartbeat and deliver high energy electrical impulses, or “shocks,”
to terminate ventricular tachycardia (VT) and ventricular fibrillation (VF). In
VT, the lower chambers of the heart contract at an abnormally rapid rate and
typically deliver less blood to the body’s tissues and organs. VT can progress
to VF, in which the heart beats so rapidly and erratically that it can no
longer pump blood. ICDs are typically implanted pectorally, below the
collarbone, and connected to the heart by leads. 
During 2011 we received
approval for our Unify Quadra® CRT-D device (U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) approval in November 2011 and European CE Mark approval in March 2011)
and our Quartet® LV (left ventricular) Lead (FDA approval in November 2011 and
European CE Mark approval in September 2009). Unify Quadra® and Promote
Quadra®, available worldwide, represent our quadripolar pacing systems that
provide the benefit of four different LV lead electrodes and up to ten pacing
options, which allow physicians the ability to address pacing complications
without the need to surgically reposition a lead. 
Unify Quadra® further
strengthens our product portfolio which includes our Unify® CRT-D and Fortify®
ICD devices (FDA approval in May 2010 and European CE Mark approval in January
2010) that are significantly smaller in size than previous devices, offer
improved longevity and provide high energy electrical impulse capability for
life saving therapy when needed. In addition, in 2011 we launched our
ShockGuard® software upgrade (FDA approval in April 2011 and European CE Mark
approval in March 2011) for our Unify and Fortify family of devices that
provide new enhancements intended to reduce the chance for inappropriate shocks
to be delivered to the patient. All of our Unify® CRT-D and Fortify® ICD
devices are also available with the DF4 connector standard that allows a single
defibrillation lead connection between an ICD or CRT-D device and the heart,
reducing the procedure time and volume of leads implanted in the chest cavity. 
In addition, we continue to
offer our Current Accel® and Promote Accel® devices (FDA approval in February
2010 and European CE Mark approval in March 2009) which are designed to adjust
settings automatically to further enhance patient safety and minimize scheduled
patient follow-ups. In addition, the AnalyST Accel® (European CE Mark approval
in March 2009) and Fortify™ ST (European CE Mark approval in January 2010)
devices represent our second and third generation ICD devices capable of
continuously monitoring the electrical charges between heartbeats, providing
physicians insight into clinical events to help improve patient management. 
Our ICDs are used with the
single- and dual-shock electrode transvenous defibrillation leads. Our latest
ICD lead offerings include the Durata® SJ4 (FDA approval in April 2009) and
Durata™ high voltage lead (FDA approval in January 2008), which feature a soft
silicone tip and curved right-ventricular (RV) coil designed to further improve
implant performance. The Durata® leads, along with the Riata® ST
Optim® leads (FDA approval in July 2006), are small-diameter ICD leads and
feature our exclusive Optim® insulation material that combines the durability
of polyurethane and the softness of silicone. Optim® insulation has
demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in the incidence of
insulation abrasion when compared to our previous silicone insulated leads.
Optim® insulation material was designed specifically for high- and low-voltage
cardiac pacing leads. We now have Optim® insulation available in all of our
lead segments and have phased out our older silicone insulated leads in favor
of the improved reliability of Optim® based leads. 
In December 2007, we
released the QuickFlex® family of LV leads in the United States and Europe.
Additionally, our LV lead platform includes the smaller diameter lead
QuickFlex® µ (micro) LV lead (FDA approval in May 2010 and European CE Mark
approval in September 2008). For improved LV lead implantation, we also offer
our CPS Aim® SL (FDA approval in July 2009 and European CE Mark in
April 2009) and CPS Direct® SL II (FDA approval in August 2009 and European CE
Mark approval in September 2009) next generation slittable LV lead delivery
tools designed to offer safer, more efficient implantation procedures and
therapy delivery for patients with heart failure. We also provide additional
tools for placement of LV leads that include the CPS Luminary®, CPS Duo®, CPS
Courier® guidewires and the CPS Venture® wire control catheter. 
2
Table of Contents 
Our pacemakers treat
patients with hearts that beat too slowly, a condition known as bradycardia.
Similar to ICDs, pacemakers are typically implanted pectorally, monitor the
heart’s rate and, when necessary, deliver low-voltage electrical impulses that
stimulate an appropriate heartbeat. Single-chamber pacemakers sense and
stimulate only one chamber of the heart (atrium or ventricle), while
dual-chamber devices can sense and pace both the upper atrium and lower
ventricle chambers. Biventricular pacemakers can sense and pace in three
chambers (atrium and both ventricle chambers). 
In 2009, we received
approval (FDA approval in July 2009 and European CE Mark approval in April
2009) of our Accent® (radio frequency) RF pacemaker and Anthem® RF CRT-P
(cardiac resynchronization therapy pacemaker). The Accent® and Anthem® product
family features RF telemetry that enables secure, wireless communication
between the implanted device and the programmer used by the clinician,
utilizing wireless telemetry from implant through follow-up, allowing for more
efficient and convenient care and device management. 
Our other pacing products
include the Zephyr®, Victory® and Sustain™ family of pacemakers. The Zephyr™
family of pacemakers (FDA approval in May 2007) includes automaticity features
to simplify device follow-up. All standard follow-up tests may be done
automatically by the device. The Zephyr™ family of pacemakers includes
functionality to reduce unnecessary ventricular pacing. 
The Victory® line
(FDA approval in December 2005), which includes the Victory® and
Victory® XL family models, provide the enhancements of previous St.
Jude Medical families while adding new capabilities. New capabilities include
automatic P-wave and R-wave measurements with trends, lead monitoring and
automatic polarity switch, follow-up electrograms, Ventricular Intrinsic
Preference (VIPTM) to reduce right ventricle pacing and a
ventricular rate during automatic mode switch histogram. 
During 2011, we received
approval (FDA approval in June 2011 and European CE Mark approval in September
2011) for our Sustain™ family of value tier devices. The Sustain™ family models
maintain the therapeutic features of previous St. Jude Medical pacemakers,
including the AF Suppression™ algorithm and the Beat-by-Beat™ AutoCapture™
Pacing System. This family offers atrial tachycardia and atrial fibrillation
arrhythmia diagnostics. These features are designed to help physicians better
manage pacemaker patients suffering from atrial fibrillation— the world’s most
common cardiac arrhythmia. We also offer the Microny® II SR+ and
Microny® K. These small-sized pacemakers are available worldwide.
Another pacemaker, the Regency®, is offered outside of the United
States. 
Our current pacing leads
include the Optisense Optim®, Optisense®, Tendril® STS, Tendril®
ST Optim, Tendril® ST and Tendril® SDX lead families and the IsoFlex®
Optim, IsoFlex® S, IsoFlex® P and Passive Plus® DX
passive-fixation lead families, all available worldwide. All of these lead
families feature steroid elution, which helps suppress the body’s inflammatory
response to a foreign object. Our Optisense® leads offer an electrode spacing
technology that has been clinically proven to significantly reduce far-field
over-sensing and inappropriate mode switching. 
Our CRM devices interact
with an external device referred to as a programmer. A programmer has two
general functions. First, a programmer is used at the time of implant to
establish the initial therapeutic settings of these devices as determined by
the physician. A programmer is also used for patient follow-up visits, which
usually occur every three to twelve months based on patient need, to download
stored diagnostic information from the implanted device for physicians to
verify appropriate therapeutic settings. Since the introduction of programmable
pacemakers, all CRM device manufacturers, including St. Jude Medical, have
retained title to their programmers, which are used by their field sales force
or by physicians and nurses or technicians. 
In April 2006, we received
FDA approval for the first software module of our Merlin™ Patient Care System,
a universal programmer for St. Jude Medical ICDs and pacemakers. Merlin™
Patient Care System features a larger display, built-in full-size printer,
touch screen and advanced new user interface. The programmer is a result of
detailed customer research activities to optimize ease of use and to set new
standards for efficient and effective in-clinic follow-up. This programmer has
had several software updates since release to extend capabilities and support
new products and markets. In 2008, the programmer was updated to include
Japanese and Mandarin Chinese language support. In 2010, we introduced a new
Pacing Systems Analyzer (PSA) that integrates into the Merlin™ programmer to
allow for quick and easy testing of the leads during device implant. 
3
Table of Contents 
In addition to the
programmer, physicians can monitor implanted devices and patient status using
the Merlin.netTM Patient Care Network. The latest version of this
system (v5.0) was approved by the FDA in June 2011 and received European CE
Mark approval in May 2011. This system allows patients to use their home
transmitters to send data stored in devices to an internet site for retrieval
by their physician through standard analog or DSL telephone lines. Physicians
can better manage their increased number of ICD and pacemaker patients by
conducting remote follow-up sessions and using alerts of clinically important
events, thereby increasing efficiency and reducing risks for the patient.
Additionally, patient flexibility is enhanced by the reduction in the number of
office visits required and the ability to have a physician quickly interrogate
device data whenever symptoms warrant. 
In 2008, we launched the
Merlin@home line of RF transmitters (FDA approval in July 2008 and European CE
Mark approval in September 2008). The RF technology enables daily monitoring
and scheduled remote follow-ups to occur in the patient’s home without any
required activity by the patient after the unit has been installed.
Additionally, in November 2008 we received FDA and European CE Mark approval
for a version of Merlin@home that utilizes an adaptor to transmit data over the
cellular phone network for patients that may be traveling or unable to access a
phone line. 
Cardiovascular: Our Cardiovascular division participates in
segments of the vascular and structural heart markets. Our vascular products
include active vascular closure devices, compression assist devices, pressure
measurement guidewires, diagnostic coronary imaging technology, vascular plugs,
percutaneous catheter introducers and diagnostic guidewires. Our structural
heart products include both mechanical and tissue replacement heart valves as
well as heart valve repair products and transcatheter structural heart defect
devices. With our acquisition of AGA Medical Holdings, Inc. (AGA Medical) in
November 2010, we expanded our structural heart product portfolio with devices
for left atrial appendage (LAA) closure, devices for patent foramen ovale (PFO)
closure and devices to modify abnormal peripheral vessels with vascular plugs.
We are committed to developing clinical evidence for the treatment of
structural heart disease. 
Vascular Products -We offer a full portfolio of access and closure devices for
interventionalists. Our vascular closure devices are used to close radial and
femoral artery puncture sites following percutaneous coronary interventions,
diagnostic procedures and certain peripheral procedures. Active or passive (manual)
compression is utilized to assist in closing artery puncture sites. Our active
closure devices include our Angio-Seal™ product offering. The latest version is
the Angio-Seal™ Evolution™. In addition to the performance and ease of use
benefits offered from prior versions of Angio-Seal™, Angio-Seal™ Evolution
features automated collagen compaction – thus making it easier for the
clinician to ensure immediate arterial hemostasis (cessation of bleeding) and
rapid deployment of the device. Prior versions of Angio-Seal™, Angio-Seal™ VIP
and Angio-Seal™ STS Plus continue to generate revenue in our active closure
product offering. Since its introduction to the market 15 years ago, more than
15 million Angio-Seal™ vascular closure devices have been utilized around the
world. 
We estimate that manual
compression is utilized as the primary method to obtain hemostasis in
approximately two-thirds of all percutaneous procedures. Our compression assist
device offerings include both the RadiStop® and FemoStop™ compression assist
devices that arrest bleeding of the radial and femoral arteries, respectively.
External compression devices are often used to maintain pressure on the
arteriotomy in order to facilitate hemostasis. 
Percutaneous catheter
introducers are used to create passageways for cardiovascular catheters from
outside the human body through the skin into a vein, artery or other location
inside the body. Our percutaneous catheter introducer portfolio consists
primarily of peel-away and non peel-away sheaths, sheaths with and without
hemostasis valves, dilators, guidewires, repositioning sleeves and needles.
These products are offered in a variety of sizes and packaging configurations.
Diagnostic guidewires, such as the GuideRight™ and HydroSteer™ guidewires, are
used in conjunction with percutaneous catheter introducers to aid in the
introduction of intravascular catheters. Our diagnostic guidewires are
available in multiple lengths and incorporate a surface finish for lasting
lubricity. 
In coronary disease diagnosis
and intervention, an emerging treatment model involves the use of tools for
physiologic lesion assessment rather than sole reliance on contrast-enhanced
angiography. In this treatment model, blood flow through a stenotic coronary
lesion is measured with a special purpose coronary guidewire containing a
pressure sensor. Fractional flow reserve (FFR) is an index determining the
functional severity of narrowings in the coronary arteries as measured by these
guidewires. FFR specifically identifies which coronary narrowings are
responsible for significantly obstructing the flow of blood to a patients’
heart muscle (called ischemia), and it is used by the interventional
cardiologist to direct coronary interventions (such as stent procedures) and
assess results for improved treatment outcomes.
Our PressureWire™ Certus™
guidewire, provides precise measurements of intravascular pressure during a
cardiovascular procedure and helps aid physicians in determining the most
beneficial lesions to treat. The landmark trial FAME (Fractional flow reserve
(FFR) vs. Angiography in Multivessel Evaluation), which used our PressureWire™
Certus guidewires, was published in the January 15, 2009 issue of the New England Journal of Medicine. It
demonstrated a statistically significant difference of 28% in Major Adverse
Cardiac Events (MACE) such as death, myocardial infarction and repeat
revascularization. The randomized, prospective, multi-center trial looked at
1,005 patients with multi-vessel coronary artery disease twelve months after
receiving a stent, and compared outcomes for patients whose treatment was
guided by FFR to those whose treatment was guided only by angiography. At the
October 2009 Transcatheter Cardiovascular Therapeutics conference, two-year
results from the FAME study were presented which demonstrated continued
reductions in mortality, morbidity, stent utilization and procedural cost when
PressureWire™ Certus was employed to guide the physician decision-making
process. PressureWire™ Certus has regulatory approval in the United States,
Europe and Japan. 
4
Table of Contents 
In May 2010, the first
patient was enrolled in the FAME II (Fractional Flow Reserve-Guided
Percutaneous Coronary Intervention Plus Optimal Medical Treatment vs. Optimal
Medical Treatment Alone in Patients with Stable Coronary Artery Disease) trial.
The objective of the FAME II trial is to study the role of FFR in the treatment
of stable coronary artery disease by comparing the clinical outcomes, safety
and cost effectiveness of percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) guided by
FFR plus optimal medical treatment (OMT) to OMT alone. An interim analysis of
the FAME II trial has found a highly statistically significant reduction in the
need for hospital readmission and urgent revascularization when FFR-guided
assessment was used to direct treatment in patients with coronary artery
disease. As a result of the positive interim analysis, in January 2012, the
FAME II Independent Data Safety Monitoring Board made the recommendation to
stop further enrollment in the trial due to an excess number of adverse events
in the OMT alone protocol. We support the recommendation, have stopped
enrollment in the trial, and intend to publish the findings in 2012. 
We also market PressureWire™
Aeris™ in Europe and the United States. Aeris is a guidewire that transmits a
pressure signal wirelessly, and requires no additional equipment or cabling in
the cardiac catheterization laboratory. The wireless technology of the PressureWire™ Aeris also eliminates
cables crossing the sterile field, reducing variables and making the entire
procedure faster and easier. Physicians can remove the device’s handle and
insert a stent delivery system directly over the PressureWire™ Aeris,
eliminating the time and cost of using an additional, traditional guidewire. 
Our C7-XR™ OCT intravascular
imaging system aids physicians in the diagnosis and treatment of coronary
artery disease. The OCT coronary imaging technology helps to optimize treatment
with stents, and has about 10 times better image resolution and 20 times faster
image capture over the current industry standard of intravascular ultrasound
(IVUS). This efficient technology provides easy visualization, with high
resolution images in less than five seconds. OCT is a high resolution
diagnostic coronary imaging technology that complements our FFR products. The
combination of both OCT and FFR technology provides physicians with
comprehensive lesion assessment information; FFR provides physiological data to
help physicians determine which lesions to treat and OCT provides anatomical
images to help guide stent selection and deployment as well as provide
post-stenting information to ensure the procedure was successful. In the second
half of 2011 (FDA approved in October 2011 and European CE Mark approval in
July 2011), we launched ILUMIEN™ PCI Optimization System, the world’s first
system to integrate the functional and anatomical modalities of FFR and OCT
into one platform, for enhanced diagnostics and improved cathlab efficiency.
ILUMIEN™ enables OCT imaging with the third generation C7 DragonFly™
intravascular imaging catheter, and FFR measurement through the PressureWire™
Aeris wireless guidewire which simplifies set-up and measurement through the
elimination of connecting cables. The combined technology offers percutaneous
coronary intervention (PCI) optimization that helps physicians determine if
therapeutic intervention is necessary. 
Our AMPLATZER™ Vascular
Plugs are expandable, cylindrical devices made from Nitinol wire that reduce or
eliminate blood flow to abnormal blood vessels. Vascular occlusion can be used
to reroute blood away from inappropriately formed blood vessels to different
blood vessels. Our AMPLATZER™ Vascular Plugs are designed for use in abnormal
blood vessels outside the heart, below the neck and above the knee and utilize
standard delivery systems commonly used by interventional radiologists and
vascular surgeons in these procedures. 
Structural Heart Products - Heart valve replacement or repair may be
necessary because the native heart valve has deteriorated due to congenital
defects or disease. Heart valves facilitate blood flow from the chambers of the
heart throughout the entire body. For over 30 years, St. Jude Medical has
developed heart valves, and in early 2011, we reached a significant milestone
with over two million mechanical heart valve implants. The St. Jude Medical
Regent™ mechanical heart valve received European CE Mark approval in December
1999 and received FDA approval in March 2002. 
In March 2010, we received
European CE Mark approval for the Trifecta™ valve, marking the Company’s launch
into the pericardial aortic stented tissue valve market. This was followed by
FDA approval for the Trifecta™ valve in April 2011. The Trifecta tissue valve
is used to replace a patient’s diseased, damaged or malfunctioning aortic heart
valve, which controls blood flow from the heart to the rest of the body. The
next-generation tissue valve has a tri-leaflet stented pericardial design
which offers excellent hemodynamic performance (the optimization of blood flow through the valve), or nearly unobstructed blood flow,
in order to mimic as closely as possible the flow of a natural, healthy heart. The unique valve design includes leaflets manufactured
from pericardial tissue attached to the exterior of the valve stent which open more fully and efficiently to perform like a natural
aortic heart valve. Also contributing to the valve’s durability, the Trifecta valve offers our patented LinxTM AC technology, an
anticalcification treatment designed to reduce tissue mineralization (hardening), one of the primary causes of valve deterioration. 
5
Table of Contents 
We also market
both the Epic™ and Biocor™ porcine stented tissue heart valves. The Epic™
stented tissue valve is identical in design to the Biocor™ stented tissue valve
but incorporates Linx™ AC. Epic™ and Biocor™ are available for aortic and
mitral valve replacement with Epic™ Supra and Biocor™ Supra as additional
options for aortic valve replacement.
We offer a
line of heart valve repair products, including two fully flexible and two
semi-rigid rings: the Tailor™ flexible ring and the Attune™ flexible adjustable
annuloplasty ring, the SJM™ Séguin Semi-Rigid Ring and the SJM™ Rigid Saddle
Ring. Annuloplasty rings are prosthetic devices used to repair diseased or
damaged mitral and tricuspid heart valves.
In September
2010, the national co-principal investigators for our transcatheter aortic
valve implantation (TAVI) clinical trial were announced. The TAVI study will
evaluate the safety and efficacy of our transcatheter aortic valve for patients
who experience severe aortic stenosis and who may be at an elevated risk for
open-heart surgery. Our transcatheter heart valve is designed to increase
physicians’ control and accuracy during valve deployment. Two delivery methods
for our transcatheter valve will be evaluated in the trial – the transfemoral
and the transapical systems, which are both designed to make transcatheter
valve deployment and retrieval easier for physicians.
A structural
heart defect is an abnormality in the structure of the heart and associated
vessels, such as the aorta and pulmonary artery. Many structural heart defects
result from problems in normal fetal heart development and are referred to as
congenital heart defects. Structural heart defects can be clinically
significant and require immediate treatment early in life or can become clinically
significant later in life when the child reaches adulthood. Two common
categories of structural heart defects are (1) septal defects, which consist of
a hole in the wall between the atria or ventricles that causes an errant flow
of blood in the heart, and (2) failed closure of embryonic passageways, which
reroute blood around the lungs in the prenatal heart and occur when the foramen
ovale or the ductus arteriosus remain open after birth. Our AMPLATZER™ structural heart device
platform includes occlusion devices that close or seal structural defects found
in a patient’s heart. Our AMPLATZER™ occlusion devices utilize our expertise in
braiding Nitinol, a metal alloy with superelastic and shape-memory characteristics,
and designing transcatheter delivery systems that enable simple and precise
implantation of our devices. Our AMPLATZER™ family of occluders uses Nitinol
because its properties allow the devices to be compressed inside a delivery
sheath and then return to their original shape once deployed at the implant
site. The combination of the use of Nitinol and our manufacturing techniques
allows us to create device shapes specific to each indication.
The AMPLATZER™ Septal Occluder was approved by the FDA
in 2001 (European CE Mark approval in 1998), which addresses one of the largest
treatment areas of the structural heart defect market-the
closure of an atrial septal defect (ASD). An ASD is an abnormal opening in the
wall between the left and right atria. Because the right side of the heart
receives extra blood, it is forced to bear more than its normal workload. The
potential complications of ASDs include high blood pressure in the lung’s
vessels, which can lead to pulmonary hypertension, damage to blood vessel walls
and heart failure. ASDs are increasingly being detected and treated in adults.
Our AMPLATZER™ Duct Occluder received FDA approval in
2003 (European CE Mark approval in 1998) and is intended for the closure of a
patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) larger than four millimeters, which we believe
represent approximately 30% of total PDA defects. Our AMPLATZER™ Duct Occluders are uniquely shaped to
achieve consistent, effective closure of PDAs. The failed closure of the ductus
arteriosus after birth is called a patent, or open, ductus arteriosus. In
patients with a PDA, blood that should have traveled through the aorta to
nourish the body goes instead back into the lungs, which can lead to difficulty
breathing, failure to grow normally and chronic respiratory failure.
A ventricular septal defect (VSD) is an
abnormal opening in the wall between the left and right ventricles. Because the
left side of the heart receives extra blood, it is forced to bear more than its
normal workload. The potential complications of VSDs include heart failure,
high blood pressure and failure of a child to thrive at a normal rate. We
market and sell our AMPLATZER™ VSD Occluders to address membranous VSDs (European CE Mark approval
in 1998) and muscular VSDs (FDA approval in 2007 and European CE Mark approval
in 1998). Membranous VSDs are defects in the upper portion of the ventricular
septum near the valve connecting the heart with the aorta and characterized by
more flexible, membranous tissue. Muscular VSDs are defects in the middle
portion of the ventricular septum, which is characterized by thicker, more
muscular tissue.
The AMPLATZER™ PFO Occluder technology (European CE
Mark approval in 1998) allows for simple and confident PFO closure using a
minimally-invasive transcatheter procedure instead of surgery. This product is
specifically designed to accommodate the anatomy of a PFO and has demonstrated
clinical success. Unlike other structural heart defects that could be described
as holes, PFOs are more like tunnels formed by two overlapping membranes that
fail to seal closed at birth.
The AMPLATZER™ Cardiac Plug (European CE Mark clearance
in 1998) provides an alternative therapy for reducing the risk of stroke in
patients with atrial fibrillation. The unique design of the AMPLATZER™ Cardiac Plug device provides secure
placement and self-positioning for optimal occlusion at the orifice of the LAA.
6
Table of Contents 
Atrial
Fibrillation: Atrial fibrillation is a rapid
and inconsistent heart rhythm that occurs in the upper chambers of the heart.
People suffering from atrial fibrillation may experience fatigue and shortness
of breath, and atrial fibrillation has been shown to increase the risk of
stroke. Atrial fibrillation and other irregular heart rhythms such as atrial
flutter and Wolff-Parkinson-White Syndrome are often managed with medications
that palliate the symptoms of the irregular heartbeat. We are committed to
developing device-based ablation therapies for these conditions that offer the
potential for a cure.
We provide a
complete system of access, diagnostic, visualization and ablation products that
assist physicians in diagnosing and treating various irregular heart rhythms.
Our products are primarily designed to be used in the EP lab and cardiac
surgery.
Our access
products enable clinicians to facilitate the percutaneous delivery of
diagnostic and ablation catheters to areas of the heart where arrhythmias
occur. These products include, among others, our Swartz™ and Swartz™ Braided
Transseptal fixed-curve introducers, which are designed to guide catheters to
precise locations in the right and left atria. In addition, our Agilis NxT™
Steerable Introducer (FDA approval in July 2006) enables increased access and
stability of catheters in the heart. The Agilis™ NxT™ Steerable Introducer is
supplied in several different curve styles and configurations to accommodate
different patient anatomies and procedure techniques. We also offer the Agilis™
EPI Steerable Introducer (FDA approval in April 2009) which is designed to
facilitate catheter delivery epicardially, or outside the chambers of the
heart.
For diagnosing
arrhythmias percutaneously, we offer a portfolio of fixed-curve and steerable
catheters. Our Response™, Supreme™ and Inquiry™ fixed curve catheters gather
electrical information from the heart that indicate what may be causing an
arrhythmia and/or the location of its source. Our steerable product lines
include Livewire™ and Inquiry™ which allow clinicians to move the catheter tip
in precise movements in order to diagnose the more anatomically challenging
areas within the heart. Our Reflexion Spiral™ (FDA approval in October 2006)
and Inquiry™ Optima™ PLUS (FDA approval in March 2006) are circular mapping
catheters that enable the physician to check for electrical isolation of the
pulmonary vein openings during an AF ablation procedure. The Reflexion HD™ (FDA
approval in January 2009) and Inquiry AFocus II™ (FDA approval in August 2010)
are high-density, circular mapping catheters that are designed to leverage the
mapping capabilities of the EnSite Velocity™ System to create accurate
high-density geometries and detailed electrical maps. In addition, our EnSite
Array™ non-contact mapping catheter, which works with the EnSite Velocity™
System, enables physicians to quickly map complex and unstable arrhythmias in a
single heartbeat without touching the walls of the patient’s heart.
We also offer
our Confirm™ implantable cardiac monitors device (FDA approval and European CE
Mark approval in September 2008). This small implantable device is designed to
help physicians monitor for abnormal cardiac conditions.
Our
EP–WorkMate™ recording system is used to monitor electrical activity of the
heart via intracardiac catheters and features our new ClearWave™ technology for
high fidelity signals and an integrated stimulator, EP 4™ Cardiac Stimulator. 
Our EnSite
Velocity™ System, introduced in 2009, is a mapping and navigation system that,
when used in conjunction with the EnSite Array™ non-contact mapping catheter or
EnSite NavX™ navigation and visualization technology, creates three-dimensional
cardiac models, shows catheters moving within those models and allows physicians
to map and visualize electrical activity in the heart. The EnSite Velocity™
System also includes various modules and tools to assist the physician with
their EP procedure. The OneMap™ Tool helps create detailed chamber models more
quickly with more information and the RealReview™ function allows the user to
view live and pre-recorded cardiac models and electrical maps simultaneously.
Our EnSite Derexi™ module facilitates the exchange of information between the
EnSite Velocity™ System and the EP–WorkMate™ recording system, improving
efficiency and procedural workflow. Our EnSite Courier™ module imports cardiac
information from the hospital’s Picture Archiving and Storage (PACS) network.
We also offer
an ultrasound system which provides intracardiac ultrasound imaging to provide
more detail about the cardiac anatomy. Our ultrasound product line consists of
the ViewMate™ Z Intracardiac Ultrasound System and the ViewFlex™ PLUS
Intracardiac Echocardiography (ICE) catheter.
Complex
interventional procedures, including catheter ablations, expose operators,
staff and patients to the significant risks of fluoroscopy. We are developing
our MediGuide™ Technology platform to facilitate reductions to fluoroscopy
exposure while also increasing procedural efficiencies. Our MediGuide™
Technology consists of a hardware system which is integrated with the
customer’s fluoroscopy system and various products offered by our Company,
including our EP diagnostic and ablation catheters and our EnSite Velocity™
platform. We are continuing to expand our MediGuide™ Technology platform as
additional integrated products are developed and approved.
7
Table of Contents 
We offer two
general ablation product lines which focus on disabling abnormal tissue that
causes or perpetuates arrhythmias: ablation catheters, which are used as part
of a percutaneous procedure and are designed to apply RF energy to the inside
of the heart; and surgical cardiac ablation devices, which are used to ablate
cardiac tissue from epicardially (outside the heart).
Our standard
non-irrigated tip ablation catheters include our Livewire™ TC Ablation
Catheters uni- and bi-directional models that offer stability and excellent
contact with cardiac tissue. Our Safire™ (4mm and 5mm) and Safire TX™ (8mm)
Bi-directional Ablation Catheter product line offers a comprehensive range of catheter
tip sizes (4mm and 5mm catheter tips, FDA approval in August 2006, and 8mm
catheter tip, FDA approval in October 2007) and curve configurations and is
built on our ComfortGrip™ handle platform that is designed for physician
comfort and control during EP procedures. Our Therapy™ 4mm and 8mm tip standard
catheter lines provide a range of curve options and temperature control. When
used with our IBI-1500 series Cardiac Ablation Generators, power can be
effectively managed for the creation of longer ablation lines. 
In addition to
the standard non-irrigated tip ablation catheters, we also offer various
open-irrigated ablation catheters which feature holes at the tip of the
catheter to allow infused saline to circulate around the tip during therapy
delivery. This irrigation allows the tip to be cooled and lessens the potential
for char or thrombus to form during ablation. The Therapy™ Cool Path™ Duo
(European CE Mark approval in October 2007) is an irrigated tip ablation
catheter that features 12 infusion ports that allow for more uniform cooling of
the ablation tip. In April 2011, the Safire™ BLU bi-directional irrigated
ablation catheter and the Therapy™ Cool Path™ bi-directional ablation catheter
received FDA approval. The Therapy™ Cool Flex™ irrigated ablation catheter
(European CE Mark approval in June 2010) is a fully-irrigated, flexible tip
ablation catheter that features a laser cut tip allowing it to bend and conform
to the cardiac anatomy and provides for more fluid to be infused around the
entire catheter tip electrode. In addition, we offer our EnSite Contact™
Technology (European CE Mark approval in June 2010) which is a diagnostic
system consisting of ablation catheters, a hardware module and software that
measures, analyzes and displays electrical coupling to determine the level of
contact the ablation catheter tip has with endocardial tissue during cardiac
ablation therapy procedures. Information regarding the catheter tip to tissue
contact is displayed on the EnSite Velocity™ System screen.
Our surgical
cardiac ablation product line, the Epicor Medical™ Cardiac Ablation System,
creates cardiac ablation lesions by applying high intensity focused ultrasound
to the outside of a beating heart without the need to put the patient on a
heart-lung bypass machine. The primary components of the Epicor Medical™
Ablation System include the Epicor Medical™ Ablation Control System that
generates and controls the ultrasound energy, the Epicor Medical™ UltraCinch™
LP Ablation Device (FDA approval in July 2008) that creates circumferential
lesions in cardiac tissue and the Epicor Medical™ UltraWand™ LP Tissue Ablation
Wand (FDA approval in July 2008) that allows for additional linear lesions to
be created.
Neuromodulation:
The neuromodulation market has two main categories of treatment:
neurostimulation, in which an implantable device delivers electrical current
directly to targeted nerve sites, and implantable drug infusion systems, in
which an implanted pump delivers drugs through a catheter directly to targeted
nerve sites. All of our Neuromodulation product offerings provide
neurostimulation treatment.
Neurostimulation
for the treatment of chronic pain involves delivering low-level electrical
impulses via an implanted device (sometimes referred to as a “pacemaker for
pain”) directly to the spinal cord or peripheral nerves. This stimulation
interferes with the transmission of pain signals to the brain and inhibits or
blocks the sensation of pain felt by the patient. The patient’s sensation of pain
is replaced with a sensation called paresthesia, which is often described as a
tingling or massaging sensation. Neurostimulation for chronic pain is generally
used to manage sharp, intense and constant pain arising from nerve damage or
nervous system disorders. A neurostimulation system typically consists of four
components: a pulse generator/receiver that produces the electric current and
is implanted under the patient’s skin; leads that carry the electrical impulses
to the targeted nerve sites; a patient remote that enables the patient to
control their therapy within prescribed ranges; and a clinician programmer that
is used to program the power supply with individualized therapy for the
patient. Clinical results demonstrate that many patients who are implanted with
a neurostimulation system experience a substantial reduction in pain, an
increase in activity level, a reduction in use of narcotics and a reduction in
hospitalization. 
We offer a
wide array of neurostimulation systems including rechargeable implantable pulse
generators (IPGs), primary cell IPGs and RF powered systems. We currently
market three neurostimulation product platforms worldwide: the Eon™ IPG family,
which include rechargeable and primary cell battery models, Genesis™ primary
cell IPG systems and Renew™ RF systems. 
The Eon™
family of IPGs includes the Eon™, Eon Mini™ and EonC™ IPG. The Eon™
rechargeable IPG is a 16-contact IPG with a high capacity battery. It offers a
broad range of options to help the clinician maximize success in managing chronic
pain. The Eon™ IPG provides enhanced longevity between recharges, allowing
patients added flexibility in their recharging schedule. It is FDA approved to
operate at least 24 hours between recharges for 10 years at high settings. The
device is designed to provide consistent pain therapy.
8
Table of Contents 
The Eon Mini™
rechargeable 16-contact IPG’s small size offers the potential for alternative
placement options, which helps clinicians treat a variety of patients. It is
FDA approved to operate at least 24 hours between recharges for 10 years at
high settings – a long battery life for its small size. The Eon Mini™ IPG is
well-suited for patients with smaller body mass and low to high power
requirements. 
The EonC™
primary cell IPG features a large-capacity battery and constant current pulse
delivery for consistent, low-maintenance therapy. It is well-suited for
patients with low to medium power requirements and those who prefer the
simplicity of a non-rechargeable IPG.
The Genesis™
IPG offers a high battery capacity-to-size ratio and flexibility in addressing
diverse pain patterns. Conventional IPGs, such as Genesis™, are well-suited for
patients with relatively simple pain or modest power requirements and for
patients who would have difficulty managing a rechargeable system. 
The Renew™ RF
system features a small implanted RF receiver/pulse generator, leads and a
transmitter containing a power source that is worn externally. The system is
powered with the help of an antenna that is attached to the patient’s skin with
a removable belt or an adhesive pad. As the Renew™ system has a rechargeable,
external power source, it is best suited for patients with complex, changing or
multi-extremity pain patterns that require higher power levels for treatment
when battery management, even with a rechargeable system, is problematic. 
Each of our
generator systems work with a corresponding patient remote. The remote
controller allows the patient to adjust their therapy intensity and location
with simple adjustments, enabling the patient to control their pain. The
controllers work by wirelessly communicating to the implanted generator to
adjust the patient’s prescribed stimulation parameters.
In combination
with our wide array of generators, we market a broad variety of leads which are
intended to give clinicians the flexibility to meet a range of patient needs.
Our leads can be divided into three types: percutaneous leads, paddle leads,
and perc-paddle leads. Our percutaneous leads consist of the 8-contact Octrode™
and 4-contact Quattrode™ lead designs. Our paddle lead offering consists of the
Lamitrode™ family of leads. This family includes single and dual column paddle
leads that provide up to two vertebral segments of coverage; Tripole™
leads, which feature a three-column electrode array and are designed to focus
stimulation more precisely for enhanced targeting of low back pain; C-Series™
leads, shaped to mimic the curve of the epidural space of the spine, that are
are designed to facilitate lead placement and reduce lead migration; and the
Penta™ lead, a five column lead, that is designed to provide enhanced
stimulation control and specificity for focused stimulation therapy.
Perc-paddle leads are a category of leads originated by St. Jude Medical with
the advent of the Epiducer™ lead delivery system. The Epiducer™ system allows
the percutaneous introduction of our small profile S-Series™ paddle leads
and/or multiple leads through a single needle stick. S-Series leads are
designed to have the focused stimulation and stability of a paddle lead yet
with the Epiducer™ lead delivery system, can now be introduced via a minimally
invasive percutaneous procedure like a percutaneous lead. 
Our systems
are programmed with our Rapid Programmer™ platform. This system enables
clinicians to efficiently test patients intra-operatively and program patients
post-operatively. The Rapid Programmer™ is a palm-sized programmer that
features a touch screen interface clinicians can navigate to create multiple
programs customized for the patient. Using the foundation of our Dynamic
MultiStim™ technology for real time adjustments of multiple pain areas
simultaneously, we simplified the programming of complex multi-focal pain by
introducing MultiSteering™ technology,—an optimized current steering algorithm
designed for more thorough and efficient programming sessions. 
The
neurostimulation market continues to develop with advances in deep brain
stimulation (DBS) for movement disorders and peripheral nerve stimulation (PNS)
for chronic migraine headache, and continuing investigation for potential new
indications, such as DBS for major depressive disorder. We entered the DBS
market in Europe with our Libra™ and LibraXP™ DBS systems for treating the
symptoms of Parkinson’s disease, a neurological disorder that progressively
diminishes a person’s control over his or her movements and speech. The Brio™
IPG, a small, long lasting rechargeable DBS device, and the Guardian™ burr hole
cap were introduced to further enhance our DBS line in the European market. Our
DBS systems are also marketed in Australia and certain Latin American
countries. 
In late 2011,
we initiated a limited launch in Europe of the Genesis™ neurostimulation system
for PNS of the occipital nerves for the management of the pain and disability
associated with intractable chronic migraine. PNS therapy for this condition
involves the delivery of mild electrical pulses to the occipital nerves that
are located just beneath the skin at the back of the head. A small electrical
lead or leads are placed under the skin and connected to the neurostimulator
which produces the pulses of stimulation.
9
Table of Contents 
We have
completed our Parkinson’s Disease and Chronic Migraine Headache pivotal trials
in the United States and have publicly shared initial study
results. Additionally, we continue to enroll patients in two other pivotal
trials to investigate the safety and efficacy of the Libra™ DBS system for
essential tremor and major depressive disorder in patients for whom current
available treatments are not effective. The BROADEN™ (BROdmann Area 25
Deep brain Neuromodulation) depression study is currently enrolling at a
limited number of sites. Other potential indications are in various stages of
evaluation, regulatory review and trial. 



 




Competition 




The medical
 device market is intensely competitive and characterized by extensive
 research and development and rapid technological change. In addition,
 competitors have historically employed litigation to gain a competitive
 advantage. Our competitors range from small start-up companies to larger
 companies that have significantly greater resources and broader product
 offerings, and we anticipate that in the coming years, other large companies
 will enter certain markets in which we currently hold a strong position. We
 expect competition will continue to intensify with the increased use of
 strategies such as consigned inventory and reduced pricing.



Our customers
consider many factors when choosing suppliers, including product reliability,
clinical outcomes, product availability, inventory consignment, price and
product services provided by the manufacturer. As a result, market share can
shift due to technological innovation, product field actions and safety alerts
as well as from other business factors.
We are one of
the three principal manufacturers and suppliers in the global CRM market. Our
primary competitors in this market are Medtronic, Inc. (Medtronic) and Boston
Scientific Corporation (Boston Scientific). These two competitors have invested
substantial amounts in CRM research and development (R&D) in a highly
competitive market where rapid technological change is expected to continue,
requiring us to invest heavily in R&D and effectively market our products.
The
cardiovascular market is also highly competitive with numerous competitors. The
majority of our sales are generated from our vascular products which include
vascular closure devices, PCI optimization devices and peripheral embolization
devices. We continue to hold the number one market position in the vascular
closure device market; however, the market for vascular closure devices is
highly competitive and there are several companies in addition to St. Jude
Medical that manufacture and market these products worldwide. Our primary
vascular closure device competitors are Abbott Laboratories, Cordis, a division
of Johnson & Johnson, Inc (J&J), and AccessClosure, Inc. Additionally,
we anticipate other companies will enter this market in the coming years, which
will increase competition. The key competitors in the PCI optimization market
(FFR and intravascular imaging) include Volcano Corporation, Boston Scientific
and Terumo Cardiovascular Systems Corporation. Our primary competitors in the
peripheral embolization market include Boston Scientific and Cook Medical, Inc.
Our structural heart products include heart valve replacement and repair
products and other structural heart defect devices. We are the world’s leading
manufacturer and supplier in the mechanical heart valve market. Our principal
competitors in the mechanical heart valve market are Sorin CarboMedics MV,
Medtronic and several smaller manufacturers. In the tissue heart valve market,
we compete against two principal tissue heart valve manufacturers – Edwards
Lifesciences Corporation (Edwards Lifesciences) and Medtronic – as well as many
other smaller manufacturers. Cardiac surgery therapies continue to shift from
mechanical heart valves to tissue heart valves and repair products. Other
competitors such as Edwards Lifesciences and Medtronic manufacture
transcatheter heart valves that are marketed to patients who may be too frail
for traditional heart valve surgery. The structural heart defect market has
relatively few large competitors and high barriers to entry due to the
intellectual property and clinical and regulatory processes required for
product approval. Our primary competitors in the structural heart defect market
include W.L. Gore & Associates and Boston Scientific.
The atrial
fibrillation therapy area is broadening to include multiple therapy methods and
treatments which include drugs, percutaneous delivery of diagnostic and
ablation catheters, external electrical cardioversion and defibrillation,
implantable defibrillators and open-heart surgery. As a result, we have
numerous competitors in the emerging atrial fibrillation market. Larger
competitors, such as Medtronic, have started to extend their presence in the
atrial fibrillation market through acquisitions or by leveraging their cardiac
rhythm management capabilities. Our primary competitors include Biosense Webster,
a division of J&J, C.R. Bard, Inc. and Boston Scientific.
The
neuromodulation market is one of medical technology’s fastest growing segments.
We are one of three principal manufacturers of neurostimulation devices.
Competitive pressures will increase in the future as our primary competitors,
Medtronic and Boston Scientific, attempt to secure and grow their positions in
the neuromodulation market. Although we also compete against smaller
competitors like publicly held Cyberonics, Inc. and privately held Nevro
Corporation, barriers to entry for new competitors are high in the U.S. market,
due to a long and expensive product development and regulatory approval process
as well as the intellectual property and patent positions existing in the
market. However, other larger medical device companies may be able to enter the
neuromodulation market by leveraging their existing medical device
capabilities, thereby decreasing the time and resources required to enter the
market.
10
Table of Contents 




 




Patents, Licenses and Trademarks




Our policy
 is to protect our intellectual property rights related to our medical
 devices. Where appropriate, we apply for U.S. and foreign patents. We own or
 hold licenses to numerous U.S. and foreign patents. U.S. patents are
 typically granted for a term of twenty years from the date a patent
 application is filed. The actual protection afforded by a foreign patent,
 which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the
 scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country.
 In those instances where we have acquired technology from third parties, we
 have sought to obtain rights of ownership to the technology through the
 acquisition of underlying patents or licenses.



We also have
obtained certain trademarks and tradenames for our products to distinguish our
products from our competitors’ products. U.S. trademark registrations are for a
term of ten years and are renewable every ten years as long as the trademarks
are used in the regular course of trade. We register our trademarks in the U.S.
and in a number of countries where we do business.
While we
believe design, development, regulatory and marketing aspects of the medical
device business represent the principal barriers to entry, we also recognize
that our patents and license rights may make it more difficult for competitors
to market products similar to those we produce. We can give no assurance that
any of our patent rights, whether issued, subject to license or in process,
will not be circumvented or invalidated. Furthermore, there are numerous
existing and pending patents on medical products and biomaterials. There can be
no assurance that our existing or planned products do not or will not infringe
such rights or that others will not claim such infringement. No assurance can
be given that we will be able to prevent competitors from challenging our
patents or entering markets we currently serve.



 




Research and Development 




We are
 focused on the development of new products and on improvements to existing
 products. R&D expense reflects the cost of these activities, as well as
 the costs to obtain regulatory approvals of certain new products and
 processes and to maintain the highest quality standards with respect to our
 existing products. Our R&D expenses were $705.1 million (12.6% of net
 sales) in 2011, $631.1 million (12.2% of net sales) in 2010 and $559.8
 million (12.0% of net sales) in 2009. Although our R&D expenses have
 remained relatively flat as a percent of net sales in recent years, total
 R&D expense continues to increase each year, reflecting our continuing
 commitment to fund future long-term growth opportunities. We also recognized
 $4.4 million, $12.2 million and $5.8 million of purchased in-process research
 and development expense in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, in connection
 with the purchase of certain intellectual property assets.




 




Acquisitions




In addition
 to generating growth internally through our own R&D activities, we also
 make strategic acquisitions and investments to access new technologies and
 therapy areas. We expect to continue to make acquisitions and investments in
 future periods to strengthen our business.



On November 18, 2010, we completed our acquisition of AGA
Medical acquiring all of its outstanding shares for $20.80 per share in a cash
and stock transaction valued at $1.1 billion (which consisted of $549.4 million
in net cash consideration and 13.6 million shares of St. Jude Medical common
stock). The transaction was consummated through an exchange offer followed by a
merger. AGA Medical had been publicly traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Stock
Market under the ticker symbol AGAM. The AGA Medical acquisition expanded our
cardiovascular product portfolio and future product pipeline to treat
structural heart defects and vascular abnormalities through minimally invasive
transcatheter treatments. AGA Medical was based in Plymouth, Minnesota and has
become part of our Cardiovascular division.
On July 6,
2010, we completed our acquisition of LightLab Imaging, Inc. (LightLab Imaging)
for $92.8 million in net cash consideration. LightLab Imaging was based in
Westford, Massachusetts and develops, manufactures and markets OCT for coronary
imaging applications. The LightLab Imaging acquisition expanded our
cardiovascular product portfolio and complements the FFR technology acquired as
part of our Radi Medical Systems acquisition in December 2008. LightLab Imaging
has become part of our Cardiovascular division. 



 




Minority Investment 




During 2010,
 we made an equity investment of $60.0 million in CardioMEMS, Inc.
 (CardioMEMS), a privately held company that is focused on the development of
 a wireless monitoring technology that can be placed directly into the
 pulmonary artery to assess cardiac performance via measurement of pulmonary
 artery pressure. The investment agreement resulted in a 19% ownership
 interest and provided us with the exclusive right, but not the obligation, to
 acquire CardioMEMS for an additional payment of $375 million during the
 period that extends through the completion of certain regulatory milestones. 




 




Marketing and Distribution 




Our products
 are sold in more than 100 countries throughout the world. No distributor
 organization or single customer accounted for more than 10% of 2011, 2010 or
 2009 consolidated net sales. 



11
Table of Contents 




 




In the
 United States, we sell directly to healthcare providers primarily through a
 direct sales force. In Europe, we have direct sales organizations selling in
 24 countries. In Japan, we sell directly to healthcare providers through a
 direct sales force and we also continue to use longstanding independent
 distributor relationships. In Asia Pacific, we have direct sales
 organizations selling in  eight countries, and we also utilize independent
 distributors. Throughout the rest of the world, we use a combination of
 independent distributors and direct sales forces. 




 




Group
 purchasing organizations (GPO), independent delivery networks (IDN) and large
 single accounts such as the Veterans Administration in the United States
 continue to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our healthcare
 provider customers. We have contracts in place with many of these
 organizations. In some circumstances, our inability to obtain a contract with
 a GPO or IDN could adversely affect our efforts to sell products to a particular
 healthcare provider. 




 




International Operations 




Our net
 sales and long-lived assets by significant geographic areas are presented in
 Note 14 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Financial Report
 included in St. Jude Medical’s 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders and filed
 as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K. 




 




Our
 international business is subject to special risks such as: foreign currency
 exchange controls and fluctuations; the imposition of or increase in import
 or export duties, surtaxes, tariffs or customs duties; the imposition of
 import or export quotas or other trade restrictions; foreign tax laws and
 increased costs associated with overlapping tax structures; longer accounts
 receivable cycles; and other international regulatory, economic, legal and
 political problems. Such risks are further described in Item 1A, Risk
 Factors of this Form 10-K. Currency exchange rate fluctuations
 relative to the U.S. Dollar can affect our reported consolidated results of
 operations and financial position. See the Market Risk section of Management’s
 Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 in the Financial Report included in St. Jude Medical’s 2011 Annual Report to
 Shareholders and filed as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K. 




 




Seasonality 




Our
 quarterly net sales are influenced by many factors, including new product
 introductions, acquisitions, regulatory approvals, patient and physician
 holiday schedules and other factors. Net sales in the third quarter are
 typically lower than other quarters of the year as a result of patient
 tendencies to defer, if possible, procedures during the summer months and
 from the seasonality of the U.S. and European markets, where summer vacation
 schedules normally result in fewer procedures. 




 




Suppliers 




We purchase
 raw materials and other products from numerous suppliers. Our manufacturing
 requirements comply with the rules and regulations of the FDA and comparable
 agencies in foreign countries, which mandate validation of materials prior to
 use in our products. We purchase certain supplies used in our manufacturing
 processes from single sources due to quality considerations, costs or
 constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. Agreements with certain
 suppliers are terminable by either party upon short notice and we have been
 advised periodically by some suppliers that, in an effort to reduce their
 potential product liability exposure, they may terminate sales of products to
 customers that manufacture implantable medical devices. While some of these
 suppliers have modified their positions and have indicated a willingness to
 continue to provide a product temporarily until an alternative vendor or
 product can be qualified (or even to reconsider the supply relationship),
 where a particular single-source supply relationship is terminated, we may
 not be able to establish additional or replacement suppliers for certain
 components or materials quickly. A reduction or interruption by a sole-source
 supplier of the supply of materials or key components used in the
 manufacturing of our products or an increase in the price of those materials
 or components could adversely affect our business, financial condition and
 results of operations. 




 




Government Regulation 




Our
 products, development activities and manufacturing processes are subject to
 extensive and rigorous regulation by the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food,
 Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA), by comparable agencies in foreign countries
 and by other regulatory agencies and governing bodies. Under the FDCA and
 associated regulations, manufacturers of medical devices must comply with
 certain regulations that cover the composition, labeling, testing, clinical
 study, manufacturing, packaging and distribution of medical devices. Medical
 devices must receive FDA clearance or approval before they can be
 commercially marketed in the United States. The most comprehensive level of
 approval requires the completion of an FDA-approved clinical evaluation
 program and submission and approval of a pre-market approval (PMA)
 application before a device may be commercially marketed. Our vascular
 closure devices, mechanical and tissue heart valves, ICDs, pacemakers and
 certain leads, neurostimulation devices and EP catheter applications require
 a PMA application or supplement to a PMA. Other leads and lead delivery
 tools, annuloplasty ring products, other neurostimulation devices and other
 EP and cardiology products are currently marketed under the less rigorous
 510(k) pre-market notification procedure of the FDCA. 



12
Table of Contents 
Furthermore,
our international business is subject to medical device laws in individual
countries outside the United States. Most major markets for medical devices
outside the United States require clearance, approval or compliance with
certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. The applicable
laws range from extensive device approval requirements in some countries for
all or some of our products, to requests for data or certifications in other
countries. Generally, international regulatory requirements are increasing. In
the European Union, the regulatory systems have been consolidated, and approval
to market in all European Union countries (represented by the CE Mark) can be
obtained through one agency. The process of obtaining marketing clearance from
the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies for new products or with respect to
enhancements or modifications to existing products can take a significant
period of time, require the expenditure of substantial resources, involve
rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing, require changes to the products and
result in limitations on the indicated uses of the products. 
The FDA
conducts inspections prior to approval of a PMA application to determine
compliance with the quality system regulations that cover manufacturing and
design. In addition, the FDA may require testing and surveillance programs to
monitor the effects of approved products that have been commercialized, and may
prevent or limit further marketing of products based on the results of these
post-marketing programs. At any time after approval of a product, the FDA may
conduct periodic inspections to determine compliance with both the FDA’s
Quality System Regulation (QSR) requirements and/or current medical device
reporting regulations. Product approvals by the FDA can be withdrawn due to
failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen
problems following initial approval. The failure to comply with regulatory
standards or the discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or
manufacturer could result in fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory
clearances, seizures or recalls of products (with the attendant expenses), the
banning of a particular device, an order to replace or refund the cost of any device
previously manufactured or distributed, operating restrictions and criminal
prosecution, as well as decreased sales as a result of negative publicity and
product liability claims. 
We are
required to register with the FDA as a device manufacturer and, as a result, we
are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s QSR
requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to
certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation
procedures. In addition, the federal Medical Device Reporting regulations
require us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that
reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or
serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, could cause or contribute to
a death or serious injury. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements
is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic
inspections by the FDA. In the European Community, we are required to maintain
certain International Organization for Standardization (ISO) certifications in
order to sell products, and we undergo periodic inspections by notified bodies
to obtain and maintain these certifications. 
The FDA also
regulates recordkeeping for medical devices and reviews hospital and
manufacturers’ required reports of adverse experiences to identify potential
problems with FDA-authorized devices. Regulatory actions may be taken by the
FDA due to adverse experience reports. 
In addition,
the FDCA permits device manufacturers to promote products solely for the uses
and indications set forth in the approved product labeling. A number of
enforcement actions have been taken against manufacturers that promote products
for “off-label” uses. The failure to comply with “off-label” promotion
restrictions can result in significant financial penalties and a required
corporate integrity agreement with the federal government imposing significant
administrative obligations and costs.
Diagnostic-related
group (DRG) and Ambulatory Patient Classification (APC) reimbursement schedules
dictate the amount that the U.S. government, through the CMS, will reimburse
hospitals for care of persons covered by Medicare. In response to rising
Medicare and Medicaid costs, from time to time Congress and state legislatures
consider legislation that would restrict funding for these programs. Changes in
current DRG and APC reimbursement levels could have an adverse effect on market
demand and our domestic pricing flexibility. In the United States, Medicare
payment to providers is based on prospectively set rates. CMS, which
administers the Medicare and Medicaid programs, uses separate Prospective
Payment Systems for reimbursement to acute inpatient hospitals, hospital outpatient
departments and ambulatory surgery centers. In response to rising Medicare
costs, from time to time Congress considers proposals that would reduce the
annual update in federal payments to hospitals. Reduced funding could have an
adverse effect on market demand and our domestic pricing flexibility.
More
generally, major third-party payors for hospital services in the United States
and abroad continue to work to contain healthcare costs. The introduction of
cost containment incentives, combined with closer scrutiny of healthcare
expenditures by both private health insurers and employers, has resulted in
increased discounts and contractual adjustments to hospital charges for
services performed and in the shifting of services between inpatient and
outpatient settings. From time to time, initiatives to limit the growth of
healthcare costs, including price regulation, are underway in several countries
in which we do business. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United
States and in significant overseas markets may limit the price of or the level
at which reimbursement is provided for our products.
13
Table of Contents 
The United
States Anti-kickback law generally prohibits payments to physicians or other
purchasers of medical products under federal health care programs, including
Medicare and Medicaid, as an inducement to purchase a product. Many states and
foreign countries have similar laws. We subscribe to the AdvaMed Code of Ethics
(AdvaMed is a U.S. medical device industry trade association) which limits
certain marketing and other practices in our relationships with product
purchasers. We also adhere to many similar codes in countries outside the
United States. In addition, we have in place and are continuously improving our
internal business integrity and compliance program and policies.
On December
19, 2011, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) proposed
regulations to implement the Physician Payment Sunshine Act enacted as part of
the U.S. healthcare reform legislation. This proposed rule would require us to
report annually to CMS beginning in 2013 all payments and other transfers of
value to physicians and teaching hospitals for certain products payable under
Medicare, Medicaid, or the Children’s Health Insurance Program, as well as
certain ownership or investments held by physicians or their family members.
Federal and
state laws protect the confidentiality of certain patient health information,
including patient records, and restrict the use and disclosure of such
information. In particular, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
has issued patient privacy and security standards for electronic health
information under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996 and its implementing regulations (HIPAA). These HIPAA privacy and security
standards govern the use and disclosure of protected health information by
“covered entities,” which are healthcare providers that submit electronic
claims, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses. Our employee health benefit
plans are considered ‘covered entities’ and therefore are subject and adhere to
the HIPAA privacy and security standards. Additionally, our Merlin.net Patient
Care Network system adheres to the privacy and security standards set forth in
HIPAA. Failure to comply with HIPAA or any state or foreign laws regarding
personal data protection may result in significant fines or penalties and/or
negative publicity. 
Some medical
device regulatory agencies have considered and are considering whether to
continue to permit the sale of medical devices that incorporate any bovine
material because of concerns about Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE),
sometimes referred to as “mad cow disease,” a disease which has sometimes been
transmitted to humans through the consumption of beef. We are not aware of any
reported cases of transmission of BSE through medical products. Some of our
products such as Angio-Seal™ use bovine collagen. In addition, some of the
tissue heart valves we market incorporate bovine pericardial material. We are
cooperating with the regulatory agencies regarding these issues. 



 




Product Liability 




The design,
 manufacture and marketing of our medical devices entail an inherent risk of
 product liability claims. Our products are often used in intensive care
 settings with seriously ill patients, and many of the medical devices we
 manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long
 periods of time or indefinitely. There are a number of factors that could
 result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient with
 respect to these or other products which we manufacture or sell, including
 component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate
 disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information. Product liability
 claims may be brought by individuals or by groups seeking to represent a
 class. 




 




We are
 currently the subject of various product liability claims, including several
 lawsuits which may be allowed to proceed as class actions in Canada. The
 outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, is difficult to
 assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery
 of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential
 loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of
 time. In addition, product liability claims may be asserted against us in the
 future, relative to events that are not known to management at the present
 time. 




 




Insurance 




Prior to
 June 15, 2009, we maintained product liability policies which provided $350
 million of insurance coverage, with a $50 million per occurrence deductible
 or a $100 million deductible if the claims were deemed an integrated
 occurrence under the policies. However, we allowed such product liability
 policies to lapse, and consistent with industry practice, do not currently
 maintain or intend to maintain any insurance policies with respect to product
 liability in the future. This decision was made based on current conditions
 in the insurance marketplace that have led to increasingly higher levels of
 self-insured retentions, increasing number of coverage limitations and high
 insurance premium rates. We will continue to monitor the insurance
 marketplace to evaluate the value to us of obtaining insurance coverage in
 the future. We believe that our self-insurance program, which is based on
 historical loss trends, will be adequate to cover future losses, although we
 can provide no assurances that this will remain true as historical trends may
 not be indicative of future losses. These losses could have a material
 adverse impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition or cash
 flows.



14
Table of Contents 
Our facilities
could be materially damaged by earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural
disasters or catastrophic circumstances. Earthquake insurance is currently
difficult to obtain, extremely costly, and restrictive with respect to scope of
coverage. Our earthquake insurance for our significant facilities located in
Sylmar and Sunnyvale, California; Puerto Rico and Costa Rica, provides $10
million of insurance coverage in the aggregate, with a deductible equal to 5%
of the total value of the facility and contents involved in the claim.
Consequently, despite this insurance coverage, we could incur uninsured losses
and liabilities arising from an earthquake near our California, Puerto Rico or
Costa Rica facilities as a result of various factors, including the severity
and location of the earthquake, the extent of any damage to our facilities, the
impact of an earthquake on our workforce and on the infrastructure of the
surrounding communities and the extent of damage to our inventory and work in
process. While we believe that our exposure to significant losses from an
earthquake could be partially mitigated by our ability to manufacture some of
our products at our other manufacturing facilities, the losses could have a
material adverse effect on our business for an indeterminate period of time
before this manufacturing transition is complete and operates without significant
disruption. Furthermore, our manufacturing facilities in Puerto Rico may suffer
damage as a result of hurricanes which are frequent in the Caribbean and could
result in lost production and additional expenses to us to the extent any such
damage is not fully covered by our hurricane and business interruption
insurance.



 




Employees 




As of
 December 31, 2011, we had over 16,000 employees worldwide. Our employees are
 not represented by any labor organizations, with the exception of certain
 employees in Sweden and France. We have never experienced a work stoppage as
 a result of labor disputes. We believe that our relationship with our
 employees is generally good. 




 




Executive Officers of the Registrant




The
 following is a list of our executive officers as of February 24, 2012. For
 each position, the date in parentheses indicates the year during which each
 executive officer began serving in such capacity.







 


 


 


 


 




Name


 


Age


 


Position




Daniel J.
 Starks


 


57


 


Chairman
 (2004), President (2001) and Chief Executive Officer (2004)




 


 


 


 


 




John C.
 Heinmiller


 


57


 


Executive
 Vice President (2004) and Chief Financial Officer (1998)




 


 


 


 


 




Michael T.
 Rousseau


 


56


 


Group
 President (2008) 




 


 


 


 


 




Joel D.
 Becker


 


44


 


President,
 U.S. Division (2011)




 


 


 


 


 




Frank J.
 Callaghan


 


58


 


President,
 Cardiovascular (2008)




 


 


 


 


 




Eric S.
 Fain, M.D.


 


51


 


President,
 Cardiac Rhythm Management (2007)




 


 


 


 


 




Denis M.
 Gestin


 


48


 


President,
 International (2008)




 


 


 


 


 




Rohan J.
 Hoare


 


47


 


President,
 Neuromodulation (2011)




 


 


 


 


 




Jane J. Song


 


49


 


President,
 Atrial Fibrillation (2004)




 


 


 


 


 




Angela D. Craig


 


40


 


Vice
 President, Corporate Relations (2006) and Vice President, Human Resources
 (2010)




 


 


 


 


 




Jeff A. Fecho


 


51


 


Vice
 President, Global Quality (2012)




 


 


 


 


 




Thomas R.
 Northenscold


 


53


 


Vice
 President, Information Technology and Chief Information Officer (2007)




 


 


 


 


 




Jason A.
 Zellers


 


46


 


Vice
 President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary (2011); Vice President and
 General Counsel, International (2006) 




 


 


 


 


 




Donald J. Zurbay


 


44


 


Vice
 President (2006) and Corporate Controller (2004)



Mr. Starks has
served on St. Jude Medical’s Board of Directors since 1996 and has been
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of St. Jude Medical since May
2004. Previously, Mr. Starks was President and Chief Operating Officer of St.
Jude Medical from February 2001 to May 2004. From April 1998 to February 2001,
he was President and Chief Executive Officer of our Cardiac Rhythm Management
Division, and prior to that, Mr. Starks was Chief Executive Officer and
President of Daig Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of St. Jude Medical.
Mr. Heinmiller
joined St. Jude Medical in May 1996 as a part of our acquisition of Daig
Corporation, where Mr. Heinmiller had served as Vice President of Finance and
Administration since 1995. In May 1998, he was named Vice President of
Corporate Business Development. In September 1998, he was appointed Vice
President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer and in May 2004 was promoted to
Executive Vice President.
15
Table of Contents 
Mr. Rousseau
joined St. Jude Medical in 1999 as Senior Vice President, Cardiac Rhythm
Management Global Marketing. In August 1999, Cardiac Rhythm Management
Marketing and Sales were combined under his leadership. In January
2001, he was named President, U.S. Cardiac Rhythm Management Sales, and in
July 2001, he was named President, U.S. Division, a position Mr. Rousseau held
until January 2008, when he was promoted to Group President, initially
responsible for the Company’s four product divisions. In November 2009, Mr.
Rousseau’s Group President responsibilities were realigned, with the Company’s
Cardiac Rhythm Management Division and U.S. Division reporting directly to him.
Mr. Rousseau served as President, U.S. Division from November 2009 to October
2011. Mr. Rousseau continues to serve as Group President over the Cardiac
Rhythm Management and Neuromodulation product divisions as well as the U.S.
division.
Mr. Becker
joined St. Jude Medical in 1993 as Senior Associate in Corporate Development. In
1999, he left the company to join Myocor, Inc., a venture-backed heart failure
company, as Senior Vice President. Mr. Becker returned to St. Jude Medical in
2002 where he held numerous leadership positions in both Cardiovascular and
Atrial Fibrillation divisions. Prior to his promotion to President, U.S.
Division in October 2011, Mr. Becker served as Senior Vice President, Marketing
for the U.S. Division from February 2011 to October 2011. Prior to February
2011, Mr. Becker served as Vice President, Program Management & Business
Development for the Atrial Fibrillation Division since 2004.
Mr. Callaghan
joined St. Jude Medical as Vice President of Research and Development for the
Atrial Fibrillation Division in January 2005 as part of the ESI acquisition. From
1995 to 2005, Mr. Callaghan served as Vice President of Research and
Development for ESI. In January 2008, he was promoted to President,
Cardiovascular Division.
Dr. Fain
joined St. Jude Medical in 1997 as a part of our acquisition of Ventritex,
Inc., where he had served since 1987. In 1998, he was named Senior Vice
President, Clinical Engineering and Regulatory Affairs, Cardiac Rhythm
Management. In 2002 he was appointed Senior Vice President for Development and
Clinical/Regulatory Affairs for Cardiac Rhythm Management and was promoted to
Executive Vice President over those functions in 2005. In July 2007, Dr. Fain
became President, Cardiac Rhythm Management Division.
Mr. Gestin
joined St. Jude Medical in 1997 as manager of cardiac rhythm management and
catheter product sales in France. He was named Managing Director of St. Jude
Medical France in 1999 and was promoted to Vice President, Northern Europe
& Africa in 2002. He was named President of SJM Europe, Middle East, Africa
and Canada in August 2004, and in January 2008, Mr. Gestin was promoted to
President, International Division.
Mr. Hoare
joined St. Jude Medical in 2005 as Vice President of Corporate Strategy and
Development, as part of the Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc. (ANS)
acquisition and served in that position until 2006. From 2006 to 2008, Mr.
Hoare was appointed Vice President, Strategy and Emerging Therapies for the
Neuromodulation division. From 2008 to 2011, Mr. Hoare served as Vice
President, Research and Development for the Neuromodulation Division. In
October 2011, Mr. Hoare was appointed President, Neuromodulation Division. 
Ms. Song
joined St. Jude Medical in 1998 as Senior Vice President, Cardiac Rhythm
Management Operations. In May 2002, she was appointed President, Cardiac Surgery
Division, and in August 2004, was appointed President, Atrial
Fibrillation Division. 
Ms. Craig
joined St. Jude Medical in May 2005 as Vice President of Communications and
served in that position until being named Vice President, Corporate Relations,
in January 2006. Ms. Craig was also named Vice President, Human Resources in
August 2010. Prior to joining St. Jude Medical, Ms. Craig spent 12 years with
Smith & Nephew plc, a medical device company headquartered in London,
England,.
Mr. Fecho
joined St. Jude Medical in 2005 as Director of Quality for the Cardiovascular
Division, served as Vice President of Quality for the Cardiovascular Division
from 2008 to 2012 and became Vice President Global Quality in January 2012.
Prior to joining St. Jude Medical, he worked in research and development and
quality operations for Boston Scientific, Inc.
Mr.
Northenscold joined St. Jude Medical in 2001 as Vice President, Finance and
Administration of Daig Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of St. Jude
Medical. In March 2003, he was named Vice President, Administration and in
November 2007 was promoted to Vice President, Information Technology and Chief
Information Officer. 
Mr. Zellers
joined St. Jude Medical in 2006 as Vice President and General Counsel for the International
Division. In October 2011, he was appointed St. Jude Medical’s Vice President,
General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. Before joining St. Jude Medical, he
was a partner at Armstrong Teasdale LLP and Schiff Hardin LLP and served as
Senior Counsel at GE Healthcare.
Mr. Zurbay
joined St. Jude Medical in 2003 as Director of Corporate Finance. In 2004, Mr.
Zurbay was named Corporate Controller, and in January 2006 he was named Vice
President and Corporate Controller.
16
Table of Contents 




 




Availability of SEC Reports 




We make
 available, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports
 on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments filed or
 furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
 of 1934 (the Exchange Act) as soon as reasonably practical after they are
 filed or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Such
 reports are available on our website (http://www.sjm.com) under Investor
 Relations – SEC Filings. Information included on our website is
 not deemed to be incorporated into this Form 10-K. 







 


 




Item 1A.


RISK FACTORS



Our business
faces many risks. Any of the risks discussed below, or elsewhere in this Form
10-K or our other SEC filings, could have a material impact on our business,
financial condition or results of operations. 
We face intense
competition and may not be able to keep pace with the rapid technological
changes in the medical devices industry. 
The medical
device market is intensely competitive and is characterized by extensive
research and development and rapid technological change. Our customers consider
many factors when choosing suppliers, including product reliability, clinical
outcomes, product availability, inventory consignment, price and product
services provided by the manufacturer, and market share can shift as a result
of technological innovation and other business factors. Major shifts in
industry market share have occurred in connection with product problems,
physician advisories and safety alerts, reflecting the importance of product
quality in the medical device industry. Our competitors range from small
start-up companies to larger companies which have significantly greater
resources and broader product offerings than us, and we anticipate that in the coming
years, other large companies will enter certain markets in which we currently
hold a strong position. In addition, we expect that competition will continue
to intensify with the increased use of strategies such as consigned inventory,
and we have seen increasing price competition as a result of managed care,
consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition and declining
reimbursement rates. Product introductions or enhancements by competitors which
have advanced technology, better features or lower pricing may make our
products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive. As a result, we
will be required to devote continued efforts and financial resources to
bring our products under development to market, enhance our existing
products and develop new products for the medical marketplace. If we fail to
develop new products, enhance existing products or compete effectively,
our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely
affected.
We are subject to
stringent domestic and foreign medical device regulation and any adverse
regulatory action may materially adversely affect our financial condition and
business operations.
Our products,
development activities and manufacturing processes are subject to extensive and
rigorous regulation by numerous government agencies, including the FDA and
comparable foreign agencies. To varying degrees, each of these agencies
monitors and enforces our compliance with laws and regulations governing the
development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and distribution of
our medical devices. The process of obtaining marketing approval or clearance
from the FDA and comparable foreign bodies for new products, or for
enhancements or modifications to existing products, could:



 


 


 




 


•


take a
 significant amount of time,




 


•


require the
 expenditure of substantial resources,




 


•


involve
 rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing, as well as increased post-market
 surveillance,




 


•


involve
 modifications, repairs or replacements of our products, and




 


•


result in
 limitations on the indicated uses of our products.



We cannot be
certain that we will receive required approval or clearance from the FDA and
foreign regulatory agencies for new products or modifications to existing
products on a timely basis. The failure to receive approval or clearance for
significant new products or modifications to existing products on a timely
basis could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
results of operations. 
Both before
and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities
under FDA regulations. For example, we are required to comply with the FDA’s
Quality System Regulation (QSR), which mandates that manufacturers of medical
devices adhere to certain quality assurance requirements pertaining to, among
other things, validation of manufacturing processes, controls for purchasing
product components, and documentation practices. As another example, the
Federal Medical Device Reporting regulation requires us to provide information
to the FDA whenever there is evidence that reasonably suggests that a device
may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or, that a
malfunction occurred which would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or
serious injury upon recurrence. Compliance with applicable regulatory
requirements is subject to continual review and is monitored rigorously through
periodic inspections by the FDA, which may result in observations on Form 483,
and in some cases warning letters, that require corrective action. If the FDA
were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or
regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an
unreasonable health risk, the FDA could ban such medical devices, detain or
seize such medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of
such devices, or require us to notify health professionals and others that the
devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health.
The FDA has recently been increasing its scrutiny of the medical device
industry and the government should be expected to continue to scrutinize the
industry closely with inspections, and possibly enforcement actions, by the FDA
or other agencies. Additionally, the FDA may restrict manufacturing and impose
other operating restrictions, enjoin and restrain certain violations of
applicable law pertaining to medical devices, and assess civil or criminal
penalties against our officers, employees, or us. The FDA may also recommend
prosecution to the Department of Justice. Any adverse regulatory action,
depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively manufacturing,
marketing and selling our products. In addition, negative publicity and product
liability claims resulting from any adverse regulatory action could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
17
Table of Contents 
In addition,
the FDCA permits device manufacturers to promote products solely for the uses
and indications set forth in the approved product labeling. A number of
enforcement actions have been taken against manufacturers that promote products
for “off-label” uses. The failure to comply with “off-label” promotion
restrictions can result in significant financial penalties and a required
corporate integrity agreement with the federal government imposing significant
administrative obligations and costs.
Foreign
governmental regulations have become increasingly stringent and more common,
and we may become subject to even more rigorous regulation by foreign
governmental authorities in the future. Penalties for a company’s noncompliance
with foreign governmental regulation could be severe, including revocation or
suspension of a company’s business license and criminal sanctions. Any domestic
or foreign governmental medical device law or regulation imposed in the future
may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business
operations.
Our products are
continually the subject of clinical trials conducted by us, our competitors or
other third parties, the results of which may be unfavorable, or perceived as
unfavorable by the market, and could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.
As a part of
the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance for new products and
new indications for existing products, we conduct and participate in numerous
clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations and trial
endpoints. Unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future
clinical trials conducted by us, by our competitors or by third parties, or the
market’s or FDA’s perception of this clinical data, may adversely impact our
ability to obtain product approvals, the size of the markets in which we
participate, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate
and our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
If we are unable to
protect our intellectual property effectively, our financial condition and results
of operations could be adversely affected. 
Patents and
other proprietary rights are essential to our business and our ability to
compete effectively with other companies is dependent upon the proprietary
nature of our technologies. We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how,
continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop,
maintain and strengthen our competitive position. We seek to protect these, in
part, through confidentiality agreements with certain employees, consultants
and other parties. We pursue a policy of generally obtaining patent protection
in both the United States and in key foreign countries for patentable subject
matter in our proprietary devices and also attempt to review third-party
patents and patent applications to the extent publicly available to develop an
effective patent strategy, avoid infringement of third-party patents, identify
licensing opportunities and monitor the patent claims of others. We currently
own numerous United States and foreign patents and have numerous patent
applications pending. We are also a party to various license agreements
pursuant to which patent rights have been obtained or granted in consideration
for cash, cross-licensing rights or royalty payments. We cannot be certain that
any pending or future patent applications will result in issued patents, that
any current or future patents issued to or licensed by us will not be
challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted thereunder
will provide a competitive advantage to us or prevent competitors from entering
markets which we currently serve. Any required license may not be available to
us on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, some licenses may be
non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same
technologies as us. In addition, we may have to take legal action in the future
to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to defend them against claimed
infringement of the rights of others. Any legal action of that type could be costly
and time consuming to us and we cannot be certain of the outcome. The
invalidation of key patents or proprietary rights which we own or an
unsuccessful outcome in lawsuits to protect our intellectual property could
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
of operations.
Pending and future
patent litigation could be costly and disruptive to us and may have an adverse
effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

We operate in
an industry that is susceptible to significant patent litigation and, in recent
years, it has been common for companies in the medical device field to
aggressively challenge the rights of other companies to prevent the marketing
of new devices. Companies that obtain patents for products or processes that
are necessary for or useful to the development of our products may bring legal
actions against us claiming infringement and at any given time, we generally
are involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent
infringement and other intellectual property-related actions. Defending
intellectual property litigation is expensive and complex and outcomes are
difficult to predict. Any pending or future patent litigation may result in
significant royalty or other payments or injunctions that can prevent the sale
of products and may cause a significant diversion of the efforts of our
technical and management personnel. While we intend to defend any such lawsuits
vigorously, we cannot be certain that we will be successful. In the event that
our right to market any of our products is successfully challenged or if we
fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, our
financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely
affected.
18
Table of Contents 
Pending and future
product liability claims and litigation may adversely affect our financial
condition and results of operations. 
The design,
manufacture and marketing of the medical devices we produce entail an inherent
risk of product liability claims. Our products are often used in intensive care
settings with seriously ill patients, and many of the medical devices we
manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long
periods of time or indefinitely. There are a number of factors that could
result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient with respect
to these or other products which we manufacture or sell, including component
failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of
product-related risks or product-related information. Product liability claims
may be brought by individuals or by groups seeking to represent a class.
We are
currently the subject of various product liability claims, including several
lawsuits in the United States and a lawsuit being allowed to proceed as a class
action in Canada relating to products incorporating Silzone® coating. The
outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, is difficult to
assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery
of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss
relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time.
We believe that the final resolution of the Silzone litigation matters may take
a number of years and cannot reasonably estimate the time frame in which any
potential settlements or judgments would be paid out or the amounts of any such
settlements or judgments. In addition, the cost to defend any future
litigation, whether Silzone-related or not, may be significant. We believe that
many settlements and judgments relating to the Silzone litigation and our other
litigation may be covered in whole or in part under our previously-issued
product liability insurance policies and existing reserves. Any costs (the
material components of which are settlements, judgments, legal fees and other
related defense costs) not covered under our previously-issued product
liability insurance policies and existing litigation reserves could have a
material adverse effect on our consolidated earnings, financial position and
cash flows.
Our product
liability insurers may refuse to cover certain losses on the grounds that such
losses are outside the scope of our product liability insurance policies.
Our legacy
product liability insurers may seek to deny coverage of Silzone-related claims
and other past and/or future losses relating to our products on the grounds
that such losses are outside the scope of coverage of those previously-issued
insurance policies. To the extent that we suffer losses that are outside of the
scope or range of coverage of those previously-issued product liability
insurance policies, those losses may have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated earnings, financial position and cash flows.
Our self-insurance
program may not be adequate to cover future losses.

Consistent
with the predominant practice in our industry, we do not currently maintain or
intend to maintain any insurance policies with respect to product liability in
the future. This decision was made based on current conditions in the insurance
marketplace that have led to increasingly higher levels of self-insured
retentions, increasing number of coverage limitations and high insurance
premium rates. We will continue to monitor the insurance marketplace to
evaluate the value to us of obtaining insurance coverage in the future. We
believe that our self-insurance program, which is based on historical loss
trends, will be adequate to cover future losses, although we can provide no
assurances that this will remain true as historical trends may not be
indicative of future losses. These losses could have a material adverse impact
on our consolidated earnings, financial condition and cash flows.
The loss of any of
our sole-source suppliers or an increase in the price of inventory supplied to
us could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations. 
We purchase
certain supplies used in our manufacturing processes from single sources due to
quality considerations, costs or constraints resulting from regulatory
requirements. Agreements with certain suppliers are terminable by either party
upon short notice and we have been advised periodically by some suppliers that
in an effort to reduce their potential product liability exposure, they may
terminate sales of products to customers that manufacture implantable medical
devices. While some of these suppliers have modified their positions and have
indicated a willingness to continue to provide a product temporarily until an
alternative vendor or product can be qualified (or even to reconsider the
supply relationship), where a particular single-source supply relationship is
terminated, we may not be able to establish additional or replacement suppliers
for certain components or materials quickly. This is largely due to the FDA
approval system, which mandates validation of materials prior to use in our
products, and the complex nature of manufacturing processes employed by many
suppliers. In addition, we may lose a sole-source supplier due to, among other
things, the acquisition of such a supplier by a competitor (which may cause the
supplier to stop selling its products to us) or the bankruptcy of such a
supplier, which may cause the supplier to cease operations. A reduction or
interruption by a sole-source supplier of the supply of materials or key
components used in the manufacturing of our products or an increase in the
price of those materials or components could adversely affect our business,
financial condition and results of operations.
19
Table of Contents 
Cost containment
pressures and domestic and foreign legislative or administrative reforms
resulting in restrictive reimbursement practices of third-party payors or
preferences for alternate therapies could decrease the demand for products
purchased by our customers, the prices which they are willing to pay for those
products and the number of procedures using our devices.

Our products
are purchased principally by healthcare providers that typically bill various
third-party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and
Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare
services provided to their patients. The ability of customers to obtain
appropriate reimbursement for their services and the products they provide from
government and third-party payors is critical to the success of medical
technology companies. The availability of reimbursement affects which products
customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies
from country to country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new
technology. After we develop a promising new product, we may find limited
demand for the product unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private
and governmental third-party payors. 
Major
third-party payors for healthcare provider services in the United States and
abroad continue to work to contain healthcare costs. The introduction of cost
containment incentives, combined with closer scrutiny of healthcare expenditures
by both private health insurers and employers, has resulted in increased
discounts and contractual adjustments to healthcare provider charges for
services performed and in the shifting of services between inpatient and
outpatient settings. Initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs,
including price regulation, are also underway in several countries in which we
do business. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United States and in
significant overseas markets such as Germany, Japan and other countries may
limit the price of, or the level at which, reimbursement is provided for our
products and adversely affect both our pricing flexibility and the demand for
our products. Healthcare providers may respond to such cost-containment pressures
by substituting lower cost products or other therapies for our products. 
In March 2010,
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and Health Care and Education
Reconciliation Act of 2010 were enacted into law in the United States, which
included a number of provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing
costs. It is uncertain what consequences these provisions will have on patient
access to new technologies and what impacts these provisions will have on
Medicare reimbursement rates. Legislative or administrative reforms to the U.S.
or international reimbursement systems that significantly reduce reimbursement
for procedures using our medical devices or deny coverage for such procedures,
or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of such systems
in coverage or reimbursement issues, would have an adverse impact on the
products, including clinical products, purchased by our customers and the
prices our customers are willing to pay for them. This in turn would have an
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
Our failure to
comply with restrictions relating to reimbursement and regulation of healthcare
goods and services may subject us to penalties and adversely affect our
financial condition and results of operations.
Our devices
are subject to regulation regarding quality and cost by the United States
Department of Health and Human Services, including the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services (CMS), as well as comparable state and foreign agencies
responsible for reimbursement and regulation of healthcare goods and services.
Foreign governments also impose regulations in connection with their healthcare
reimbursement programs and the delivery of healthcare goods and services. U.S.
federal government healthcare laws apply when we submit a claim on behalf of a
U.S. federal healthcare program beneficiary, or when a customer submits a claim
for an item or service that is reimbursed under a U.S. federal government
funded healthcare program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. The principal U.S.
federal laws implicated include those that prohibit the filing of false or
improper claims for federal payment, those that prohibit unlawful inducements
for the referral of business reimbursable under federally-funded healthcare
programs, known as the anti-kickback laws, and those that prohibit healthcare
service providers seeking reimbursement for providing certain services to a
patient who was referred by a physician that has certain types of direct or
indirect financial relationships with the service provider, known as the Stark
law.
The laws
applicable to us are subject to evolving interpretations. If a governmental
authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws
and regulations, we and our officers and employees could be subject to severe
criminal and civil penalties, including, for example, exclusion from
participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries covered by CMS. If we
are excluded from participation based on such an interpretation, it could
adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
20
Table of Contents 
Consolidation in the healthcare industry
could lead to demands for price concessions or limit or eliminate our ability
to sell to certain of our significant market segments.
The cost of
healthcare has risen significantly over the past decade and numerous
initiatives and reforms initiated by legislators, regulators and third-party
payors to curb these costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the
medical device industry as well as among our customers, including healthcare
providers. This in turn has resulted in greater pricing pressures and
limitations on our ability to sell to important market segments, as group
purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single
accounts, such as the Veterans Administration in the United States, continue to
consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our healthcare provider customers.
We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement
policies and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide
healthcare industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances
which may exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and
adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Failure to integrate
acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our
business. 
As part of our
strategy to develop and identify new products and technologies, we have made
several acquisitions in recent years and may make additional acquisitions in
the future. Our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires
significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies,
research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing and
finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant
amounts of management’s time that cannot then be dedicated to other projects.
Our failure to manage successfully and coordinate the growth of the combined
company could also have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, we
cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become profitable or
remain so. If our acquisitions are not successful, we may record unexpected
impairment charges. Factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions
include: 

















•


the presence
 or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the
 financial systems of acquired companies; 







•


adverse
 developments arising out of investigations by governmental entities of the
 business practices of acquired companies; 







•


any decrease
 in customer loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the
 combined companies’ product lines and sales and marketing practices,
 including price increases; 







•


our ability
 to retain key employees; and 







•


the ability
 of the combined company to achieve synergies among its constituent companies,
 such as increasing sales of the combined company’s products, achieving cost
 savings and effectively combining technologies to develop new products. 



The success of many
of our products depends upon strong relationships with physicians. 
If we fail to
maintain our working relationships with physicians, many of our products may
not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the
professionals who use and support our products. The research, development,
marketing and sales of many of our new and improved products is dependent upon
our maintaining working relationships with physicians. We rely on these
professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience
regarding our products and the marketing of our products. Physicians assist us
as researchers, marketing consultants, product consultants, inventors and as
public speakers. If we are unable to maintain our strong relationships with
these professionals and continue to receive their advice and input, the
development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Instability in
international markets or foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect
our results of operations. 
Our products
are currently marketed in more than 100 countries around the world, with our
largest geographic markets outside of the United States being Europe, Japan and
Asia Pacific. As a result, we face currency and other risks associated with our
international sales. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate
fluctuations due to transactions denominated primarily in Euros, Japanese Yen,
Canadian Dollars, Australian Dollars, Brazilian Reals, British Pounds and
Swedish Kronor, which may potentially reduce the U.S. Dollars we receive for
sales denominated in any of these foreign currencies and/or increase the U.S.
Dollars we report as expenses in these currencies, thereby affecting our
reported consolidated revenues and net earnings. Fluctuations between the
currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause
foreign currency transaction gains and losses. We cannot predict the effects of
currency exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because
of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and
the volatility of currency exchange rates. 
In addition to
foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, there are a number of additional
risks associated with our international operations, including those related to:


















•


the
 imposition of or increase in import or export duties, surtaxes, tariffs or
 customs duties; 







•


the
 imposition of import or export quotas or other trade restrictions; 







•


foreign tax
 laws and potential increased costs associated with overlapping tax
 structures; 







•


compliance
 with import/export laws; 







•


longer accounts
 receivable cycles in certain foreign countries, whether due to cultural,
 exchange rate or other factors; 







•


changes in
 regulatory requirements in international markets in which we operate; and







•


economic and
 political instability in foreign countries, including concerns over excessive
 levels of national debt and budget deficits in countries where we market our
 products that could result in an inability to pay or timely pay outstanding
 payables.



21
Table of Contents 
The medical device
industry and its customers are the subject of numerous governmental
investigations into marketing and other business practices. Investigations
against us could result in the commencement of civil and/or criminal
proceedings, substantial fines, penalties and/or administrative remedies,
divert the attention of our management and have an adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations. Investigations of our customers
may adversely affect the size of our markets.
We are subject
to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign
governmental authorities. These authorities have been increasing their scrutiny
of our industry. We have received subpoenas and other requests for information
from state and federal governmental agencies, including, among others, the U.S.
Department of Justice and the Office of Inspector General of the Department of
Health and Human Services. These investigations have related primarily to
financial arrangements with health care providers, regulatory compliance and product
promotional practices. In December 2008, the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Boston
delivered a subpoena issued by the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services, Office of the Inspector General (OIG) requesting the production of
documents relating to implantable cardiac rhythm device and pacemaker warranty
claims. The Company has cooperated with the investigation and has produced
documents as requested. In March 2010, we received a Civil Investigative
Demand (CID) from the Civil Division of the U.S. Department of Justice. The CID
requests documents and sets forth interrogatories related to communications by
and within our company on various indications for ICDs and a National Coverage
Decision issued by Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. Similar requests
were made of our major competitors. 
We are fully
cooperating with these investigations and are responding to these requests.
However, we cannot predict when these investigations will be resolved, the
outcome of these investigations or their impact on the company. An adverse
outcome in one or more of these investigations could include the commencement
of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties and/or
administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement
programs. In addition, resolution of any of these matters could involve the
imposition of additional and costly compliance obligations. Finally, if these
investigations continue over a long period of time, they could divert the
attention of management from the day-to-day operations of our business and
impose significant administrative burdens on us. These potential consequences,
as well as any adverse outcome from these investigations or other
investigations initiated by the government at any time, could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Further,
governmental investigations involving our customers, such as the U.S.
Department of Justice investigation of hospitals related to ICD utilization,
may have a negative impact on the size of the CRM market. Our U.S. ICD sales
represented approximately 19% of our worldwide consolidated net sales in 2011,
and any changes in this market could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.
Regulatory actions
arising from the concern over Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy may limit our
ability to market products containing bovine material.
Our
Angio-Seal™ vascular closure device, as well as our vascular graft products,
contain bovine collagen. In addition, some of the tissue heart valves we
market, such as our Biocor®, Epic™ and Trifecta™ tissue heart valves,
incorporate bovine pericardial material. Certain medical device regulatory
agencies may prohibit the sale of medical devices that incorporate any bovine
material because of concerns over BSE, sometimes referred to as “mad cow
disease,” a disease which may be transmitted to humans through the consumption
of beef. While we are not aware of any reported cases of transmission of BSE
through medical products and are cooperating with regulatory agencies
considering these issues, the suspension or revocation of authority to
manufacture, market or distribute products containing bovine material, or the
imposition of a regulatory requirement that we procure material for these
products from alternate sources, could result in lost market opportunities,
harm the continued commercialization and distribution of such products and
impose additional costs on us. Any of these consequences could in turn have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
22
Table of Contents 
We are not insured
against all potential losses. Natural disasters or other catastrophes could
adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The occurrence
of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons,
tropical storms, floods, earthquakes and tsunamis, severe changes in climate
and geo-political events, such as acts of war, civil unrest or terrorist
attacks, in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located
could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. For example,
we have significant CRM facilities located in Sylmar and Sunnyvale, California,
Puerto Rico and Costa Rica. Earthquake insurance is currently difficult to
obtain, extremely costly and restrictive with respect to scope of coverage. Our
earthquake insurance for our California facilities provides $10 million of
insurance coverage in the aggregate, with a deductible equal to 5% of the total
value of the facility and contents involved in the claim. Consequently, despite
this insurance coverage, we could incur uninsured losses and liabilities
arising from an earthquake near one or both of our California facilities as a
result of various factors, including the severity and location of the
earthquake, the extent of any damage to our facilities, the impact of an
earthquake on our California workforce and on the infrastructure of the
surrounding communities and the extent of damage to our inventory and work in
process. While we believe that our exposure to significant losses from an
earthquake could be partially mitigated by our ability to manufacture some of
our CRM products at our other manufacturing facilities, the losses could have a
material adverse effect on our business for an indeterminate period of time
before this manufacturing transition is complete and operates without
significant problems. Furthermore, our manufacturing facilities in Puerto Rico
may suffer damage as a result of hurricanes which are frequent in the Caribbean
and which could result in lost production and additional expenses to us to the
extent any such damage is not fully covered by our hurricane and business
interruption insurance. Even with insurance coverage, natural disasters or
other catastrophic events, including acts of war, could cause us to suffer
substantial losses in our operational capacity and could also lead to a loss of
opportunity and to a potential adverse impact on our relationships with our
existing customers resulting from our inability to produce products for them,
for which we would not be compensated by existing insurance. This in turn could
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
operations.
Further, when
natural disasters, result in wide-spread destruction, the adverse impact on the
operations of our customers in those affected locations could result in a
material adverse effect on our results of operations in that region or on the
consolidated operations of our business. 
Our operations are
subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that could
require us to incur material costs.
Our operations
are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations
concerning, among other things, the generation, handling, transportation and
disposal of hazardous substances or wastes, particularly ethylene oxide, the
cleanup of hazardous substance releases, and emissions or discharges into the
air or water. We have incurred and expect to incur expenditures in the future
in connection with compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and
regulations. New laws and regulations, violations of these laws or regulations,
stricter enforcement of existing requirements, or the discovery of previously
unknown contamination could require us to incur costs or become the basis for
new or increased liabilities that could be material.
Failure to
successfully implement a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) system could
adversely affect our business.
We are in the
process of converting to a new ERP system. Failure to smoothly execute the
implementation of the ERP system could adversely affect the Company’s business,
financial condition and results of operations.
Current economic
conditions could adversely affect our results of operations. 
The global
financial crisis that began in late 2007 caused extreme disruption in the
financial markets, including severely diminished liquidity and credit
availability. There can be no assurance that there will not be further
deterioration in the global economy, and these and other factors beyond our
control may adversely affect our ability to borrow money in the credit markets
and to obtain financing for acquisitions or other general corporate and
commercial purposes. The global recession and disruption of the financial
markets has further led to concerns over the solvency of certain European Union
member states, including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain. On August
5, 2011, Standard & Poor’s downgraded the U.S. credit rating to AA+ from
its top rank of AAA. The current budget deficit concerns have increased
the possibility of other credit rating agency downgrades which could have
a material adverse effect on the financial markets and economic conditions in
the United States and throughout the world.
Upheaval in
the financial markets can affect our business through its effects on general
levels of economic activity, employment and customer behavior. The recovery
from the recent recession in the United States has been below historic averages
and the unemployment rate is expected to remain high for some time. Inflation
has fallen over the last several years, but is now rising, and Central Banks
around the world have begun tightening monetary conditions to attempt to
control inflation. Proposed cuts in federal spending over the next decade could
result in cuts to, and restructuring of, entitlement programs such as Medicare
and aid to states for Medicaid programs. Our hospital customers rely heavily on
Medicare and Medicaid programs to fund their operations. Any cuts to these
programs could negatively affect the business of our customers and our
business. As a result of recent or future poor economic conditions, our
customers may experience financial difficulties or be unable to borrow money to
fund their operations which may adversely impact their ability or decision to
purchase our products or to pay for products they do purchase or have purchased
on a timely basis, if at all. While the economic environment has begun to show
signs of improvement, the strength and timing of any economic recovery remains
uncertain, and we cannot predict to what extent the global economic slowdown
may negatively impact our average selling prices, net sales, profit margins,
procedural volumes and reimbursement rates from third party payors. In
addition, the current economic conditions may adversely affect our suppliers,
leading them to experience financial difficulties or to be unable to borrow
money to fund their operations, which could cause disruptions in our ability to
produce our products.
23
Table of Contents 
On February
21, 2012, an agreement was reached between the Greek government and the
European Union and International Monetary Fund whereby creditors would swap
existing Greek government bonds for new bonds with a significant reduction in
face value, a longer term and lower interest rates. This agreement, among other
macroeconomic and factors specific to the distributor, negatively impacted the
solvency and liquidity of the Company’s Greek distributor, raising significant
doubt regarding the collectability of our outstanding accounts receivable
balance of approximately $56 million. We have also experienced delays in the
collectability of receivables in certain European member states, particularly
in Southern Europe. Although we still expect to fully collect these
receivables, there can be no assurances that additional negative economic disruptions
and slowdowns in Europe may result in us not fully collecting these
receivables, adversely affecting our cash flows, financial position and results
of operations. Additional prolongation of the economic disruptions in Europe
may negatively impact reimbursement rates and procedural volumes and adversely
affect our business and results of operations.
Our business,
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be
significantly and adversely affected by recent healthcare reform legislation
and other administration and legislative proposals.
The Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act and Health Care and Education Reconciliation
Act of 2010 were enacted into law in March 2010. As a U.S. headquartered
company with significant sales in the United States, this health care reform
law will materially impact us as well as the U.S. economy. Certain provisions
of the law will not be effective for a number of years and there are many
programs and requirements for which the details have not yet been fully
established or consequences not fully understood, and it is unclear what the
full impacts will be from the law. The law does levy a 2.3% excise tax on the
majority of our U.S. medical device sales beginning in 2013. Our U.S. net sales
represented approximately 47% of our worldwide consolidated net sales in 2011
and we still expect the new tax will materially and adversely affect our
business, cash flows and results of operations. The law also focuses on a
number of Medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs.
It is uncertain at this point what negative unintended consequences these
provisions will have on patient access to new technologies. The Medicare
provisions include value-based payment programs, increased funding of
comparative effectiveness research, reduced hospital payments for avoidable
readmissions and hospital acquired conditions, and pilot programs to evaluate
alternative payment methodologies that promote care coordination (such as
bundled physician and hospital payments). Additionally, the law includes a
reduction in the annual rate of inflation for hospitals that began in 2011 and
the establishment of an independent payment advisory board to recommend ways of
reducing the rate of growth in Medicare spending beginning in 2014. We cannot
predict what healthcare programs and regulations will be ultimately implemented
at the federal or state level, or the effect of any future legislation or
regulation. However, any changes that lower reimbursement for our products or
reduce medical procedure volumes could adversely affect our business and
results of operations. 
Changes in tax laws
or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact
on our financial condition and results of operations.
We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in
both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to
ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with
certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly
assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the
appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that
we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual
outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our net earnings or
financial condition. Additionally, changes in tax laws or tax rulings could
materially impact our effective tax rate. For example, proposals for
fundamental U.S. international tax reform, such as past proposals by the Obama
administration, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our
future results of operations. In addition, recent health care legislation
levies a 2.3% excise tax on the majority of our U.S. medical device sales
beginning in 2013.



 


 




Item 1B.


UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS



None. 



 


 




Item 2.


PROPERTIES



We own our
principal executive offices, which are located in St. Paul, Minnesota. Our
manufacturing facilities currently operating are located in California,
Minnesota, Arizona, South Carolina, Texas, New Jersey, Oregon, Massachusetts,
Brazil, Puerto Rico, Sweden, Costa Rica, Malaysia and Thailand. We own
approximately 63%, or 680,000 square feet, of our total manufacturing space. We
also maintain sales and administrative offices in the United States at 36
locations in 18 states and outside the United States at 110 locations in 40
countries. With the exception of 16 locations, all of these locations are
leased. 
24
Table of Contents 
We believe
that all buildings, machinery and equipment are in good condition, suitable for
their purposes and are maintained on a basis consistent with sound operations.
During 2011, we completed the first phase of construction (approximately
227,000 square feet) on our 400,000 square foot facility located in Costa Rica.
Currently our CV division is utilizing the finished portion of the facility for
manufacturing, laboratory, office and support areas. During 2012, we expect to
complete another 115,000 square feet to house manufacturing, research and
development and office space. The expansion of our Brazil facility located in
Pampula was completed in the first quarter of 2011, which is primarily being
utilized by our CV division to support manufacturing efforts and also includes
warehouse and office space. Our Malaysia facility began initial operating and
manufacturing of CRM product in January 2011. The 342,000 square foot facility
houses manufacturing, warehouse and general office space. During 2011, we also
began preparing land to construct a 130,000 square foot CRM office in
Sunnyvale, California. We expect construction of the new facility to begin in
2012. The site has the potential to expand by another 100,000 square feet of
office space, if future expansion is needed. During the first quarter of 2012,
we will begin construction of an expansion project, adding on 275,000 square
feet to the former AGA Medical headquarters in Plymouth, Minnesota, to house
manufacturing, research and development and office space to streamline CV
operations and create business synergies. We believe that we have sufficient
space for our current operations and for foreseeable expansion in the next few
years. 



 


 




Item 3.


LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS 



We are the
subject of various pending or threatened legal actions and proceedings,
including those that arise in the ordinary course of our business. Such matters
are subject to many uncertainties and to outcomes that are not predictable with
assurance and that may not be known for extended periods of time. We record a
liability in our consolidated financial statements for costs related to claims,
including future legal costs, settlements and judgments, where we have assessed
that a loss is probable and an amount can be reasonably estimated. Our significant
legal proceedings are discussed in Note 5 of the Consolidated Financial
Statements in the Financial Report included in St. Jude Medical’s 2011 Annual
Report to Shareholders and filed as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K and
incorporated herein by reference. While it is not possible to predict the
outcome for most of the legal proceedings discussed in Note 5, the costs
associated with such proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows of a
future period. 



 


 




Item 4.


MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES



Not
applicable. 
PART II



 


 




Item 5.


MARKET
FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 



There were no
sales of unregistered securities during the 2011 fiscal year. The information
set forth under the Stock Exchange Listings caption in the
Financial Report included in St. Jude Medical’s 2011 Annual Report to
Shareholders and filed as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K is incorporated herein
by reference. The following table provides information about the shares we
repurchased during the fourth quarter of 2011:



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Period


 


Total Number
 of Shares
 Purchased (a)


 


Average Price
 Paid per Share


 


Total Number of
 Shares Purchased
 as Part of Publicly
 Announced Plans
 or Programs


 


Approximate
 Dollar Value of
 Shares that May
 Yet Be Purchased
 Under the Plans
 or Programs (b)


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 




10/2/2011 -
 10/29/2011


 


 


—


 


$


—


 


 


—


 


$


—


 




10/30/2011 -
 12/3/2011


 


 


—


 


 


—


 


 


—


 


 


—


 




12/4/2011 -
 12/31/2011


 


 


529


 


 


35.17


 


 


—


 


 


300,000,000


 




Total


 


 


529


 


 


35.17


 


 


—


 


$


300,000,000


 


















 


(a)


The shares
 in this column represent shares  that were surrendered to us by plan
 participants to satisfy withholding tax obligations related to the vesting of
 restricted stock awards. The shares were not repurchased on the open market.




 


 


 




 


(b)


On December
 13, 2011, our Board of Directors announced a share repurchase program of up
 to $300.0 million of our outstanding common stock with no expiration date. No
 shares were repurchased under this program during the fourth quarter of 2011.




25
Table of Contents 



 


 




Item 6.


SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA



The
information set forth under the caption Five-Year Summary Financial Data in the
Financial Report included in St. Jude Medical’s 2011 Annual Report to
Shareholders and filed as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K is incorporated herein
by reference. 



 


 




Item 7.


MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS



The
information set forth under Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations in the Financial Report included
in St. Jude Medical’s 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders and filed as Exhibit
13 to this Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference. 



 


 




Item 7A.


QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK



The
information set forth under the Market Risk section of Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
in the Financial Report included in St. Jude Medical’s 2011 Annual Report to
Shareholders and filed as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K is incorporated herein
by reference. 



 


 




Item 8.


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 



The
Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto and the Reports of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm set forth in the Financial Report
included in St. Jude Medical’s 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders and filed as
Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K are incorporated herein by reference. 



 


 




Item 9.


CHANGES
IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 



None. 



 


 




Item 9A.


CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES



Under the
supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief
Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), we evaluated the
effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act of 1934). Based
on that evaluation, our CEO and CFO concluded that our disclosure controls
and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2011. 
Management’s
annual report on our internal control over financial reporting is provided in
the Financial Report included in St. Jude Medical’s 2011 Annual Report to
Shareholders and filed as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K and incorporated herein
by reference. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2011 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which
is provided in the Financial Report included in St. Jude Medical’s 2011 Annual
Report to Shareholders and filed as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K and
incorporated herein by reference. 
During the
fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011, there were no changes in our internal
control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the
Exchange Act) that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 



 


 




Item 9B.


OTHER
INFORMATION 



None.
26
Table of Contents 
PART III



 


 




Item 10.


DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 



The
information set forth under the captions Proposal to Elect Directors, Director Qualifications,
Director Nomination Process, Director Independence and Audit Committee
Financial Literacy and Expertise, Committees of the Board of Directors and
Section
16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance in St. Jude
Medical’s Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders is
incorporated herein by reference. The information set forth under the caption Executive
Officers of the Registrant in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K is
incorporated herein by reference. 
We have
adopted a Code of Business Conduct for our principal executive officer,
principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, corporate controller
and all other employees. We have made our Code of Business Conduct available on
our website (http://www.sjm.com) under About Us – Business Integrity – Code of Business
Conduct. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirement under Item
5.05 of Form 8-K regarding an amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of our
Code of Business Conduct by posting such information on our website at the web
address and location specified above. Information included on our website is
not deemed to be incorporated into this Form 10-K. 



 


 




Item 11.


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 



The
information set forth under the captions Compensation of Directors, Director Compensation
Table, Executive Compensation and Compensation Committee Interlocks and
Insider Participation in St. Jude Medical’s Proxy Statement for the
2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference. 



 


 




Item 12.


SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS



The
information set forth under the captions Share Ownership of Management and Directors and
Certain Beneficial Owners and Equity Compensation Plan Information in
St. Jude Medical’s Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
is incorporated herein by reference. 



 


 




Item 13.


CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 



The
information set forth under the captions Related Person Transactions and Director
Independence and Audit Committee Financial Literacy and Expertise in
St. Jude Medical’s Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
is incorporated herein by reference. 



 


 




Item 14.


PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 



The
information set forth under the caption Proposal to Ratify the Appointment of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm in St. Jude Medical’s Proxy
Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders is incorporated herein by
reference. 
27
Table of Contents 
PART IV



 


 




Item 15.


EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 







 


 


 


 




(a)


List of documents filed as part of this Report





 


 




 


(1)


Financial Statements 




 


 


 


 




 


 


 


The
 following Consolidated Financial Statements of St. Jude Medical and Reports
 of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm as set forth in the
 Financial Report included in St. Jude Medical’s 2011 Annual Report to
 Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 13 attached
 hereto: 




 


 


 


 




 


 


 


Reports of
 Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 




 


 


 


 




 


 


 


Consolidated
 Statements of Earnings – Fiscal Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1,
 2011 and January 2, 2010 




 


 


 


 




 


 


 


Consolidated
 Balance Sheets – December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011 




 


 


 


 




 


 


 


Consolidated
 Statements of Shareholders’ Equity – Fiscal Years ended December 31, 2011,
 January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 




 


 


 


 




 


 


 


Consolidated
 Statements of Cash Flows – Fiscal Years ended December 31, 2011, January 1,
 2011 and January 2, 2010 




 


 


 


 




 


 


 


Notes to the
 Consolidated Financial Statements 




 


 




 


(2)


Financial Statement Schedules




 


 


 


 




 


 


Schedule II
 – Valuation and Qualifying Accounts, is filed as part of this Form 10-K (see
 Item 15(c)). 




 


 


 


 




 


 


All other
 financial statement schedules not listed above have been omitted because the
 required information is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or
 Notes thereto, or is not applicable. 




 


 


 


 




 


(3)


Exhibits 




 


 


 


 




 


 


Pursuant to
 Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K, copies of certain instruments defining
 the rights of holders of certain long-term debt of St. Jude Medical are not
 filed, and in lieu thereof, we agree to furnish copies thereof to the SEC
 upon request. 







 


 


 




Exhibit


 


Exhibit Index




 


 


 




2.1


 


Agreement
 and Plan of Merger and Reorganization, dated as of October 15, 2010, among
 St. Jude Medical, Inc, Asteroid Subsidiary Corporation and AGA Medical
 Holdings, Inc., is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to St. Jude
 Medical’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on October 20, 2010
 (Commission File No. 333-170045). 




 


 


 




3.1


 


Articles of
 Incorporation, as amended on May 9, 2008, are incorporated by reference to
 Exhibit 3.1 of St. Jude Medical’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended June 28, 2008. 




 


 


 




3.2


 


Bylaws, as
 amended and restated as of February 25, 2005, are incorporated by reference
 to Exhibit 3.1 to St. Jude Medical’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
 March 2, 2005. 




 


 


 




4.1


 


Specimen
 Common Stock Certificate is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to St.
 Jude Medical’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed October 20, 2010
 (Commission File No. 333-170045).



28
Table of Contents 




 


 


 




Exhibit


 


Exhibit Index




 


 


 




4.2


 


Indenture,
 dated as of July 28, 2009, between St. Jude Medical, Inc. and U.S. Bank
 National Association, as Trustee, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1
 to St. Jude Medical’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 28, 2009. 




 


 


 




4.3


 


First
 Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 28, 2009, between St. Jude Medical,
 Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee, is incorporated by
 reference to Exhibit 4.2 to St. Jude Medical’s Current Report on Form 8-K
 filed on July 28, 2009. 




 


 


 




4.4


 


Second
 Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 17, 2010, between the Company and
 U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee, is incorporated by reference to
 Exhibit 4.1 to St. Jude Medical’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March
 19, 2010. 




 


 


 




4.5


 


Third
 Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 6, 2010, between the Company and
 U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee, is incorporated by reference to
 Exhibit 4.1 to St. Jude Medical’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
 December 6, 2010. 




 


 


 




10.1


 


Form of
 Indemnification Agreement that St. Jude Medical has entered into with
 executive officers is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to St. Jude
 Medical’s Annual Report on Form 10K for the year ended January 1, 2011. 




 


 


 




10.2


 


Form of
 Indemnification Agreement that St. Jude Medical has entered into with
 directors is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to St. Jude Medical’s
 Annual Report on Form 10K for the year ended January 1, 2011. 




 


 


 




10.3


 


St. Jude
 Medical, Inc. Management Incentive Compensation Plan is incorporated by
 reference to Exhibit 10.1 to St. Jude Medical’s Current Report on Form 8-K
 filed on May 11, 2009. * 




 


 


 




10.4


 


St. Jude
 Medical, Inc. Management Savings Plan, restated effective January 1, 2008, is
 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of St. Jude Medical’s Current
 Report on Form 8-K filed on October 29, 2008. * 




 


 


 




10.5


 


Retirement
 Plan for members of the Board of Directors, as amended on March 15, 1995, is
 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of St. Jude Medical’s Annual Report
 on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994. * 




 


 


 




10.6


 


St. Jude
 Medical, Inc. 2007 Employee Stock Purchase Plan is incorporated by reference
 to Exhibit 10.4 to St. Jude Medical’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May
 18, 2007. * 




 


 


 




10.7


 


St. Jude
 Medical, Inc. 1994 Stock Option Plan is incorporated by reference to Exhibit
 4(a) of St. Jude Medical’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed July 1,
 1994 (Commission File No. 33-54435). * 




 


 


 




10.8


 


Amendment,
 dated as of October 23, 2008, to the St. Jude Medical, Inc. 1994 Stock Option
 Plan is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of St. Jude Medical’s
 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 27, 2008. * 




 


 


 




10.9


 


St. Jude
 Medical, Inc. 1997 Stock Option Plan is incorporated by reference to Exhibit
 4.1 of St. Jude Medical’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed December
 22, 1997 (Commission File No. 333-42945). * 




 


 


 




10.10


 


Amendment,
 dated as of October 23, 2008, to the St. Jude Medical, Inc. 1997 Stock Option
 Plan is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of St. Jude Medical’s
 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 27, 2008. * 




 


 


 




10.11


 


St. Jude
 Medical, Inc. 2000 Stock Plan, as amended, is incorporated by reference to
 Exhibit 10.4 of St. Jude Medical’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended June 30, 2006. * 




 


 


 




10.12


 


Amendment,
 dated as of October 23, 2008, to the St. Jude Medical, Inc. 2000 Stock Plan
 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of St. Jude Medical’s Quarterly
 Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 27, 2008. * 



29
Table of Contents 




 


 


 




Exhibit


 


Exhibit Index




 


 


 




10.13


 


St. Jude
 Medical, Inc. 2002 Stock Plan, as amended, is incorporated by reference to
 Exhibit 10.5 of St. Jude Medical’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended June 30, 2006. * 




 


 


 




10.14


 


Amendment,
 dated as of October 23, 2008, to the St. Jude Medical, Inc. 2002 Stock Plan
 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of St. Jude Medical’s Quarterly
 Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 27, 2008. * 




 


 


 




10.15


 


Form of
 Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (amended 2011) and related Notice of
 Non-Qualified Stock Option Grant under the St. Jude Medical, Inc. 2002 Stock
 Plan, as amended, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to St. Jude
 Medical’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 2, 2011.* 




 


 


 




10.16


 


St. Jude
 Medical, Inc. 2006 Stock Plan is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
 St. Jude Medical’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 16, 2006. * 




 


 


 




10.17


 


Amendment,
 dated as of October 23, 2008, to the St. Jude Medical, Inc. 2006 Stock Plan
 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of St. Jude Medical’s Quarterly
 Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 27, 2008. * 




 


 


 




10.18


 


Form of
 Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors (amended 2011)
 and related Notice of Non-Qualified Stock Option Grant under the St. Jude
 Medical, Inc. 2006 Stock Plan is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
 St. Jude Medical’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July
 2, 2011. * 




 


 


 




10.19


 


Form of
 Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Employees (amended 2011) and the
 related Notice of Non-Qualified Stock Option Grant under the St. Jude
 Medical, Inc. 2006 Stock Plan is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of
 St. Jude Medical’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July
 2, 2011. * 




 


 


 




10.20


 


St. Jude
 Medical, Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (2011), is
 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to St. Jude Medical’s Current
 Report on Form 8-K filed on May 13, 2011. * 




 


 


 




10.21


 


Form of
 Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (amended 2011) and related Notice of
 Non-Qualified Stock Option Grant under the St. Jude Medical, Inc. 2007 Stock
 Incentive Plan, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of St. Jude
 Medical’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 2, 2011. *
 




 


 


 




10.22


 


Form of
 Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors (amended
 2011) and related Notice of Non-Qualified Stock Option Grant under the St. Jude
 Medical, Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, is incorporated by reference to
 Exhibit 10.5 of St. Jude Medical’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended July 2, 2011. * 




 


 


 




10.23


 


Form of
 Restricted Stock Award Agreement (amended 2011) and related Restricted Stock
 Award Certificate under the St. Jude Medical, Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan,
 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to St. Jude Medical’s Quarterly
 Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 2, 2011. * 




 


 


 




10.24


 


Form of Restricted
 Stock Units Award Agreement (amended 2011) and related Restricted Stock Units
 Award Certificate under the St. Jude Medical, Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan,
 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to St. Jude Medical’s Quarterly
 Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 2, 2011 * 




 


 


 




10.25


 


St. Jude
 Medical, Inc. Amended and Restated 1995 Stock Option Plan (formerly the Quest
 Medical, Inc. 1995 Stock Option Plan) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit
 10.12 of St. Jude Medical’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
 December 31, 2005. * 




 


 


 




10.26


 


St. Jude
 Medical, Inc. Amended and Restated 1998 Stock Option Plan (formerly the Quest
 Medical, Inc. 1998 Stock Option Plan) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit
 10.13 of St. Jude Medical’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
 December 31, 2005. * 



30
Table of Contents 




 


 


 




Exhibit


 


Exhibit Index




 


 


 




10.27


 


St. Jude
 Medical, Inc. Amended and Restated 2000 Stock Option Plan (formerly the
 Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc. 2000 Stock Option Plan) is
 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 of St. Jude Medical’s Annual
 Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. * 




 


 


 




10.28


 


St. Jude
 Medical, Inc. Amended and Restated 2001 Employee Stock Option Plan (formerly
 the Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc. 2001 Employee Stock Option Plan)
 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 of St. Jude Medical’s Annual
 Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. * 




 


 


 




10.29


 


St. Jude
 Medical, Inc. Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Option Plan (formerly the
 Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc. 2002 Stock Option Plan) is
 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 of St. Jude Medical’s Annual
 Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. * 




 


 


 




10.30


 


St. Jude
 Medical, Inc. Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (formerly the
 Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan) is
 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 of St. Jude Medical’s Annual
 Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. * 




 


 


 




10.31


 


Form of
 Severance Agreement between St. Jude Medical, Inc. and executive officers is
 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to St. Jude Medical’s Current
 Report on Form 8-K filed on January 7, 2009. * 




 


 


 




10.32


 


Employment
 Agreement, dated as of April 1, 2002, between Advanced Neuromodulation
 Systems, Inc. and Christopher G. Chavez is incorporated by reference to
 Exhibit 10.16 of Advanced Neuromodulation Systems’ Quarterly Report on Form
 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2002. * 




 


 


 




10.33


 


Amendment,
 dated as of July 27, 2006, between Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc. and
 Christopher G. Chavez, to Employment Agreement, effective as of April 1,
 2002, between Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc. and Christopher G.
 Chavez is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to St. Jude Medical’s
 Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 2, 2006. * 




 


 


 




10.34


 


Multi-Year
 $1,500,000,000 Credit Agreement dated as of December 22, 2010 among St. Jude
 Medical, Inc., as the Borrower, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative
 Agent, L/C Issuer and Lender, and the other Lenders party thereto, is
 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to St. Jude Medical’s Current
 Report on Form 8-K filed on December 29, 2010. 




 


 


 




12


 


Computation
 of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges. # 




 


 


 




13


 


Portions of
 St. Jude Medical’s 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders. # 




 


 


 




21


 


Subsidiaries
 of the Registrant. # 




 


 


 




23


 


Consent of
 Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. # 




 


 


 




24


 


Power of
 Attorney. # 




 


 


 




31.1


 


Certification
 of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
 of 2002. #




 


 


 




31.2


 


Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section
 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. #




 


 


 




32.1


 


Certification of Chief
 Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
 #




 


 


 




32.2


 


Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of
 the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. # 




 


 


 




101


 


Financial
 statements from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of St. Jude Medical, Inc. for
 the year ended December 31, 2011, formatted in XBRL: (i) the Consolidated
 Statements of Earnings, (ii) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (iii) the
 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity, (iv) the Consolidated Statements
 of Cash Flows and (v) the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ## 






 


 


 




 


 




   *


Management
 contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 




   #


Filed as an
 exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 




   ##


Furnished
 herewith. 







 


 




(b)


Exhibits: Reference is made to Item
 15(a)(3). 




 


 




(c)


Schedules: 



31
Table of Contents 
SCHEDULE II – VALUATION AND QUALIFYING
ACCOUNTS(In thousands) 



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


Balance


 


Additions


 


Deductions


 


 


 




Description


 


at Beginning
 of Year


 


Charged to
 Expense


 


Other (2)


 


Write-offs (1)


 


Other (2)


 


Balance at
 End of Year


 




Allowance for doubtful
 accounts:


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Fiscal year ended


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




December 31, 2011


 


$


35,354


 


$


71,831


 


$


—


 


$


(3,588


)


$


(2,699


)


$


100,898


 




January 1, 2011


 


$


34,947


 


$


4,053


 


$


2,276


 


$


(5,922


)


$


—


 


$


35,354


 




January 2, 2010


 


$


28,971


 


$


10,867


 


$


640


 


$


(5,531


)


$


—


 


$


34,947


 







 


 




(1)


Uncollectible
 accounts written off, net of recoveries. 




 


 




(2)


In 2011,
 2010 and 2009 $(2,699), $2,276 and $640, respectively, of “other” represents
 the effects of changes in foreign currency translation. 



32
Table of Contents 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to
the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 



 


 


 


 




 


 


ST. JUDE
 MEDICAL, INC.




 


 


 


 




Date: 


February 29,
 2012


By 


/s/ DANIEL
 J. STARKS




 


 


 


Daniel J.
 Starks




 


 


 


Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer




 


 


 


 (Principal Executive Officer)




 


 


 


 




 


 


By 


/s/ JOHN C.
 HEINMILLER




 


 


 


John C.
 Heinmiller




 


 


 


Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer




 


 


 


 (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)



Pursuant to
the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities indicated, on the 29th day of February, 2012. 



 


 


 




/s/ DANIEL
 J. STARKS


 


Chairman of
 the Board




Daniel J.
 Starks


 


 




 


 


 




*


 


Director




John W.
 Brown


 


 




 


 


 




*


 


Director




Richard R.
 Devenuti


 


 




 


 


 




*


 


Director




Stuart M.
 Essig


 


 




 


 


 




*


 


Director




Thomas H.
 Garrett III


 


 




 


 


 




*


 


Director




Barbara B.
 Hill


 


 




 


 


 




*


 


Director




Michael A.
 Rocca


 


 




 


 


 




*


 


Director




Wendy L.
 Yarno


 


 




 


 


 




*
 By:     /s/ JASON A. ZELLERS


 


 




             Jason
 A. Zellers


 


 




             Attorney-in-Fact


 


 



33





