
10-K
1
d276253d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
Washington, D.C. 20549   
  Form 10-K 
     


[ x ]
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 
or 


[    ]
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the transition period from ______ to ______. 
Commission File Number 1-5480  Textron Inc.  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
  






 Delaware
 
 05-0315468

 (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
 
 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
  






 40 Westminster Street, Providence, RI
 
 02903

(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(Zip code)
 Registrant’s Telephone Number, Including Area Code: (401) 421-2800 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
 






 Title of Each Class
 
 Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common Stock — par value $0.125
 
New York Stock Exchange
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
    Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes   ü  
No         Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes        No   ü    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes   ü   No
        Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files). Yes   ü   No        
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [
  ü   ]  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act. (Check one):   






Large accelerated filer [   ü   ]
  
Accelerated filer [      ]




Non-accelerated filer [      ]
  
Smaller reporting company [      ]
 (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes        No   ü    The aggregate market value of the registrant’s Common Stock held by
non-affiliates at July 1, 2011 was approximately $6.6 billion based on the New York Stock Exchange closing price for such shares on that date. The registrant has no non-voting common equity. 
At February 11, 2012, 279,642,725 shares of Common Stock were outstanding.  Documents Incorporated by Reference   
  Part III of this Report incorporates information
from certain portions of the registrant’s Definitive Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 25, 2012. 


Table of Contents
PART I  Item 1. Business  Textron Inc. is a multi-industry company that leverages its global
network of aircraft, defense, industrial and finance businesses to provide customers with innovative products and services around the world. We have approximately 32,000 employees worldwide. Textron Inc. was founded in 1923 and reincorporated in
Delaware on July 31, 1967. Unless otherwise indicated, references to “Textron Inc.,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Textron Inc. and its
consolidated subsidiaries.  We conduct our business through five operating segments: Cessna, Bell, Textron Systems and Industrial, which
represent our manufacturing businesses, and Finance, which represents our finance business. A description of the business of each of our segments is set forth below. Our business segments include operations that are unincorporated divisions of
Textron Inc. and others that are separately incorporated subsidiaries. Financial information by business segment and geographic area appears in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 82 through 84 of this Annual Report on Form
10-K. The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on pages 19 through 40 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated.  Cessna Segment
 Cessna is the world’s leading general aviation company based on unit sales with two principal lines of business: Aircraft sales and
aftermarket services. Aircraft sales include Citation jets, Caravan single-engine utility turboprops, single-engine piston aircraft and lift solutions by CitationAir. Aftermarket services include parts, maintenance, inspection and repair services.
Revenues in the Cessna segment accounted for approximately 26%, 24% and 32% of our total revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Revenues for Cessna’s principal lines of business were as follows: 
 
















(In millions)
  
2011  
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Aircraft sales
  
$
2,263  
  
  
$
1,896
  
  
$
2,733
  

 Aftermarket
  
 
727  
  
  
 
667
  
  
 
587
  

 
  
$
  2,990  
  
  
$
  2,563
  
  
$
  3,320
  
 The family of jets currently produced by Cessna includes the Mustang, Citation CJ2+, Citation CJ3, Citation CJ4, Citation
XLS+, Citation Sovereign and Citation X. Deliveries of the new Citation TEN model, with updated design and performance from the Citation X, are expected to begin in the second half of 2013. In addition, Cessna announced two new aircraft in 2011: the
Citation M2 and the Citation Latitude. The Citation M2 is positioned between the Mustang and the CJ2+ and is expected to receive Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) certification and begin deliveries in 2013. The Citation Latitude is positioned
between the Citation XLS+ and the Sovereign and is expected to receive FAA certification and enter into service in 2015.  The Cessna Caravan
is the world’s best-selling utility turboprop. Caravans are offered in four models: the Grand Caravan, the Super Cargomaster, the Caravan 675 and the Caravan Amphibian. Caravans are used in the United States primarily for overnight express
package shipments and for personal transportation. International uses of Caravans include humanitarian flights, tourism and freight transport. Cessna offers eight models in its single-engine piston product line, which include the two-place
Skycatcher, the four-place Skyhawk, Skyhawk SP, Skylane and Turbo Skylane, the six-place Stationair and Turbo Stationair and the Corvalis TTX, deliveries of which are expected to begin in 2012. 
The Citation family of aircraft currently is supported by 10 Citation Service Centers owned or operated by Cessna or co-located with
Bell Helicopter, along with authorized independent service stations and centers located in more than 27 countries throughout the world. Cessna-owned Service Centers provide customers with 24-hour service and maintenance. Cessna also provides
around-the-clock parts support for Citation aircraft. Cessna recently developed an array of service options for Citation aircraft, known as SERVICEDIRECT®, which delivers service capabilities directly to customer locations, including a Mobile Service Unit fleet of 16 vehicles in North America and two in Europe. Cessna
Caravan and single-engine piston customers receive product support through independently owned service stations and around-the-clock parts support through Cessna.  Cessna markets its products worldwide through its own sales force, as well as through a network of authorized independent sales representatives, depending upon the product line. Cessna has several
competitors domestically and internationally in various market segments. Cessna’s aircraft compete with other aircraft that vary in size, speed, range, capacity and handling characteristics on the basis of price, product quality and
reliability, product support and reputation. 
  2 


Table of Contents
Cessna’s private jet business called CitationAir provides a spectrum of private aviation lift
solutions, including Jet Card, Jet Access, Jet Shares, Jet Management and Corporate Solutions. The CitationAir fleet operates throughout the contiguous U.S. and in Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, the Bahamas and Bermuda. 
Bell Segment  Bell Helicopter is one of
the leading suppliers of military and commercial helicopters, tiltrotor aircraft, and related spare parts and services in the world. Revenues for Bell accounted for approximately 31%, 31% and 27% of our total revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. Revenues by Bell’s principal lines of business were as follows:   
















(In millions)
  
2011  
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Military:
  



  



  




 V-22 Program
  
$
1,380  
  
  
$
1,155
  
  
$
925
  

 Other Military
  
 
919  
  
  
 
845
  
  
 
722
  

 Commercial
  
 
1,226  
  
  
 
1,241
  
  
 
1,195
  

 
  
$
  3,525  
  
  
$
  3,241
  
  
$
  2,842
  
 Bell supplies advanced military helicopters and support to the U.S. Government and to military customers outside the
United States. Bell’s primary U.S. Government programs are the V-22 tiltrotor aircraft and the H-1 helicopters. Bell is one of the leading suppliers of helicopters to the U.S. Government and, in association with The Boeing Company (Boeing), the
only supplier of military tiltrotor aircraft. Tiltrotor aircraft are designed to provide the benefits of both helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft. Through its strategic alliance with Boeing, Bell produces and supports the V-22 tiltrotor aircraft for
the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD). The U.S. Marine Corps H-1 helicopter program includes a utility model and an advanced attack model, the UH-1Y and the AH-1Z, respectively, which have 84% parts commonality between them. Bell also continues to
support the OH-58D Kiowa Warrior helicopter.  Through its commercial business, Bell is a leading supplier of commercially certified
helicopters and support to corporate, offshore petroleum exploration and development, utility, charter, police, fire, rescue, emergency medical helicopter operators and foreign governments. Bell produces a variety of commercial aircraft types,
including light single- and twin-engine helicopters and medium twin-engine helicopters, along with other related products. The helicopters currently produced by Bell for commercial applications include the 206L-4, 407, 412, 429 and Huey II, as well
as the newly-introduced 407AH and 407GX. Bell also just announced the 525 Relentless, its first super medium twin jet-engine commercial helicopter.  For both its military programs and its commercial products, Bell provides post-sale support and service for its installed base of approximately 13,000 helicopters through a network of Bell-owned service
sites, service and parts facilities co-located with Cessna, more than 110 independent service centers and six supply centers that are located worldwide. Collectively, these service sites offer a complete range of logistics support, including parts,
support equipment, technical data, training devices, pilot and maintenance training, component repair and overhaul, engine repair and overhaul, aircraft modifications, aircraft customizing, accessory manufacturing, contractor maintenance, field
service and product support engineering.  Bell competes against a number of competitors based in the U.S. and other countries for its
helicopter business, and its parts and support business competes against numerous competitors around the world. Competition is based primarily on price, product quality and reliability, product support, performance and reputation. 
Textron Systems Segment  Textron
Systems’ product lines consist of unmanned aircraft systems, land and marine systems, weapons and sensors and a variety of defense and aviation mission support products and services. Textron Systems is a supplier to the defense, aerospace,
homeland security and general aviation markets, and represents approximately 17%, 19% and 18% of Textron’s revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. While this segment sells most of its products to U.S. Government customers, it also sells
products to customers outside the U.S. through foreign military sales sponsored by the U.S. Government and directly through commercial sales channels. Textron Systems competes on the basis of technology, contract performance, price, product quality
and reliability, product support and reputation. Revenues by Textron Systems’ product lines were as follows:   
















(In millions)
  
2011  
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Unmanned Aircraft Systems
  
$
701  
  
  
$
785
  
  
$
634
  

 Land and Marine Systems
  
 
519  
  
  
 
503
  
  
 
528
  

 Weapons and Sensors
  
 
298  
  
  
 
284
  
  
 
314
  

 Mission Support and Other
  
 
354  
  
  
 
407
  
  
 
423
  

 
  
$
  1,872  
  
  
$
  1,979
  
  
$
  1,899
  

  3 


Table of Contents
Unmanned Aircraft Systems  Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) consists of the AAI UAS and AAI Logistics & Technical Services businesses. AAI UAS is the prime system integrator for the U.S. Army’s premier tactical UAS,
the Shadow, which includes the One System Ground Control Station — the U.S. Army’s standard for interoperability of unmanned airborne assets. AAI Logistics & Technical Services provides logistical support for various unmanned
aircraft systems including field operational and maintenance service support, training and supply chain services to government and commercial customers worldwide.  Land and Marine Systems  The Land and Marine Systems business is operated as Textron
Marine & Land Systems (TMLS). TMLS is a world leader in the design, production and support of Armored Security Vehicles (ASV), turrets and related subsystems and advance marine craft. TMLS produces ASVs and its variants for the U.S. Army
and international allies.  Weapons and Sensors  The Weapons and Sensors business is operated as Textron Defense Systems (TDS). This business consists of state-of-the-art smart weapons; airborne and ground-based sensors and surveillance systems; and
protection systems for the defense, aerospace and homeland security communities. TDS is the U.S. Air Force’s prime contractor for the Sensor Fuzed Weapon and the U.S. Army’s lead provider for networked munitions systems. 
Mission Support and Other  Mission
Support and Other includes three businesses: AAI Test & Training, Lycoming and Textron Systems Advanced Systems. AAI Test & Training provides training and simulation systems and automated aircraft test and maintenance equipment.
Lycoming specializes in the engineering, manufacture, service and support of piston aircraft engines for the general aviation market. Textron Systems Advanced Systems brings together cutting-edge technologies and innovations to deliver reliable,
affordable security, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance solutions. Its strategic business, Overwatch, is a leading provider of intelligence software solutions for U.S. and international defense, intelligence and law enforcement
communities.  Industrial Segment  Our Industrial segment designs and manufactures a variety of products under three principal product lines. Industrial segment revenues were as follows: 
 
















(In millions)
  
2011  
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Fuel Systems and Functional Components
  
$
1,823  
  
  
$
1,640
  
  
$
1,287
  

 Golf and Turf Care
  
 
560  
  
  
 
554
  
  
 
491
  

 Powered Tools, Testing and Measurement Equipment
  
 
402  
  
  
 
330
  
  
 
300
  

 
  
$
  2,785  
  
  
$
  2,524
  
  
$
  2,078
  
 Fuel Systems and Functional Components  Our Fuel Systems and Functional Components product line is operated by our Kautex business unit, which is headquartered in Bonn, Germany. Kautex is a leading developer and manufacturer of blow-molded
plastic fuel systems for cars, light trucks, all-terrain vehicles, windshield and headlamp washer systems for automobiles and selective catalytic reduction systems used to reduce emissions from diesel engines. Kautex serves the global automobile
market, with operating facilities near its major customers around the world. In addition, Kautex produces cast iron engine camshafts in North America. From facilities in Germany and Poland, Kautex develops and produces plastic bottles and containers
for food, household, laboratory and industrial uses. Revenues of Kautex accounted for approximately 16%, 16% and 12% of our total revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Our automotive products have a limited number of competitors worldwide, some of which are affiliated with the original equipment manufacturers that comprise our targeted customer base. Competition
typically is based on a number of factors including price, product quality and reliability, prior experience and available manufacturing capacity.  Golf and Turf Care  Our Golf and Turf Care product line includes the products manufactured
by our E-Z-GO and Jacobsen business units. E-Z-GO designs, manufactures and sells golf cars and off-road utility vehicles powered by electric and internal combustion engines and electric on-road low speed vehicles under the E-Z-GO and Cushman brand
names, as well as multipurpose utility vehicles and off-road vehicles under the E-Z-GO, Cushman and Bad Boy Buggies brand names. E-Z-GO’s diversified customer base consists primarily of golf courses, resort communities and municipalities,
consumers, and commercial and industrial users such as airports, college campuses and factories. Sales are made factory direct and through distributors and dealers worldwide. E-Z-GO has two major competitors for golf cars and several other
competitors for off-road, on-road and multipurpose utility vehicles. Competition is based primarily on price, product quality and reliability, product support and reputation. 
  4 


Table of Contents
Jacobsen designs, manufactures and sells professional turf-maintenance equipment, as well as specialized
turf-care vehicles. Brand names include Ransomes, Jacobsen and Cushman. Jacobsen’s customers include golf courses, resort communities, sporting venues and municipalities. Products are sold primarily through a worldwide network of distributors
and dealers, as well as factory direct. Jacobsen has two major competitors for professional turf-maintenance equipment and several other competitors for specialized turf-care products. Competition is based primarily on price, product features,
product quality and reliability and product support.  Powered Tools, Testing and Measurement Equipment 
We design and manufacture Powered Tools, Testing and Measurement Equipment through our Greenlee business unit. Greenlee designs and manufactures powered
equipment, electrical test and measurement instruments, hand and hydraulic powered tools, and electrical and fiber optic assemblies under the Greenlee, Klauke, Paladin Tools and Tempo brand names. These products principally are used in the
electrical construction, maintenance, telecommunications, data communications, wiring, utility and plumbing industries. Greenlee distributes its products through a global network of sales representatives and distributors and sells its products
directly to home improvement retailers and original equipment manufacturers. Through joint ventures, Greenlee also sells hand and powered tools for the plumbing and mechanical industries in North America and hand tools for the home center,
construction, industrial manufacturing and automotive channels in China. The Greenlee businesses face competition from numerous manufacturers based primarily on price, product quality and reliability. 
Finance Segment  Our Finance segment, or
the Finance group, is a commercial finance business that consists of Textron Financial Corporation (TFC) and its consolidated subsidiaries, along with three other finance subsidiaries owned by Textron Inc. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we announced
a plan to exit the non-captive portion of the commercial finance business of our Finance segment while retaining the captive portion of the business that supports customer purchases of products that we manufacture. The non-captive portion of this
business is based primarily in North America and includes the following product lines: Golf Mortgage, Timeshare and Structured Capital. The exit plan is being effected through a combination of orderly liquidation and selected sales. During 2011, we
reduced our total finance receivable portfolio by $1.7 billion primarily through liquidations, mark-to-market adjustments on certain portfolios and impairments. Depending on market conditions, we expect continued progress in liquidating the
remaining $950 million in the non-captive portfolio over the next several years.  Our Finance segment continues to originate new customer
relationships and finance receivables in the captive finance business, which provides financing primarily for new Cessna aircraft and Bell helicopters and, to a limited extent, for new E-Z-GO and Jacobsen golf and turf-care equipment. We also
provide financing to purchasers of pre-owned Cessna aircraft and Bell helicopters on a limited basis. The majority of new finance receivables are originated outside the United States. New originations in the U.S. are primarily for purchasers who
have had difficulty in accessing other sources of financing for the purchase of Textron-manufactured products.  In 2011, 2010 and 2009, our
Finance group paid our Manufacturing group $284 million, $416 million and $654 million, respectively, related to the sale of Textron-manufactured products to third parties that were financed by the Finance group. Our Cessna and Industrial segments
also received proceeds in those years of $2 million, $10 million and $13 million, respectively, from the sale of equipment from their manufacturing operations to our Finance group for use under operating lease agreements. 
The commercial finance business traditionally is extremely competitive. Our Finance segment is subject to competition from various types of financing
institutions, including banks, leasing companies, commercial finance companies and finance operations of equipment vendors. Competition within the commercial finance industry primarily is focused on price, term, structure and service. 
Our Finance segment’s largest business risk is the collectability of its finance receivable portfolio. See “Finance Portfolio Quality” in
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on pages 30 and 31 for a discussion of the credit quality of this portfolio. 
  5 


Table of Contents
Backlog  Our backlog at the end of 2011 and 2010 is summarized below:   












(In millions)
  
 December 31,
2011
 
  
 January 1,
2011
 

  
 

 U.S. Government:
  



  




 Bell*
  
$
6,507
  
  
$
6,123
  

 Textron Systems
  
 
1,145
  
  
 
1,438
  

 Cessna
  
 
45
  
  
 
—
  

  
 

 Total U.S. Government backlog
  
 
7,697
  
  
 
7,561
  

  
 

 Commercial:
  



  




 Cessna
  
 
1,844
  
  
 
2,928
  

 Bell*
  
 
839
  
  
 
350
  

 Textron Systems
  
 
192
  
  
 
160
  

 Industrial
  
 
37
  
  
 
40
  

  
 

 Total commercial backlog
  
 
2,912
  
  
 
3,478
  

  
 

 Total backlog
  
$
10,609
  
  
$
11,039
  
  


*
As disclosed in our Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2011, backlog at January 1, 2011 has been revised from the amount previously reported, primarily to
correct an error made in 2009 when the full value of a V-22 contract was included in backlog rather than Bell’s proportionate share.  Approximately 54% of our total backlog at December 31, 2011 represents orders that are not expected to be filled in 2012. Orders from Cessna customers, which cover a wide spectrum of industries
worldwide, are included in backlog when the customer enters into a definitive purchase agreement and the initial customer deposit is received. We work with our customers to provide estimated delivery dates, which may be adjusted based on the
customers’ needs or our production schedule, but do not establish definitive delivery dates until approximately six months before expected delivery. There is considerable uncertainty as to when or whether backlog will convert to revenues as the
conversion depends on production capacity, customer needs and credit availability; these factors also may be impacted by the economy and public perceptions of private corporate jet usage. While backlog is an indicator of future revenues, we cannot
reasonably estimate the year each order in backlog ultimately will result in revenues and cash flows. Orders remain in backlog until the aircraft is delivered or upon cancellation by the customer. Upon cancellation, deposits are used to defray
costs, including remarketing fees, cost to reconfigure the aircraft and other costs incurred as a result of the cancellation. Remaining deposits, if any, may be retained or refunded at our discretion. 
Backlog with the U.S. Government in the above table includes only funded amounts as the U.S. Government is obligated only up to the amount of funding
formally appropriated for a contract. Bell’s backlog includes $3.8 billion related to a multi-year procurement contract with the U.S. Government for the purchase of V-22 tiltrotor aircraft. 
U.S. Government Contracts  In 2011,
approximately 31% of our consolidated revenues were generated by or resulted from contracts with the U.S. Government. This business is subject to competition, changes in procurement policies and regulations, the continuing availability of funding,
which is dependent upon congressional appropriations, national and international priorities for defense spending, world events, and the size and timing of programs in which we may participate. 
Our contracts with the U.S. Government generally may be terminated by the U.S. Government for convenience or if we default in whole or in part by failing
to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. If the U.S. Government terminates a contract for convenience, we normally will be entitled to payment for the cost of contract work performed before the effective date of termination, including,
if applicable, reasonable profit on such work, as well as reasonable termination costs. If, however, the U.S. Government terminates a contract for default, generally: (a) we will be paid the contract price for completed supplies delivered and
accepted, an agreed-upon amount for manufacturing materials delivered and accepted and for the protection and preservation of property, and an amount for partially completed products accepted by the U.S. Government; (b) the U.S. Government will
not be liable for our costs with respect to unaccepted items and will be entitled to repayment of advance payments and progress payments related to the terminated portions of the contract; and (c) we may be liable for excess costs incurred by
the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source. 
  6 


Table of Contents
Research and Development  Information regarding our research and development expenditures is contained in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 54 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Patents and Trademarks  We own, or are
licensed under, numerous patents throughout the world relating to products, services and methods of manufacturing. Patents developed while under contract with the U.S. Government may be subject to use by the U.S. Government. We also own or license
active trademark registrations and pending trademark applications in the U.S. and in various foreign countries or regions, as well as trade names and service marks. While our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to the
operation of our business, we do not believe that any existing patent, license, trademark or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material adverse effect on our business taken as a whole.
Some of these trademarks, trade names and service marks are used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports, including: AAI; AH-1Z; Bad Boy Buggies; Bell Helicopter; Bravo; Cadillac Gage; Caravan; Caravan Amphibian; Caravan 675;
Cessna; Cessna 350; Cessna 400; Cessna Corvalis TTX; Citation; CitationAir; CitationAir Jetcard; Citation Encore+; Citation Latitude; Citation M2; Citation Sovereign; Citation TEN; Citation X; Citation XLS+; CJ1+; CJ2+; CJ3; CJ4; Clairity; CLAW;
Corvalis; Cushman; Eclipse; Excel; E-Z-GO; Grand Caravan; Greenlee; H-1; Huey; Huey II; IE2; Jacobsen; Kautex; Kiowa Warrior; Klauke; Lycoming; M1117 ASV; McCauley; Mustang; Next Generation Fuel System; NGFS; Overwatch; Paladin; PDCue; Power
Advantage; Progressive; ProParts; Relentless; Rothenberger LLC; RXV; Sensor Fuzed Weapon; SERVICEDIRECT; Shadow; SkyBOOKS; Skycatcher; Skyhawk; Skyhawk SP; Skylane; SkyPLUS; Sovereign; Stationair; ST 4X4; Super Cargomaster; SuperCobra; SYMTX; TDCue;
Tempo; Textron; Textron Defense Systems; Textron Financial Corporation; Textron Marine & Land Systems; Textron Systems; Turbo Skylane; Turbo Stationair; UAV SYSTEMS SPECIALIST; UH-1Y; V-22 Osprey; 2FIVE; 206; 407; 407AH; 407GX; 412 and 429.
These marks and their related trademark designs and logotypes (and variations of the foregoing) are trademarks, trade names or service marks of Textron Inc., its subsidiaries, affiliates or joint ventures. 
Environmental Considerations  Our
operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect the environment. Compliance with these laws and expenditures for environmental control facilities has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or
competitive position. Additional information regarding environmental matters is contained in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 81 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
We do not believe that existing or pending climate change legislation, regulation, or international treaties or accords are reasonably likely to have a
material effect in the foreseeable future on our business or markets nor on our results of operations, capital expenditures or financial position. We will continue to monitor emerging developments in this area. 
Employees  At December 31, 2011, we
had approximately 32,000 employees.  Executive Officers of the Registrant  The following table sets forth certain information concerning our executive officers as of February 23, 2012.   










Name
  
Age
 
  
Current Position with Textron Inc.

 Scott C. Donnelly
  
 
50
  
  
 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

 John D. Butler
  
 
64
  
  
 Executive Vice President Administration and Chief Human Resources
Officer

 Frank T. Connor
  
 
52
  
  
 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

 E. Robert Lupone
  
 
52
  
  
 Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Secretary and Chief
Compliance Officer
 Mr. Donnelly joined Textron in June 2008 as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and was promoted to
President and Chief Operating Officer in January 2009. He was appointed to the Board of Directors in October 2009 and became Chief Executive Officer of Textron in December 2009, at which time the Chief Operating Officer position was eliminated. In
July 2010, Mr. Donnelly was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors effective September 1, 2010. Previously, Mr. Donnelly was the President and CEO of General Electric Company’s Aviation business unit, a position he had held
since July 2005. GE’s Aviation business unit is a $16 billion maker of commercial and military jet engines and components, as well as integrated digital, electric power and mechanical systems for aircraft. Prior to July 2005, Mr. Donnelly
served as Senior Vice President of GE Global Research, one of the world’s largest and most diversified industrial research organizations with facilities in the U.S., India, China and Germany and held various other management positions since
joining General Electric in 1989. 
  7 


Table of Contents
Mr. Butler joined Textron in July 1997 as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer
and became Executive Vice President Administration and Chief Human Resources Officer in January 1999.  Mr. Connor joined Textron in
August 2009 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Previously, Mr. Connor was head of Telecom Investment Banking at Goldman, Sachs & Co from 2003 to 2008. Prior to that position, he served as Chief Operating Officer
of Telecom, Technology and Media Investment Banking at Goldman, Sachs from 1998 to 2003. Mr. Connor joined the Corporate Finance Department of Goldman, Sachs in 1986 and became a Vice President in 1990 and a Managing Director in 1996.
 Mr. Lupone joined Textron in February 2012 as Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer.
Previously, he was senior vice president and general counsel of Siemens Corporation (U.S.) since 1999 and general counsel of Siemens AG for the Americas since 2008. Prior to joining Siemens in 1992, Mr. Lupone was vice president and general
counsel of Price Communications Corporation.  Available Information  We make available free of charge on our Internet Web site (www.textron.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports
filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 Forward-Looking Information 
Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other oral and written statements made by us from time to time are “forward-looking
statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements, which may describe strategies, goals, outlook or other non-historical matters, or project revenues, income, returns or
other financial measures, often include words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend”, “plan,” “estimate,” “guidance”, “project”, “target”,
“potential”, “will”, “should”, “could”, “likely” or “may” and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions and involve known
and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. In addition to those factors described herein under
“RISK FACTORS,” factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past and projected future results are the following:   


 
•
 
 Changing priorities or reductions in the U.S. Government defense budget, including those related to military operations in foreign countries;
  


 
•
 
 Changes in worldwide economic or political conditions that impact demand for our products, interest rates or foreign exchange rates;
  


 
•
 
 Our ability to perform as anticipated and to control costs under contracts with the U.S. Government; 
 


 
•
 
 The U.S. Government’s ability to unilaterally modify or terminate its contracts with us for the U.S. Government’s convenience or for our
failure to perform, to change applicable procurement and accounting policies, or, under certain circumstances, to withhold payment or suspend or debar us as a contractor eligible to receive future contract awards; 
 


 
•
 
 Changes in foreign military funding priorities or budget constraints and determinations, or changes in government regulations or policies on the export
and import of military and commercial products;   


 
•
 
 Our Finance segment’s ability to maintain portfolio credit quality or to realize full value of receivables and of assets acquired upon foreclosure
of receivables;   


 
•
 
 Our ability to access the capital markets at reasonable rates; 
 


 
•
 
 Performance issues with key suppliers, subcontractors or business partners; 
 


 
•
 
 Legislative or regulatory actions impacting our operations or demand for our products; 
 


 
•
 
 Our ability to control costs and successfully implement various cost-reduction activities; 
 


 
•
 
 The efficacy of research and development investments to develop new products or unanticipated expenses in connection with the launching of significant
new products or programs;   


 
•
 
 The timing of our new product launches or certifications of our new aircraft products; 
 


 
•
 
 Our ability to keep pace with our competitors in the introduction of new products and upgrades with features and technologies desired by our customers;
  


 
•
 
 The extent to which we are able to pass raw material price increases through to customers or offset such price increases by reducing other costs;
  


 
•
 
 Increases in pension expenses or employee and retiree medical benefits; 
 


 
•
 
 Uncertainty in estimating reserves, including reserves established to address contingent liabilities, unrecognized tax

  8 


Table of Contents


 
 
benefits, or potential losses on our Finance segment’s receivables;   


 
•
 
 Difficult conditions in the financial markets which may adversely impact our customers’ ability to fund or finance purchases of our products; and
  


 
•
 
 Continued volatility in the economy resulting in a prolonged downturn in the markets in which we do business. 
Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  Our
business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. The risks discussed below are those that we believe currently are the most
significant to our business.  We have customer concentration with the U.S. Government; reduction in U.S. Government defense spending may
adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  During 2011, we derived approximately 31% of our revenues from
sales to a variety of U.S. Government entities. Our revenues from the U.S. Government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various U.S. Government defense-related programs. The funding of these programs is subject to congressional
appropriation decisions. Although multiple-year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. Consequently, programs
often are only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. If we incur costs in excess of funds committed on a contract, we are more at risk for non-reimbursement of those costs until
additional funds are appropriated.  Mounting pressure for U.S. Government deficit reduction and reduced national spending have created an
environment where national security spending is being closely examined. In addition, the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq and uncertainty regarding the future level of U.S. military involvement in Afghanistan adds to the pressure to reduce
defense spending. In August 2011, Congress passed the Budget Control Act of 2011 which committed the U.S. Government to significantly reduce the federal deficit over ten years. Under the Budget Act, very substantial automatic spending cuts,
including approximately $600 billion in cuts to the U.S, defense budget over a nine year period, are scheduled to be triggered beginning in 2013. As a result, long-term funding for various programs in which we participate, as well as future
purchasing decisions by our U.S. Government customers, could be reduced, delayed or cancelled. In addition, these cuts could adversely affect the viability of the suppliers and subcontractors under our programs. 
The reduction or termination of funding, or changes in the timing of funding, for U.S. Government programs in which we currently provide, or propose to
provide, products or services would result in a reduction or loss of anticipated future revenues and could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.  U.S. Government contracts may be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions.  The U.S. Government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. In the
event of termination for the U.S. Government’s convenience, contractors are generally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs but not the anticipated profit that would
have been earned had the contract been completed. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability, including but not limited to, liability for re-procurement costs, and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for
future contracts and orders. If any of our contracts are terminated by the U.S. Government whether for convenience or default, our backlog and anticipated revenues would be reduced by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts. On
those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the U.S. Government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a
subcontractor. In addition, U.S. Government contracts generally require the contractor to continue to perform on the contract even if the U.S. Government is unable to make timely payments; failure to continue contract performance places the
contractor at risk of termination for default. Any such event could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.  As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to procurement rules and regulations as well as changes in the Department of Defense (DoD) acquisition practices. 
We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts. These
laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation, define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain
cost-based U.S. Government contracts, and restrict the use and dissemination of classified information and the exportation of certain products and technical data. Our U.S. Government contracts contain provisions that allow the U.S. Government to
unilaterally suspend or debar us from receiving new contracts for a period of time, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract, and control and potentially prohibit the export of our products, services and

  9 


Table of Contents

associated materials. A number of our U.S. Government contracts contain provisions that require us to make disclosure to the Inspector General of the agency that is our customer if we have
credible evidence that we have violated U.S. criminal laws involving fraud, conflict of interest, or bribery; the U.S. civil False Claims Act; or received a significant overpayment under a U.S. Government contract. Failure to properly and timely
disclose may result in a termination for default or cause, suspension and/or debarment, and potential fines.  The DoD has issued guidance to
its acquisition workforce to obtain greater efficiency and productivity in defense spending by undertaking actions in five major areas (known as the “Better Buying Power Initiative”): target affordability and control cost growth;
incentivize productivity and innovation; promote competition; improve tradecraft in services acquisition; and reduce non-productive processes and bureaucracy. This initiative is expected to significantly affect the contracting environment in which
we do business with our DoD customers and could have a significant impact on current programs, as well as new business opportunities. Changes to the DoD acquisition system and contracting models could affect whether and, if so, how we pursue certain
opportunities and the terms under which we are able to do so.  As a U.S. Government contractor, our businesses and systems are subject
to audit and review by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) and the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA).  We operate in a
highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the U.S. Government and its agencies such as DCAA and DCMA. These agencies review our performance under our contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with laws and
regulations applicable to U.S. Government contractors. Systems that are subject to review include, but are not limited to, our accounting systems, estimating systems, material management and accounting systems, earned value management systems,
purchasing systems and government property systems. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions that may include the termination of our contracts, forfeiture of
profits, suspension of payments, fines, and, under certain circumstances, suspension or debarment from future contracts for a period of time. Whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the U.S. Government also has the ability to decrease or
withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate. These laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. 
Cost overruns on U.S. Government contracts could subject us to losses or adversely affect our future business. 
Under fixed-price contracts, as a general rule, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur, and, consequently, any costs in excess
of the fixed price are absorbed by us. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates used in developing the pricing for such contracts may adversely affect our results of operations. Under time and materials contracts, we are paid
for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. Under cost-reimbursement contracts, which are subject to a contract-ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based.
However, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. Under each type of contract, if we are unable to
control costs we incur in performing under the contract, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract
awards.  Weak demand for our aircraft products may continue to adversely affect our financial results. 
As a result of the worldwide economic downturn over the past several years we have experienced weak demand for our new and used aircraft, a tightening of
credit availability for potential purchasers of our aircraft, and a substantial number of cancellations of orders and customer requests for delayed delivery of ordered aircraft. Soft demand for new and pre-owned jets and helicopters could persist
and could continue to adversely impact the pricing of new aircraft and the valuation of used aircraft. Concerns regarding the financial stability of certain Eurozone countries, the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a
single currency may have an adverse impact on financial institutions and capital markets in Europe and globally which could impede the ability of our customers to obtain financing to purchase our aircraft and further reduce demand for our products.
In addition, both U.S. and foreign governments and government agencies regulate the aviation industry; they may impose new regulations with additional aircraft security or other requirements or restrictions, including, for example, restrictions
and/or fees related to carbon emissions levels that may adversely impact demand for jets and/or helicopters. A prolonged weakness in the markets for our commercial aircraft products could adversely impact our results of operations and our future
prospects.  Difficult economic conditions could continue to affect the performance of our Finance segment and our credit losses may
increase if we are unable to successfully collect our finance receivables or realize sufficient value from collateral.  The financial
performance of our Finance segment depends on the quality of loans, leases and other assets in its finance asset portfolios. Portfolio quality may be adversely affected by several factors, including finance receivable underwriting procedures,
collateral quality, geographic or industry concentrations, and the effect of general economic conditions on our customers’ businesses. The performance of our liquidating non-captive finance receivable portfolios may be adversely affected by
other variables, including changes in our liquidation strategy, the loss of personnel and changes in external factors affecting the value and/or marketability of our assets. Valuations of the types of collateral securing our Golf Mortgage portfolio,
which we are 
  10 


Table of Contents

continuing to liquidate, has been and may continue to be adversely affected by the market for golf courses in the U.S. and general economic conditions. Valuations of the types of collateral
securing our captive finance portfolio, particularly valuations of used aircraft, have decreased over the past several years and may continue to decrease if weak economic conditions continue. Declining collateral values could result in greater
delinquencies, credit losses and foreclosures if customers elect to discontinue payments on loan balances that exceed asset values or, in the case of assets in our liquidating portfolios, if they are unable to obtain alternative sources of financing
at loan maturity. Bankruptcy proceedings involving our borrowers may prevent or delay our ability to exercise our rights and remedies and realize the full value of our collateral. Significant delay or difficulty in executing the continued
liquidation of our liquidating portfolios and/or substantial losses in any of our finance asset portfolios could negatively impact the ability of our Finance segment to generate the cash necessary to service its debt, including intercompany debt,
resulting in adverse effects on our cash flow, profitability and financial condition.  We may need to obtain financing in order to meet
our debt obligations in the future; such financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all.  We may periodically
need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations as they come due. Although we currently have access to the capital markets, we may not be able to refinance our credit facilities or maturing debt at the time that such financing is
necessary at terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Our ability to access the credit markets, and the cost of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit ratings and current market conditions. Failure to maintain credit ratings
that are acceptable to investors may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain financing. If we cannot obtain adequate sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial
condition could be adversely affected.  Our ability to fund our captive financing activities at economically competitive levels depends
on our ability to borrow and the cost of borrowing in the credit markets.  Our Finance segment’s ability to continue to offer
customer financing for the products that we manufacture, and the long-term viability and profitability of the captive finance business, is largely dependent on our ability to obtain funding at a reasonable cost. This ability and cost, in turn, are
dependent on our credit ratings and are subject to credit market volatility. If we are unable to continue to offer customer financing or if we are unable to offer competitive customer financing, it could negatively impact our Manufacturing
group’s ability to generate sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  Failure to
perform by our subcontractors or suppliers could adversely affect our performance.  We rely on other companies to provide raw
materials, major components and subsystems for our products. Subcontractors also perform services that we provide to our customers in certain circumstances. We depend on these suppliers and subcontractors to meet our contractual obligations to our
customers and conduct our operations.  Our ability to meet our obligations to our customers may be adversely affected if suppliers or
subcontractors do not provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in compliance with customer requirements and in a timely and cost-effective manner. Likewise, the quality of our products may be adversely impacted if
companies to whom we delegate manufacture of major components or subsystems for our products, or from whom we acquire such items, do not provide components or subsystems which meet required specifications and perform to our and our customers’
expectations. Our suppliers may be less likely than us to be able to quickly recover from natural disasters and other events beyond their control and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct
their operations. The risk of these adverse effects may be greater in circumstances where we rely on only one or two subcontractors or suppliers for a particular raw material, product or service. In particular, in the aircraft industry, most vendor
parts are certified by the regulatory agencies as part of the overall Type Certificate for the aircraft being produced by the manufacturer. If a vendor does not or cannot supply its parts, then the manufacturer’s production line may be stopped
until the manufacturer can design, manufacture and certify a similar part itself or identify and certify another similar vendor’s part, resulting in significant delays in the completion of aircraft. Such events may adversely affect our
financial results, damage our reputation and relationships with our customers, and result in regulatory actions and/or litigation.  Our
business could be negatively impacted by information technology security threats and other disruptions.  As a U.S. defense contractor,
we face certain security threats, including threats to our information technology infrastructure and unlawful attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information. Our information technology networks and related systems are critical
to the smooth operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day to day operations. An information technology system failure or breach of data security could disrupt our operations, cause the loss of business information or the
compromise of confidential information, require significant management attention and resources and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we outsource certain support functions, including certain global
information technology infrastructure services, to third-party service providers. Any disruption of such outsourced processes or functions also could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. 
  11 


Table of Contents
Developing new products and technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties.
 To continue to grow our revenues and segment profit, we must successfully develop new products and technologies or modify our existing
products and technologies for our current and future markets. Our future performance depends, in part, on our ability to identify emerging technological trends and customer requirements in our current and future markets and to develop and maintain
competitive products and services. Delays or cost overruns in the development and acceptance of new products, or certification of new aircraft and other products, could affect our financial results of operations. These delays could be caused by
unanticipated technological hurdles, production changes to meet customer demands, unanticipated difficulties in obtaining required regulatory certifications of new aircraft products, coordination with joint venture partners or failure on the part of
our suppliers to deliver components as agreed. Changes in environmental laws and regulations, for example, those enacted in response to climate change concerns and other actions known as “green initiatives,” could lead to the necessity for
new or additional investment in product designs or manufacturing processes and could increase environmental compliance expenditures, including costs to defend regulatory reviews. We also could be adversely affected if the general efficacy of our
research and development investments to develop products is less than expected or if we do not adequately protect the intellectual property developed through our research and development efforts. Likewise, new products and technologies could
generate unanticipated safety or other concerns resulting in expanded product liability risks, potential product recalls and other regulatory issues that could have an adverse impact on us. Furthermore, because of the lengthy research and
development cycle involved in bringing certain of our products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is complete. A reduction in capital spending in the aerospace or defense industries could have a
significant effect on the demand for new products and technologies under development, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the market for our offerings
will develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. A significant failure in our new
product development efforts or the failure of our products or services to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
Our business is subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries.  Our international business, including U.S. exports, exposes us to certain unique and potentially greater risks than our domestic business. Our exposure to such risks increases as our international
business continues to grow. Our international business is subject to U.S. and local government regulations and procurement policies and practices, which may change from time to time, including regulations relating to import-export control;
environmental, health and safety; investments; exchange controls; and repatriation of earnings or cash settlement challenges, as well as to varying currency, geopolitical and economic risks. These international risks may be especially significant
with respect to aerospace and defense products for which we sometimes first must obtain licenses and authorizations from various U.S. Government agencies before we are permitted to sell our products outside the U.S. Any significant impairment of our
ability to sell products outside the U.S. could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, some international government customers require contractors to agree to specific in-country purchases, manufacturing
agreements or financial support arrangements, known as offsets, as a condition for a contract award. The contracts generally extend over several years and may include penalties if we fail to meet the offset requirements, which could adversely impact
our revenues, profitability and cash flows. Additionally, we are facing increasing competition in our international markets from foreign and multinational firms that may have certain home country advantages over us; as a result, our ability to
compete successfully in those markets may be adversely affected, which could negatively impact our profitability.  We maintain manufacturing
facilities, services centers, supply centers and other facilities worldwide, including in various emerging market countries. We also have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, joint venture arrangements in emerging market countries,
some of which may require guaranties or other commitments. We expect that our investment in emerging market countries will continue to increase. Emerging market operations can present many risks in addition to those discussed above, including civil
disturbances, economic and government instability, terrorism and related safety concerns, health concerns, cultural differences in employment and business practices, the imposition of exchange controls and risks associated with inadequate
infrastructures to deal with natural disasters. The impact of any one or more of these or other factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results.  We also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in connection
with international programs. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, any such violation by any of our international representatives, consultants, subcontractors or suppliers, even if prohibited by our policies, could
have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. 
  12 


Table of Contents
We are subject to increasing compliance risks that could adversely affect our operating results.
 As a global business, we are subject to laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. Our increased focus
on international sales and global operations requires importing and exporting goods and technology, some of which have military applications subjecting them to more stringent import-export controls across international borders on a regular basis.
Both U.S. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to us have been increasing in scope and complexity. For example, we could be affected by U.S. or foreign laws or regulations imposed in response to climate change concerns. Likewise, pursuant to
the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, we will be required to report on our use of “conflict minerals” originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo and surrounding countries. Compliance with the proposed rules to implement this
provision of the Dodd-Frank Act is expected to be time-consuming and costly. In addition, these new requirements could affect the cost and availability of minerals used to manufacture certain of our products. Changes in laws and regulations or in
related interpretation and policies and new laws and regulations could increase our costs of doing business, affect how we conduct our operations and limit our ability to sell our products and services. In addition, a violation of U.S. and/or
foreign laws by one of our employees or business partners could subject us or our employees to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions, including denial of import or export privileges and debarment as
a government contractor. These improper actions could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business.  We are subject
to legal proceedings and other claims.  We are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our
business, including proceedings and claims relating to commercial and financial transactions; government contracts; lack of compliance with applicable laws and regulations; production partners; product liability; patent and trademark infringement;
employment disputes; and environmental, safety and health matters. On the basis of information presently available, we do not believe that existing proceedings and claims will have a material effect on our financial position or results of
operations. However, litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could incur judgments or enter into settlements for current or future claims that could adversely affect our financial position or our results of operations in any particular
period.  Intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm
our business and our customers.  Intellectual property infringement claims may be asserted by third parties against us or our
customers. Any related indemnification payments or legal costs we may be obliged to pay on behalf of our businesses, our customers or other third parties could be costly. In addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names, trade
names and trade secrets that are important to our business. The inability to enforce these intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, our intellectual property could be at risk due to various
cyber threats.  Certain of our products are subject to laws regulating consumer products and could be subject to repurchase or recall as
a result of safety issues.  As a distributor of consumer products in the U.S., certain of our products also are subject to the Consumer
Product Safety Act, which empowers the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous. Under certain circumstances, the CPSC could require us to repair, replace or
refund the purchase price of one or more of our products, or potentially even discontinue entire product lines, or we may voluntarily do so, but within strictures recommended by the CPSC. The CPSC also can impose fines or penalties on a manufacturer
for non-compliance with its requirements. Furthermore, failure to timely notify the CPSC of a potential safety hazard can result in significant fines being assessed against us. Any repurchases or recalls of our products or an imposition of fines or
penalties could be costly to us and could damage the reputation or the value of our brands. Additionally, laws regulating certain consumer products exist in some states, as well as in other countries in which we sell our products, and more
restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future.  If we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our various debt
agreements, it may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.  Our credit facility contains
affirmative and negative covenants, including (i) limitations on creation of liens on assets of Textron Inc. or of its manufacturing subsidiaries; (ii) maintenance of existence and properties; and (iii) maintenance of a maximum debt
to capital ratio (as defined and excluding our Finance segment) of 65%. The indentures governing our outstanding senior notes also contain covenants, including limitations on creation of liens on certain principal manufacturing facilities and shares
of stock of subsidiaries that own such facilities and restrictions on sale and leaseback transactions with respect to such facilities. In addition, both the credit facility and the indentures provide that consolidations, mergers or sale of all or
substantially all of our assets may be effected only if we comply with certain provisions. Some of these covenants may limit our ability to engage in certain financing structures, create liens, sell assets, or effect a consolidation or merger.

  13 


Table of Contents
Our credit facility also contains a cross-default provision that would trigger an event of default
thereunder if we fail to pay or otherwise have a continued default under other indebtedness of Textron Inc. or any of our subsidiaries, other than any of our subsidiaries that primarily are engaged in the business of a finance company, of more than
$100 million. Similarly, the supplemental indenture governing our convertible notes contains a cross-default provision that would trigger an event of default thereunder if we fail to pay or otherwise have a continued default under other
indebtedness of Textron Inc. or any of our subsidiaries, other than TFC or its subsidiaries, of more than $100 million. Therefore, Cessna Finance Export Corporation, a subsidiary of Textron Inc. that is the borrower under our Export-Import Bank
facilities, and Textron Aviation Finance Corporation, a subsidiary of Textron Inc. that is the borrower under our Export Development Canada (EDC) facilities, would be included within the cross-default provision of the supplemental indenture for
the convertible notes, although not within the similar provision in our credit facility. As a result, a failure to pay or a continued default under any one or more of these facilities, if related to aggregate outstanding indebtedness of
$100 million or more, could give rise to an event of default with respect to our convertible notes.  In addition, a bankruptcy or
monetary judgment in excess of $100 million against us or any of our subsidiaries that accounts for more than 5% of our consolidated revenues or our consolidated assets, including our finance subsidiaries, also could result in an event of
default under our credit facility, and a bankruptcy against us or any of our non-finance “significant subsidiaries” (within the meaning of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules) also would result in an event of default under
the indenture governing our convertible notes.  Our failure to comply with material provisions or covenants in the credit facility or the
indentures, or the failure of certain of our subsidiaries to comply with their debt agreements, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. 
The increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results. 
Our earnings and cash flow may be adversely impacted by the amount of income or expense we expend or record for employee benefit plans. This is
particularly true for our defined benefit pension plans, where required contributions to those plans and related expenses are driven by, among other things, our assumptions of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate
used for future payment obligations and the rates of future cost growth. Additionally, as part of our annual evaluation of these plans, significant changes in our assumptions, due to changes in economic, legislative and/or demographic experience or
circumstances, or changes in our actual investment returns could impact our unfunded status of the plans requiring us to substantially increase our pension liability with a resulting decrease in shareholders’ equity. Changes in the funded
status of these plans are recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) in the year in which they occur. Also, changes in pension legislation and regulations could increase the cost associated with our defined benefit pension plans.
 In addition, medical costs are rising at a rate faster than the general inflation rate. Continued medical cost inflation in excess of the
general inflation rate would increase the risk that we will not be able to mitigate the rising costs of medical benefits. Moreover, we expect that some of the requirements of the new comprehensive healthcare law will increase our future costs.
Increases to the costs of pension and medical benefits could have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations.  Our
business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor issues.  Approximately 6,200 of our U.S. employees,
or 25% of our total U.S. employees, are unionized, and approximately 2,600 of our non-U.S. employees, or 32% of our total non-U.S. employees, are represented by organized councils. As a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could
negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, resulting in strain on our relationships with our customers and a loss of revenues. In addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in responding to
competitive pressures in the marketplace, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations.  In addition, the
workforces of many of our customers and suppliers are represented by labor unions. Work stoppages or strikes at the plants of our key customers could result in delayed or canceled orders for our products. Work stoppages and strikes at the plants of
our key suppliers could disrupt our manufacturing processes. Any of these results could adversely affect our financial results of operations. 
Currency, raw material price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. 
We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates.
In particular, the uncertainty with respect to the ability of certain European countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations and the related European financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate.
Currency variations also contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. For example, in the event that one or more European countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into such
countries, or into Europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. Accordingly, fluctuations in 
  14 


Table of Contents

foreign currency rates could adversely affect our profitability in future periods. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. In some cases,
we purchase derivatives or enter into contracts to insulate our financial results of operations from these fluctuations. Nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates can have substantial adverse effects on
our financial results of operations.  We may be unable to effectively mitigate pricing pressures. 
In some markets, particularly where we deliver component products and services to original equipment manufacturers, we face ongoing customer demands for
price reductions, which sometimes are contractually obligated. However, if we are unable to effectively mitigate future pricing pressures through technological advances or by lowering our cost base through improved operating and supply chain
efficiencies, our financial results of operations could be adversely affected.  The levels of our reserves are subject to many
uncertainties and may not be adequate to cover write-downs or losses.  We establish reserves to cover uncollectable finance receivables
and accounts receivable, excess or obsolete inventory, fair market value write-downs on used aircraft and golf cars, recall campaigns, environmental remediation, warranty costs and litigation. These reserves are subject to adjustment from time to
time depending on actual experience and/or current market conditions and are subject to many uncertainties, including bankruptcy or other financial problems at key customers, as well as changing market conditions. 
Due to the nature of our manufacturing business, we may be subject to liability claims arising from accidents involving our products, including claims
for serious personal injuries or death caused by climatic factors or by pilot, driver or user error. In the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible
that such matters could be decided against us and could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. In addition, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate and that our insurance
coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more substantial claims. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable levels and costs in the future. 
Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. 
We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and various non-U.S. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the
allocation of income among these different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and
liabilities, changes to unrecognized tax benefits or changes in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income, as well as
changes to applicable statutory tax rates. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability. 
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 
None.  Item 2. Properties
 On December 31, 2011, we operated a total of 59 plants located throughout the U.S. and 48 plants outside the U.S. We own 55 plants
and lease the remainder for a total manufacturing space of approximately 20.7 million square feet.  We also own or lease offices,
warehouses and other space at various locations. We consider the productive capacity of the plants operated by each of our business segments to be adequate. In general, our facilities are in good condition, are considered to be adequate for the uses
to which they are being put and are substantially in regular use.  Item 3. Legal Proceedings 
As previously reported in Textron’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2010, on August 13, 2009, a purported
shareholder class action lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court in Rhode Island against Textron, its then Chairman and former Chief Executive Officer and its former Chief Financial Officer. The suit, filed by the City of Roseville
Employees’ Retirement System, alleged that the defendants violated the federal securities laws by making material misrepresentations or omissions related to Cessna and Textron Financial Corporation (TFC). The complaint sought unspecified
compensatory damages. In December 2009, the Automotive Industries Pension Trust Fund was appointed lead plaintiff in the case. On February 8, 2010, an amended class action complaint was filed with the Court. The amended complaint named as
additional defendants TFC and three of its present and former officers. On April 6, 2010, the court entered a stipulation agreed to by the parties in which plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed, without prejudice, certain causes of action in the
amended complaint. On April 9, 
  15 


Table of Contents

2010, all defendants moved to dismiss the remaining counts of the amended complaint, and on August 24, 2011, the Court granted the motion to dismiss on behalf of all defendants without leave
to amend and entered judgment in favor of all defendants. On September 23, 2011, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal of the dismissal with the First Circuit Court of Appeals, which is currently pending. Oral argument on the appeal has been
scheduled for March 7, 2012.  As previously reported in Textron’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
January 2, 2010, on August 21, 2009, a purported class action lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court in Rhode Island by Dianne Leach, an alleged participant in the Textron Savings Plan. Six additional substantially similar
class action lawsuits were subsequently filed by other individuals. The complaints varyingly name Textron and certain present and former employees, officers and directors as defendants. These lawsuits allege that the defendants violated the United
States Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) by imprudently permitting participants in the Textron Savings Plan to invest in Textron common stock. The complaints seek equitable relief and unspecified compensatory damages. On
February 2, 2010, an amended class action complaint was filed consolidating the seven previous lawsuits into a single complaint. On March 19, 2010, all defendants moved to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint, and on
September 6, 2011, the Court granted the motion to dismiss in part and denied the motion in part. Specifically, the Court ruled that plaintiffs failed to plead sufficient allegations to support any claim that defendants made material
misrepresentations that would be actionable under ERISA, but permitted the remainder of the Amended Complaint to survive the pleadings stage. On September 20, 2011, all defendants moved for partial reconsideration of the Court’s decision
not to dismiss the Amended Complaint. On December 5, 2011, the Court denied the motion for partial reconsideration without rendering a decision on the merits of the issues raised therein, and the parties are currently engaged in discovery.
 As previously reported in Textron’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2010, on November 18,
2009, a purported derivative lawsuit was filed by John D. Walker in the United States District Court of Rhode Island against certain present and former officers and directors of Textron. The suit alleged violations of the federal securities laws
consistent with the Roseville action described above, as well as breach of fiduciary duties, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment. On February 16, 2010, all defendants moved to dismiss the derivative complaint, and on
September 13, 2011, the Court granted the motion to dismiss on behalf of all defendants without leave to amend and entered judgment in favor of all defendants. Plaintiffs have not filed an appeal of the dismissal with the First Circuit Court of
Appeals, and the deadline for them to do so expired on October 13, 2011.  Textron believes that these lawsuits are without merit and
intends to defend them vigorously.  On February 7, 2012, a lawsuit was filed in the United States Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of
Ohio, Eastern Division (Akron) by Brian A. Bash, Chapter 7 Trustee for Fair Finance Company against TFC, Fortress Credit Corp. and Fair Facility I, LLC. TFC provided a revolving line of credit of up to $17.5 million to Fair Finance Company from 2002
through 2007. The complaint alleges numerous counts against TFC, as Fair Finance Company’s working capital lender, including receipt of fraudulent transfers and assisting in fraud perpetrated on Fair Finance investors. The Trustee seeks
avoidance and recovery of alleged fraudulent transfers in the amount of $316 million as well as damages of $223 million on the other claims. The Trustee also seeks trebled damages on all claims under Ohio law. This action was filed very recently;
therefore, we are still in the process of reviewing the complaint and assessing these claims. We intend to vigorously defend this lawsuit. An estimate of a range of possible loss cannot be made as of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
because of the early stage of the litigation.  We also are subject to other actual and threatened legal proceedings and other claims arising
out of the conduct of our business. These proceedings include claims relating to commercial and financial transactions; government contracts; alleged lack of compliance with applicable laws and regulations; production partners; product liability;
patent and trademark infringement; employment disputes; and environmental, health and safety matters. Some of these legal proceedings seek damages, fines or penalties in substantial amounts or remediation of environmental contamination. Under
federal government procurement regulations, certain claims brought by the U.S. Government could result in our suspension or debarment from U.S. Government contracting for a period of time. On the basis of information presently available, we do not
believe that existing proceedings and claims will have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations.  Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures  Not applicable. 
  16 


Table of Contents
PART II  Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  The principal market on which our common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “TXT.” At December 31, 2011, there were approximately 13,223 record holders of
Textron common stock. The high and low sales prices per share of our common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange and the dividends paid per share are provided in the following table: 
 




























  
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

  
  
High
 
  
Low
 
  
Dividendsper Share
 
  
High
 
  
Low
 
  
Dividendsper Share
 

 First quarter
  
$
28.87
  
  
$
23.50
  
  
$
0.02
  
  
$
23.46
  
  
$
17.96
  
  
$
0.02
  

 Second quarter
  
 
28.65
  
  
 
20.86
  
  
 
0.02
  
  
 
25.30
  
  
 
15.88
  
  
 
0.02
  

 Third quarter
  
 
25.17
  
  
 
14.66
  
  
 
0.02
  
  
 
21.52
  
  
 
16.02
  
  
 
0.02
  

 Fourth quarter
  
 
  20.41
  
  
 
  16.37
  
  
 
  0.02
  
  
 
  24.18
  
  
 
  19.92
  
  
 
0.02
  
 Stock Performance Graph  The following graph compares the total return on a cumulative basis at the end of each year of $100 invested in our common stock on December 31, 2006 with the Standard & Poor’s
(S&P) 500 Stock Index, the S&P 500 Aerospace & Defense (A&D) Index and the S&P Industrial Conglomerates (IC) Index. We are included in both the S&P 500 and the S&P IC indices. The values calculated assume dividend
reinvestment.    

  




























  
  
2006
 
  
2007
 
  
2008
 
  
2009
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 

 Textron Inc.
  
$
100.00
  
  
$
154.43
  
  
$
30.95
  
  
$
42.31
  
  
$
53.38
  
  
$
41.92
  

 S&P 500
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
105.49
  
  
 
66.46
  
  
 
84.05
  
  
 
96.71
  
  
 
98.76
  

 S&P 500 A&D
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
119.32
  
  
 
75.72
  
  
 
94.38
  
  
 
  108.64
  
  
 
  114.37
  

 S&P 500 IC
  
 
  100.00
  
  
 
  104.35
  
  
 
  50.61
  
  
 
  55.75
  
  
 
66.17
  
  
 
66.64
  

  17 


Table of Contents
Item 6. Selected Financial Data 
 
























(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Revenues
  



 



 



 



 




 Cessna
  
$
2,990
  
 
$
2,563
  
 
$
3,320
  
 
$
5,662
  
 
$
5,000
  

 Bell
  
 
3,525
  
 
 
3,241
  
 
 
2,842
  
 
 
2,827
  
 
 
2,581
  

 Textron Systems
  
 
1,872
  
 
 
1,979
  
 
 
1,899
  
 
 
1,880
  
 
 
1,114
  

 Industrial
  
 
2,785
  
 
 
2,524
  
 
 
2,078
  
 
 
2,918
  
 
 
2,825
  

 Finance
  
 
103
  
 
 
218
  
 
 
361
  
 
 
723
  
 
 
875
  

 Total revenues
  
$
11,275
  
 
$
10,525
  
 
$
10,500
  
 
$
14,010
  
 
$
12,395
  

 Segment profit
  



 



 



 



 




 Cessna
  
$
60
  
 
$
(29
) 
 
$
198
  
 
$
905
  
 
$
865
  

 Bell
  
 
521
  
 
 
427
  
 
 
304
  
 
 
278
  
 
 
144
  

 Textron Systems
  
 
141
  
 
 
230
  
 
 
240
  
 
 
251
  
 
 
174
  

 Industrial
  
 
202
  
 
 
162
  
 
 
27
  
 
 
67
  
 
 
173
  

 Finance (a)
  
 
(333
) 
 
 
(237
) 
 
 
(294
) 
 
 
(50
) 
 
 
222
  

 Total segment profit
  
 
591
  
 
 
553
  
 
 
475
  
 
 
1,451
  
 
 
1,578
  

 Special charges (b)
  
 
—
  
 
 
(190
) 
 
 
(317
) 
 
 
(526
) 
 
 
—
  

 Corporate expenses and other, net
  
 
(114
) 
 
 
(137
) 
 
 
(164
) 
 
 
(171
) 
 
 
(257
) 

 Interest expense, net for Manufacturing group
  
 
(140
) 
 
 
(140
) 
 
 
(143
) 
 
 
(125
) 
 
 
(87
) 

 Income tax benefit (expense)
  
 
(95
) 
 
 
6
  
 
 
76
  
 
 
(305
) 
 
 
(368
) 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
$
242
  
 
$
92
  
 
$
(73
) 
 
$
324
  
 
$
866
  

 Per share of common stock
  



 



 



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations — basic
  
$
0.87
  
 
$
0.33
  
 
$
(0.28
) 
 
$
1.32
  
 
$
3.47
  

 Income (loss) from continuing operations — diluted (c)
  
$
0.79
  
 
$
0.30
  
 
$
(0.28
) 
 
$
1.29
  
 
$
3.40
  

 Dividends declared
  
$
0.08
  
 
$
0.08
  
 
$
0.08
  
 
$
0.92
  
 
$
0.85
  

 Book value at year-end
  
$
9.84
  
 
$
10.78
  
 
$
10.38
  
 
$
9.75
  
 
$
13.99
  

 Common stock price: High
  
$
28.87
  
 
$
25.30
  
 
$
21.00
  
 
$
71.69
  
 
$
74.40
  


                        
            Low
  
$
14.66
  
 
$
15.88
  
 
$
3.57
  
 
$
10.09
  
 
$
43.60
  


                        
            Year-end
  
$
18.49
  
 
$
23.64
  
 
$
18.81
  
 
$
15.37
  
 
$
71.62
  

 Common shares outstanding (In thousands) 
  



 



 



 



 




 Basic average
  
 
277,684
  
 
 
274,452
  
 
 
262,923
  
 
 
246,208
  
 
 
249,792
  

 Diluted average (c)
  
 
307,255
  
 
 
302,555
  
 
 
262,923
  
 
 
250,338
  
 
 
254,826
  

 Year-end
  
 
278,873
  
 
 
275,739
  
 
 
272,272
  
 
 
242,041
  
 
 
250,061
  

 Financial position
  



 



 



 



 




 Total assets
  
$
13,615
  
 
$
15,282
  
 
$
18,940
  
 
$
20,031
  
 
$
20,002
  

 Manufacturing group debt
  
$
2,459
  
 
$
2,302
  
 
$
3,584
  
 
$
2,569
  
 
$
2,146
  

 Finance group debt
  
$
1,974
  
 
$
3,660
  
 
$
5,667
  
 
$
7,388
  
 
$
7,311
  

 Shareholders’ equity
  
$
2,745
  
 
$
2,972
  
 
$
2,826
  
 
$
2,366
  
 
$
3,507
  

 Manufacturing group debt-to-capital (net of cash)
  
 
37
% 
 
 
32
% 
 
 
39
% 
 
 
46
% 
 
 
32
% 

 Manufacturing group debt-to-capital
  
 
47
% 
 
 
44
% 
 
 
56
% 
 
 
52
% 
 
 
38
% 

 Investment data
  



 



 



 



 




 Capital expenditures
  
$
423
  
 
$
270
  
 
$
238
  
 
$
545
  
 
$
379
  

 Depreciation
  
$
343
  
 
$
334
  
 
$
344
  
 
$
331
  
 
$
284
  
  


(a)
For 2011, segment profit includes a $186 million initial mark-to-market adjustment for remaining finance receivables in the Golf Mortgage portfolio that were
transferred to the held for sale classification.   


(b)
Special charges include restructuring charges of $99 million, $237 million and $64 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, primarily related to severance and
asset impairment charges. In 2010, special charges also include a $91 million non-cash pre-tax charge to reclassify a foreign exchange loss from equity to the income statement as a result of substantially liquidating a Finance segment entity. In
2009, special charges include a goodwill impairment charge of $80 million in the Industrial segment. In 2008, special charges include charges related to strategic actions taken in the Finance segment to exit portions of the commercial finance
business, including an impairment charge of $169 million for unrecoverable goodwill and the initial valuation allowance adjustment of $293 million related to the designation of a portion of finance receivables as held for sale.
  


(c)
For 2009, the potential dilutive effect of stock options, restricted stock units and the shares that could be issued upon the conversion of our convertibles notes
and upon the exercise of the related warrants was excluded from the computation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding as the shares would have an anti-dilutive effect on the loss from continuing operations. 
  18 


Table of Contents
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  
















(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Revenues
  
$
  11,275
  
  
$
  10,525
  
  
$
  10,500
  

 Operating expenses:
  



  



  




 Manufacturing cost of sales
  
 
9,308
  
  
 
8,605
  
  
 
8,468
  

 Selling and administrative expenses
  
 
1,183
  
  
 
1,231
  
  
 
1,338
  

 Net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations for Manufacturing group
  
 
761
  
  
 
730
  
  
 
738
  

 Diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations
  
 
0.79
  
  
 
0.30
  
  
 
(0.28
) 
 2011 was a solid year for Textron with revenue and segment profit growth of 7% and an increase in diluted EPS from
continuing operations of 163%. Volume increased in most of our businesses, led by higher revenues at Cessna and military sales at Bell. During 2011, we continued to emphasize product development to position our businesses for future growth, which
was evident from a 30% increase in our company-funded research and development expenditures. An analysis of our consolidated operating results is provided below and a more detailed analysis of our segments’ operating results is provided in the
Segment Analysis section on pages 22 to 31.  Revenues   
















(Dollars in millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Revenues
  
$
11,275
  
 
$
10,525
  
 
$
10,500
  

 % change compared with prior period
  
 
7
% 
 
 
—
% 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues increased $750 million, 7%, in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily due to an 8% increase in Manufacturing
revenues with increases in the Cessna, Bell, and Industrial segments that were partially offset by lower revenues in the Textron Systems segment. The net revenue increase included the following factors: 
 


 
•
 
 Higher Cessna revenues of $427 million, primarily due to higher volume, largely due to the impact of higher Citation jet volume and the mix of light-
and mid-size jets sold during the period;   


 
•
 
 Higher Bell revenues of $284 million, largely due to higher volume in our military programs, which included more deliveries of V-22 and H-1 aircraft;
and   


 
•
 
 Increased Industrial segment revenues of $261 million, primarily due to higher volume of $138 million, mostly reflecting higher automotive industry
demand, and a favorable foreign exchange impact of $77 million, largely related to strengthening of the euro; partially offset by   


 
•
 
 Lower revenues at the Finance segment of $115 million, primarily attributable to the lower average finance receivable portfolio balance resulting from
continued liquidation; and   


 
•
 
 Lower Textron Systems revenues of $107 million, primarily due to $140 million in lower volume in the UAS and Mission Support and Other product lines,
partially offset by higher volume in the Land & Marine and Weapons and Sensors product lines of $28 million. 
Revenues increased $25 million in 2010, compared with 2009. This increase was due to significant revenue increases in the Industrial, Bell and Textron
Systems segments that were largely offset by lower revenues in the Cessna and Finance segments. The net revenue increase included the following factors:   


 
•
 
 Higher revenues of $446 million in the Industrial segment, largely due to higher volume reflecting improvements in the automotive industry;
  


 
•
 
 Higher Bell revenues of $399 million, primarily due to higher V-22 and H-1 volume and improved pricing in its commercial business; and
  


 
•
 
 Increased Textron Systems’ revenues of $80 million, primarily due to higher UAS volume; partially offset by 
 


 
•
 
 Lower revenues at Cessna of $757 million, primarily due to lower Citation jet volume; and 
 


 
•
 
 Reduced Finance segment revenues of $143 million, largely due to lower average finance receivables resulting from the continued liquidation.

  19 


Table of Contents
Cost of Sales and Selling and Administrative Expense 
 
















(Dollars in millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Operating expenses
  
$
  10,491
  
 
$
  9,836
  
 
$
  9,806
  

 % change compared with prior period
  
 
7
% 
 
 
—
% 
 




 Cost of sales
  
$
9,308
  
 
$
8,605
  
 
$
8,468
  

 % change compared with prior period
  
 
8
% 
 
 
2
% 
 




 Gross margin as a percentage of Manufacturing revenues
  
 
16.7
% 
 
 
16.5
% 
 
 
16.5
% 

 Selling and administrative expenses
  
$
1,183
  
 
$
1,231
  
 
$
1,338
  

 % change compared with prior period
  
 
(4
)% 
 
 
(8
)% 
 
 
 
 
 Manufacturing cost of sales and selling and administrative expenses together comprise our operating expenses. Changes in
operating expenses are more fully discussed in our Segment Analysis below.  Consolidated manufacturing cost of sales as a percentage of
Manufacturing revenues was 83.3% and 83.5% in 2011 and 2010, respectively. On a dollar basis, consolidated cost of sales increased $703 million, 8%, in 2011, principally due to higher sales volume in the Cessna, Bell and Industrial segments. In
2011, gross margin increased as a percentage of revenues primarily due to favorable product mix and improved leverage and manufacturing efficiencies on higher volume at Cessna and Bell. These improvements were partially offset by a $64 million
increase in engineering and development expenses throughout our manufacturing businesses and $60 million in charges at Textron Systems related to the impairment of certain intangible assets and severance costs. In 2011, on a consolidated basis,
selling and administrative expense decreased $48 million, 4%, to $1.2 billion, compared with 2010, primarily due to $44 million in lower operating expense at the Finance segment, largely reflecting progress towards our exit from the non-captive
commercial finance business, and a $23 million decrease in corporate expense, primarily due to the impact of changes in our stock price on compensation expense. These decreases were partially offset by higher bid and proposal costs at Textron
Systems in 2011.  In 2010 and 2009, cost of sales as a percentage of Manufacturing revenues remained flat at 83.5%. On a dollar basis, cost of
sales increased $137 million, 2%, in 2010, compared with 2009, principally due to the net sales volume changes in the Industrial, Bell and Cessna segments described above, as well as higher pension costs and inflation. In 2010, favorable conversion
costs in the Bell and Industrial segments, resulting from improved leverage and manufacturing efficiencies on higher volumes, were offset by increased conversion costs at Cessna. Conversion costs increased at Cessna as cost reduction activities,
including workforce reductions and facility consolidations, did not fully offset the impact of lower production volumes. In 2010, selling and administrative expense decreased $107 million, 8%, to $1.2 billion, compared with 2009, primarily due to
$41 million in lower expenses in the Finance segment reflecting lower compensation and related costs due to headcount reductions associated with our exit from the non-captive commercial finance business, $39 million of lower commissions primarily
resulting from lower Cessna sales volume, and $27 million lower corporate expenses.  Interest Expense 
 
















(Dollars in millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Interest expense
  
$
    246
  
 
$
    270
  
 
$
    309
  

 % change compared with prior period
  
 
(9
)% 
 
 
(13
)% 
 
 
 
 
 Interest expense on the Consolidated Statement of Operations includes interest for both the Finance and Manufacturing
borrowing groups with interest related to intercompany borrowings eliminated. Interest expense for the Finance segment is included within segment profit and includes intercompany interest.  Our consolidated interest expense decreased $24 million, 9%, in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily due to a decrease for the Finance group, largely due to the reduction in its debt as it liquidates the
non-captive portfolio. In 2010, consolidated interest expense decreased $39 million, 13%, compared with 2009, primarily due to a $63 million decrease for the Finance group, largely due to the reduction in its debt as it liquidates the non-captive
portfolio. This decrease was partially offset by higher interest expense for the Manufacturing group of $24 million, primarily due to the full-year impact in 2010 of convertible notes issued in May 2009. 
  20 


Table of Contents
Provision for Losses on Finance Receivables 
 
















(Dollars in millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Provision for losses on finance receivables
  
$
    12
  
 
$
    143
  
 
$
    267
  

 % change compared with prior period
  
 
(92
)% 
 
 
(46
)% 
 
 
 
 
 The provision for loan losses decreased $131 million in 2011 from 2010 primarily due to a decline in new troubled
accounts in the Finance segment’s non-captive portfolio during 2011 and a $36 million reversal of the allowance for losses related to one significant Timeshare account. In 2010, the provision decreased $124 million from 2009, primarily due to a
decline in the accounts identified as nonaccrual during the year.  Valuation Allowance on Transfer of Golf Mortgage Portfolio to Held for
Sale  On a periodic basis, we evaluate our liquidation strategy for the non-captive finance portfolios as we continue to execute our exit
plan. In connection with this evaluation, we also review our definition of the foreseeable future. Due to the relative stability of the golf market through the end of 2011, we believe that the foreseeable future now can be extended to a
period of one to two years as opposed to the six- to nine-month period we previously used. Based on this change, in the fourth quarter of 2011, we determined that we no longer had the intent to hold the remaining Golf Mortgage portfolio for
investment for the foreseeable future, and, accordingly, transferred $458 million of the remaining Golf Mortgage finance receivables, net of an $80 million allowance for loan losses, from the held for investment classification to the held for sale
classification. These finance receivables were recorded at fair value at the time of the transfer, resulting in a $186 million charge recorded to Valuation allowance on transfer of Golf Mortgage portfolio to held for sale.
Special Charges  There were no amounts
recorded within special charges in 2011. In 2010 and 2009, special charges included restructuring charges related to a global restructuring program that totaled $99 million and $237 million, respectively, primarily related to severance costs and
asset impairment charges. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we initiated a restructuring program to reduce overhead costs and improve productivity across the company and announced the exit of portions of our commercial finance business. This
restructuring program primarily included corporate and segment direct and indirect workforce reductions and the closure and consolidation of certain operations throughout the company. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we initiated the final series of
restructuring actions under this program, which included workforce reductions in the Bell, Textron Systems and Industrial segments and at Corporate, along with the decision to exit a plant in the Industrial segment. Upon the completion of this
program at the end of 2010, we had terminated approximately 12,100 positions worldwide representing approximately 28% of our global workforce since the inception of the program and had exited 30 leased and owned facilities and plants. 
In 2010, special charges also included a $91 million non-cash pre-tax charge to reclassify a foreign exchange loss from equity to the Statement of
Operations as a result of substantially liquidating a Canadian Finance entity. In 2009, special charges also include a goodwill impairment charge of $80 million in the Industrial segment.  Other Losses (Gains), net  In 2011, other losses (gains), net includes $55 million in
losses on the early extinguishment of a portion of our convertible notes which was largely offset by a $52 million gain from the collection on notes receivable in connection with the disposition of the Fluid & Power business in 2008 as
discussed in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2009, we recorded a $50 million gain on the sale of assets related to CESCOM. 
Income Tax Expense (Benefit)  Our
effective rate was 28.1% in 2011, (6.4)% in 2010 and (51.0)% in 2009, and generally differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due to certain earnings from our operations in lower-tax jurisdictions throughout the world. The jurisdictions
with favorable tax rates that have the most significant effective rate impact in the periods presented include primarily Canada and China. We have not provided for U.S. taxes for those earnings because we plan to reinvest all of those earnings
indefinitely outside of the United States. Our effective rate will fluctuate based on the mix of earnings from our U.S. and foreign operations. For a full reconciliation of our effective rate to the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% see Note 14 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  21 


Table of Contents
Segment Analysis  We operate in, and report financial information for, the following five business segments: Cessna, Bell, Textron Systems, Industrial and Finance. Segment profit is an important measure used for evaluating
performance and for decision-making purposes. Segment profit for the manufacturing segments excludes interest expense, certain corporate expenses and special charges. The measurement for the Finance segment excludes special charges and includes
interest income and expense along with intercompany interest expense.  In our discussion of comparative results for the Manufacturing group,
changes in revenue and segment profit typically are expressed for our commercial business in terms of volume, pricing, foreign exchange and acquisitions. Additionally, changes in segment profit may be expressed in terms of mix, inflation and cost
performance. Volume changes in revenue represent increases/decreases in the number of units delivered or services provided. Pricing represents changes in unit pricing. Foreign exchange is the change resulting from translating foreign-denominated
amounts into U.S. dollars at exchange rates that are different from the prior period. Acquisitions refer to the results generated from businesses that were acquired within the previous 12 months. For segment profit, mix represents a change due to
the composition of products and/or services sold at different profit margins. Inflation represents higher material, wages, benefits, pension or other costs. Cost performance reflects an increase or decrease in research and development, depreciation,
selling and administrative costs, warranty, product liability, quality/scrap, labor efficiency, overhead, product line profitability, start-up, ramp up and cost-reduction initiatives or other manufacturing inputs. 
Approximately 31% of our revenues were derived from contracts with the U.S. Government. For our segments that have significant contracts with the U.S.
Government, we typically express changes in segment profit related to the government business in terms of volume, changes in program performance or changes in contract mix. Changes in volume that are discussed in net sales typically drive
corresponding changes in our segment profit based on the profit rate for a particular contract. Changes in program performance typically relate to profit recognition associated with revisions to total estimated costs at completion that reflect
improved or deteriorated operating performance or award fee rates. Changes in contract mix refers to changes in operating margin due to a change in the relative volume of contracts with higher or lower fee rates such that the overall average margin
rate for the segment changes.  Cessna   
























 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
% Change
 

(Dollars in millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Revenues
  
$
2,990
  
 
$
2,563
  
 
$
3,320
  
 
 
17
% 
 
 
(23
)% 

 Operating expenses
  
 
2,930
  
 
 
2,592
  
 
 
3,122
  
 
 
13
% 
 
 
(17
)% 

 Segment profit (loss)
  
 
60
  
 
 
(29
) 
 
 
198
  
 
 
307
% 
 
 
(115
)% 

 Profit margin
  
 
2
% 
 
 
(1
)% 
 
 
6
% 
 



 


 

 Backlog
  
$
  1,889
  
 
$
  2,928
  
 
$
  4,893
  
 
 
(35
)% 
 
 
(40
)% 
 Cessna Revenues and Operating Expenses  Factors contributing to the 2011 year-over-year revenue change are provided below:   








(In millions)
 

2011 versus 2010
 

 Volume
 
$
419
  

 Other
 
 
8
  

 Total change
 
$
427
  
 Cessna’s revenues increased $427 million, 17%, in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily due to higher Citation jet
volume and the mix of light- and mid-size jets sold during the period, which had a $262 million impact, higher pre-owned aircraft volume of $76 million reflecting improved market demand and higher aftermarket volume of $62 million, in part due to
continued investment in additional service offerings. We delivered 183 Citation jets in 2011, compared with 179 jets in 2010. During 2011, the portion of Cessna’s revenue derived from aftermarket sales and services represented 24% of
Cessna’s revenues, compared with 26% in the corresponding period of 2010. 
  22 


Table of Contents
Cessna’s operating expenses increased by $338 million, 13%, in 2011, compared with 2010, principally
due to higher sales volume, which resulted in a $271 million increase in direct material costs and a $27 million increase in manufacturing overhead. Operating expenses also increased due to higher engineering and development expenses of $28 million,
primarily due to new product development. Cost inflation was offset by a $45 million favorable benefit related to the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method of accounting for inventories. In 2011, Cessna had a LIFO benefit of $22 million resulting from
operational improvements that led to a reduction in inventory levels, compared with expense of $23 million in 2010.  Factors contributing to
the 2010 year-over-year revenue change are provided below:   








(In millions)
  
2010 versus         
   2009
 

 Volume
  
$
(798
) 

 Other
  
 
41
  

 Total change
  
$
(757
) 
 Cessna’s revenues decreased $757 million, 23%, in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to lower volume of
Citation jets, reflecting the continued downturn in the business jet market attributable to the economic recession. We delivered 179 Citation jets in 2010, compared with 289 jets in 2009. Increased aircraft utilization and our investment in
additional service capacity during 2010 contributed to increased aftermarket volume as Cessna’s aftermarket revenues increased by $80 million, 14%, from 2009.  Operating expenses decreased by $530 million, 17%, in 2010, compared with 2009, largely due to a decline in direct material and labor costs, principally as a result of the reduced volume. During 2010,
Cessna’s cost reduction activities were not able to fully offset the lower volume.  Cessna Segment Profit (Loss) 
Factors contributing to 2011 year-over-year segment profit change are provided below: 
 






(In millions)
 

2011 versus             2010

 Volume
 
$              85

 Other
 
4

 Total change
 
$              89
 Cessna’s segment profit increased $89 million in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily due to higher volume of $85
million. Segment profit was also impacted by the following contributing factors included within the Other line:   


 
•
 
 $28 million in higher engineering and development expenses, primarily due to new product development; 
 


 
•
 
 $22 million in cost improvements realized during the period, which were driven by factory efficiencies due to higher production volume; and
  


 
•
 
 $16 million in lower pre-owned aircraft write-downs.  In addition, cost inflation was offset by a $45 million favorable LIFO benefit discussed above. 
Factors contributing to 2010 year-over-year segment profit change are provided below: 
 








(In millions)
  
2010 versus         
   2009
 

 Volume
  
$
(253
) 

 Performance
  
 
95
  

 Sale of CESCOM assets
  
 
(50
) 

 Inflation, net of pricing
  
 
(19
) 

 Total change
  
$
(227
) 

  23 


Table of Contents
Cessna’s segment profit decreased $227 million, 115%, in 2010, compared with 2009, due to the $253
million impact from lower volume, a nonrecurring $50 million gain on the 2009 sale of CESCOM assets and $19 million of inflation, net of higher pricing, partially offset by improved performance of $95 million. The improved performance included the
following contributing factors:   


 
•
 
 $57 million in lower engineering, selling and administrative expenses; 
 


 
•
 
 $48 million in lower inventory reserves and pre-owned aircraft write-downs; and 
 


 
•
 
 $19 million in lower tooling costs; partially offset by 
 


 
•
 
 $49 million in lower deposit forfeiture income due to fewer order cancellations in 2010. 
Cessna Backlog  Cessna’s backlog
decreased $1.0 billion, 35%, in 2011 and $2.0 billion, 40%, in 2010, mainly attributable to deliveries in excess of new orders and canceled Citation jet orders.  Bell 
























  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
% Change
 

(Dollars in millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
  2011
 
 
2010
 

 Revenues:
  



 



 



 



 


 

 V-22 program
  
$
  1,380
  
 
$
  1,155
  
 
$
925
  
 
 
19
% 
 
 
25
% 

 Other military
  
 
919
  
 
 
845
  
 
 
722
  
 
 
9
% 
 
 
17
% 

 Commercial
  
 
1,226
  
 
 
1,241
  
 
 
1,195
  
 
 
(1
)% 
 
 
4
% 

 Total revenues
  
 
3,525
  
 
 
3,241
  
 
 
2,842
  
 
 
9
% 
 
 
14
% 

 Operating expenses
  
 
3,004
  
 
 
2,814
  
 
 
2,538
  
 
 
7
% 
 
 
11
% 

 Segment profit
  
 
521
  
 
 
427
  
 
 
304
  
 
 
22
% 
 
 
40
% 

 Profit margin
  
 
15
% 
 
 
13
% 
 
 
11
% 
 



 


 

 Backlog
  
$
7,346
  
 
$
6,473
  
 
$
  6,192
  
 
 
13
% 
 
 
5
% 
 Bell manufactures helicopters, tiltrotor aircraft, and related spare parts and provides services for military and/or
commercial markets. Bell’s major U.S. Government programs at this time are the V-22 tiltrotor aircraft and the H-1 helicopters, which are both in the production stage and represent a significant portion of Bell’s revenues from the U.S.
Government. During 2011, we have continued to ramp up production and deliveries to meet customer schedule requirements for these programs. 
Bell Revenues and Operating Expenses 
Factors contributing to the 2011 year-over-year revenue change are provided below: 
 






(In millions)
 

2011 versus  2010 

 Volume
 
$        258 

 Other
 
26 

 Total change
 
$        284 
 Bell’s revenues increased $284 million, 9%, in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily due to higher volume, which
included the following factors:   


 
•
 
 $225 million increase in volume related to the V-22 program, primarily reflecting higher deliveries. Bell delivered 34 V-22 aircraft in 2011, compared
with 26 deliveries in 2010;   


 
•
 
 $74 million increase in other military volume, primarily reflecting higher H-1 deliveries, with 25 H-1 aircraft delivered in 2011, compared with 18
aircraft in 2010; this increase is net of a $55 million decrease in aftermarket volume, largely due to the completion of several non-recurring programs in 2010; and a 
 


 
•
 
 $41 million decrease in commercial volume, primarily reflecting lower deliveries. Bell delivered 125 commercial aircraft in 2011, compared with 131
aircraft in 2010. 
  24 


Table of Contents
Bell’s operating expenses increased $190 million, 7%, in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily due to
higher sales volume discussed above, partially offset by improved cost performance. Improved cost performance was primarily related to our military programs due to efficiencies realized through our production ramp-up as described below.
 Factors contributing to the 2010 year-over-year revenue change are provided below: 
 








(In millions)
  
 2010 versus
2009
 

 Volume
  
$
332
  

 Other
  
 
67
  

 Total change
  
$
399
  
 Bell’s revenues increased $399 million, 14%, in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to higher volume, which
included the following factors:   


 
•
 
 $230 million increase in volume related to the V-22 program, primarily reflecting higher deliveries. Bell delivered 26 V-22 aircraft in 2010, compared
with 20 deliveries in 2009;   


 
•
 
 $113 million increase in other military volume, primarily reflecting higher H-1 deliveries, with 18 H-1 aircraft delivered in 2010, compared with 9
deliveries in 2009; this increase is net of a $28 million impact from revenues recognized in 2009 on the canceled Armed Reconnaissance Helicopter Program; and an 
 


 
•
 
 $11 million decrease in commercial volume, largely related to lower commercial aircraft deliveries. Bell delivered 131 commercial aircraft in 2010,
compared with 153 aircraft in 2009.  Commercial revenues increased despite lower volume, largely due to improved pricing in
2010, which is included in the Other line.  Bell’s operating expenses increased 11% in 2010 from 2009, primarily due to the higher net
sales volume, partially offset by improved cost performance. Improved performance was primarily related to the V-22 and H-1 programs and unfavorable adjustments recorded in 2009 for the 429 program as discussed below, partially offset by $14 million
in higher research and development costs.  Bell Segment Profit  Factors contributing to 2011 year-over-year segment profit change are provided below:   






(In millions)
 

2011 versus   2010  

 Performance
 
$        109  

 Pricing, net of inflation
 
7  

 Volume and mix
 
(22) 

 Total change
 
$          94  
 Bell’s segment profit increased $94 million, 22%, in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily due to improved program
performance of $109 million, partially offset by an unfavorable mix of military and commercial aircraft sold during the period. Bell’s improved performance included the following: 
 


 
•
 
 $122 million resulting from improved manufacturing efficiencies in our military programs, resulting from efficiencies realized in connection with the
ramp up of production lines; partially offset by a   


 
•
 
 $30 million unfavorable net change in program profit adjustments; this change was largely due to a $21 million adjustment recognized in 2010 related to
the recognition of profit on the H-1 and V-22 programs for reimbursement of prior year costs. 
  25 


Table of Contents
Factors contributing to 2010 year-over-year segment profit change are provided below: 
 








(In millions)
  
 2010 versus
2009
 

 Performance
  
$
106
  

 Pricing, net of inflation
  
 
23
  

 Other
  
 
(6
) 

 Total change
  
$
123
  
 Bell’s segment profit increased $123 million, 40%, in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to improved
performance of $106 million and higher pricing, net of inflation of $23 million. Sales volume did not have a significant net impact on segment profit due to the mix of commercial and military aircraft sold. The improved performance was largely due
to the following factors:   


 
•
 
 $73 million attributable to the V-22 and H-1 programs, resulting from a $38 million favorable impact from efficiencies realized in connection with the
ramp-up of production lines, $21 million in profit recognized in the second quarter of 2010 related to the reimbursement of prior year costs and $14 million of lower material costs; and an 
 


 
•
 
 $18 million net improvement from unfavorable adjustments recorded in 2009 for the 429 program that did not occur in 2010; partially offset by
  


 
•
 
 $14 million in higher research and development costs.  Bell Backlog  Bell’s backlog increased $873 million in 2011, 13%, reflecting orders in
excess of deliveries. In 2010, Bell’s backlog increased $281 million, 5%, largely related to the V-22 and H-1 programs, partially offset by a decline in commercial backlog reflecting deliveries in excess of new orders. 
Textron Systems   
























  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
% Change
 

(Dollars in millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Revenues
  
$
    1,872
  
 
$
    1,979
  
 
$
    1,899
  
 
 
(5
)% 
 
 
4
% 

 Operating expenses
  
 
1,731
  
 
 
1,749
  
 
 
1,659
  
 
 
(1
)% 
 
 
5
% 

 Segment profit
  
 
141
  
 
 
230
  
 
 
240
  
 
 
(39
)% 
 
 
(4
)% 

 Profit margin
  
 
8
% 
 
 
12
% 
 
 
13
% 
 



 


 

 Backlog
  
$
1,337
  
 
$
1,598
  
 
$
1,664
  
 
 
(16
)% 
 
 
(4
)% 
 As Textron Systems sells many of its products to the U.S. Government, its business environment continues to be shaped by
policy and budget decisions determined by the U.S. Government. Recent actions of the President and Congress indicate an ongoing emphasis on federal budget deficit reduction, and budget decisions by the President and Congress may considerably reduce
discretionary spending, of which defense constitutes a significant share. Based on the continued deterioration of this environment, the results of our annual operating plan review, which included updated long-range forecast estimates, and the
loss of certain contracts, we determined that an indicator of potential asset impairment existed in the fourth quarter, requiring us to perform impairment tests. Based on our analysis, we determined that certain intangible assets were impaired
and recorded a $41 million pre-tax impairment charge to write down intangible assets primarily related to customer agreements and contractual relationships associated with AAI-Logistics & Technical Services and AAI-Test & Training
businesses. Also, in the fourth quarter of 2011, we initiated a workforce reduction at Textron Systems to streamline our cost structure that
will eliminate over 10% of the segment’s workforce in 2012. This reduction is intended to improve our ability to efficiently execute and compete for potentially fewer opportunities with the Department of Defense and other
customers. We recorded a $19 million charge primarily for severance costs related to this action. Textron Systems Revenues and
Operating Expenses  Factors contributing to the 2011 year-over-year revenue change are provided below: 
 






(In millions)
 

2011 versus   2010  

 Volume
 
$      (112) 

 Other
 
5  

 Total change
 
$      (107) 

  26 


Table of Contents
Revenues at Textron Systems decreased $107 million, 5%, in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily due to lower
volume, reflecting the following changes:   


 
•
 
 Lower UAS volume of $84 million, largely due to lower deliveries and to the timing of revenues from various programs, and 
 


 
•
 
 Lower Mission Support and Other product line volume of $56 million, largely due to the completion of several test and training programs and lower
intelligence systems volume; partially offset by   


 
•
 
 Higher Land & Marine volume of $18 million, primarily related to Armored Security Vehicles; and 
 


 
•
 
 Higher Weapons and Sensors revenues of $10 million, largely due to higher Sensor Fuzed Weapon volume. 
Textron Systems’ operating expenses decreased $18 million, 1%, in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily due to the lower volume, which was partially
offset by the $41 million intangible asset impairment charge and $19 million, primarily in severance costs related to the workforce reduction. 
Factors contributing to the 2010 year-over-year revenue change are provided below: 
 








(In millions)
  

2010 versus 2009
 

 Volume
  
$
83
  

 Other
  
 
(3
) 

 Total change
  
$
80
  
 Revenues at Textron Systems increased $80 million, 4%, in 2010, compared with 2009, largely due to a $151 million
increase in our UAS product line revenues, primarily due to higher volume, partially offset by a $55 million decrease in our Land and Marine Systems and Weapons and Sensors product lines. Textron System’s operating expenses increased $90
million, 5%, in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to higher net sales volume and inflation, mostly due to higher pension costs. 
Textron Systems Segment Profit  Factors
contributing to 2011 year-over-year segment profit change are provided below:   






(In millions)
 

2011 versus   2010  

 Volume and mix
 
$        (37) 

 Inflation
 
(5) 

 Impairment charge
 
(41) 

 Other
 
(6) 

 Total change
 
$        (89) 
 Segment profit at Textron Systems decreased $89 million, 39%, in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily due to the impact of
lower volume described above and mix, along with the $41 million intangible asset impairment charge and approximately $19 million in severance costs related to the workforce reduction included in the Other line. 
Factors contributing to 2010 year-over-year segment profit change are provided below: 
 








(In millions)
  
2010 versus2009
 

 Volume
  
$
9
  

 Inflation
  
 
(14
) 

 Other
  
 
(5
) 

 Total change
  
$
(10
) 
 Segment profit at Textron Systems decreased $10 million in 2010, 4%, compared with 2009, as the $26 million impact of the
higher UAS volume was offset by a $19 million impact from lower volumes in the Land and Marine Systems and Weapons and Sensors product lines and $14 million in inflation, primarily due to higher pension costs. 
  27 


Table of Contents
Textron Systems Backlog  In 2011, Textron Systems backlog decreased $261 million, 16%, primarily due to deliveries in excess of new orders related to various military programs. 
Industrial   
























  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
% Change
 

(Dollars in millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Revenues:
  



 



 



 



 


 

 Fuel Systems and Functional Components
  
$
    1,823
  
 
$
    1,640
  
 
$
    1,287
  
 
 
11
% 
 
 
27
% 

 Other Industrial
  
 
962
  
 
 
884
  
 
 
791
  
 
 
9
% 
 
 
12
% 

 Total revenues
  
 
2,785
  
 
 
2,524
  
 
 
2,078
  
 
 
10
% 
 
 
21
% 

 Operating expenses
  
 
2,583
  
 
 
2,362
  
 
 
2,051
  
 
 
9
% 
 
 
15
% 

 Segment profit
  
 
202
  
 
 
162
  
 
 
27
  
 
 
25
% 
 
 
500
% 

 Profit margin
  
 
7
% 
 
 
6
% 
 
 
1
% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Industrial Revenues and Operating Expenses  Factors contributing to the 2011 year-over-year revenue change are provided below:   






(In millions)
 

2011 versus 2010

 Volume and mix
 
$        138

 Foreign exchange
 
77

 Acquisitions, net of dispositions
 
18

 Other
 
28

 Total change
 
$        261
 Industrial segment sales increased $261 million, 10%, in 2011 from 2010. Volume increased and mix improved largely due to
a $117 million increase in the Fuel Systems and Functional Components product line, reflecting higher automotive industry demand, and $21 million in the Other Industrial product lines, largely related to the Powered Tools, Testing and Measurement
Equipment product line reflecting higher sales in North America and Europe. The favorable foreign exchange impact was primarily related to strengthening of the euro, which mostly impacted the Fuel Systems and Functional Components product line.
Higher Other Industrial revenues of $78 million included a $27 million impact from acquisitions and improved pricing of $20 million, in addition to the higher volume.  Operating expenses for the Industrial segment increased $221 million, 9%, in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily due to a $115 million increase in direct material costs due to higher sales volume, a $68
million impact from foreign exchange related to strengthening of the euro, and $40 million in inflation for direct materials related to various commodity and material components throughout the segment. 
Factors contributing to the 2010 year-over-year revenue change are provided below: 
 








(In millions)
  
 2010 versus
2009
 

 Volume
  
$
473
  

 Foreign exchange
  
 
(34
) 

 Other
  
 
7
  

 Total change
  
$
446
  
 Industrial segment sales increased $446 million, 21%, in 2010 from 2009. Volume increased largely due to $387 million in
the Fuel Systems and Functional Components product line, reflecting improvements in the automotive industry, and $86 million in the Other Industrial product lines. The unfavorable foreign exchange impact was primarily related to weakening of the
euro.  The Industrial segment’s operating expenses increased $311 million, 15%, in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to higher
sales volumes and inflation, partially offset by improved cost performance, largely due to the significant efforts made in 2009 to reduce costs through workforce reductions and other initiatives. 
  28 


Table of Contents
Industrial Segment Profit  Factors contributing to 2011 year-over-year segment profit change are provided below:   






(In millions)
 

2011 versus 2010    

 Volume
 
$        31  

 Performance
 
34  

 Inflation, net of pricing
 
(35) 

 Other
 
10  

 Total change
 
$        40  
 Industrial segment profit increased $40 million, 25%, in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to a $34 million impact from
improved performance and a $31 million impact from higher volume, as described above, partially offset by inflation, net of pricing of $35 million. Performance was favorable for the period due to continued cost reduction activities and improved
manufacturing leverage resulting from higher volume. Inflation, net of pricing was primarily due to higher direct material costs for commodity and material components that exceeded related price increases, principally in the Fuel Systems and
Functional Components product line.  Factors contributing to 2010 year-over-year segment profit change are provided below: 
 








(In millions)
  
 2010 versus
2009
 

 Volume
  
$
127
  

 Performance
  
 
76
  

 Inflation, net of pricing
  
 
(59
) 

 Other
  
 
(9
) 

 Total change
  
$
135
  
 Industrial segment profit increased $135 million, 500%, in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to the $127 million
impact from higher volume and $76 million in improved performance, partially offset by inflation in excess of higher pricing of $59 million. The improved cost performance in 2010 was largely due to the significant efforts made in 2009 to reduce
costs through workforce reductions and other initiatives, along with improved manufacturing leverage due to higher volume.  Finance
  
















(In millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Revenues
  
$
103
  
 
$
218
  
 
$
361
  

 Provision for losses on finance receivables
  
 
12
  
 
 
143
  
 
 
267
  

 Segment loss
  
 
(333
) 
 
 
(237
) 
 
 
(294
) 
 Our plan to exit the non-captive commercial finance business of our Finance segment is being effected through a
combination of orderly liquidation and selected sales. Depending on market conditions, we expect continued progress in liquidating the remaining $950 million in the non-captive portfolio over the next several years. 
Finance Revenues  Finance segment
revenues decreased $115 million, 53%, in 2011 compared with 2010, primarily attributable to the impact of a $1.8 billion lower average finance receivable balance.  In 2010, Finance segment revenues decreased $143 million, 40%, compared with 2009, primarily due to the $141 million impact from a lower average finance receivable balance of $1.8 billion and lower
servicing fees, investment and other income, along with $54 million in lower gains on debt extinguishments. These reductions were partially offset by an $81 million impact from lower net portfolio losses, primarily as a result of $40 million in
lower impairment charges in the Structured Capital portfolio, $23 million in gains on the sale of two Distribution Finance portfolios in 2010 and a $21 million decrease in discounts taken on the sale or early termination of finance assets associated
with the liquidation of Distribution Finance receivables, partially offset by an $11 million increase in impairment charges on owned aircraft that are subject to operating lease or have been repossessed. 
  29 


Table of Contents
Finance Segment Loss  Finance segment loss increased $96 million, 41%, in 2011 compared with 2010, primarily due to the following factors:   


 
•
 
 $186 million valuation allowance recorded on the transfer of the remaining Golf Mortgage portfolio from held for investment to the held for sale
classification during the fourth quarter of 2011; and   


 
•
 
 $61 million reduction in interest margin resulting from the lower average finance receivable balance; partially offset by 
 


 
•
 
 $131 million in lower provision for loan losses, primarily the result of a decline in new troubled accounts in the non-captive portfolio during 2011
and a $36 million reversal of the allowance for losses related to one significant Timeshare account; and   


 
•
 
 $44 million in lower administrative expenses, primarily due to lower compensation expense associated with a workforce reduction and other cost
reductions related to the exit of the non-captive business.  In 2010, the Finance segment loss decreased by $57 million,
19%, compared with 2009, primarily due to the following factors:   


 
•
 
 $124 million in lower provision for loan losses, primarily due to a decline in the accounts identified as nonaccrual during the year;
  


 
•
 
 $81 million in lower portfolio losses, net of gains;   


 
•
 
 $41 million in lower operating and administrative expenses, primarily due to lower compensation expense associated with the workforce reduction; and
  


 
•
 
 $28 million in lower securitization losses, net of gains; partially offset by 
 


 
•
 
 $54 million in lower gains on debt extinguishments;   


 
•
 
 $52 million reduction in interest margin resulting from the lower average finance receivable balance and a $26 million impact related to variable rate
receivable interest rate floors;   


 
•
 
 $39 million impact from lower servicing fees, investment and other income; and 
 


 
•
 
 $32 million impact from lower interest rate on debt and lower accretion of the valuation allowance on finance receivable held for sale.
 Finance Portfolio Quality  The following table reflects information about the Finance segment’s credit performance related to finance receivables held for investment: 
 










(Dollars in millions)
 

December 31, 2011
  
 January 1,
2011
 

 Finance receivables
 
$     2,477
  
$
     4,213
  

 Nonaccrual finance receivables
 
321
  
 
850
  

 Allowance for losses
 
156
  
 
342
  

 Ratio of nonaccrual finance receivables to finance receivables
 
12.96%
  
 
20.17
% 

 Ratio of allowance for losses on impaired nonaccrual finance receivables to impaired nonaccrual finance
receivables
 
28.52%
  
 
23.82
% 

 Ratio of allowance for losses on finance receivables to nonaccrual finance receivables
 
48.60%
  
 
40.30
% 

 Ratio of allowance for losses on finance receivables to finance receivables
 
6.30%
  
 
8.13
% 

 60+ days contractual delinquency as a percentage of finance receivables
 
6.70%
  
 
9.77
% 

 60+ days contractual delinquency
 
$        166
  
$
411
  

 Repossessed assets and properties
 
128
  
 
157
  

 Operating assets received in satisfaction of troubled finance receivables
 
71
  
 
107
  
 Finance receivables held for sale are reflected at the lower of cost or fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and
are not included in the credit performance statistics above. Finance receivables held for sale in the non-captive portfolio totaled $418 million at the end of 2011, compared with $413 million at the end of 2010, as the transfer of the remaining Golf
Mortgage portfolio from held for investment to the held for sale classification was largely offset by sales and liquidations. This transfer also resulted in an $80 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses. At the end of 2011, finance
receivables reported in the above table included $532 million of finance receivables held for investment in the non-captive portfolio, reflecting a $1.3 billion reduction from the 2010 year-end balance for this portfolio, primarily due to
liquidations and the transfer of the remaining Golf Mortgage portfolio. 
  30 


Table of Contents
Nonaccrual finance receivables include accounts that are contractually delinquent by more than three months,
unless collection of principal and interest is not doubtful as well as accounts whose credit quality indicators other than delinquency suggest full collection of principal and interest is doubtful. Nonaccrual finance receivables decreased $529
million, 62%, from the year-end balance, primarily due to the following reductions:   


 
•
 
 $219 million in the Golf Mortgage portfolio, primarily due to the transfer of the remaining portfolio to the held for sale classification; and
  


 
•
 
 $215 million in the Timeshare portfolio, largely due to the resolution of several significant accounts and cash collections on several other accounts.
 These factors were also the primary reason for the improvement in the 60+ days contractual delinquency amount. 
See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information on the nonaccrual finance receivables by product line, along with a
summary of finance receivables held for investment based on our internally assigned credit quality indicators.  Liquidity and Capital
Resources  Our financings are conducted through two separate borrowing groups. The Manufacturing group consists of Textron Inc.
consolidated with its majority-owned subsidiaries that operate in the Cessna, Bell, Textron Systems and Industrial segments. The Finance group, which also is the Finance segment, consists of TFC, its consolidated subsidiaries and three other finance
subsidiaries owned by Textron Inc. We designed this framework to enhance our borrowing power by separating the Finance group. Our Manufacturing group operations include the development, production and delivery of tangible goods and services, while
our Finance group provides financial services. Due to the fundamental differences between each borrowing group’s activities, investors, rating agencies and analysts use different measures to evaluate each group’s performance. To support
those evaluations, we present balance sheet and cash flow information for each borrowing group within the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Key information that is utilized in assessing our liquidity is summarized below: 
 










(In millions)
 

December 31, 2011
  
 January 1,
2011
 

 Manufacturing group
 

  




 Cash and equivalents
 
$        871
  
$
898
  

 Debt
 
2,459
  
 
2,302
  

 Shareholders’ equity
 
2,745
  
 
2,972
  

 Capital (debt plus shareholders’ equity)
 
5,204
  
 
5,274
  

 Net debt (net of cash and equivalents) to capital
 
36.6%
  
 
32.1
% 

 Debt to capital
 
47.3%
  
 
43.6
% 

 Finance group
 

  




 Cash and equivalents
 
$         14
  
$
33
  

 Debt
 
1,974
  
 
3,660
  
 We believe that our calculations of debt to capital and net debt to capital are useful measures as they provide a summary
indication of the level of debt financing (i.e., leverage) that is in place to support our capital structure, as well as to provide an indication of the capacity to add further leverage. We believe that with our existing cash and equivalents, along
with the cash we expect to generate from our manufacturing operations, we will have sufficient cash to meet our future needs.  In 2011,
Textron Inc. entered into a senior unsecured revolving credit facility that expires in March 2015 for an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion, up to $200 million of which is available for the issuance of letters of credit. At December 31,
2011, there were no amounts borrowed against the facility, and there were $38 million of letters of credits issued against it.  We maintain an
effective shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission that allows us to issue an unlimited amount of public debt and other securities. In September 2011, we issued $250 million in 4.625% notes due 2016 and $250
million in 5.950% notes due 2021 under this registration statement. 
  31 


Table of Contents
In September 2011, we announced a cash tender offer for any and all of the outstanding convertible notes. In
accordance with the terms of the tender offer, for each $1,000 principal amount of the convertible notes tendered, we paid the holder $1,524 plus accrued and unpaid interest up to the October 13, 2011 settlement date. In the aggregate, the
holders validly tendered $225 million principal amount, or 37.5%, of the convertible notes. Subsequent to the tender offer, we also purchased $151 million principal amount of the convertible notes in a small number of privately negotiated
transactions and retired another $8 million related to a holder-initiated conversion in the fourth quarter of 2011. By the end of 2011, we had paid approximately $580 million in cash related to these transactions and had reduced the principal amount
of the convertible notes by 64%. At December 31, 2011, $216 million principal amount of convertible notes were outstanding. For at least 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days ended December 31, 2011, our common stock price
exceeded the conversion threshold price for the convertible notes of $17.06 per share. Accordingly, the remaining notes are convertible at the holder’s option through March 31, 2012. We may deliver shares of common stock, cash or a
combination of cash and shares of common stock in satisfaction of our obligations upon conversion of the convertible notes. We intend to settle the face value of the convertible notes in cash. We have continued to classify these convertible notes as
long term based on our intent and ability to maintain the debt outstanding for at least one year through the use of various funding sources available to us.  During 2011, we reduced our total finance receivable portfolio by $1.7 billion primarily through liquidations, mark-to-market adjustments on certain portfolios and impairments. These finance receivable
reductions occurred in both the non-captive and captive finance portfolios, but were primarily driven by the non-captive portfolio in connection with our exit plan, including $576 million and $495 million in the Timeshare and Golf Mortgage product
lines, respectively. Depending on market conditions, we expect continued progress in liquidating the remaining $950 million in the non-captive portfolio over the next several years.  Manufacturing Group Cash Flows  Cash flows from continuing operations for the Manufacturing
group as presented in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows are summarized below:   
















  
 

(In millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009  
 

  
 

 Operating activities
  
$
761
  
 
$
730
  
 
$
738  
  

 Investing activities
  
 
(423
) 
 
 
(353
) 
 
 
  (288) 
  

 Financing activities
  
 
(360
) 
 
 
(1,215
) 
 
 
563  
  

  
 
 Cash flows from operating activities increased in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily due to higher earnings for the
Manufacturing group. In addition, cash payments related to the restructuring program that we substantially completed at the end of 2010 decreased to $38 million in 2011, from $58 million in 2010 and $132 million in 2009. These decreases were
partially offset by $225 million in higher cash contributions made to our pension plans, as we made $642 million in contributions to our pension plans in 2011, compared with $417 million in contributions in 2010. 
Investing cash flows in 2011, 2010 and 2009 primarily included capital expenditures of $423 million, $270 million, and $238 million, respectively, as we
increased investment in the areas of new product development and cost productivity improvements.  In 2011, financing activities primarily
consisted of $580 million in payments related to the purchase and cancellation of convertible notes that were originally issued in 2009, as described above, and $175 million in intergroup financing for our Finance Group, partially offset by $496
million in proceeds from the issuance of notes. We used significantly more cash for financing activities in 2010, compared with 2009, largely due to the repayment of $1.2 billion on our bank credit lines in 2010 that we had drawn on in 2009.
 Dividend payments to shareholders totaled $22 million, $22 million and $21 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
Capital Contributions Paid To and Dividends Received From the Finance Group  Under a Support Agreement between Textron Inc. and TFC, Textron Inc. is required to maintain a controlling interest in TFC. The agreement also requires Textron Inc. to ensure that TFC maintains fixed
charge coverage of no less than 125% and consolidated shareholder’s equity of no less than $200 million. Cash contributions paid to TFC to maintain compliance with the Support Agreement and dividends paid by TFC to Textron Inc. are detailed
below:   
















  
 

(In millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009  
 

  
 

 Dividends paid by TFC to Textron Inc.
  
$
179
  
 
$
505
  
 
$
349  
  

 Capital contributions paid to TFC under Support Agreement
  
 
(182
) 
 
 
(383
) 
 
 
(270) 
  

  
 

  32 


Table of Contents
An additional cash contribution of $240 million was paid to TFC on January 17, 2012 as required by the
Support Agreement, and on January 20, 2012, TFC paid an additional $172 million in dividends to Textron Inc.  Due to the nature of these
contributions, we classify these contributions within cash flows used by operating activities for the Manufacturing group in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Capital contributions to support Finance group growth in the ongoing captive
finance business are classified as cash flows from financing activities. The Finance group’s net income (loss) is excluded from the Manufacturing group’s cash flows, while dividends from the Finance group are included within cash flows
from operating activities for the Manufacturing group as they represent a return on investment.  Finance Group Cash Flows 
The cash flows from continuing operations for the Finance group are summarized below: 
 
















  
 

(In millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009  
 

  
 

 Operating activities
  
$
65
  
 
$
(35
) 
 
$
196  
  

 Investing activities
  
 
1,453
  
 
 
2,305
  
 
 
2,153  
  

 Financing activities
  
 
(1,536
) 
 
 
(2,383
) 
 
 
(2,235) 
  

  
 
 Cash flows from operating activities improved in 2011 largely due to $65 million in tax refunds, net of payments
received in 2011. In 2010, the Finance Group had $101 million in tax payments, net of refunds, primarily attributable to the settlement of the IRS’s challenge of tax deductions we took in prior years for certain leverage lease
transactions; in 2009, tax refunds, net of payments totaled $75 million.  Cash receipts from the collection of finance receivables continued
to outpace finance receivable originations, which resulted in net cash inflow from investing activities for the past three years. Finance receivables repaid and proceeds from sales and securitizations totaled $1.8 billion in 2011, $3.0 billion in
2010 and $5.4 billion in 2009. Cash outflows for originations declined to $0.5 billion in 2011 from $0.9 billion in 2010 and $3.7 billion in 2009. These decreases are largely due to our ongoing exit from the non-captive business. 
In 2011 and 2010, financing activities include repayments of $1.4 billion and $0.3 billion, respectively, against the outstanding balance on TFC’s
bank line of credit that we had drawn down in 2009. In October 2011, we paid off and elected to terminate this bank line of credit. As we liquidate the non-captive business, we have continued to pay down our debt with principal payments on short-
and long-term debt of $0.8 billion, $2.1 billion and $4.5 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These cash outflows were partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of long term debt of $0.4 billion, $0.2 billion and $0.3 billion,
respectively.  TFC borrowed funds from Textron Inc. in 2011, 2010 and 2009, with interest, to pay down maturing debt. As of December 31,
2011 and January 1, 2011, the outstanding balance due to Textron Inc. for these borrowings was $490 million and $315 million, respectively.  Consolidated Cash Flows  The consolidated cash flows from continuing operations, after
elimination of activity between the borrowing groups, are summarized below:   
















  
 

(In millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009  
 

  
 

 Operating activities
  
$
1,068
  
 
$
993
  
 
$
1,032  
  

 Investing activities
  
 
843
  
 
 
1,549
  
 
 
1,728  
  

 Financing activities
  
 
(1,951
) 
 
 
(3,493
) 
 
 
(1,633) 
  

  
 
 Cash flow from operating activities increased in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily due to higher earnings for the
Manufacturing group. In addition, cash payments related to the restructuring program that we substantially completed at the end of 2010 decreased to $44 million in 2011, from $72 million in 2010 and $144 million in 2009. These decreases were
partially offset by $225 million in higher cash pension contributions made on behalf of the Manufacturing group with $642 million in contributions in 2011, compared with $417 million in contributions in 2010. 
  33 


Table of Contents
Cash receipts from the collection of finance receivables continued to outpace finance receivable
originations, which resulted in net cash inflow from investing activities for the past three years. Finance receivables repaid and proceeds from sales and securitizations totaled $1.2 billion in 2011, $2.2 billion in 2010 and $4.6 billion in 2009.
Cash outflows for originations declined to $0.2 billion in 2011 from $0.5 billion in 2010 and $3.0 billion in 2009. These decreases are largely due to our ongoing exit from the non-captive business. 
We also used more cash for investing activities in the current year due to higher capital expenditures, which totaled $423 million, $270 million, and
$238 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, as we increased investment in the areas of new product development and cost productivity improvements.  In 2011 and 2010, financing activities include repayments of $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, against the outstanding balance on our bank line of credit that we had drawn down in 2009. We also
made principal payments on short-and long-term debt of $0.8 billion, $2.2 billion and $5.8 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These reductions were largely related to the liquidation of the non-captive business and debt maturities. In
2011, financing activities include $580 million in payments related to the purchase of convertible notes that were originally issued in 2009. Cash outflows were partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of long term debt of $0.9 billion, $0.2
billion and $0.9 billion, respectively.  Captive Financing and Other Intercompany Transactions 
The Finance group finances retail purchases and leases for new and used aircraft and equipment manufactured by our Manufacturing group, otherwise known as
captive financing. In the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, cash received from customers or from the sale of receivables is reflected as operating activities when received from third parties. However, in the cash flow information provided for
the separate borrowing groups, cash flows related to captive financing activities are reflected based on the operations of each group. For example, when product is sold by our Manufacturing group to a customer and is financed by the Finance group,
the origination of the finance receivable is recorded within investing activities as a cash outflow in the Finance group’s statement of cash flows. Meanwhile, in the Manufacturing group’s statement of cash flows, the cash received from the
Finance group on the customer’s behalf is recorded within operating cash flows as a cash inflow. Although cash is transferred between the two borrowing groups, there is no cash transaction reported in the consolidated cash flows at the time of
the original financing. These captive financing activities, along with all significant intercompany transactions, are reclassified or eliminated from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 
Reclassification and elimination adjustments included in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows are summarized below: 
 
















  
 

(In millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009  
 

  
 

 Reclassifications from investing activities:
  



 



 




 Finance receivable originations for Manufacturing group inventory sales
  
$
(284
) 
 
$
(416
) 
 
$
(654) 
  

 Cash received from customers and the sale of receivables
  
 
520
  
 
 
840
  
 
 
831  
  

 Other capital contributions made to Finance group
  
 
(60
) 
 
 
(30
) 
 
 
(40) 
  

 Other
  
 
11
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
—  
  

  
 

 Total reclassifications from investing activities
  
 
187
  
 
 
403
  
 
 
137  
  

  
 

 Reclassifications from financing activities:
  



 



 




 Capital contribution paid by Manufacturing group to Finance group under Support Agreement
  
 
182
  
 
 
383
  
 
 
270  
  

 Dividends received by Manufacturing group from Finance group
  
 
(179
) 
 
 
(505
) 
 
 
(349) 
  

 Other capital contributions made to Finance group
  
 
60
  
 
 
30
  
 
 
40  
  

 Other
  
 
(8
) 
 
 
(13
) 
 
 
—  
  

  
 

 Total reclassifications from financing activities
  
 
55
  
 
 
(105
) 
 
 
(39) 
  

  
 

 Total reclassifications and adjustments to cash flow from operating activities
  
$
242
  
 
$
298
  
 
$
(654) 
  

  
 
 Consolidated Discontinued Operations Cash Flows  Cash flows from discontinued operations in 2009 primarily include approximately $280 million in after-tax net proceeds upon the sale of HR Textron, partially offset by $69 million in tax payments related
to the sale of the Fluid & Power business. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details concerning these dispositions. 
  34 


Table of Contents
Contractual Obligations  Manufacturing Group  The following table summarizes the known contractual obligations, as
defined by reporting regulations, of our Manufacturing group as of December 31, 2011:   
























 
  
Payments Due by Period
 


  
  
  
 

(In millions)
  
Total
 
  
Less than 1Year
 
  
1-3 Years
 
  
4-5 Years
 
  
More Than 5Years
 

  
 

 Liabilities reflected in balance sheet:
  



  



  



  



  




 Long-term debt
  
$
2,486
  
  
$
146
  
  
$
538
  
  
$
612
  
  
$
1,190  
  

 Interest on borrowings
  
 
791
  
  
 
135
  
  
 
234
  
  
 
178
  
  
 
244  
  

 Pension benefits for unfunded plans (1)
  
 
360
  
  
 
23
  
  
 
46
  
  
 
42
  
  
 
249  
  

 Postretirement benefits other than pensions (1)
  
 
561
  
  
 
55
  
  
 
98
  
  
 
84
  
  
 
324  
  

 Other long-term liabilities (2)
  
 
612
  
  
 
164
  
  
 
141
  
  
 
68
  
  
 
239  
  

 Liabilities not reflected in balance sheet:
  



  



  



  



  




 Operating leases (3)
  
 
334
  
  
 
56
  
  
 
82
  
  
 
58
  
  
 
138  
  

 Purchase obligations (4)
  
 
2,820
  
  
 
2,207
  
  
 
606
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
—  
  

  
 

 Total Manufacturing group
  
$
7,964
  
  
$
2,786
  
  
$
1,745
  
  
$
1,049
  
  
$
2,384  
  

  
 
  


(1)
We maintain defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans other than pensions as discussed in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Included in the above table are discounted estimated benefit payments we expect to make related to unfunded pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Actual benefit payments are dependent on a number of factors, including mortality
assumptions, expected retirement age, rate of compensation increases and medical trend rates, which are subject to change in future years. Our policy for funding pension plans is to make contributions annually, consistent with applicable laws and
regulations; however, future contributions to our pension plans are not included in the above table. In 2012, we expect to make contributions to our funded pension plans of approximately $150 million and approximately $25 million in the Retirement
Account Plan. Based on our current assumptions, which may change with changes in market conditions, our current contribution estimates for each of the years from 2013 through 2016 are estimated to be in the range of approximately $50 million to $400
million under the plan provisions in place at this time.   


(2)
Other long-term liabilities included in the table consist primarily of undiscounted amounts in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2011,
representing obligations under deferred compensation arrangements and estimated environmental remediation costs. Payments under deferred compensation arrangements have been estimated based on management’s assumptions of expected retirement age,
mortality, stock price and rates of return on participant deferrals. The timing of cash flows associated with environmental remediation costs is largely based on historical experience. Other long-term liabilities, such as deferred taxes,
unrecognized tax benefits and product liability and litigation reserves, have been excluded from the table due to the uncertainty of the timing of payments combined with the absence of historical trends to be used as a predictor for such payments.
  


(3)
Operating leases represent undiscounted obligations under noncancelable leases. 
 


(4)
Purchase obligations include undiscounted amounts committed under legally enforceable contracts or purchase orders for goods and services with defined terms as to
price, quantity and delivery dates. Approximately 35% of the purchase obligations we disclose represent purchase orders issued for goods and services to be delivered under firm contracts with the U.S. Government for which we have full recourse under
customary contract termination clauses. 
  35 


Table of Contents
Finance Group  The following table summarizes the known contractual obligations, as defined by reporting regulations, of our Finance group as of December 31, 2011: 
 
























 
  
 Payments Due by Period
 


  
  
  
 

(In millions)
  
Total
 
  
Less than 1Year
 
  
1-3 Years
 
  
4-5 Years
 
  
More Than 5  Years  
 

  
 

 Liabilities reflected in balance sheet:
  



  



  



  



  




 Term debt
  
$
1,183
  
  
$
106
  
  
$
604
  
  
$
162
  
  
$
311  
  

 Securitized debt (1)
  
 
469
  
  
 
90
  
  
 
89
  
  
 
70
  
  
 
220  
  

 Subordinated debt
  
 
300
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
300  
  

 Interest on borrowings (2)
  
 
243
  
  
 
60
  
  
 
46
  
  
 
36
  
  
 
101  
  

  
 

 Total Finance group
  
$
2,195
  
  
$
256
  
  
$
739
  
  
$
268
  
  
$
932  
  

  
 
  


(1)
Securitized debt payments do not represent contractual obligations of the Finance group, and we do not provide legal recourse to investors who purchase interests in
the securitizations beyond the credit enhancement inherent in the retained subordinate interests.   


(2)
Interest payments reflect the current interest rate paid on the related debt. They do not include anticipated changes in market interest rates, which could have an
impact on the interest rate according to the terms of the related debt.  On December 31, 2011, the Finance group also
had $316 million in other liabilities, primarily accounts payable and accrued expenses, that are payable within the next 12 months. 
Critical Accounting Estimates  To
prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements to be in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, we must make complex and subjective judgments in the selection and application of accounting policies. The accounting policies that we
believe are most critical to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations are listed below. We believe these policies require our most difficult, subjective and complex judgments in estimating the effect of inherent
uncertainties. This section should be read in conjunction with Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which includes other significant accounting policies.  Allowance for Losses on Finance Receivables Held for Investment  Finance receivables held
for investment are generally recorded at the amount of outstanding principal less allowance for losses. We maintain the allowance for losses on finance receivables at a level considered adequate to cover inherent losses in the portfolio based on
management’s evaluation and analysis by product line. For larger balance accounts specifically identified as impaired, including large accounts in homogeneous portfolios, a reserve is established based on comparing the carrying value with
either a) the expected future cash flows, discounted at the finance receivable’s effective interest rate; or b) the fair value, if the finance receivable is collateral dependent. The expected future cash flows consider collateral value;
financial performance and liquidity of our borrower; existence and financial strength of guarantors; estimated recovery costs, including legal expenses; and costs associated with the repossession/foreclosure and eventual disposal of collateral. When
there is a range of potential outcomes, we perform multiple discounted cash flow analyses and weight the outcomes based on their relative likelihood of occurrence.  The evaluation of our portfolios is inherently subjective, as it requires estimates, including the amount and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on impaired finance receivables and the
underlying collateral, which may differ from actual results. While our analysis is specific to each individual account, certain critical factors are included in this analysis for each product line, which are discussed in detail in Note 4 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements. We also establish an allowance for losses by product line to cover probable but specifically unknown losses existing in the portfolio. For homogeneous portfolios, including Aviation and Golf Equipment, the
allowance is established as a percentage of non-recourse finance receivables, which have not been identified as requiring specific reserves. The percentage is based on a combination of factors including historical loss experience, current
delinquency and default trends, collateral values and both general economic and specific industry trends. For non-homogeneous portfolios, such as Timeshare, the allowance is established as a percentage of watchlist balances, which represents a
combination of assumed default likelihood and loss severity based on historical experience, industry trends and collateral values. We classify accounts as watchlist based on credit quality indicators discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements. 
  36 


Table of Contents
Finance Receivables  Finance receivables are classified as held for investment when we have the intent and the ability to hold the receivable for the foreseeable future or until maturity or payoff. Our decision to classify
certain finance receivables as held for sale is based on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, contractual duration, type of collateral, credit strength of the borrowers, interest rates and perceived marketability of the receivables.
On an ongoing basis, these factors, combined with our overall liquidation strategy, determine which finance receivables we have the intent to hold for the foreseeable future and which finance receivables we will hold for sale. Our current strategy
is based on an evaluation of both our performance and liquidity position and changes in external factors affecting the value and/or marketability of our finance receivables. A change in this strategy could result in a change in the classification of
our finance receivables.  If we determine that finance receivables classified as held for sale will not be sold and we have the intent and
ability to hold the finance receivables for the foreseeable future, until maturity or payoff, the finance receivables are transferred to held for investment at the lower of cost or fair value at that time. Conversely, if we determine that there are
other finance receivables that we subsequently determine we no longer intend or have the ability to hold to maturity, these receivables would be designated as held for sale, and a valuation allowance would be established at that time, if necessary.
At December 31, 2011, if we had classified additional finance receivables as held for sale, a valuation allowance would likely have been required at that time based on the fair value estimates we completed for our footnote disclosure
requirements. See page 68 in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table where we have included the carrying value and fair value for the finance receivables held for investment, excluding leases that currently are not recorded at
fair value in our Consolidated Balance Sheet.  Finance receivables held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value. There are no
active, quoted market prices for our finance receivables. The estimate of fair value was determined based on the use of discounted cash flow models to estimate the exit price we expect to receive in the principal market for each type of loan in an
orderly transaction, which includes both the sale of pools of similar assets and the sale of individual loans. The models we used incorporate estimates of the rate of return, financing cost, capital structure and/or discount rate expectations of
current market participants combined with estimated loan cash flows based on credit losses, payment rates and expectations of borrowers’ ability to make scheduled balloon payments on a timely basis. Where available, assumptions related to the
expectations of current market participants are compared with observable market inputs, including bids from prospective purchasers of similar loans and certain bond market indices for loans perceived to be of similar credit quality. Although we
utilize and prioritize these market observable inputs in our discounted cash flow models, these inputs are not typically derived from markets with directly comparable loan structures, industries and collateral types. Therefore, all valuations of
finance receivables held for sale involve significant management judgment, which can result in differences between our fair value estimates and those of other market participants.  See page 67 in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact of changes in fair value and the classification of finance receivables for the past two years. 
Long-Term Contracts  We make a
substantial portion of our sales to government customers pursuant to long-term contracts. These contracts require development and delivery of products over multiple years and may contain fixed-price purchase options for additional products. We
account for these long-term contracts under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Under this method, we estimate profit as the difference between total estimated revenues and cost of a contract. The percentage-of-completion method of
accounting involves the use of various estimating techniques to project costs at completion and, in some cases, includes estimates of recoveries asserted against the customer for changes in specifications. Due to the size, length of time and nature
of many of our contracts, the estimation of total contract costs and revenues through completion is complicated and subject to many variables relative to the outcome of future events over a period of several years. We are required to make numerous
assumptions and estimates relating to items such as expected engineering requirements, complexity of design and related development costs, performance of subcontractors, availability and cost of materials, labor productivity and cost, overhead and
capital costs, manufacturing efficiencies and the achievement of contract milestones, including product deliveries.  Our cost estimation
process is based on the professional knowledge and experience of engineers and program managers along with finance professionals. We update our projections of costs at least semiannually or when circumstances significantly change. Adjustments to
projected costs are recognized in earnings when determinable. Anticipated losses on contracts are recognized in full in the period in which the losses become probable and estimable. Due to the significance of judgment in the estimation process
described above, it is likely that materially different revenues and/or cost of sales amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Our earnings could be reduced by a material amount
resulting in a charge to earnings if (a) total estimated contract costs are significantly higher than expected due to changes in customer specifications prior to contract amendment, (b) total estimated contract costs are significantly
higher than previously estimated due to cost overruns or inflation, (c) there is a change in engineering efforts required during the development stage of the contract or (d) we are unable to meet contract milestones. 
  37 


Table of Contents
At the outset of each contract, we estimate the initial profit booking rate. The initial profit booking rate
of each contract considers risks surrounding the ability to achieve the technical requirements (for example, a newly-developed product versus a mature product), schedule (for example, the number and type of milestone events), and costs by contract
requirements in the initial estimated costs at completion. Profit booking rates may increase during the performance of the contract if we successfully retire risks surrounding the technical, schedule, and costs aspects of the contract. Likewise, the
profit booking rate may decrease if we are not successful in retiring the risks; and, as a result, our estimated costs at completion increase. All of the estimates are subject to change during the performance of the contract and, therefore, may
affect the profit booking rate. When adjustments are required, any changes from prior estimates are recognized using the cumulative catch-up method with the impact of the change from inception-to-date recorded in the current period. 
The following table sets forth the aggregate gross amount of all program profit adjustments that are included within segment profit for the two years
ended December 31, 2011:   












  
 

(In millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

  
 

 Gross favorable
  
$
  83
  
 
$
  98  
  

 Gross unfavorable
  
 
(29
) 
 
 
(20) 
  

  
 

 Net adjustments
  
$
  54
  
 
$
  78  
  

  
 
 Goodwill 
We evaluate the recoverability of goodwill annually in the fourth quarter or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances, such as declines in
sales, earnings or cash flows, or material adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that the carrying value of a reporting unit might be impaired. The reporting unit represents the operating segment unless discrete financial information is
prepared and reviewed by segment management for businesses one level below that operating segment, in which case such component is the reporting unit. In certain instances, we have aggregated components of an operating segment into a single
reporting unit based on similar economic characteristics.  In September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued guidance that
permits companies to perform a qualitative assessment based on economic, industry and company-specific factors as the initial step in the annual goodwill impairment test for all or selected reporting units. Based on the results of the qualitative
assessment, companies are only required to perform Step 1 of the annual impairment test for a reporting unit if the company concludes that it is more likely than not that the unit’s fair value is less than its carrying amount. As permitted, we
adopted this guidance in the fourth quarter of 2011 to reduce the costs associated with determining each reporting unit’s fair value for the units where it is more likely than not that the fair value exceeds its carrying amount. 
For the reporting units for which we did not elect to perform a qualitative assessment, we performed a Step 1 analysis, which required us to calculate
fair value of each reporting unit. If the reporting unit’s estimated fair value exceeds its carrying value, the reporting unit is not impaired, and no further analysis is performed. Otherwise, the amount of the impairment must be determined in
Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test. In Step 2, the implied fair value of goodwill is determined by assigning a fair value to all of the reporting unit’s assets and liabilities, including any unrecognized intangible assets, as if the
reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination at fair value. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss would be recognized in an amount equal to that
excess.  Fair values are established primarily using discounted cash flows that incorporate assumptions for the unit’s short- and
long-term revenue growth rates, operating margins and discount rates, which represent our best estimates of current and forecasted market conditions, current cost structure, anticipated net cost reductions, and the implied rate of return that we
believe a market participant would require for an investment in a company having similar risks and business characteristics to the reporting unit being assessed. The revenue growth rates and operating margins used in our discounted cash flow
analysis are based on our businesses’ strategic plans and long-range planning forecasts. The long-term growth rate we use to determine the terminal value of the business is based on our assessment of its minimum expected terminal growth
rate, as well as its past historical growth and broader economic considerations such as gross domestic product, inflation and the maturity of the markets we serve. We utilize a weighted-average cost of capital in our impairment analysis that
makes assumptions about the capital structure that we believe a market participant would make and include a risk premium based on an assessment of risks related to the projected cash flows of each reporting unit. We believe this approach yields
a discount rate that is consistent with an implied rate of return that an independent investor or market participant would require for an investment in a company having similar risks and business characteristics to the reporting unit being assessed.
 Based on our annual review, the fair value of all of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values, and we do not believe that there is
a reasonable possibility that any units might fail the Step 1 impairment test in the foreseeable future. 
  38 


Table of Contents
Retirement Benefits  We maintain various pension and postretirement plans for our employees globally. These plans include significant pension and postretirement benefit obligations, which are calculated based on actuarial
valuations. Key assumptions used in determining these obligations and related expenses include expected long-term rates of return on plan assets, discount rates and healthcare cost projections. We also make assumptions regarding employee demographic
factors such as retirement patterns, mortality, turnover and rate of compensation increases. We evaluate and update these assumptions annually. 
To determine the weighted-average expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, we consider the current and expected asset allocation, as well as
historical and expected returns on each plan asset class. A lower expected rate of return on plan assets will increase pension expense. For 2011, the assumed expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used in calculating pension expense was
7.84%, compared with 8.26% in 2010. In 2011 and 2010, the assumed rate of return for our domestic plans, which represent approximately 90% of our total pension assets, was 8.00% and 8.50%, respectively. A 50-basis-point decrease in this long-term
rate of return in 2011 would have increased pension expense for our domestic plans by approximately $22 million.  The discount rate enables us
to state expected future benefit payments as a present value on the measurement date, reflecting the current rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled. This rate should be in line with rates for high-quality fixed income
investments available for the period to maturity of the pension benefits, which fluctuate as long-term interest rates change. A lower discount rate increases the present value of the benefit obligations and increases pension expense. In 2011, the
weighted-average discount rate used in calculating pension expense was 5.71%, compared with 6.20% in 2010. For our domestic plans, the assumed discount rate was 5.75% in 2011, compared with 6.25% for 2010. A 50-basis-point decrease in this discount
rate in 2011 would have increased pension expense for our domestic plans by approximately $23 million.  The trend in healthcare costs is
difficult to estimate, and it has an important effect on postretirement liabilities. The 2011 medical and prescription drug healthcare cost trend rates represent the weighted-average annual projected rate of increase in the per capita cost of
covered benefits. The 2011 medical rate of 9% is assumed to decrease to 5% by 2021 and then remain at that level. The 2011 prescription drug rate of 9% is assumed to decrease to 5% by 2021 and then remain at that level. See Note 13 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact of a one-percentage-point change in the cost trend rate.  Warranty Liabilities
 We provide limited warranty and product maintenance programs, including parts and labor, for certain products for periods ranging from one
to five years. A significant portion of these liabilities arises from our commercial aircraft businesses. We also may incur costs related to product recalls. We estimate the costs that may be incurred under warranty programs and record a liability
in the amount of such costs at the time product revenue is recognized. Factors that affect this liability include the number of products sold, historical costs per claim, contractual recoveries from vendors, and historical and anticipated rates of
warranty claims, including production and warranty patterns for new models. During our initial aircraft model launches, we typically incur higher warranty-related costs until the production process matures, at which point warranty costs moderate. We
assess the adequacy of our recorded warranty and product maintenance liabilities periodically and adjust the amounts as necessary. Adjustments are made to accruals as claim data and actual experience warrant. Should future warranty experience differ
materially from our historical experience, we may be required to record additional warranty liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows in the period in which these additional liabilities are
required.  Income Taxes 
Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the financial reporting carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and
their tax bases, as well as from net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards, and are stated at enacted tax rates in effect for the year taxes are expected to be paid or recovered. Deferred income tax assets represent amounts available to
reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in future years. We evaluate the recoverability of these future tax deductions and credits by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including the future reversal of
existing taxable temporary differences, taxable income in carryback years, available tax planning strategies and estimated future taxable income. We recognize net tax-related interest and penalties for continuing operations in income tax expense.
 The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which may result in proposed
assessments. Our estimate of the potential outcome for any uncertain tax issue is highly judgmental. We assess our income tax positions and record tax benefits for all years subject to examination based upon our evaluation of the facts,
circumstances and information available at the reporting date. For those tax positions for which it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, we record the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50% likelihood of being
realized upon settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. Interest and penalties are accrued, where applicable. We recognize net tax-related interest and penalties for continuing operations in income tax
expense. If we do not believe that it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit is recognized. However, our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities due to
settlement of income tax examinations, 
  39 


Table of Contents

new regulatory or judicial pronouncements, or other relevant events. As a result, our effective tax rate may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis. 
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  Interest Rate Risks  Our financial results are affected by changes in the U.S. and foreign
interest rates. As part of managing this risk, we seek to achieve a prudent balance between floating- and fixed-rate exposures. We continually monitor our mix of these exposures and adjust the mix, as necessary. For our Finance group, we limit
our risk to changes in interest rates for the captive business with a strategy of matching floating-rate assets with floating-rate liabilities, which includes the use of interest rate exchange agreements. 
Foreign Exchange Risks  Our financial
results are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the various countries in which our products are manufactured and/or sold. For our manufacturing operations, we manage exposures to foreign currency assets and earnings primarily
by funding certain foreign currency-denominated assets with liabilities in the same currency so that certain exposures are naturally offset. We primarily use borrowings denominated in euro and British pound sterling for these purposes. In managing
our foreign currency transaction exposures, we also enter into foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts. These contracts generally are used to fix the local currency cost of purchased goods or services or selling prices denominated in
currencies other than the functional currency. The notional amount of outstanding foreign exchange contracts and foreign currency options was approximately $0.6 billion at the end of 2011 and 2010. 
The impact of foreign exchange rate changes for 2011 and 2010 from the prior year for each period is provided below: 
 












(In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Impact of foreign exchange rates increased (decreased):
  



  




 Revenues
  
$
77
  
  
$
(34
) 

 Segment profit
  
 
8
  
  
 
(7
) 
 Quantitative Risk Measures  In the normal course of business, we enter into financial instruments for purposes other than trading. To quantify the market risk inherent in our financial instruments, we utilize a sensitivity analysis.
The financial instruments that are subject to market risk (interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk and equity price risk) include finance receivables (excluding lease receivables), debt (excluding lease obligations), interest rate exchange
agreements and foreign currency exchange contracts.  Presented below is a sensitivity analysis of the fair value of financial instruments
outstanding at year-end. We estimate the fair value of the financial instruments using discounted cash flow analysis and indicative market pricing as reported by leading financial news and data providers. This sensitivity analysis is most likely not
indicative of actual results in the future. The following table illustrates the sensitivity to a hypothetical change in the fair value of the financial instruments assuming a 10% decrease in interest rates and a 10% strengthening in exchange rates
against the U.S. dollar:   




























   
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

(In millions)
  
CarryingValue*
 
 
 Fair
Value*
 
 

Sensitivity of Fair Value to a 10%
Change
 
 
CarryingValue*
 
 
 Fair
Value*
 
 
 Sensitivity of
Fair Value
to a 10%Change
 

 Manufacturing group
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Foreign exchange rate risk
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Debt
  
$
(543
) 
 
$
(564
) 
 
$
(56
) 
 
$
(549
) 
 
$
(549
) 
 
$
(55
) 

 Foreign currency exchange contracts
  
 
5
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
46
  
 
 
42
  
 
 
42
  
 
 
39
  

 
  
$
(538
) 
 
$
(559
) 
 
$
(10
) 
 
$
(507
) 
 
$
(507
) 
 
$
(16
) 

 Interest rate risk
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Debt
  
$
(2,328
) 
 
$
(2,561
) 
 
$
(14
) 
 
$
(2,172
) 
 
$
(2,698
) 
 
$
(22
) 

 Finance group
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Interest rate risk
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Finance receivables
  
$
2,415
  
 
$
2,266
  
 
$
90
  
 
$
3,758
  
 
$
3,544
  
 
$
114
  

 Debt, including intergroup
  
 
(2,467
) 
 
 
(2,347
) 
 
 
(24
) 
 
 
(3,975
) 
 
 
(3,843
) 
 
 
(47
) 

 
  
$
(52
) 
 
$
(81
) 
 
$
66
  
 
$
(217
) 
 
$
(299
) 
 
$
67
  



*
The value represents an asset or (liability). 
  40 


Table of Contents
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 
Our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related reports of our independent registered public accounting firm thereon are included in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K on the pages indicated below:   








 
  
Page
 

 Report of Management
  
 
42
  




 Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
43
  




 Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 
31, 2011
  
 
45
  




 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011
  
 
46
  




 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,
 2011
  
 
47
  




 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 
31, 2011
  
 
48
  




 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
50
  




 Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
  
 
50
  




 Note 2. Discontinued Operations
  
 
55
  




 Note 3. Goodwill and Intangible Assets
  
 
55
  




 Note 4. Accounts Receivable and Finance Receivables
  
 
56
  




 Note 5. Inventories
  
 
61
  




 Note 6. Property, Plant and Equipment, Net
  
 
62
  




 Note 7. Accrued Liabilities
  
 
62
  




 Note 8. Debt and Credit Facilities
  
 
63
  




 Note 9. Derivative Instruments and Fair Value Measurements
  
 
66
  




 Note 10. Shareholders’ Equity
  
 
69
  




 Note 11. Special Charges
  
 
70
  




 Note 12. Share-Based Compensation
  
 
71
  




 Note 13. Retirement Plans
  
 
74
  




 Note 14. Income Taxes
  
 
78
  




 Note 15. Contingencies and Commitments
  
 
81
  




 Note 16. Supplemental Cash Flow Information
  
 
82
  




 Note 17. Segment and Geographic Data
  
 
82
  




 Supplementary Information:
  







 Quarterly Data for 2011 and 2010 (Unaudited) 
  
 
85
  




 Schedule II – Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 
  
 
86
  
 All other schedules are omitted either because they are not applicable or not required or because the required
information is included in the financial statements or notes thereto. 
  41 


Table of Contents
Report of Management 
Management is responsible for the integrity and objectivity of the financial data presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Consolidated Financial
Statements have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and include amounts based on management’s best estimates and judgments. Management also is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting for Textron Inc. as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f). With the participation of our management, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
reporting based on the framework in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation under the framework in Internal Control – Integrated
Framework, we have concluded that Textron Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011.  The independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements of Textron Inc. and has issued an attestation report on Textron’s
internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, as stated in its reports, which are included herein.  We conduct our
business in accordance with the standards outlined in the Textron Business Conduct Guidelines, which are communicated to all employees. Honesty, integrity and high ethical standards are the core values of how we conduct business. Every Textron
business prepares and carries out an annual Compliance Plan to ensure these values and standards are maintained. Our internal control structure is designed to provide reasonable assurance, at appropriate cost, that assets are safeguarded and that
transactions are properly executed and recorded. The internal control structure includes, among other things, established policies and procedures, an internal audit function, and the selection and training of qualified personnel. Textron’s
management is responsible for implementing effective internal control systems and monitoring their effectiveness, as well as developing and executing an annual internal control plan.  The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, on behalf of the shareholders, oversees management’s financial reporting responsibilities. The Audit Committee consists of six directors who are not
officers or employees of Textron and meets regularly with the independent auditors, management and our internal auditors to review matters relating to financial reporting, internal accounting controls and auditing. Both the independent auditors and
the internal auditors have free and full access to senior management and the Audit Committee.   








/s/ Scott C. Donnelly
 

 
/s/ Frank T. Connor

 Scott C. Donnelly Chairman,
President and Chief Executive Officer
 

 
 Frank T. Connor Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 February 23, 2012 
  42 


Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Textron Inc.  We have audited Textron Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Textron Inc.’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report of Management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  A company’s internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  In our opinion, Textron Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the COSO criteria.  We also have audited, in accordance with
the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Textron Inc. as of December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, and the related Consolidated Statements of Operations,
Shareholders’ Equity and Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 of Textron Inc. and our report dated February 23, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
 




/s/ Ernst & Young LLP



Boston, Massachusetts

February 23, 2012

  43 


Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Textron Inc.  We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets of Textron Inc. as of December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, and the related Consolidated Statements of Operations,
Shareholders’ Equity and Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule contained on page 86. These financial statements and schedule are the
responsibility of the company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Textron Inc.
at December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011 and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein. 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Textron Inc.’s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated
February 23, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   




/s/ Ernst & Young LLP



Boston, Massachusetts

February 23, 2012

  44 


Table of Contents
Consolidated Statements of Operations 
For each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011 
 
















(In millions, except per share data)
 
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Revenues
 



  



 




 Manufacturing revenues
 
$
11,172
  
  
$
10,307
  
 
$
10,139
  

 Finance revenues
 
 
103
  
  
 
218
  
 
 
361
  

 Total revenues
 
 
11,275
  
  
 
10,525
  
 
 
10,500
  

 Costs, expenses and other
 



  



 




 Cost of sales
 
 
9,308
  
  
 
8,605
  
 
 
8,468
  

 Selling and administrative expense
 
 
1,183
  
  
 
1,231
  
 
 
1,338
  

 Interest expense
 
 
246
  
  
 
270
  
 
 
309
  

 Provision for losses on finance receivables
 
 
12
  
  
 
143
  
 
 
267
  

 Valuation allowance on transfer of Golf Mortgage portfolio to held for sale
 
 
186
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Special charges
 
 
—
  
  
 
190
  
 
 
317
  

 Other losses (gains), net
 
 
3
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
(50
) 

 Total costs, expenses and other
 
 
10,938
  
  
 
10,439
  
 
 
10,649
  

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes
 
 
337
  
  
 
86
  
 
 
(149
) 

 Income tax expense (benefit)
 
 
95
  
  
 
(6
) 
 
 
(76
) 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations
 
 
242
  
  
 
92
  
 
 
(73
) 

 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes
 
 
—
  
  
 
(6
) 
 
 
42
  

 Net income (loss)
 
$
242
  
  
$
86
  
 
$
(31
) 

 Basic earnings per share
 



  



 




 Continuing operations
 
$
0.87
  
  
$
0.33
  
 
$
(0.28
) 

 Discontinued operations
 
 
—
  
  
 
(0.02
) 
 
 
0.16
  

 Basic earnings per share
 
$
0.87
  
  
$
0.31
  
 
$
(0.12
) 

 Diluted earnings per share
 



  



 




 Continuing operations
 
$
0.79
  
  
$
0.30
  
 
$
(0.28
) 

 Discontinued operations
 
 
—
  
  
 
(0.02
) 
 
 
0.16
  

 Diluted earnings per share
 
$
0.79
  
  
$
0.28
  
 
$
(0.12
) 

See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  45 


Table of Contents
Consolidated Balance Sheets 
 












(In millions, except share data)
  

December 31, 2011
 
 

January 1,
2011
 

 Assets
  



 




 Manufacturing group
  



 




 Cash and equivalents
  
$
871
  
 
$
898
  

 Accounts receivable, net
  
 
856
  
 
 
892
  

 Inventories
  
 
2,402
  
 
 
2,277
  

 Other current assets
  
 
1,134
  
 
 
980
  

 Total current assets
  
 
5,263
  
 
 
5,047
  

 Property, plant and equipment, net
  
 
1,996
  
 
 
1,932
  

 Goodwill
  
 
1,635
  
 
 
1,632
  

 Other assets
  
 
1,508
  
 
 
1,722
  

 Total Manufacturing group assets
  
 
10,402
  
 
 
10,333
  

 Finance group
  



 




 Cash and equivalents
  
 
14
  
 
 
33
  

 Finance receivables held for investment, net
  
 
2,321
  
 
 
3,871
  

 Finance receivables held for sale
  
 
418
  
 
 
413
  

 Other assets
  
 
460
  
 
 
632
  

 Total Finance group assets
  
 
3,213
  
 
 
4,949
  

 Total assets
  
$
13,615
  
 
$
15,282
  

 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity
  



 




 Liabilities
  



 




 Manufacturing group
  



 




 Current portion of long-term debt
  
$
146
  
 
$
19
  

 Accounts payable
  
 
833
  
 
 
622
  

 Accrued liabilities
  
 
1,952
  
 
 
2,016
  

 Total current liabilities
  
 
2,931
  
 
 
2,657
  

 Other liabilities
  
 
2,826
  
 
 
2,993
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
2,313
  
 
 
2,283
  

 Total Manufacturing group
liabilities
  
 
8,070
  
 
 
7,933
  

 Finance group
  



 




 Other liabilities
  
 
333
  
 
 
391
  

 Due to Manufacturing group
  
 
493
  
 
 
326
  

 Debt
  
 
1,974
  
 
 
3,660
  

 Total Finance group liabilities
  
 
2,800
  
 
 
4,377
  

 Total liabilities
  
 
10,870
  
 
 
12,310
  

 Shareholders’ equity
  



 




 Common stock (279.1 million and 277.7 million shares issued, respectively, and 278.9 million and 275.7 million
shares outstanding, respectively)
  
 
35
  
 
 
35
  

 Capital surplus
  
 
1,081
  
 
 
1,301
  

 Retained earnings
  
 
3,257
  
 
 
3,037
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
  
 
(1,625
) 
 
 
(1,316
) 


  
 
2,748
  
 
 
3,057
  

 Less cost of treasury shares
  
 
3
  
 
 
85
  

 Total shareholders’ equity
  
 
2,745
  
 
 
2,972
  

 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
  
$
13,615
  
 
$
15,282
  

See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  46 


Table of Contents
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity 
 
































(In millions, except per share data)
  
PreferredStock
 
 
CommonStock
 
  
CapitalSurplus
 
 
RetainedEarnings
 
 
TreasuryStock
 
 
Accumu-latedOtherCompre-hensiveLoss
 
 
TotalShare-holders’Equity
 

 Balance at January 3, 2009
  
$
2
  
 
$
32
  
  
$
  1,229
  
 
$
3,025
  
 
$
(500
) 
 
$
  (1,422)
  
 
$
  2,366   
  


  



 



  



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Net loss
  



 



  



 
 
(31
) 
 



 



 
 
(31)  
  

 Other comprehensive income (loss):
  



 



  



 



 



 



 




 Foreign currency translation adjustment
  



 



  



 



 



 
 
23
  
 
 
23   
  

 Deferred gains on hedge contracts
  



 



  



 



 



 
 
67
  
 
 
67   
  

 Pension adjustments
  



 



  



 



 



 
 
(25
) 
 
 
(25)  
  

 Reclassification adjustments
  



 



  



 



 



 
 
21
  
 
 
21   
  

 Pension curtailment
  



 



  



 



 



 
 
15
  
 
 
15   
  


  



 



  



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total other comprehensive income (loss)
  



 



  



 



 



 



 
 
70   
  


  



 



  



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Dividends declared ($0.08 per share)
  



 



  



 
 
(21
) 
 



 



 
 
(21)  
  

 Share-based compensation
  



 



  
 
30
  
 



 



 



 
 
30   
  

 Purchases of convertible note call options
  



 



  
 
(140
) 
 



 



 



 
 
(140)  
  

 Equity component of convertible debt issuance
  



 



  
 
134
  
 



 



 



 
 
134   
  

 Issuance of common stock and warrants
  



 
 
3
  
  
 
330
  
 



 



 



 
 
333   
  

 Issuance of common stock for employee stock plans
  



 



  
 
(210
) 
 



 
 
270
  
 



 
 
60   
  

 Redemption of preferred stock
  
 
(2
) 
 



  
 
1
  
 



 



 



 
 
(1)  
  

 Income tax impact of employee stock transactions
  



 



  
 
(5
) 
 



 



 



 
 
(5)  
  

  
 

 Balance at January 2, 2010
  
 
—
  
 
 
35
  
  
 
1,369
  
 
 
2,973
  
 
 
(230
) 
 
 
(1,321
) 
 
 
2,826   
  


  



 



  



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Net income
  



 



  



 
 
86
  
 



 



 
 
86   
  

 Other comprehensive income (loss):
  



 



  



 



 



 



 




 Foreign currency translation adjustment
  



 



  



 



 



 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(2)  
  

 Deferred gains on hedge contracts
  



 



  



 



 



 
 
14
  
 
 
14   
  

 Pension adjustments
  



 



  



 



 



 
 
(112
) 
 
 
(112)  
  

 Recognition of currency translation loss (see Note 11)
  



 



  



 



 



 
 
74
  
 
 
74   
  

 Other reclassification adjustments
  



 



  



 



 



 
 
31
  
 
 
31   
  


  



 



  



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total other comprehensive income (loss)
  



 



  



 



 



 



 
 
91   
  


  



 



  



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Dividends declared ($0.08 per share)
  



 



  



 
 
(22
) 
 



 



 
 
(22)  
  

 Share-based compensation
  



 



  
 
22
  
 



 



 



 
 
22   
  

 Exercise of stock options
  



 



  
 
7
  
 



 



 



 
 
7   
  

 Issuance of common stock for employee stock plans
  



 



  
 
(94
) 
 



 
 
145
  
 



 
 
51   
  

 Income tax impact of employee stock transactions
  



 



  
 
(3
) 
 



 



 



 
 
(3)  
  

  
 

 Balance at January 1, 2011
  
 
—
  
 
 
35
  
  
$
1,301
  
 
 
3,037
  
 
 
(85
) 
 
 
(1,316
) 
 
 
2,972   
  


  



 



  



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Net income
  



 



  



 
 
242
  
 



 



 
 
242   
  

 Other comprehensive income (loss):
  



 



  



 



 



 



 




 Foreign currency translation adjustment
  



 



  



 



 



 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(3)  
  

 Deferred gains on hedge contracts
  



 



  



 



 



 
 
(5
) 
 
 
(5)  
  

 Pension adjustments
  



 



  



 



 



 
 
(350
) 
 
 
(350)  
  

 Other reclassification adjustments
  



 



  



 



 



 
 
49
  
 
 
49   
  


  



 



  



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total other comprehensive income (loss)
  



 



  



 



 



 



 
 
(67)  
  


  



 



  



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Dividends declared ($0.08 per share)
  



 



  



 
 
(22
) 
 



 



 
 
(22)  
  

 Purchases and conversions of convertible notes
  



 



  
 
(179
) 
 



 
 
(3
) 
 



 
 
(182)  
  

 Amendment of call option/warrant transactions and purchase of capped call
  



 



  
 
(30
) 
 



 



 



 
 
(30)  
  

 Share-based compensation
  



 



  
 
21
  
 



 



 



 
 
21   
  

 Issuance of common stock for employee stock plans
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
(32
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
85
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
53   
  

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
—
  
 
$
35
  
  
$
1,081
  
 
$
3,257
  
 
$
(3
) 
 
$
(1,625
) 
 
$
2,745   
  

See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  47 


Table of Contents
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
For each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011 
 
















  
  
Consolidated
 

(In millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009  
 

 Cash flows from operating activities
  



 



 




 Net income (loss)
  
$
242
  
 
$
86
  
 
$
(31) 
  

 Less: Income (loss) from discontinued operations
  
 
—
  
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
42  
  

  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
 
242
  
 
 
92
  
 
 
(73) 
  

 Adjustments to reconcile income from continuing operations to net cash provided by (used in) operating
activities:
  



 



 




 Dividends received from Finance group
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
— 
  

 Capital contributions paid to Finance group
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
— 
  

 Non-cash items:
  



 



 




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
403
  
 
 
393
  
 
 
409  
  

 Provision for losses on finance receivables held for investment
  
 
12
  
 
 
143
  
 
 
267  
  

 Portfolio losses on finance receivables
  
 
102
  
 
 
112
  
 
 
162  
  

 Valuation allowance on finance receivables held for sale
  
 
202
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
(15) 
  

 Goodwill and other asset impairment charges
  
 
59
  
 
 
19
  
 
 
144  
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
81
  
 
 
69
  
 
 
(265) 
  

 Other, net
  
 
166
  
 
 
109
  
 
 
82  
  

 Changes in assets and liabilities:
  



 



 




 Accounts receivable, net
  
 
36
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
17  
  

 Inventories
  
 
(127
) 
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
803  
  

 Other assets
  
 
(413
) 
 
 
36
  
 
 
(250) 
  

 Accounts payable
  
 
211
  
 
 
54
  
 
 
(535) 
  

 Accrued and other liabilities
  
 
(90
) 
 
 
(455
) 
 
 
78  
  

 Captive finance receivables, net
  
 
236
  
 
 
424
  
 
 
177  
  

 Other operating activities, net
  
 
(52
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
31  
  

  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities of continuing operations
  
 
1,068
  
 
 
993
  
 
 
1,032  
  

 Net cash used in operating activities of discontinued operations
  
 
(5
) 
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
(17) 
  

  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
  
 
1,063
  
 
 
984
  
 
 
1,015  
  

  
 

 Cash flows from investing activities
  



 



 




 Finance receivables originated or purchased
  
 
(187
) 
 
 
(450
) 
 
 
(3,005) 
  

 Finance receivables repaid
  
 
824
  
 
 
1,635
  
 
 
4,011  
  

 Proceeds on receivables sales
  
 
421
  
 
 
528
  
 
 
594  
  

 Capital expenditures
  
 
(423
) 
 
 
(270
) 
 
 
(238) 
  

 Proceeds from collection on notes receivable from a prior disposition
  
 
58
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

 Net cash used in acquisitions
  
 
(14
) 
 
 
(57
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Proceeds from sale of repossessed assets and properties
  
 
109
  
 
 
129
  
 
 
236  
  

 Retained interests
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
117  
  

 Other investing activities, net
  
 
55
  
 
 
34
  
 
 
13  
  

  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities of continuing operations
  
 
843
  
 
 
1,549
  
 
 
1,728  
  

 Net cash provided by investing activities of discontinued operations
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
211  
  

  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
  
 
843
  
 
 
1,549
  
 
 
1,939  
  

  
 

 Cash flows from financing activities
  



 



 




 Proceeds from long-term lines of credit
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,970  
  

 Payments on long-term lines of credit
  
 
(1,440
) 
 
 
(1,467
) 
 
 
(63) 
  

 Net proceeds from issuance of long-term debt
  
 
926
  
 
 
231
  
 
 
918  
  

 Principal payments on long-term debt and nonrecourse debt
  
 
(785
) 
 
 
(2,241
) 
 
 
(4,163) 
  

 Intergroup financing
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

 Proceeds from issuance of convertible notes, net of fees paid
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
582  
  

 Purchase of convertible notes
  
 
(580
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

 Amendment of call option/warrant transactions and purchase of capped call
  
 
(30
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

 Purchase of convertible note call options
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(140) 
  

 Proceeds from issuance of common stock and warrants
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
333 
  

 Decrease in short-term debt
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,637) 
  

 Payment on borrowings against officers’ life insurance policies
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(412) 
  

 Capital contributions paid to Finance group under Support Agreement
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

 Capital contributions paid to Cessna Export Finance Corp.
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

 Dividends paid
  
 
(22
) 
 
 
(22
) 
 
 
(21) 
  

 Other financing activities.
  
 
(20
) 
 
 
6
  
 
 
—  
  

  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
  
 
(1,951
) 
 
 
(3,493
) 
 
 
(1,633) 
  

  
 

 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and equivalents
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
24  
  

  
 

 Net increase (decrease) in cash and equivalents
  
 
(46
) 
 
 
(961
) 
 
 
1,345  
  

 Cash and equivalents at beginning of year
  
 
931
  
 
 
1,892
  
 
 
547  
  

  
 

 Cash and equivalents at end of year
  
$
885
  
 
$
931
  
 
$
1,892  
  

  See Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.  48 


Table of Contents
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows continued 
 
For each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011 




























  
  
Manufacturing Group
 
 
Finance Group
 

(In millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Cash flows from operating activities
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Net income (loss)
  
$
    464
  
 
$
314
  
 
$
175
  
 
$
(222
) 
 
$
(228
) 
 
$
(206) 
  

 Less: Income (loss) from discontinued operations
  
 
—
  
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
42
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
 
464
  
 
 
320
  
 
 
133
  
 
 
(222
) 
 
 
(228
) 
 
 
(206) 
  

 Adjustments to reconcile income from continuing operations to net cash provided by (used in) operating
activities:
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Dividends received from Finance group
  
 
179
  
 
 
505
  
 
 
349
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

 Capital contributions paid to Finance group
  
 
(182
) 
 
 
(383
) 
 
 
(270
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

 Non-cash items:
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
371
  
 
 
362
  
 
 
373
  
 
 
32
  
 
 
31
  
 
 
36  
  

 Provision for losses on finance receivables held for investment
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
143
  
 
 
267  
  

 Portfolio losses on finance receivables
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
102
  
 
 
112
  
 
 
162  
  

 Valuation allowance on finance receivables held for sale
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
202
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
(15) 
  

 Goodwill and other asset impairment charges
  
 
57
  
 
 
18
  
 
 
144
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
— 
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
197
  
 
 
131
  
 
 
(61
) 
 
 
(116
) 
 
 
(62
) 
 
 
(204)  
  

 Other, net
  
 
166
  
 
 
110
  
 
 
112
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
(30)  
  

 Changes in assets and liabilities
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Accounts receivable, net
  
 
36
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
17
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

 Inventories
  
 
(132
) 
 
 
(11
) 
 
 
810
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other assets
  
 
(419
) 
 
 
9
  
 
 
(255
) 
 
 
10
  
 
 
32
  
 
 
(5) 
  

 Accounts payable
  
 
211
  
 
 
54
  
 
 
(535
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

 Accrued and other liabilities
  
 
(135
) 
 
 
(384
) 
 
 
(85
) 
 
 
45
  
 
 
(71
) 
 
 
166  
  

 Captive finance receivables, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other operating activities, net
  
 
(52
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
25  
  

  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities of continuing operations
  
 
761
  
 
 
730
  
 
 
738
  
 
 
65
  
 
 
(35
) 
 
 
196  
  

 Net cash used in operating activities of discontinued operations
  
 
(5
) 
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
(17
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
— 
  

  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
  
 
756
  
 
 
721
  
 
 
721
  
 
 
65
  
 
 
(35
) 
 
 
196  
  

  
 

 Cash flows from investing activities
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Finance receivables originated or purchased
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(471
) 
 
 
(866
) 
 
 
(3,659) 
  

 Finance receivables repaid
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,289
  
 
 
2,348
  
 
 
4,804  
  

 Proceeds on receivables sales
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
476
  
 
 
655
  
 
 
644  
  

 Capital expenditures
  
 
(423
) 
 
 
(270
) 
 
 
(238
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

 Proceeds from collection on notes receivable from a prior disposition
  
 
58
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

 Net cash used in acquisitions
  
 
(14
) 
 
 
(57
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

 Proceeds from sale of repossessed assets and properties
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
109
  
 
 
129
  
 
 
236  
  

 Retained interests
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
117  
  

 Other investing activities, net
  
 
(44
) 
 
 
(26
) 
 
 
(50
) 
 
 
50
  
 
 
39
  
 
 
11  
  

  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities of continuing operations
  
 
(423
) 
 
 
(353
) 
 
 
(288
) 
 
 
1,453
  
 
 
2,305
  
 
 
2,153  
  

 Net cash provided by investing activities of discontinued operations
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
211
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
  
 
(423
) 
 
 
(353
) 
 
 
(77
) 
 
 
1,453
  
 
 
2,305
  
 
 
2,153  
  

  
 

 Cash flows from financing activities
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Proceeds from long-term lines of credit
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,230
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,740  
  

 Payments on long-term lines of credit
  
 
—
  
 
 
(1,167
) 
 
 
(63
) 
 
 
(1,440
) 
 
 
(300
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Net proceeds from issuance of long-term debt
  
 
496
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
595
  
 
 
430
  
 
 
231
  
 
 
323  
  

 Principal payments on long-term and nonrecourse debt
  
 
(29
) 
 
 
(130
) 
 
 
(392
) 
 
 
(756
) 
 
 
(2,111
) 
 
 
(3,771) 
  

 Intergroup financing
  
 
(175
) 
 
 
98
  
 
 
(280
) 
 
 
167
  
 
 
(111
) 
 
 
280  
  

 Proceeds from issuance of convertible notes, net of fees paid
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
582
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

 Purchase of convertible notes
  
 
(580
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

 Amendment of call option/warrant transactions and purchase of capped call
  
 
(30
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

 Purchase of convertible note call options
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(140
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

 Proceeds from issuance of common stock and warrants
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
333
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

 Decrease in short-term debt
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(869
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(768) 
  

 Payment on borrowings against officers’ life insurance policies
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(412
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
— 
  

 Capital contributions paid to Finance group under Support Agreement
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
182
  
 
 
383
  
 
 
270  
  

 Capital contributions paid to Cessna Export Finance Corp.
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
60
  
 
 
30
  
 
 
40  
  

 Dividends paid
  
 
(22
) 
 
 
(22
) 
 
 
(21
) 
 
 
(179
) 
 
 
(505
) 
 
 
(349) 
  

 Other financing activities
  
 
(20
) 
 
 
6
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
  
 
(360
) 
 
 
(1,215
) 
 
 
563
  
 
 
(1,536
) 
 
 
(2,383
) 
 
 
(2,235) 
  

  
 

 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and equivalents
  
 
—
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
10
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
2
  
 
 
14  
  

  
 

 Net increase (decrease) in cash and equivalents
  
 
(27
) 
 
 
(850
) 
 
 
1,217
  
 
 
(19
) 
 
 
(111
) 
 
 
128  
  

 Cash and equivalents at beginning of year
  
 
898
  
 
 
1,748
  
 
 
531
  
 
 
33
  
 
 
144
  
 
 
16  
  

  
 

 Cash and equivalents at end of year
  
$
    871
  
 
$
898
  
 
$
    1,748
  
 
$
14
  
 
$
33
  
 
$
144  
  

See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  49 


Table of Contents
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
Principles of Consolidation and Financial Statement Presentation 
Our Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Textron Inc. and its majority-owned subsidiaries.
Our financings are conducted through two separate borrowing groups. The Manufacturing group consists of Textron Inc. consolidated with its majority-owned subsidiaries that operate in the Cessna, Bell, Textron Systems and Industrial segments. The
Finance group, which also is the Finance segment, consists of Textron Financial Corporation (TFC), its consolidated subsidiaries and three other finance subsidiaries owned by Textron Inc. We designed this framework to enhance our borrowing power by
separating the Finance group. Our Manufacturing group operations include the development, production and delivery of tangible goods and services, while our Finance group provides financial services. Due to the fundamental differences between each
borrowing group’s activities, investors, rating agencies and analysts use different measures to evaluate each group’s performance. To support those evaluations, we present balance sheet and cash flow information for each borrowing group
within the Consolidated Financial Statements.  Our Finance group provides captive financing for retail purchases and leases for new and used
aircraft and equipment manufactured by our Manufacturing group. In the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, cash received from customers or from the sale of receivables is reflected as operating activities when received from third parties.
However, in the cash flow information provided for the separate borrowing groups, cash flows related to captive financing activities are reflected based on the operations of each group. For example, when product is sold by our Manufacturing group to
a customer and is financed by the Finance group, the origination of the finance receivable is recorded within investing activities as a cash outflow in the Finance group’s statement of cash flows. Meanwhile, in the Manufacturing group’s
statement of cash flows, the cash received from the Finance group on the customer’s behalf is recorded within operating cash flows as a cash inflow. Although cash is transferred between the two borrowing groups, there is no cash transaction
reported in the consolidated cash flows at the time of the original financing. These captive financing activities, along with all significant intercompany transactions, are reclassified or eliminated in consolidation. 
Collaborative Arrangements 
Our Bell segment has a strategic alliance agreement with The Boeing Company (Boeing) to
provide engineering, development and test services related to the V-22 aircraft, as well as to produce the V-22 aircraft, under a number of separate contracts with the U.S. Government (V-22 Contracts). The alliance created by this agreement is
not a legal entity and has no employees, no assets and no true operations. This agreement creates contractual rights and does not represent an entity in which we have an equity interest. We account for this alliance as a collaborative
arrangement with Bell and Boeing reporting costs incurred and revenues generated from transactions with the U.S. Government in each company’s respective income statement. Neither Bell nor Boeing is considered to be the principal participant for
the transactions recorded under this agreement. Profits on cost-plus contracts are allocated between Bell and Boeing on a 50%-50% basis. Negotiated profits on fixed-price contracts are also allocated 50%-50%; however, Bell and Boeing are each
responsible for their own cost overruns and are entitled to retain any cost underruns. Based on the contractual arrangement established under the alliance, Bell accounts for its rights and obligations under the specific requirements of the V-22
Contracts allocated to Bell under the work breakdown structure. We account for all of our rights and obligations, including warranty, product and any contingent liabilities, under the specific requirements of the V-22 Contracts allocated to us
under the agreement. Revenues and cost of sales reflect our performance under the V-22 Contracts with revenues recognized using the units-of-delivery method. We include all assets used in performance of the V-22 Contracts that we own, including
inventory and unpaid receivables and all liabilities arising from our obligations under the V-22 Contracts in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
Use of Estimates 
We prepare our financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, which require us to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Our estimates and assumptions are reviewed periodically, and the effects of changes, if any, are reflected
in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in the period that they are determined.  During 2011 and 2010, we changed our estimates of
revenues and costs on certain long-term contracts that are accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, primarily in our Bell V-22 and H-1 programs. The changes in estimates increased income from continuing operations
before income taxes in 2011 and 2010 by $54 million and $78 million, respectively, ($34 million and $49 million after tax, or $0.11 and $0.16 per diluted share, respectively). These changes were primarily related to favorable cost and operational
performance. For 2011 and 2010, the gross favorable program profit adjustments totaled $83 million and $98 million, respectively. For 2011 and 2010, the gross unfavorable program profit adjustments totaled $29 million and $20 million, respectively.

  50 


Table of Contents
Cash and Equivalents 
Cash and equivalents consist of cash and short-term, highly liquid investments with original
maturities of three months or less. 
Revenue Recognition 
We generally recognize revenue for the sale of products, which are not under long-term contracts, upon
delivery. For commercial aircraft, delivery is upon completion of manufacturing, customer acceptance, and the transfer of the risk and rewards of ownership. Taxes collected from customers and remitted to government authorities are recorded on a net
basis.  When a sale arrangement involves multiple deliverables, such as sales of products that include customization and other services, we
evaluate the arrangement to determine whether there are separate items that are required to be delivered under the arrangement that qualify as separate units of accounting. These arrangements typically involve the customization services we offer to
customers who purchase Bell helicopters, and the services generally are provided within the first six months after the customer accepts the aircraft and assumes risk of loss. We consider the aircraft and the customization services to be separate
units of accounting and allocate contract price between the two on a relative selling price basis using the best evidence of selling price for each of the arrangement deliverables, typically by reference to the price charged when the same or similar
items are sold separately by us, taking into consideration any performance, cancellation, termination or refund-type provisions. We recognize revenue when the recognition criteria for each unit of accounting are met. 
Long-Term Contracts — Revenues under long-term contracts are accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Under
this method, we estimate profit as the difference between the total estimated revenues and cost of a contract. We then recognize that estimated profit over the contract term based on either the units-of-delivery method or the cost-to-cost method
(which typically is used for development effort as costs are incurred), as appropriate under the circumstances. Revenues under fixed-price contracts generally are recorded using the units-of-delivery method. Revenues under cost-reimbursement
contracts are recorded using the cost-to-cost method.  Long-term contract profits are based on estimates of total contract cost and revenues
utilizing current contract specifications, expected engineering requirements, the achievement of contract milestones and product deliveries. Certain contracts are awarded with fixed-price incentive fees that also are considered when estimating
revenues and profit rates. Contract costs typically are incurred over a period of several years, and the estimation of these costs requires substantial judgment. Our cost estimation process is based on the professional knowledge and experience of
engineers and program managers along with finance professionals. We update our projections of costs at least semiannually or when circumstances significantly change. When adjustments are required, any changes from prior estimates are recognized
using the cumulative catch-up method with the impact of the change from inception-to-date recorded in the current period. Anticipated losses on contracts are recognized in full in the period in which the losses become probable and estimable.

Finance Revenues
— Finance revenues include interest on finance receivables, direct loan origination costs and fees received, and capital and leveraged lease earnings, as well as portfolio gains/losses. Portfolio gains/losses include gains/losses on the
sale or early termination of finance assets and impairment charges related to repossessed assets and properties and operating assets received in satisfaction of troubled finance receivables. Revenues on direct loan origination costs and fees
received are deferred and amortized to finance revenues over the contractual lives of the respective receivables and credit lines using the interest method. When receivables are sold or prepaid, unamortized amounts are recognized in finance
revenues. 
We recognize interest using the interest method, which provides a constant rate of return over the terms of the receivables. Accrual
of interest income is suspended if credit quality indicators suggest full collection of principal and interest is doubtful. In addition, we automatically suspend the accrual of interest income for accounts that are contractually delinquent by more
than three months unless collection is not doubtful. Cash payments on nonaccrual accounts, including finance charges, generally are applied to reduce the net investment balance. We resume the accrual of interest when the loan becomes contractually
current through payment according to the original terms of the loan or, if a loan has been modified, following a period of performance under the terms of the modification, provided we conclude that collection of all principal and interest is no
longer doubtful. Previously suspended interest income is recognized at that time. 
Finance Receivables Held for Sale 
Finance receivables are classified as held for sale based on the
determination that we no longer intend to hold the receivables for the foreseeable future, until maturity or payoff, or we no longer have the ability to hold to maturity. Our decision to classify certain finance receivables as held for sale is based
on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, contractual duration, type of collateral, credit strength of the borrowers, interest rates and perceived marketability of the receivables. On an ongoing basis, 
  51 


Table of Contents
these factors, combined with our overall liquidation strategy, determine which finance receivables we have
the intent to hold for the foreseeable future and which finance receivables we will hold for sale. Our current strategy is based on an evaluation of both our performance and liquidity position and changes in external factors affecting the value
and/or marketability of our finance receivables. A change in this strategy could result in a change in the classification of our finance receivables.  Finance receivables held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value. At the time of transfer to the held for sale classification, we establish a valuation allowance for any shortfall between
the carrying value and fair value. In addition, any allowance for loan losses previously allocated to these finance receivables is transferred to the valuation allowance account, which is netted with finance receivables held for sale on the balance
sheet. This valuation allowance is adjusted quarterly. Fair value changes can occur based on market interest rates, market liquidity, and changes in the credit quality of the borrower and value of underlying loan collateral. If we determine that
finance receivables classified as held for sale will not be sold and we have the intent and ability to hold the finance receivables for the foreseeable future, until maturity or payoff, the finance receivables are transferred to the held for
investment classification at the lower of cost or fair value. 
Finance Receivables Held for Investment and Allowance for Losses 
Finance receivables are
classified as held for investment when we have the intent and the ability to hold the receivable for the foreseeable future or until maturity or payoff. Finance receivables held for investment are generally recorded at the amount of outstanding
principal less allowance for losses.  We maintain the allowance for losses on finance receivables held for investment at a level considered
adequate to cover inherent losses in the portfolio based on management’s evaluation and analysis by product line. For larger balance accounts specifically identified as impaired, including large accounts in homogeneous portfolios, a reserve is
established based on comparing the carrying value with either a) the expected future cash flows, discounted at the finance receivable’s effective interest rate; or b) the fair value of the underlying collateral, if the finance receivable is
collateral dependent. The expected future cash flows consider collateral value; financial performance and liquidity of our borrower; existence and financial strength of guarantors; estimated recovery costs, including legal expenses; and costs
associated with the repossession/foreclosure and eventual disposal of collateral. When there is a range of potential outcomes, we perform multiple discounted cash flow analyses and weight the outcomes based on management’s estimate of their
relative likelihood of occurrence.  The evaluation of our portfolios is inherently subjective, as it requires estimates, including the amount
and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on impaired finance receivables and the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral, which may differ from actual results. While our analysis is specific to each individual account,
critical factors included in this analysis vary by product line and include the following:   


 
•
 
 Aviation—industry valuation guides, physical condition of the aircraft, payment history, and existence and financial strength of
guarantors.   


 
•
 
 Golf Equipment—age and condition of the collateral. 
 


 
•
 
 Timeshare—historical performance of consumer notes receivable collateral, real estate valuations, operating expenses of the borrower, the
impact of bankruptcy court rulings on the value of the collateral, legal and other professional expenses and borrower’s access to capital.  We also establish an allowance for losses by product line to cover probable but specifically unknown losses existing in the portfolio. For homogeneous portfolios, including Aviation and Golf Equipment,
the allowance is established as a percentage of non-recourse finance receivables, which have not been identified as requiring specific reserves. The percentage is based on a combination of factors, including historical loss experience, current
delinquency and default trends, collateral values and both general economic and specific industry trends. For non-homogeneous portfolios, such as Timeshare, the allowance is established as a percentage of watchlist balances, as defined on page 58,
which represents a combination of assumed default likelihood and loss severity based on historical experience, industry trends and collateral values. In estimating our allowance for losses to cover accounts not specifically identified, critical
factors vary by product line and include the following:   


 
•
 
 Aviation—the collateral value of the portfolio, historical default experience and delinquency trends. 
 


 
•
 
 Golf Equipment—historical loss experience and delinquency trends. 
 


 
•
 
 Timeshare—individual loan credit quality indicators such as borrowing base shortfalls for revolving notes receivable facilities, default
rates of our notes receivable collateral, borrower’s access to capital, historical progression from watchlist to nonaccrual status and estimates of loss severity based on analysis of impaired loans in the product line.
 Finance receivables held for investment are written down to the fair value (less estimated costs to sell) of the related
collateral when the collateral is repossessed, and are charged off when the remaining balance is deemed to be uncollectable. 
  52 


Table of Contents
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. We value our inventories generally
using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method or the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for certain qualifying inventories where LIFO provides a better matching of costs and revenues. We determine costs for our commercial helicopters on an average cost
basis by model considering the expended and estimated costs for the current production release. Inventoried costs related to long-term contracts are stated at actual production costs, including allocable operating overhead, advances to suppliers,
and, in the case of contracts with the U.S. Government, allocable research and development and general and administrative expenses. Since our inventoried costs include amounts related to contracts with long production cycles, a portion of these
costs is not expected to be realized within one year. Pursuant to contract provisions, agencies of the U.S. Government have title to, or security interest in, inventories related to such contracts as a result of advances, performance-based payments
and progress payments. Such advances and payments are reflected as an offset against the related inventory balances. Customer deposits are recorded against inventory when the right of offset exists. All other customer deposits are recorded in
accrued liabilities. 
Property, Plant and Equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost and are depreciated primarily using the
straight-line method. We capitalize expenditures for improvements that increase asset values and extend useful lives. 
Intangible and Other Long-Lived Assets 
At acquisition, we estimate and record the fair value of purchased intangible assets
primarily using a discounted cash flow analysis of anticipated cash flows reflecting incremental revenues and/or cost savings resulting from the acquired intangible asset using market participant assumptions. Amortization of intangible assets with
finite lives is recognized over their estimated useful lives using a method of amortization that reflects the pattern in which the economic benefits of the intangible assets are consumed or otherwise realized. Approximately 36% of our gross
intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method, with the remaining assets, primarily customer agreements, amortized based on the cash flow streams used to value the asset.  Long-lived assets, including intangible assets subject to amortization, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be
recoverable. If the carrying value of the asset held for use exceeds the sum of the undiscounted expected future cash flows, the carrying value of the asset generally is written down to fair value. Long-lived assets held for sale are stated at the
lower of cost or fair value less cost to sell. Fair value is determined using pertinent market information, including estimated future discounted cash flows. 
Goodwill 
We evaluate the recoverability of goodwill annually in the fourth quarter or more
frequently if events or changes in circumstances, such as declines in sales, earnings or cash flows, or material adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that the carrying value of a reporting unit might be impaired. The reporting unit
represents the operating segment unless discrete financial information is prepared and reviewed by segment management for businesses one level below that operating segment, in which case such component is the reporting unit. In certain instances, we
have aggregated components of an operating segment into a single reporting unit based on similar economic characteristics.  In September 2011,
the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued guidance that permits companies to perform a qualitative assessment based on economic, industry and company-specific factors as the initial step in the annual goodwill impairment test for all or
selected reporting units. Based on the results of the qualitative assessment, companies are only required to perform Step 1 of the annual impairment test for a reporting unit if the company concludes that it is more likely than not that the
unit’s fair value is less than its carrying amount. As permitted, we adopted this guidance in the fourth quarter of 2011 to reduce the costs associated with determining each reporting unit’s fair value for the units where it is more likely
than not that the fair value exceeds its carrying amount. For the reporting units for which we did not elect to perform a qualitative assessment, we calculated fair value of each reporting unit primarily using discounted cash flows that incorporate
assumptions for the unit’s short- and long-term revenue growth rates, operating margins and discount rates, which represent our best estimates of current and forecasted market conditions, current cost structure, anticipated net cost reductions,
and the implied rate of return that we believe a market participant would require for an investment in a company having similar risks and business characteristics to the reporting unit being assessed. Goodwill is considered to be potentially
impaired when the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. 
Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligations 
We maintain various pension and postretirement plans for our employees globally. These
plans include significant pension and postretirement benefit obligations, which are calculated based on actuarial valuations. Key assumptions used in determining these obligations and related expenses include expected long-term rates of return on
plan assets, discount rates and healthcare cost projections. We evaluate and update these assumptions annually in consultation with third-party actuaries and investment 
  53 


Table of Contents

advisors. We also make assumptions regarding employee demographic factors such as retirement patterns, mortality, turnover and rate of compensation increases. We recognize the overfunded or
underfunded status of our pension and postretirement plans in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and recognize changes in the funded status of our defined benefit plans in comprehensive income in the year in which they occur. Actuarial gains and losses
that are not immediately recognized as net periodic pension cost are recognized as a component of other comprehensive (loss) income (OCI) and are amortized into net periodic pension cost in future periods. 
Derivative Financial Instruments 
We are exposed to market risk primarily from changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. We do not hold
or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. To manage the volatility relating to our exposures, we net these exposures on a consolidated basis to take advantage of natural offsets. For the residual portion, we
enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies in areas such as counterparty exposure and hedging practices. All derivative instruments are reported at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Designation to support hedge
accounting is performed on a specific exposure basis. For financial instruments qualifying as fair value hedges, we record changes in fair value in earnings, offset, in part or in whole, by corresponding changes in the fair value of the underlying
exposures being hedged. For cash flow hedges, we record changes in the fair value of derivatives (to the extent they are effective as hedges) in OCI, net of deferred taxes. Changes in fair value of derivatives not qualifying as hedges are recorded
in earnings.  Foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars. Adjustments from currency rate changes are
recorded in the cumulative translation adjustment account in shareholders’ equity until the related foreign entity is sold or substantially liquidated. We use foreign currency financing transactions to effectively hedge long-term investments in
foreign operations with the same corresponding currency. Foreign currency gains and losses on the hedge of the long-term investments are recorded in the cumulative translation adjustment account with the offset recorded as an adjustment to debt.

Product Liabilities 
We accrue for product liability claims and related defense costs when a loss is probable and reasonably estimable.
Our estimates are generally based on the specifics of each claim or incident and our best estimate of the probable loss using historical experience and considering the insurance coverage and deductibles in effect at the date of the incident.

Environmental Liabilities and Asset Retirement Obligations 
Liabilities for environmental matters are recorded on a site-by-site basis
when it is probable that an obligation has been incurred and the cost can be reasonably estimated. We estimate our accrued environmental liabilities using currently available facts, existing technology, and presently enacted laws and regulations,
all of which are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties. Our environmental liabilities are not discounted and do not take into consideration possible future insurance proceeds or significant amounts from claims against other third parties.
 We have incurred asset retirement obligations primarily related to costs to remove and dispose of underground storage tanks and asbestos
materials used in insulation, adhesive fillers and floor tiles. There is no legal requirement to remove these items, and there currently is no plan to remodel the related facilities or otherwise cause the impacted items to require disposal. Since
these asset retirement obligations are not estimable, there is no related liability recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
Warranty and Product Maintenance Contracts 
We provide limited warranty and product maintenance programs, including parts and labor, for certain
products for periods ranging from one to five years. We estimate the costs that may be incurred under warranty programs and record a liability in the amount of such costs at the time product revenues are recognized. Factors that affect this
liability include the number of products sold, historical and anticipated rates of warranty claims, and cost per claim. We assess the adequacy of our recorded warranty and product maintenance liabilities periodically and adjust the amounts as
necessary. Additionally, we may establish warranty liabilities related to the issuance of aircraft service bulletins for aircraft no longer covered under the limited warranty programs. 
Research and Development Costs 
Our customer-funded research and development costs are charged directly to the related
contracts, which primarily consist of U.S. Government contracts. In accordance with government regulations, we recover a portion of company-funded research and development costs through overhead rate charges on our U.S. Government contracts.
Research and development costs that are not reimbursable under a contract with the U.S. Government or another customer are charged to expense as incurred. Company-funded research and development costs were $525 million, $403 million, and $401
million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and are included in cost of sales. 
  54 


Table of Contents
Income Taxes 
Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the financial reporting carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases, as well as from net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards, and are stated at enacted tax rates in effect for the year taxes are expected to be paid or recovered. Deferred income tax
assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in future years. We evaluate the recoverability of these future tax deductions and credits by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all
sources, including the future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences, taxable income in carryback years, available tax planning strategies and estimated future taxable income. We recognize net tax-related interest and penalties for
continuing operations in income tax expense. 
Note 2. Discontinued Operations 
In pursuing our business strategies, we have periodically divested certain non-core businesses. For several previously-disposed
businesses, we have retained certain assets and liabilities. All residual activity relating to our previously-disposed businesses that meet the appropriate criteria are included in discontinued operations. 
In connection with the 2008 sale of the Fluid & Power business unit, we received a six-year note with a face value of $28 million and a
five-year note with a face value of $30 million, which were both recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet net of a valuation allowance. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we received full payment of both of these notes plus interest, resulting in a
gain of $52 million that was recorded in Other losses (gains), net.  On April 3, 2009, we sold HR Textron, an operating unit previously
reported within the Textron Systems segment. In connection with this sale, we recorded an after-tax gain of $8 million and net cash proceeds of approximately $376 million in 2009. 
Note 3. Goodwill and Intangible Assets 
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by segment are as follows: 
   
























(In millions)
  
Cessna
 
  
Bell
 
  
 Textron
Systems
 
  
Industrial
 
 
Total
 

 Balance at January 3, 2009
  
$
322
  
  
$
30
  
  
$
956
  
  
$
390
  
 
$
1,698
  

 Impairment
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
(80
) 
 
 
(80
) 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2
  
 
 
2
  

 Other
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
2
  

 Balance at January 2, 2010
  
 
322
  
  
 
30
  
  
 
958
  
  
 
312
  
 
 
1,622
  

 Acquisitions
  
 
—
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
16
  
  
 
5
  
 
 
22
  

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
(12
) 
 
 
(12
) 

 Balance at January 1, 2011
  
 
322
  
  
 
31
  
  
 
974
  
  
 
305
  
 
 
1,632
  

 Acquisitions
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
5
  
 
 
5
  

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
(2
) 
 
 
(2
) 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
322
  
  
$
31
  
  
$
974
  
  
$
308
  
 
$
1,635
  

In 2010, we acquired four companies in the Bell, Textron Systems and Industrial segments for aggregate cost of $57 million and recorded
$22 million in goodwill and $14 million in intangible assets. In 2009, we recorded an $80 million impairment charge in the Industrial segment’s Golf & Turf Care reporting unit based on lower forecasted revenues and profits related to
the effects of the economic recession.  Our intangible assets are summarized below: 
   
































  
  
  
 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
January 1, 2011
 

(Dollars in millions)
  
Weighted-AverageAmortizationPeriod (in years)
 
  
GrossCarryingAmount
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
 
Net
 
  
GrossCarryingAmount
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
 
Net
 

 Customer agreements and contractual relationships
  
 
15
  
  
$
367
  
  
$
(149
) 
 
$
    218
  
  
$
412
  
  
$
(115
) 
 
$
    297
  

 Patents and technology
  
 
10
  
  
 
95
  
  
 
(59
) 
 
 
36
  
  
 
101
  
  
 
(53
) 
 
 
48
  

 Trademarks
  
 
18
  
  
 
36
  
  
 
(19
) 
 
 
17
  
  
 
35
  
  
 
(16
) 
 
 
19
  

 Other
  
 
8
  
  
 
22
  
  
 
(16
) 
 
 
6
  
  
 
22
  
  
 
(15
) 
 
 
7
  

 
  
 
 
 
  
$
520
  
  
$
(243
) 
 
$
277
  
  
$
570
  
  
$
(199
) 
 
$
    371
  

  55 


Table of Contents
In the fourth quarter of 2011, we recorded a $41 million impairment charge to write down $37 million in
customer agreements and contractual relationships and $4 million in patents and technology. See Note 9 for more information on this charge. 
Amortization expense totaled $51 million, $52 million and $52 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Amortization expense is estimated to be
approximately $39 million, $37 million, $35 million, $33 million and $28 million in 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively. 
Note 4. Accounts Receivable and Finance Receivables 
Accounts Receivable 
Accounts receivable is composed of the following:   










(In millions)
 

December 31, 2011
  

January 1,
2011
 

 Commercial
 
$          528
  
$
496
  

 U.S. Government contracts
 
346
  
 
416
  


 
874
  
 
912
  

 Allowance for doubtful accounts
 
(18)
  
 
(20
) 

 
 
$          856
  
$
892
  

We have unbillable receivables on U.S. Government contracts that arise when the revenues we have appropriately recognized based on
performance cannot be billed yet under terms of the contract. Unbillable receivables within accounts receivable totaled $192 million at December 31, 2011 and $195 million at January 1, 2011. 
Finance Receivables  Finance receivables
by product line, which includes both finance receivables held for investment and finance receivables held for sale, are presented in the following table by product line: 
 










(In millions)
 
December 31,2011
  

January 1,
2011
 

 Aviation
 
$        1,876
  
$
2,120
  

 Golf Equipment
 
69
  
 
212
  

 Golf Mortgage
 
381
  
 
876
  

 Timeshare
 
318
  
 
894
  

 Structured Capital
 
208
  
 
317
  

 Other liquidating
 
43
  
 
207
  

 Total finance receivables
 
2,895
  
 
4,626
  

 Less: Allowance for losses
 
156
  
 
342
  

 Less: Finance receivables held for sale
 
418
  
 
413
  

 Total finance receivables held for investment, net
 
$        2,321
  
$
3,871
  

Aviation primarily includes installment contracts and finance leases provided to purchasers of new and used Cessna aircraft and Bell
helicopters and also includes installment contracts and finance leases secured by used aircraft produced by other manufacturers. These agreements typically have initial terms ranging from five to ten years and amortization terms ranging from eight
to fifteen years. The average balance of installment contracts and finance leases in Aviation was $1 million at December 31, 2011. Installment contracts generally require the customer to pay a significant down payment, along with periodic
scheduled principal payments that reduce the outstanding balance through the term of the loan. Finance leases with no significant residual value at the end of the contractual term are classified as installment contracts, as their legal and economic
substance is more equivalent to a secured borrowing than a finance lease with a significant residual value. Golf Equipment primarily includes finance leases provided to purchasers of new E-Z-GO and Jacobsen golf and turf-care equipment. 
Golf Mortgage primarily includes golf course mortgages and also includes mortgages secured by hotels and marinas. Mortgages in this product line are
secured by real property and are generally limited to 75% or less of the property’s appraised market value at loan origination. These mortgages typically have initial terms ranging from five to ten years with amortization periods from 20 to 30
years. As of December 31, 2011, loans in Golf Mortgage have an average balance of $6 million and a weighted-average contractual maturity of three years. All loans in this portfolio have been classified as held for sale as of December 31,
2011. 
  56 


Table of Contents
Timeshare includes pools of timeshare interval resort notes receivable and revolving loans that are secured
by pools of timeshare interval resort notes receivable. The timeshare interval notes receivable typically have terms of 10 to 20 years. Timeshare also includes construction/inventory mortgages secured by timeshare interval inventory, by real
property and, in many instances, by the personal guarantee of the principals. Construction/inventory mortgages are typically cross-collateralized with revolving notes receivable loans to the same borrower; loans in this portfolio typically have
initial revolving terms of one to three years and final maturity terms of an additional one to five years. Structured Capital primarily includes leveraged leases secured by the ownership of the leased equipment and real property. 
Our finance receivables are diversified across geographic region, borrower industry and type of collateral. At December 31, 2011, 54% of our finance
receivables were distributed throughout the U.S. compared with 67% at the end of 2010. Finance receivables held for investment are composed of the following types of financing vehicles: 
 










(In millions)
 

December 31, 2011
  

January 1,
2011
 

 Installment contracts
 
$        1,816
  
$
2,130
  

 Revolving loans
 
216
  
 
501
  

 Leveraged leases
 
208
  
 
279
  

 Finance leases
 
123
  
 
262
  

 Mortgage loans
 
60
  
 
859
  

 Distribution finance receivables
 
54
  
 
182
  

 
 
$        2,477
  
$
4,213
  

At December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, these finance receivables included approximately $559 million and $635 million,
respectively, of receivables that have been legally sold to special purpose entities (SPE), which are consolidated subsidiaries of TFC. The assets of the SPEs are pledged as collateral for their debt, which is reflected as securitized on-balance
sheet debt in Note 8. Third-party investors have no legal recourse to TFC beyond the credit enhancement provided by the assets of the SPEs. 
We received total proceeds of $476 million and $655 million from the sale of finance receivables in 2011 and 2010, respectively, resulting in total gains
of $4 million and $31 million, respectively.  Credit Quality Indicators and Nonaccrual Finance Receivables 
We internally
assess the quality of our finance receivables held for investment portfolio based on a number of key credit quality indicators and statistics such as delinquency, loan balance to estimated collateral value, the liquidity position of individual
borrowers and guarantors and default rates of our notes receivable collateral in the Timeshare product line. For Golf Mortgage, we also utilized debt service coverage prior to the transfer discussed below. Because many of these indicators are
difficult to apply across an entire class of receivables, we evaluate individual loans on a quarterly basis and classify these loans into three categories based on the key credit quality indicators for the individual loan. These three categories are
performing, watchlist and nonaccrual.  We classify finance receivables held for investment as nonaccrual if credit quality indicators suggest
full collection is doubtful. In addition, we automatically classify accounts as nonaccrual that are contractually delinquent by more than three months unless collection is not doubtful. Cash payments on nonaccrual accounts, including finance
charges, generally are applied to reduce the net investment balance. We resume the accrual of interest when the loan becomes contractually current through payment according to the original terms of the loan or, if a loan has been modified, following
a period of performance under the terms of the modification, provided we conclude that collection of all principal and interest is no longer doubtful. Previously suspended interest income is recognized at that time. 
Accounts are classified as watchlist when credit quality indicators have deteriorated as compared with typical underwriting criteria, and we believe
collection of full principal and interest is probable but not certain. All other finance receivables held for investment that do not meet the watchlist or nonaccrual categories are classified as performing. 
  57 


Table of Contents
A summary of finance receivables held for investment categorized based on the credit quality indicators
discussed above is as follows:     




































  
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
January 1, 2011
 

(In millions)
  
Performing
 
 
Watchlist
 
 
Nonaccrual
 
 
Total
 
  
Performing
 
 
Watchlist
 
 
Nonaccrual
 
 
Total
 

 Aviation
  
$
1,537
  
 
$
214
  
 
$
125
  
 
$
    1,876
  
  
$
1,713
  
 
$
238
  
 
$
169
  
 
$
    2,120
  

 Golf Equipment
  
 
21
  
 
 
37
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
69
  
  
 
138
  
 
 
51
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
212
  

 Timeshare
  
 
89
  
 
 
25
  
 
 
167
  
 
 
281
  
  
 
222
  
 
 
77
  
 
 
382
  
 
 
681
  

 Structured Capital
  
 
203
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
208
  
  
 
290
  
 
 
27
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
317
  

 Golf Mortgage
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
163
  
 
 
303
  
 
 
219
  
 
 
685
  

 Other liquidating
  
 
25
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
18
  
 
 
43
  
  
 
130
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
57
  
 
 
198
  

 Total
  
$
1,875
  
 
$
281
  
 
$
321
  
 
$
    2,477
  
  
$
2,656
  
 
$
707
  
 
$
850
  
 
$
    4,213
  

 % of Total
  
 
75.7
% 
 
 
11.3
% 
 
 
13.0
% 
 
 
 
 
  
 
63.0
% 
 
 
16.8
% 
 
 
20.2
% 
 
 
 
 

Nonaccrual finance receivables decreased $529 million in 2011, primarily due to the transfer of the remaining Golf Mortgage portfolio
to the held for sale classification and a $215 million reduction in Timeshare, largely due to the resolution of several significant accounts and cash collections on several other accounts. These factors were also the primary reason for the
improvement in contractual delinquencies reported below. 
We measure delinquency based on the contractual payment terms of our loans and
leases. In determining the delinquency aging category of an account, any/all principal and interest received is applied to the most past-due principal and/or interest amounts due. If a significant portion of the contractually due payment is
delinquent, the entire finance receivable balance is reported in accordance with the most past-due delinquency aging category. 
Finance receivables held for investment by delinquency aging category is summarized in the table below: 
   












































  
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
January 1, 2011
 

(In millions)
  
 Less Than
31 Days
Past Due
 
  
 31-60Days
Past Due
 
  
 61-90Days
Past Due
 
  
 Over
90 Days
Past Due
 
  
Total
 
  
 Less Than
31 Days
Past Due
 
  
 31-60Days
Past Due
 
  
 61-90Days
Past Due
 
  
 Over
90 Days
Past Due
 
  
Total
 

 Aviation
  
$
1,705
  
  
$
66
  
  
$
37
  
  
$
68
  
  
$
1,876
  
  
$
1,964
  
  
$
67
  
  
$
41
  
  
$
48
  
  
$
    2,120
  

 Golf Equipment
  
 
53
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
69
  
  
 
171
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
19
  
  
 
212
  

 Timeshare
  
 
238
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
40
  
  
 
281
  
  
 
533
  
  
 
14
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
128
  
  
 
681
  

 Structured Capital
  
 
208
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
208
  
  
 
317
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
317
  

 Golf Mortgage
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
543
  
  
 
12
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
123
  
  
 
685
  

 Other liquidating
  
 
35
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
43
  
  
 
166
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
29
  
  
 
198
  

 Total
  
$
2,239
  
  
$
72
  
  
$
43
  
  
$
123
  
  
$
2,477
  
  
$
3,694
  
  
$
108
  
  
$
64
  
  
$
347
  
  
$
    4,213
  

We had no recorded investment in accrual status loans that were greater than 90 days past due in 2011 or in 2010. For the year ended
December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, 60+ days contractual delinquency as a percentage of finance receivables held for investment was 6.70% and 9.77%, respectively.  Impaired Loans 
We evaluate individual finance receivables held for investment in non-homogeneous
portfolios and larger accounts in homogeneous loan portfolios for impairment on a quarterly basis. Finance receivables classified as held for sale are reflected at the lower of cost or fair value and are excluded from these evaluations. A finance
receivable is considered impaired when it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement based on our review of the credit quality indicators discussed above. Impaired finance
receivables include both nonaccrual accounts and accounts for which full collection of principal and interest remains probable, but the account’s original terms have been, or are expected to be, significantly modified. If the modification
specifies an interest rate equal to or greater than a market rate for a finance receivable with comparable risk, the account is not considered impaired in years subsequent to the modification. There was no significant interest income recognized on
impaired loans in either 2011 or 2010. 
  58 


Table of Contents
A summary of impaired finance receivables, excluding leveraged leases, at year end and the average recorded
investment for the year is provided below:     




























 
  
Recorded Investment
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

(In millions)
  
 Impaired
Loans with
No Related
Allowance for Credit Losses
 
  
 Impaired
Loans with
Related
Allowance for Credit Losses
 
  
 Total
Impaired
Loans
 
  
UnpaidPrincipalBalance
 
  
 Allowance
For Losses On Impaired Loans
 
  
 Average
Recorded
Investment
 

December 31, 2011
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 

 Aviation
  
$
47
  
  
$
92
  
  
$
139
  
  
$
142
  
  
$
39
  
  
$
146
  

 Timeshare
  
 
170
  
  
 
57
  
  
 
227
  
  
 
288
  
  
 
38
  
  
 
315
  

 Golf Mortgage
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
232
  

 Other liquidating
  
 
3
  
  
 
12
  
  
 
15
  
  
 
59
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
30
  

 Total
  
$
220
  
  
$
161
  
  
$
381
  
  
$
489
  
  
$
86
  
  
$
723
  

 January 1, 2011
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

 Aviation
  
$
17
  
  
$
147
  
  
$
164
  
  
$
165
  
  
$
45
  
  
$
201
  

 Golf Equipment
  
 
—
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
6
  

 Timeshare
  
 
69
  
  
 
355
  
  
 
424
  
  
 
459
  
  
 
102
  
  
 
426
  

 Golf Mortgage
  
 
138
  
  
 
175
  
  
 
313
  
  
 
324
  
  
 
39
  
  
 
300
  

 Other liquidating
  
 
30
  
  
 
16
  
  
 
46
  
  
 
104
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
79
  

 Total
  
$
254
  
  
$
697
  
  
$
951
  
  
$
1,057
  
  
$
191
  
  
$
1,012
  

Loan Modifications 
Troubled debt restructurings occur when we have either modified the
contract terms of finance receivables held for investment for borrowers experiencing financial difficulties or accepted a transfer of assets in full or partial satisfaction of the loan balance. Modifications often arise in Golf Mortgage and
Timeshare as a result of the lack of financing available to borrowers in these industries. Golf Mortgage loans are typically structured with amortization periods between 20 and 30 years and contractual maturities of between 5 and 10 years, resulting
in a significant balloon payment. We modify a significant portion of these loans at, or near the maturity date as a result of this structure. The types of modifications we typically make include extensions of the original maturity date of the
contract, extensions of revolving borrowing periods, delays in the timing of required principal payments, deferrals of interest payments, advances to protect the value of our collateral and principal reductions contingent on full repayment prior to
the maturity date.
 Finance receivables held for investment that were modified during 2011 and are categorized as troubled debt restructurings, excluding related allowances for loan losses, are summarized below: 
   




















 
  
 
 
  
Recorded Investment
 

(Dollars in millions)
  
Number ofCustomers
 
  
Pre-Modification
 
  
Post-Modification
 
  
At Dec. 31,2011
 

 Golf Mortgage
  
 
23
  
  
$
203
  
  
$
191
  
  
$
 —
  

 Timeshare
  
 
10
  
  
 
239
  
  
 
199
  
  
 
138
  

At December 31, 2011, the recorded investment balance for Golf Mortgage reflects the transfer of finance receivables from held for
investment to the held for sale classification. The modifications included above resulted in a reduction in provision for losses of $36 million due to the reversal of allowance for losses related to one significant Timeshare account, partially
offset by net portfolio losses of $15 million. 
Modified finance receivables are classified as impaired loans and
are evaluated on an individual basis to determine whether reserves are required. Our reserve evaluation includes an estimate of the likelihood that the borrower will be able to perform under the contractual terms of the modification. Subsequent
payment defaults or delinquency trends of finance receivables modified as troubled debt restructurings are also factored into the evaluation of impaired loans for reserving purposes as a default decreases the likelihood that the borrower will be
able to perform under the terms of future modifications. In 2011, we had three customer defaults in Timeshare for finance receivables that had been modified as troubled debt restructurings within the previous twelve months; the recorded investment
for these customers totaled $113 million, excluding related allowances for doubtful accounts, at the end of 2011. 
  59 


Table of Contents
We may foreclose, repossess or receive collateral
when a customer no longer has the ability to make payment. These transfers of assets in full or partial satisfaction of the loan balance are also considered troubled debt restructurings if the fair value of the assets transferred is less than our
recorded investment. Similar to the troubled debt restructurings described above, these loans typically have been classified as impaired loans prior to the asset transfer; therefore, reserves have already been established related to the loan. As a
result, for 2011, charge-offs of $73 million upon the transfer of such assets were largely offset by previously established reserves. 
Troubled debt restructurings resulting in transfers of assets in satisfaction of the loan balance that occurred in 2011 are as
follows:     
















(Dollars in millions)
  
Numberof Customers
 
  
 Pre-
ModificationRecordedInvestment
 
  
Post-ModificationAsset Balance
 

 Aviation
  
 
27
  
  
$
53
  
  
$
32
  

 Golf Mortgage
  
 
5
  
  
 
59
  
  
 
39
  

 Timeshare
  
 
2
  
  
 
96
  
  
 
60
  

Allowance for Losses 
A rollforward of the allowance for losses on finance receivables held for investment is provided below: 
   




























(In millions)
  
Aviation
 
 
GolfEquipment
 
 
 Golf
Mortgage
 
 
Timeshare
 
 
OtherLiquidating
 
 
Total
 

 Balance at January 2, 2010
  
$
114
  
 
$
9
  
 
$
65
  
 
$
79
  
 
$
74
  
 
$
341
  

 Provision for losses
  
 
37
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
38
  
 
 
(12
) 
 
 
143
  

 Net charge-offs
  
 
(44
) 
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
(52
) 
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
(28
) 
 
 
(138
) 

 Transfers
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(4
) 

 Balance at January 1, 2011
  
 
107
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
79
  
 
 
106
  
 
 
34
  
 
 
342
  

 Provision for losses
  
 
18
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
25
  
 
 
(26
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
12
  

 Net charge-offs
  
 
(30
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(24
) 
 
 
(40
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(102
) 

 Transfers
  
 
—
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(80
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(13
) 
 
 
(96
) 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
95
  
 
$
6
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
40
  
 
$
15
  
 
$
156
  

A summary of the allowance for losses on finance receivables that are evaluated on an individual and on a collective basis is provided
below. The finance receivables reported in this table specifically exclude $208 million and $279 million of leveraged leases at December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, respectively, in accordance with authoritative accounting standards.
    












































  
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
January 1, 2011
 

 
  
Finance Receivables Evaluated
 
  
AllowanceBased onIndividualEvaluation
 
  
AllowanceBased onCollectiveEvaluation
 
  
Finance Receivables Evaluated
 
  
AllowanceBased onIndividualEvaluation
 
  
AllowanceBased onCollectiveEvaluation
 

(In millions)
  
Individually
 
  
Collectively
 
  
Total
 
  
  
  
Individually
 
  
Collectively
 
  
Total
 
  
  

 Aviation
  
$
139
  
  
$
1,737
  
  
$
1,876
  
  
$
39
  
  
$
56
  
  
$
164
  
  
$
1,956
  
  
$
2,120
  
  
$
45
  
  
$
62
  

 Golf Equipment
  
 
2
  
  
 
67
  
  
 
69
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
208
  
  
 
212
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
14
  

 Timeshare
  
 
227
  
  
 
54
  
  
 
281
  
  
 
38
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
424
  
  
 
257
  
  
 
681
  
  
 
102
  
  
 
4
  

 Golf Mortgage
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
313
  
  
 
372
  
  
 
685
  
  
 
39
  
  
 
40
  

 Other liquidating
  
 
15
  
  
 
28
  
  
 
43
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
41
  
  
 
195
  
  
 
236
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
31
  

 Total
  
$
383
  
  
$
1,886
  
  
$
2,269
  
  
$
87
  
  
$
69
  
  
$
946
  
  
$
2,988
  
  
$
3,934
  
  
$
191
  
  
$
151
  

Captive and Other Intercompany Financing  Our Finance group provides financing for retail purchases and leases for new and used aircraft and equipment manufactured by our Manufacturing group. The captive finance receivables for these inventory
sales that are included in the Finance group’s balance sheets are summarized below:     










(In millions)
 

December 31, 2011
  

January 1,
2011
 

 Installment contracts
 
$        1,488
  
$
1,652
  

 Finance leases
 
121
  
 
220
  

 Distribution finance receivables
 
8
  
 
18
  

 Total
 
$        1,617
  
$
1,890
  

  60 


Table of Contents
In 2011, 2010 and 2009, our Finance group paid our Manufacturing group $284 million, $416 million and $654
million, respectively, related to the sale of Textron-manufactured products to third parties that were financed by the Finance group. Our Cessna and Industrial segments also received proceeds in those years of $2 million, $10 million and $13
million, respectively, from the sale of equipment from their manufacturing operations to our Finance group for use under operating lease agreements. Operating agreements specify that our Finance group has recourse to our Manufacturing group for
certain uncollected amounts related to these transactions. At December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, the amounts guaranteed by the Manufacturing group totaled $88 million and $69 million, respectively. Our Manufacturing group has
established reserves for losses on its balance sheet within accrued and other liabilities for the receivables it guarantees.  In 2009, Textron
Inc. agreed to lend TFC funds to pay down maturing debt. The interest rate on this borrowing was 5% at December 31, 2011 and 7% at January 1, 2011. As of December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, the outstanding balance due to
Textron Inc. for these borrowings was $490 million and $315 million, respectively. These amounts are included in other current assets for the Manufacturing group and other liabilities for the Finance group in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 Finance Receivables Held for Sale  At the end of 2011 and 2010, approximately $418 million and $413 million of finance receivables were classified as held for sale. At December 31, 2011, finance receivables held for sale primarily
include the entire Golf Mortgage portfolio and a portion of the Timeshare portfolio. On a periodic basis, we evaluate our liquidation strategy for the non-captive finance portfolios as we continue to execute our exit plan. In connection with
this evaluation, we also review our definition of the foreseeable future. Due to the relative stability of the golf market through the end of 2011, we believe that the foreseeable future now can be extended to a period of one to two years as opposed
to the six- to nine-month period we previously used. Based on this change, in the fourth quarter of 2011, we determined that we no longer had the intent to hold the remaining Golf Mortgage portfolio for investment for the foreseeable future, and,
accordingly, transferred $458 million of the remaining Golf Mortgage finance receivables, net of an $80 million allowance for loan losses, from the held for investment classification to the held for sale classification. These finance receivables
were recorded at fair value at the time of the transfer, resulting in a $186 million charge recorded to Valuation allowance on transfer of Golf Mortgage portfolio to held for sale. Also, in 2011, we transferred a total of $125 million of Timeshare
finance receivables to the held for sale classification, based on an agreement to sell a portion of the portfolio that was sold in the fourth quarter of 2011 and interest in other portions of the portfolio. In 2010, we transferred $219 million of
Timeshare finance receivables to the held for sale classification as a result of an unanticipated inquiry we have received to purchase these finance receivables; we determined a sale of these finance receivables would be consistent with our goal to
maximize the economic value of our portfolio and accelerate cash collections. We received proceeds of $383 million and $582 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, from the sale of finance receivables held for sale and $10 million and $86 million,
respectively, from collections. 
Note 5. Inventories 
Inventories are composed of the following:   
 










(In millions)
 

December 31, 2011
  

January 1,
2011
 

 Finished goods
 
$        1,012
  
$
784
  

 Work in process
 
2,202
  
 
2,125
  

 Raw materials and components
 
399
  
 
506
  


 
3,613
  
 
3,415
  

 Progress/milestone payments
 
(1,211)
  
 
(1,138
) 

 
 
$        2,402
  
$
2,277
  

Inventories valued by the LIFO method totaled $1.0 billion and $1.3 billion at the end of 2011 and 2010, respectively, and the carrying
values of these inventories would have been approximately $422 million and $441 million, respectively, higher had our LIFO inventories been valued at current costs. Inventories related to long-term contracts, net of progress/milestone payments, were
$414 million and $322 million at the end of 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
  61 


Table of Contents
Note 6. Property, Plant and Equipment, Net 
Our Manufacturing group’s property, plant and equipment, net are composed of the following: 
   














(Dollars in millions)
  
 Useful Lives
(in years)
  

December 31, 2011
 
 

January 1,
2011
 

 Land and buildings
  
4 –40
  
$
1,502
  
 
$
1,453
  

 Machinery and equipment
  
1 –15
  
 
3,591
  
 
 
3,348
  


  

  
 
5,093
  
 
 
4,801
  

 Accumulated depreciation and amortization
  
 
  
 
(3,097
) 
 
 
(2,869
) 

 
  
 
  
$
1,996
  
 
$
1,932
  

Assets under capital leases totaled $251 million and $248 million and had accumulated amortization of $47 million and $40 million at
the end of 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Manufacturing group’s depreciation expense, which includes amortization expense on capital leases, totaled $317 million, $308 million and $317 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
Note 7. Accrued Liabilities 
The accrued liabilities of our Manufacturing group are summarized below: 
   










(In millions)
 

December 31, 2011
  

January 1,
2011
 

 Customer deposits
 
$           729
  
$
715
  

 Salaries, wages and employer taxes
 
282
  
 
275
  

 Current portion of warranty and product maintenance contracts
 
198
  
 
242
  

 Deferred revenues
 
169
  
 
161
  

 Retirement plans
 
80
  
 
82
  

 Other
 
494
  
 
541
  

 Total accrued liabilities
 
$        1,952
  
$
2,016
  

Changes in our warranty and product maintenance contract liability are as follows: 
   
















(In millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Accrual at beginning of year
  
$
242
  
 
$
263
  
 
$
278
  

 Provision
  
 
223
  
 
 
189
  
 
 
174
  

 Settlements
  
 
(223
) 
 
 
(231
) 
 
 
(217
) 

 Adjustments to prior accrual estimates*
  
 
(18
) 
 
 
21
  
 
 
28
  

 Accrual at end of year
  
$
224
  
 
$
242
  
 
$
263
  

* Adjustments include changes to prior year estimates, new issues on prior year sales and currency translation adjustments.

  62 


Table of Contents
Note 8. Debt and Credit Facilities 
Our debt and credit facilities are summarized below:   
 












(In millions)
 

December 31, 2011
 
 

January 1,
2011
 

 Manufacturing group
 



 




 Long-term senior debt:
 



 




 Medium-term notes due 2011 (weighted-average rate of 9.83%)
 
$
 —
  
 
$
13
  

 6.50% due 2012
 
 
139
  
 
 
154
  

 3.875% due 2013
 
 
308
  
 
 
315
  

 4.50% convertible senior notes due 2013
 
 
195
  
 
 
504
  

 6.20% due 2015
 
 
350
  
 
 
350
  

 4.625% due 2016
 
 
250
  
 
 
—
  

 5.60% due 2017
 
 
350
  
 
 
350
  

 7.25% due 2019
 
 
250
  
 
 
250
  

 6.625% due 2020
 
 
231
  
 
 
231
  

 5.95% due 2021
 
 
250
  
 
 
—
  

 Other (weighted-average rate of 3.72% and 3.12%, respectively)
 
 
136
  
 
 
135
  


 
 
2,459
  
 
 
2,302
  

 Less: Current portion of long-term debt
 
 
(146
) 
 
 
(19
) 

 Total long-term debt
 
 
2,313
  
 
 
2,283
  

 Total Manufacturing group debt
 
$
2,459
  
 
$
2,302
  

 Finance group
 



 




 Medium-term fixed-rate and variable-rate notes*:
 



 




 Due 2011 (weighted-average rate of 3.07%)
 
$
 —
  
 
$
374
  

 Due 2012 (weighted-average rate of 4.43% and 4.43%, respectively)
 
 
52
  
 
 
52
  

 Due 2013 (weighted-average rate of 4.50% and 4.46%, respectively)
 
 
553
  
 
 
553
  

 Due 2014 (weighted-average rate of 5.07% and 5.07%, respectively)
 
 
111
  
 
 
111
  

 Due 2015 (weighted-average rate of 2.50% and 3.59%, respectively)
 
 
37
  
 
 
14
  

 Due 2016 (weighted-average rate of 1.94% and 4.59%, respectively
 
 
43
  
 
 
10
  

 Due 2017 and thereafter (weighted-average rate of 2.86% and 3.31%, respectively)
 
 
387
  
 
 
242
  

 Credit line borrowings due 2012 (weighted-average rate 0.91%)
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,440
  

 Securitized debt (weighted-average rate of 2.08% and 2.01%, respectively)
 
 
469
  
 
 
530
  

 6% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Notes
 
 
300
  
 
 
300
  

 Fair value adjustments and unamortized discount
 
 
22
  
 
 
34
  

 Total Finance group debt
 
$
1,974
  
 
$
3,660
  
 * Variable-rate notes totaled approximately $100 million and $271 million at December 31, 2011 and January 1,
2011, respectively. 
In 2011, Textron Inc. entered into a senior unsecured revolving credit facility that expires in March 2015 for an aggregate principal
amount of $1.0 billion, up to $200 million of which is available for the issuance of letters of credit. At December 31, 2011, there were no amounts borrowed against the facility, and there were $38 million of letters of credits issued against
it. In October 2011, the Finance group repaid the outstanding balance on its credit facility and elected to terminate the facility.  The
following table shows required payments during the next five years on debt outstanding at December 31, 2011:   
 
























(In millions)
  
2012
 
  
2013
 
  
2014
 
  
2015
 
  
2016
 

 Manufacturing group
  
$
    146
  
  
$
532
  
  
$
6
  
  
$
356
  
  
$
    256
  

 Finance group
  
 
196
  
  
 
693
  
  
 
232
  
  
 
169
  
  
 
105
  

 
  
$
    342
  
  
$
    1,225
  
  
$
    238
  
  
$
    525
  
  
$
    361
  

  63 


Table of Contents
Convertible Senior Notes and Related Transactions 
On May 5, 2009, we issued $600 million of convertible senior notes with a maturity date of May 1, 2013 and interest payable semiannually. The
convertible notes are accounted for in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, which require us to separately account for the liability (debt) and the equity (conversion option) components of the convertible notes in a manner that
reflected our non-convertible debt borrowing rate at time of issuance. Accordingly, we recorded a debt discount and corresponding increase to additional paid-in capital of $134 million at the issuance date. We are amortizing the debt discount
utilizing the effective interest method over the life of the notes, which increases the effective interest rate of the convertible notes from its coupon rate of 4.50% to 11.72%.  These notes are convertible at the holder’s option, under certain circumstances, into shares of our common stock at an initial conversion rate of 76.1905 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal
amount of convertible notes, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $13.125 per share. Upon conversion, we have the right to settle the conversion of each $1,000 principal amount of convertible notes with any of the
three following alternatives: (1) cash, (2) shares of our common stock or (3) a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. These notes are convertible only under the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar
quarter when the last reported sale price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding calendar quarter is more than 130% of the applicable conversion price
per share of common stock on the last trading day of such preceding calendar quarter, (2) during the five-business-day period after any 10 consecutive trading day measurement period in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of
convertible notes for each day in the measurement period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the applicable conversion rate, (3) if specified distributions to holders of our common stock are
made or specified corporate transactions occur or (4) at any time on or after February 19, 2013.  In September 2011, we announced a
cash tender offer for any and all of the outstanding convertible notes. In accordance with the terms of the tender offer, for each $1,000 principal amount of the convertible notes tendered, we paid the holder $1,524 plus accrued and unpaid interest
up to the October 13, 2011 settlement date. In the aggregate, the holders validly tendered $225 million principal amount, or 37.5%, of the convertible notes. Subsequent to the tender offer, we also purchased $151 million principal amount of the
convertible notes in a small number of privately negotiated transactions and retired another $8 million related to a holder-initiated conversion in the fourth quarter of 2011. By the end of 2011, we had paid approximately $580 million in cash
related to these transactions and had reduced the principal amount of the convertible notes by 64%. In accordance with the applicable authoritative accounting guidance, we determined the fair value of the liability component of the convertible notes
purchased in the tender offer and subsequent transactions to be $398 million, with the balance of $182 million representing the equity component. The carrying value of these convertible notes, including unamortized issuance costs, was $343 million,
which resulted in a pretax loss of $55 million that was recorded in Other losses (gains), net in the fourth quarter of 2011, along with a $182 million reduction to shareholders’ equity.  We incurred cash and non-cash interest expense of $58 million in 2011 and $60 million in 2010 for these notes. At the end of 2011 and 2010, the face value of the notes totaled $216 million and $600
million, respectively, and the unamortized discount totaled $21 million and $96 million, respectively.  Based on a December 31, 2011
stock price of $18.49, the “if converted value” exceeded the face amount of the notes by $88 million; however, after giving effect to the exercise of the call options and warrants described below, the incremental cash or share settlement
in excess of the face amount would result in either a cash payment of $45 million, a 2.4 million net share issuance, or a combination of cash and stock, at our option. Our common stock price exceeded the conversion threshold price of $17.06 per
share for at least 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days ended December 31, 2011. Accordingly, the notes are convertible at the holder’s option through March 31, 2012. We may deliver cash, shares of common stock or a
combination of cash and shares of common stock in satisfaction of our obligations upon conversion of the convertible notes. We intend to settle the face value of the convertible notes in cash. We have continued to classify these convertible notes as
long term based on our intent and ability to maintain the debt outstanding for at least one year through the use of various funding sources available to us.  Call Option and Warrant Transactions  Concurrently with the pricing of the convertible
notes in May 2009, we entered into transactions with two counterparties, including an underwriter and an affiliate of an underwriter of the convertible notes, pursuant to which we purchased from the counterparties call options to acquire our common
stock and sold to the counterparties warrants to purchase our common stock. We entered into these transactions for the purposes of reducing the cash outflow and/or the potential dilutive effect to our shareholders upon the conversion of the
convertible notes.  On October 25, 2011, we entered into separate agreements with each of the counterparties to the call option and
warrant transactions to adjust the number of shares of common stock covered by these instruments to reflect the results of the tender offer. Accordingly, we reduced the number of common shares covered under the call options from 45.7 million
shares to 28.6 million 
  64 


Table of Contents

shares. In addition, the warrants were amended to reduce the number of shares covered by the warrants to 28.0 million and to change the expiration dates specified in the original agreement
to correspond with the final settlement period for the call options. Pursuant to these amendments, we received $135 million for the call option transaction and paid $133 million for the warrant transaction, and the net amount was recorded within
shareholders’ equity. Subsequently, due to the additional repurchase of convertible notes, we entered into separate agreements with each of the counterparties to further reduce the number of shares of common stock covered by these instruments.
Accordingly, we reduced the number of common shares covered under the call options from 28.6 million shares to 16.5 million shares and reduced the number of shares covered by the warrants from 28.0 million shares to 16.5 million
shares. The net value of $20 million related to these amendments was used to increase our capped call position as discussed further below. In the aggregate, the reductions in the number of shares subject to the call options and warrants equated to
the number of shares of common stock into which the $384 million principal amount of all the notes repurchased in the fourth quarter of 2011 would have been convertible.  At the end of 2011, the outstanding purchased call options give us the right to acquire from the counterparties 16.5 million shares of our common stock (the number of shares into which all of the
remaining notes are convertible) at an exercise price of $13.125 per share (the same as the initial conversion price of the notes), subject to adjustments that mirror the terms of the convertible notes. The call options will terminate at the earlier
of the maturity date of the related convertible notes or the last day on which any of the related notes remain outstanding. The warrants give the counterparties the right to acquire, subject to anti-dilution adjustments, an aggregate of
16.5 million shares of common stock at an exercise price of $15.75 per share. We may settle these transactions in cash, shares or a combination of cash and shares, at our option. When evaluated in aggregate, the call options and warrants have
the effect of increasing the effective conversion price of the convertible notes from $13.125 to $15.75. Accordingly, we will not incur the cash outflow or the dilution that would be experienced due to the increase of the share price from $13.125
per share to $15.75 per share because we are entitled to receive from the counterparties the difference between our sale to the counterparties of 16.5 million shares at $15.75 per share and our purchase of shares from the counterparties at
$13.125 per share.  Based on the structure of the call options and warrants, these contracts meet all of the applicable accounting criteria
for equity classification under the applicable accounting standards and, as such, are classified in shareholders’ equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. In addition, since these contracts are classified in shareholders’ equity and
indexed to our common stock, they are not accounted for as derivatives, and, accordingly, we do not recognize changes in their fair value. 
Capped Call Transactions  On
October 25, 2011, we entered into capped call transactions with the counterparties for a cost of $32 million, which covered 17.1 million shares of our common stock. We subsequently amended the capped call transactions to cover an
additional 11.5 million shares of our common stock in lieu of $20 million we would have received from the counterparties related to the amendment of the option and warrant transactions discussed above. At December 31, 2011, the capped
calls covered an aggregate of 28.6 million shares of our common stock (the number of shares into which all of the repurchased notes would have been convertible). We purchased the capped calls in order retain the potential value of the original
call option and warrant transactions which we would otherwise have given up upon the downsizing of those instruments. The capped calls have a strike price of $13.125 per share and a cap price of $15.75 per share, which entitles us to receive at the
May 2013 expiration date the per share value of our stock price in excess of $13.125 up to a maximum stock price of $15.75. If the market price of our common stock at the expiration date is less than $13.125, the capped call will expire with no
value. The maximum value of the capped calls, in the event that our stock price is at least $15.75 at the expiration date, is approximately $75 million. We may elect for the settlement of the capped call transactions, if any, to be paid to us in
shares of our common stock or cash or in a combination of cash and shares of common stock. Based on the structure of the capped call, the transactions meet all of the applicable accounting criteria for equity classification and will be classified
within shareholders’ equity.  6% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Notes 
The Finance group’s $300 million of 6% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Notes are unsecured and rank junior to all of its existing and
future senior debt. The notes mature on February 15, 2067; however, we have the right to redeem the notes at par on or after February 15, 2017 and are obligated to redeem the notes beginning on February 15, 2042. The Finance group has
agreed in a replacement capital covenant that it will not redeem the notes on or before February 15, 2047 unless it receives a capital contribution from the Manufacturing group and/or net proceeds from the sale of certain replacement capital
securities at specified amounts. Interest on the notes is fixed at 6% until February 15, 2017 and floats at the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate + 1.735% thereafter.  Support Agreement  Under a Support Agreement, Textron Inc. is required to ensure that TFC
maintains fixed charge coverage of no less than 125% and consolidated shareholder’s equity of no less than $200 million. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, cash payments of $182 million, $383 million and $270 million, respectively, were paid to TFC to
maintain compliance with the fixed charge coverage ratio. In addition, we paid $240 million on January 17, 2012. 
  65 


Table of Contents
Note 9. Derivative Instruments and Fair Value Measurements 
We measure fair value at the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. We prioritize the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability into a three-tier fair value hierarchy. This fair
value hierarchy gives the highest priority (Level 1) to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities and the lowest priority (Level 3) to unobservable inputs in which little or no market data exist, requiring companies to
develop their own assumptions. Observable inputs that do not meet the criteria of Level 1, and include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets or quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in markets that are not
active are categorized as Level 2. Level 3 inputs are those that reflect our estimates about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability based on the best information available in the circumstances. Valuation
techniques for assets and liabilities measured using Level 3 inputs may include methodologies such as the market approach, the income approach or the cost approach and may use unobservable inputs such as projections, estimates and management’s
interpretation of current market data. These unobservable inputs are utilized only to the extent that observable inputs are not available or cost-effective to obtain. 
Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis  The assets and liabilities that are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis consist primarily of our derivative financial instruments, which are categorized as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. The
fair value amounts of these instruments that are designated as hedging instruments are provided below:   
 
















 
 
 
    
 
  
 
 
Asset (Liability)
 

(In millions)
 
Borrowing Group
    
Balance Sheet Location
  
  
 

December 31, 2011
  

January 1,
2011
 

 Assets
 

    

  

 

  




 Interest rate exchange contracts*
 
Finance
    
Other assets
  

 
$            22
  
$
34
  

 Foreign currency exchange contracts
 
Manufacturing
    
Other current assets
  
 
 
9
  
 
39
  

 Total
 
 
    
 
  
 
 
$            31
  
$
73
  

 Liabilities
 

    

  

 

  




 Interest rate exchange contracts*
 
Finance
    
Other liabilities
  

 
$           (7)
  
$
(6
) 

 Foreign currency exchange contracts
 
Manufacturing
    
Accrued liabilities
  

 
(5)
  
 
(2
) 

 Total
 
 
    
 
  
 
 
$         (12)
  
$
(8
) 

* Interest rate exchange contracts represent fair value hedges.  The Finance group’s interest rate exchange contracts are not exchange traded and are measured at fair value utilizing widely accepted, third-party developed valuation models. The actual terms of each
individual contract are entered into a valuation model, along with interest rate and foreign exchange rate data, which is based on readily observable market data published by third-party leading financial news and data providers. Credit risk is
factored into the fair value of these assets and liabilities based on the differential between both our credit default swap spread for liabilities and the counterparty’s credit default swap spread for assets as compared with a standard AA-rated
counterparty; however, this had no significant impact on the valuation at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, we had interest rate exchange contracts with notional amounts upon which the contracts were based
of $0.8 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively.  Foreign currency exchange contracts are measured at fair value using the market method
valuation technique. The inputs to this technique utilize current foreign currency exchange forward market rates published by third-party leading financial news and data providers. These are observable data that represent the rates that the
financial institution uses for contracts entered into at that date; however, they are not based on actual transactions so they are classified as Level 2. At December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, we had foreign currency exchange contracts
with notional amounts upon which the contracts were based of $645 million and $635 million, respectively.  The Finance group also has
investments in other marketable securities totaling $21 million and $51 million at December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, respectively, which are classified as available for sale. These investments are classified as Level 2 as the fair
value for these notes was determined based on observable market inputs for similar securitization interests in markets that are relatively inactive compared with the market environment in which they were originally issued. 
Fair Value Hedges  Our Finance group enters into interest rate exchange contracts to mitigate exposure to changes in the fair value of its fixed-rate receivables and debt due to fluctuations in interest rates. By using
these contracts, we are able to convert our fixed-rate cash flows to floating-rate cash flows. The amount of ineffectiveness on our fair value hedges and the gain (loss) recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations were both insignificant
in 2011 and 2010. 
  66 


Table of Contents
Cash Flow Hedges  We manufacture and sell our products in a number of countries throughout the world, and, therefore, we are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. The primary purpose of our foreign
currency hedging activities is to manage the volatility associated with foreign currency purchases of materials, foreign currency sales of products, and other assets and liabilities in the normal course of business. We primarily utilize forward
exchange contracts and purchased options with maturities of no more than three years that qualify as cash flow hedges and are intended to offset the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on forecasted sales, inventory purchases and overhead expenses.
At December 31, 2011, we had a net deferred gain of $8 million in Accumulated other comprehensive loss related to these cash flow hedges. Net gains and losses recognized in earnings and Accumulated other comprehensive loss on these cash flow
hedges, including gains and losses related to hedge ineffectiveness, were not material in 2011 and 2010. We do not expect the amount of gains and losses in Accumulated other comprehensive loss that will be reclassified to earnings in the next twelve
months to be material. 
We hedge our net investment position in major currencies and generate foreign currency interest payments that offset other
transactional exposures in these currencies. To accomplish this, we borrow directly in foreign currency and designate a portion of foreign currency debt as a hedge of net investments. We also may utilize currency forwards as hedges of our related
foreign net investments. We record changes in the fair value of these contracts in other comprehensive income to the extent they are effective as cash flow hedges. If a contract does not qualify for hedge accounting or is designated as a fair value
hedge, changes in the fair value of the contract are recorded in earnings. Currency effects on the effective portion of these hedges, which are reflected in the foreign currency translation adjustment account within OCI, produced a $4 million
after-tax gain in 2011, resulting in an accumulated net gain balance of $18 million at December 31, 2011. The ineffective portion of these hedges was insignificant.  Counterparty Credit Risk  Our exposure to loss from nonperformance by the counterparties to
our derivative agreements at the end of 2011 is minimal. We do not anticipate nonperformance by counterparties in the periodic settlements of amounts due. We historically have minimized this potential for risk by entering into contracts exclusively
with major, financially sound counterparties having no less than a long-term bond rating of A. The credit risk generally is limited to the amount by which the counterparties’ contractual obligations exceed our obligations to the counterparty.
We continuously monitor our exposures to ensure that we limit our risks.  Assets Recorded at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis
 The table below presents those assets that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis that had fair value measurement adjustments
during 2011 and 2010. These assets were measured using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) and include the following:   
 




















 
 
Balance at
 
 
Gain (Loss)
 

(In millions)
 
December 31,2011
 
  
January 1,2011
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Finance group
 



  



 



 




 Impaired finance receivables
 
$
81
  
  
$
504
  
 
$
(82
) 
 
$
(148
) 

 Finance receivables held for sale
 
 
418
  
  
 
413
  
 
 
(206
) 
 
 
(22
) 

 Other assets
 
 
128
  
  
 
149
  
 
 
(49
) 
 
 
(47
) 

 Manufacturing group
 



  



 



 




 Intangible assets
 
 
15
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
(41
) 
 
 
—
  

Impaired Finance Receivables — Impaired nonaccrual finance receivables are included in the table above since the
measurement of required reserves on our impaired finance receivables is significantly dependent on the fair value of the underlying collateral. Fair values of collateral are determined based on the use of appraisals, industry pricing guides, input
from market participants, our recent experience selling similar assets or internally developed discounted cash flow models. Fair value measurements recorded on impaired finance receivables resulted in charges to provision for loan losses and
primarily were related to initial fair value adjustments.  Finance Receivables Held for Sale — Finance receivables held for sale
are recorded at fair value on a nonrecurring basis during periods in which the fair value is lower than the cost value. As a result of our plan to exit the non-captive finance business certain finance receivables are classified as held for sale. At
December 31, 2011, the finance receivables held for sale include the entire Golf Mortgage portfolio, the majority of which was transferred to the finance receivables held for sale classification in the fourth quarter of 2011, and a portion of
the Timeshare portfolio. Due to the transfer, these finance receivables were recorded at fair value, resulting in a $186 million charge recorded to Valuation allowance on transfer of Golf Mortgage portfolio to held for sale. 
  67 


Table of Contents
There are no active, quoted market prices for our finance receivables. The estimate of fair value was
determined based on the use of discounted cash flow models to estimate the exit price we expect to receive in the principal market for each type of loan in an orderly transaction, which includes both the sale of pools of similar assets and the sale
of individual loans. The models we used incorporate estimates of the rate of return, financing cost, capital structure and/or discount rate expectations of current market participants combined with estimated loan cash flows based on credit losses,
payment rates and credit line utilization rates. Where available, assumptions related to the expectations of current market participants are compared with observable market inputs, including bids from prospective purchasers of similar loans and
certain bond market indices for loans perceived to be of similar credit quality. Although we utilize and prioritize these market observable inputs in our discounted cash flow models, these inputs are not typically derived from markets with directly
comparable loan structures, industries and collateral types. Therefore, all valuations of finance receivables held for sale involve significant management judgment, which can result in differences between our fair value estimates and those of other
market participants.  Other assets — Other assets include repossessed assets and properties, operating assets received in
satisfaction of troubled finance receivables and other investments, which are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and have no active, quoted market prices. The fair value of these assets is determined based on the use of appraisals,
industry pricing guides, input from market participants, our recent experience selling similar assets or internally developed discounted cash flow models. For our other investments, the discounted cash flow models incorporate assumptions specific to
the nature of the investments’ business and underlying assets and include industry valuation benchmarks such as discount rates, capitalization rates and cash flow multiples.  Intangible assets — In the fourth quarter of 2011, we determined that we had an indicator of potential asset impairment in our Textron Systems segment. As Textron Systems sells many of
its products to the U.S. Government, its business environment continues to be shaped by policy and budget decisions determined by the U.S. Government. Recent actions of the President and Congress indicate an ongoing emphasis on federal budget
deficit reduction, and budget decisions by the President and Congress may considerably reduce discretionary spending, of which defense constitutes a significant share. Based on the continued deterioration of this environment, the results of our
annual operating plan review, which included updated long-range forecast estimates, and the loss of certain contracts, we determined that an indicator of potential asset impairment existed in the fourth quarter, requiring us to perform impairment
tests. Based on our analysis, we determined that certain intangible assets were impaired and recorded a $41 million pre-tax impairment charge to write down intangible assets primarily related to customer agreements and contractual relationships
associated with AAI-Logistics & Technical Services and AAI-Test & Training businesses. We determined the fair value of these assets using discounted cash flows related to each asset group and a weighted-average cost of capital of
approximately 10%. The impairment charge is recorded in cost of sales within segment profit. Assets and Liabilities Not Recorded at Fair
Value  The carrying value and estimated fair values of our financial instruments that are not reflected in the financial statements at fair
value are as follows:     




















  
  
December 31, 2011
 
 
January 1, 2011
 

(In millions)
  
CarryingValue
 
 

Estimated
Fair Value
 
 
CarryingValue
 
 

Estimated
Fair Value
 

 Manufacturing group
  



 



 



 




 Long-term debt, excluding leases
  
$
    (2,328
) 
 
$
    (2,561
) 
 
$
    (2,172
) 
 
$
    (2,698
) 

 Finance group
  



 



 



 




 Finance receivables held for investment, excluding leases
  
 
1,997
  
 
 
1,848
  
 
 
3,345
  
 
 
3,131
  

 Debt
  
 
(1,974
) 
 
 
(1,854
) 
 
 
(3,660
) 
 
 
(3,528
) 

Fair value for the Manufacturing group debt is determined using market observable data
for similar transactions. At December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, approximately 53% and 33%, respectively, of the fair value of term debt for the Finance group was determined based on observable market transactions. The remaining Finance
group debt was determined based on discounted cash flow analyses using observable market inputs from debt with similar duration, subordination and credit default expectations. We utilize the same valuation methodologies to determine the fair value
estimates for finance receivables held for investment as used for finance receivables held for sale. 
  68 


Table of Contents
Note 10. Shareholders’ Equity 
Capital Stock  We have
authorization for 15 million shares of preferred stock with a par value of $0.01 and 500 million shares of common stock with a par value of $0.125. Outstanding common stock activity for the three years ended December 31, 2011 is
presented below:     
















(In thousands)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Beginning balance
  
 
275,739
  
  
 
272,272
  
  
 
242,041
  

 Exercise of stock options
  
 
177
  
  
 
336
  
  
 
10
  

 Conversion of preferred stock to common stock
  
 
—
  
  
 
31
  
  
 
556
  

 Issued to Textron Savings Plan
  
 
2,686
  
  
 
2,682
  
  
 
5,460
  

 Common stock offering
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
23,805
  

 Other issuances
  
 
271
  
  
 
418
  
  
 
400
  

 Ending balance
  
 
278,873
  
  
 
275,739
  
  
 
272,272
  

Reserved Shares of Common Stock  At the end of 2011, common stock reserved for the conversion of convertible notes, the exercise of outstanding stock options and warrants, and the issuance of shares upon vesting of outstanding restricted
stock units totaled 62 million shares. See the “Convertible Senior Notes and Related Transactions” section in Note 8 for information on our convertible debt.  Income per Common Share 
We calculate basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) based on net income, which approximates income
available to common shareholders for each period. Basic EPS is calculated using the two-class method, which includes the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period and restricted stock units to be paid in stock that are
deemed participating securities as they provide nonforfeitable rights to dividends. Diluted EPS considers the dilutive effect of all potential future common stock, including stock options, restricted stock units and the shares that could be issued
upon the conversion of our convertible notes, as discussed below, and upon the exercise of the related warrants. The convertible note call options purchased in connection with the issuance of the convertible notes are excluded from the calculation
of diluted EPS as their impact is always anti-dilutive. Upon conversion of our convertible notes, as described in Note 8, the principal amount would be settled in cash, and the excess of the conversion value, as defined, over the principal amount
may be settled in cash and/or shares of our common stock. Therefore, only the shares of our common stock potentially issuable with respect to the excess of the notes’ conversion value over the principal amount, if any, are considered as
dilutive potential common shares for purposes of calculating diluted EPS. 
The weighted-average shares outstanding for basic and diluted EPS are as follows: 
   
















(In thousands)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Basic weighted-average shares outstanding
  
 
277,684
  
  
 
274,452
  
  
 
262,923
  

 Dilutive effect of:
  



  



  




 Convertible notes and warrants
  
 
28,869
  
  
 
27,450
  
  
 
—
  

 Stock options and restricted stock units
  
 
702
  
  
 
653
  
  
 
—
  

 Diluted weighted-average shares outstanding
  
 
307,255
  
  
 
302,555
  
  
 
262,923
  

In 2011 and 2010, stock options to purchase 5 million and 7 million shares, respectively, of common stock outstanding are
excluded from our calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding as the exercise prices were greater than the average market price of our common stock for those periods. These securities could potentially dilute EPS in the future. In
2009, the potential dilutive effect of 8 million weighted-average shares of stock options, restricted stock units and the shares that could be issued upon the conversion of our convertible notes and upon the exercise of the related warrants was
excluded from the computation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding as the shares would have an anti-dilutive effect on the loss from continuing operations. 
  69 


Table of Contents
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)  The before and after-tax components of other comprehensive income (loss) are presented below:   
 
















(In millions)
  
Pre-TaxAmount
 
 
 Tax (Expense)
Benefit
 
 
 After-Tax Amount
 

  
 

 2011
  



 



 




  
 

 Foreign currency translation adjustment
  
$
(1
) 
 
$
(2
) 
 
$
(3
) 

 Deferred gains on hedge contracts
  
 
(7
) 
 
 
2
  
 
 
(5
) 

 Pension adjustments
  
 
(527
) 
 
 
177
  
 
 
(350
) 

 Other reclassification adjustments
  
 
75
  
 
 
(26
) 
 
 
49
  

  
 


  
$
    (460
) 
 
$
151
  
 
$
    (309
) 

  
 

 2010
  



 



 




  
 

 Foreign currency translation adjustment
  
$
44
  
 
$
(46
) 
 
$
(2
) 

 Deferred gains on hedge contracts
  
 
17
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
14
  

 Pension adjustments
  
 
(186
) 
 
 
74
  
 
 
(112
) 

 Recognition of foreign currency translation loss (see Note 11)
  
 
91
  
 
 
(17
) 
 
 
74
  

 Other reclassification adjustments
  
 
49
  
 
 
(18
) 
 
 
31
  

  
 


  
$
15
  
 
$
(10
) 
 
$
5
  

  
 

 2009
  



 



 




  
 

 Foreign currency translation adjustment
  
$
16
  
 
$
7
  
 
$
23
  

 Deferred gains on hedge contracts
  
 
90
  
 
 
(23
) 
 
 
67
  

 Pension adjustments
  
 
6
  
 
 
(31
) 
 
 
(25
) 

 Reclassification adjustments
  
 
30
  
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
21
  

 Pension curtailment
  
 
25
  
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
15
  

  
 


  
$
167
  
 
$
(66
) 
 
$
101
  

  
 

Components of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 
   












  
 

(In millions)
  
 December 31,
2011
 
 
 January 1, 2011
 

  
 

 Foreign currency translation adjustment
  
$
79
  
 
$
82
  

 Pension and postretirement benefit adjustments
  
 
(1,711
) 
 
 
(1,425
) 

 Deferred gains on hedge contracts
  
 
7
  
 
 
27
  

  
 

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
  
$
(1,625
) 
 
$
    (1,316
) 

  
 

Note 11. Special Charges 
There were no amounts recorded within special charges in 2011. In 2010 and 2009, special charges included restructuring charges related
to a global restructuring program that totaled $99 million and $237 million, respectively. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we initiated a restructuring program to reduce overhead costs and improve productivity across the company and announced the
exit of portions of our commercial finance business. This restructuring program primarily included corporate and segment direct and indirect workforce reductions and the closure and consolidation of certain operations. With the completion of this
program at the end of 2010, we terminated approximately 12,100 positions worldwide representing approximately 28% of our global workforce since the inception of the program and exited 30 leased and owned facilities and plants at a total program cost
of $400 million. We record restructuring costs in special charges as these costs are generally of a nonrecurring nature and are not included in segment profit, which is our measure used for evaluating performance and for decision-making purposes.
 In the third quarter of 2010, we substantially liquidated the assets held by a Canadian entity within the Finance segment. Accordingly, we
recorded a non-cash charge of $91 million ($74 million after-tax) within special charges to reclassify the entity’s cumulative currency translation adjustment amount within other comprehensive income to the Statement of Operations. The
reclassification of this amount had no impact on shareholders’ equity. 
  70 


Table of Contents
In the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $80 million in connection with
our annual goodwill impairment test for the Golf and Turf Care reporting unit, which is part of our Industrial segment.  Special charges by
segment for 2010 and 2009 are as follows:     



































 
  
Restructuring Program
 
  
 
 
  
 
 


  
  
  
 
  



  




(In millions)
  
SeveranceCosts
 
  
 Curtailment Charges, Net
 
 
AssetImpairments
 
  
ContractTerminations
 
  
 Total Restructuring
 
  
OtherCharges
 
  
Total
 

  
 

 2010
  



  



 



  



  



  



  




  
 

 Cessna
  
$
34
  
  
$
—
  
 
$
6
  
  
$
3
  
  
$
43
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
43
  

 Finance
  
 
7
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
1
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
91
  
  
 
102
  

 Corporate
  
 
1
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1
  

 Industrial
  
 
5
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
9
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
15
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
15
  

 Bell
  
 
10
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
10
  

 Textron Systems
  
 
19
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
19
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
19
  

  
 


  
$
76
  
  
$
—
  
 
$
16
  
  
$
7
  
  
$
99
  
  
$
91
  
  
$
190
  

  
 

 2009
  



  



 



  



  



  



  




  
 

 Cessna
  
$
80
  
  
$
26
  
 
$
54
  
  
$
7
  
  
$
167
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
167
  

 Finance
  
 
11
  
  
 
1
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
13
  

 Corporate
  
 
34
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
35
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
35
  

 Industrial
  
 
6
  
  
 
(4
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
80
  
  
 
85
  

 Bell
  
 
9
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
9
  

 Textron Systems
  
 
5
  
  
 
2
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
8
  

  
 


  
$
145
  
  
$
25
  
 
$
54
  
  
$
13
  
  
$
237
  
  
$
80
  
  
$
  317
  

  
 

An analysis of our restructuring reserve activity is summarized below: 
   
























(In millions)
  
SeveranceCosts
 
 
CurtailmentCharges, Net
 
 
AssetImpairment
 
 
ContractTerminations
 
 
Total
 

  
 

 Balance at January 3, 2009
  
$
36
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
1
  
 
$
  37
  

 Provision in 2009
  
 
152
  
 
 
25
  
 
 
54
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
244
  

 Reversals
  
 
(7
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(7
) 

 Non-cash settlement and loss recognition
  
 
—
  
 
 
(25
) 
 
 
(54
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(79
) 

 Cash paid
  
 
(133
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(11
) 
 
 
(144
) 

  
 

 Balance at January 2, 2010
  
 
48
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
51
  

 Provision in 2010
  
 
79
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
102
  

 Reversals
  
 
(3
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3
) 

 Non-cash settlement
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(16
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(16
) 

 Cash paid
  
 
(67
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
(72
) 

  
 

 Balance at January 1, 2011
  
 
57
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
62
  

 Cash paid
  
 
(42
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(44
) 

  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
15
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
3
  
 
$
18
  

  
 

Note 12. Share-Based Compensation 
Our 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (Plan) supersedes the 1999 Long-Term
Incentive Plan and authorizes awards to our key employees in the form of options to purchase our shares, restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance stock awards and other awards. A maximum of 12 million
shares is authorized for issuance for all purposes under the Plan plus any shares that become available upon cancellation, forfeiture or expiration of awards granted under the 1999 Long-Term Incentive Plan. No more than 12 million shares may be
awarded pursuant to incentive stock options, and no more than 3 million shares may be awarded pursuant to restricted stock units or other awards intended to be paid in shares. The Plan also authorizes performance share units paid in cash based
upon the value of our common stock.  Through our Deferred Income Plan for Textron Executives (DIP), we provide Schedule A participants the
opportunity to voluntarily defer up to 25% of their base salary and up to 80% of annual, long-term incentive and other compensation. Elective deferrals may be put into either a stock unit account or an interest bearing account. We generally
contribute a 10% premium on amounts deferred into the stock unit account. Executives who are eligible to participate in the DIP but have not achieved and/or maintained the required minimum stock ownership level are required to defer part of each
subsequent long-term incentive compensation cash payout into the DIP stock unit account until the ownership requirements are satisfied; these deferrals are not entitled to the 10% premium contribution on the amount deferred. Participants cannot move
amounts between the two accounts while actively employed by us and cannot receive distributions until termination of employment. 
  71 


Table of Contents
Share-based compensation costs are reflected primarily in selling and administrative expenses. The
compensation expense that has been recorded in net income for our share-based compensation plans is as follows:   
 
















  
 

(In millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009  
 

  
 

 Compensation expense
  
$
50
  
 
$
85
  
 
$
83  
  

 Income tax benefit
  
 
      (18
) 
 
 
      (32
) 
 
 
(30) 
  

  
 

 Total net compensation cost included in net income
  
$
32
  
 
$
53
  
 
$
53  
  

  
 

Compensation expense includes approximately $17 million, $7 million and $9 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, representing
the attribution of the fair value of options issued and the portion of previously granted options for which the requisite service has been rendered. 
Stock Options 
Options to purchase our shares have a maximum term of 10 years and generally vest ratably over a three-year period. The stock option compensation cost
calculated under the fair value approach is recognized over the vesting period of the stock options. The weighted-average fair value of options granted per share was $10, $7, and $2 for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We estimate the fair value
of options granted on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Expected volatilities are based on implied volatilities from traded options on our common stock, historical volatilities and other factors. We use historical data
to estimate option exercise behavior, adjusted to reflect anticipated increases in expected life. 
During 2010, we executed a one-time stock option exchange program, which provided eligible employees, other than executive officers,
an opportunity to exchange certain outstanding stock options with exercise prices substantially above the current market price of our common stock for a lesser number of stock options with an exercise price set at current market value and a fair
value that was approximately 15% lower than the fair value of the “out of the money” options that they replaced. As a result of this program, 2.6 million outstanding eligible stock options were exchanged for 1.0 million new
options at an exercise price of $20.76. The new options vested on July 30, 2011 or, if later, on the original vesting date of the eligible stock option for which it was exchanged. The new options were treated as a modification under the
accounting guidance for equity-based compensation. Accordingly, since we discounted the fair value of the new options by 15% of the fair value of the options exchanged, we did not incur any incremental expense associated with the modification.
 The weighted-average assumptions used in our Black-Scholes option-pricing model for awards issued during the respective periods are as
follows:     
















  
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

  
 

 Dividend yield
  
 
0.3%
  
  
 
0.4%
  
  
 
1.4%
  

 Expected volatility
  
 
    38.0%
  
  
 
    37.0%
  
  
 
    50.0%
  

 Risk-free interest rate
  
 
2.4%
  
  
 
2.6%
  
  
 
2.0%
  

 Expected term (in years)
  
 
5.5   
  
  
 
5.5   
  
  
 
5.0   
  

  
 

The stock option activity under the Plan in 2011 is provided below: 
   












(Options in thousands)
  
Number ofOptions
 
 
 Weighted-AverageExercise
Price
 

  
 

 Outstanding at beginning of year
  
 
6,926
  
 
$
    28.15
  

 Granted
  
 
2,995
  
 
 
25.84
  

 Exercised
  
 
(177
) 
 
 
15.35
  

 Canceled, expired or forfeited
  
 
(884
) 
 
 
27.94
  

  
 

 Outstanding at end of year
  
 
8,860
  
 
$
27.68
  

  
 

 Exercisable at end of year
  
 
5,091
  
 
$
30.14
  

  
 

At December 31, 2011, our outstanding options had an aggregate intrinsic value of $8 million and a weighted-average remaining
contractual life of six years. Our exercisable options had an aggregate intrinsic value of $5 million and a weighted-average remaining contractual life of three years at December 31, 2011. 
  72 


Table of Contents
Restricted Stock Units 
Restricted stock unit awards generally were payable in shares of common stock (vesting one-third each in the third, fourth and fifth year following the
year of the grant), until the first quarter of 2009, when we began issuing restricted stock units settled in cash (vesting in equal installments over five years). In 2011, we issued restricted stock units settled in both cash and stock (vesting in
equal installments over five years). Since 2008, all restricted stock units have been issued with the right to receive dividend equivalents. For restricted stock units paid in stock that were issued prior to 2008, the fair value is based on the
trading price of our common stock on the grant date, less required adjustments to reflect the fair value of the awards as dividends are not paid or accrued on these units until the restricted stock units vest. For restricted stock units paid in cash
and stock that were issued in 2008 and later, the fair value of these units is based solely on the trading price of our common stock on the grant date.
 The 2011 activity for restricted stock units is provided below:     




















 
  
Units Payable in Stock
 
 
Units Payable in Cash
 

(Shares in thousands)
  
Number ofShares
 
 
 Weighted-Average Grant
Date Fair Value
 
 
NumberofShares
 
 
Weighted-  Average Grant  Date Fair Value  
 

  
 

 Outstanding at beginning of year, nonvested
  
 
762
  
 
 
$      47.55
  
 
 
3,472
  
 
 
$      14.60  
  

 Granted
  
 
373
  
 
 
25.27
  
 
 
695
  
 
 
26.05  
  

 Vested
  
 
(393
) 
 
 
(47.36
) 
 
 
(863
) 
 
 
(13.94) 
  

 Forfeited
  
 
(104
) 
 
 
(42.14
) 
 
 
(377
) 
 
 
(15.94) 
  

  
 

 Outstanding at end of year, nonvested
  
 
638
  
 
 
$      35.53
  
 
 
2,927
  
 
 
$      17.33  
  

  
 

Performance Share Units 
The fair value of share-based compensation awards accounted for as liabilities includes performance share units, which are typically paid in cash in the
first quarter of the year following vesting. Payouts under performance share units vary based on certain performance criteria generally measured over a three-year period. The performance share units vest at the end of three years. The fair value of
these awards is based on the trading price of our common stock, less adjustments to reflect the fair value of certain awards for which dividends are not paid or accrued until vested, and is remeasured at each reporting period date.
 The 2011 activity for our performance share units is as follows:     












(Shares in thousands)
  
Number ofShares
 
 
 Weighted-  
Average Grant   Date Fair  Value  
 

  
 

 Outstanding at beginning of year, nonvested
  
 
1,897
  
 
$
9.59  
  

 Granted
  
 
445
  
 
 
26.25  
  

 Vested
  
 
(1,250
) 
 
 
(5.65) 
  

 Forfeited
  
 
(233
) 
 
 
(13.23) 
  

  
 

 Outstanding at end of year, nonvested
  
 
859
  
 
$
22.98  
  

  
 

Share-Based Compensation Awards  The value of the share-based compensation awards that vested and/or were paid during the respective periods is as follows:   
 
















  
 

(In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009  
 

  
 

 Subject only to service conditions:
  



  



  




 Value of shares, options or units vested
  
$
        41
  
  
$
        31
  
  
$
        42  
  

 Intrinsic value of cash awards paid
  
 
23
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
1  
  

 Subject to performance vesting conditions:
  



  



  




 Value of units vested
  
 
33
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
21  
  

 Intrinsic value of cash awards paid
  
 
1
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
10  
  

 Intrinsic value of amounts paid under DIP
  
 
1
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
1  
  

  
 

Compensation cost for awards subject only to service conditions that
vest ratably are recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for each separately vesting portion of the award. As of December 31, 2011, we had not recognized $45 million of total compensation costs associated with
unvested awards subject only to service conditions. We expect to recognize compensation expense for these awards over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.2 years. 
  73 


Table of Contents
Note 13. Retirement Plans 
Our defined benefit and defined contribution plans cover substantially all of our employees. A significant number of our U.S.-based
employees participate in the Textron Retirement Plan, which is designed to be a “floor-offset” arrangement with both a defined benefit component and a defined contribution component. The defined benefit component of the arrangement
includes the Textron Master Retirement Plan (TMRP) and the Bell Helicopter Textron Master Retirement Plan (BHTMRP), and the defined contribution component is the Retirement Account Plan (RAP). The defined benefit component provides a minimum
guaranteed benefit (or “floor” benefit). Under the RAP, participants are eligible to receive contributions from Textron of 2% of their eligible compensation but may not make contributions to the plan. Upon retirement, participants receive
the greater of the floor benefit or the value of the RAP. Both the TMRP and the BHTMRP are subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). Effective on January 1, 2010, the Textron Retirement Plan was
closed to new participants, and employees hired after that date receive an additional 4% annual cash contribution to their Textron Savings Plan account based on their eligible compensation.  We also have domestic and foreign funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans that cover certain of our U.S. and foreign employees. In addition, several defined contribution plans are sponsored by
our various businesses. The largest such plan is the Textron Savings Plan, which is a qualified 401(k) plan subject to ERISA in which a significant number of our U.S.-based employees participate. Our defined contribution plans cost approximately $85
million, $88 million and $90 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively; these amounts include $23 million, $25 million and $28 million, respectively, in contributions to the RAP. We also provide postretirement benefits other than pensions for
certain retired employees in the U.S., which include healthcare, dental care, Medicare Part B reimbursement and life insurance benefits. 
Periodic Benefit Cost  The components of
our net periodic benefit cost and other amounts recognized in OCI are as follows:     




























 
  
Pension Benefits
 
 
 Postretirement Benefits
Other than Pensions
 

  
 

(In millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009  
 

  
 

 Net periodic benefit cost
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Service cost
  
$
129
  
 
$
124
  
 
$
116
  
 
$
8
  
 
$
8
  
 
$
8  
  

 Interest cost
  
 
327
  
 
 
328
  
 
 
323
  
 
 
33
  
 
 
34
  
 
 
38  
  

 Expected return on plan assets
  
 
(393
) 
 
 
(385
) 
 
 
(404
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

 Amortization of prior service cost (credit)
  
 
16
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
18
  
 
 
(8
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(5) 
  

 Amortization of net loss
  
 
75
  
 
 
41
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
8  
  

 Curtailment and special termination charges
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
2
  
 
 
34
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(5) 
  

  
 

 Net periodic benefit cost
  
$
      153
  
 
$
      126
  
 
$
      97
  
 
$
      44
  
 
$
      49
  
 
$
      44  
  

  
 

 Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in OCI, including foreign exchange
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Amortization of net loss
  
$
(75
) 
 
$
(41
) 
 
$
(10
) 
 
$
(11
) 
 
$
(11
) 
 
$
(8) 
  

 Net loss (gain) arising during the year
  
 
556
  
 
 
171
  
 
 
(58
) 
 
 
(17
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
24  
  

 Amortization of prior service credit (cost)
  
 
(16
) 
 
 
(16
) 
 
 
(48
) 
 
 
8
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
10  
  

 Prior service cost (credit) arising during the year
  
 
7
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
26
  
 
 
(23
) 
 
 
(16
) 
 
 
2  
  

 Curtailments and settlements
  
 
1
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

  
 

 Total recognized in OCI
  
$
473
  
 
$
118
  
 
$
(90
) 
 
$
(43
) 
 
$
(23
) 
 
$
28  
  

  
 

 Total recognized in net periodic benefit cost and OCI
  
$
626
  
 
$
244
  
 
$
7
  
 
$
1
  
 
$
26
  
 
$
72  
  

  
 

The estimated amount that will be amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic pension costs in 2012 is as
follows:     












(In millions)
  
PensionBenefits
 
  
 Postretirement  Benefits  
Other than  Pensions  
 

  
 

 Net loss
  
$
117
  
  
  $
7  
  

 Prior service cost (credit)
  
 
16
  
  
 
(11) 
  

  
 


  
$
133
  
  
  $
(4) 
  

  
 

  74 


Table of Contents
Obligations and Funded Status  All of our plans are measured as of our fiscal year-end. The changes in the projected benefit obligation and in the fair value of plan assets, along with our funded status, are as follows: 
   




















  
  
Pension Benefits
 
 
Postretirement BenefitsOther than Pensions
 

(In millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010  
 

  
 

 Change in benefit obligation
  



 



 



 




 Benefit obligation at beginning of year
  
$
5,877
  
 
$
    5,470
  
 
$
    614
  
 
$
    646  
  

 Service cost
  
 
129
  
 
 
124
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
8  
  

 Interest cost
  
 
327
  
 
 
328
  
 
 
33
  
 
 
34  
  

 Amendments
  
 
7
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
(23
) 
 
 
(16) 
  

 Plan participants’ contributions
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
5  
  

 Actuarial losses (gains)
  
 
331
  
 
 
292
  
 
 
(17
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(339
) 
 
 
(330
) 
 
 
(59
) 
 
 
(63) 
  

 Foreign exchange rate changes
  
 
(7
) 
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

 Curtailments
  
 
—
  
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—  
  

  
 

 Benefit obligation at end of year
  
$
    6,325
  
 
$
5,877
  
 
$
561
  
 
$
614  
  

  
 

 Change in fair value of plan assets
  



 



 



 




 Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year
  
$
4,559
  
 
$
4,005
  
 



 




 Actual return on plan assets
  
 
167
  
 
 
505
  
 



 




 Employer contributions
  
 
628
  
 
 
390
  
 



 




 Benefits paid
  
 
(339
) 
 
 
(330
) 
 



 




 Foreign exchange rate changes
  
 
(3
) 
 
 
(9
) 
 



 




 Settlements and disbursements
  
 
1
  
 
 
(2
) 
 



 




  
 

 Fair value of plan assets at end of year
  
$
5,013
  
 
$
4,559
  
 



 




  
 

 Funded status at end of year
  
$
(1,312
) 
 
$
(1,318
) 
 
$
(561
) 
 
$
(614) 
  

  
 

Amounts recognized in our balance sheets are as follows: 
   




















  
  
Pension Benefits
 
 
Postretirement BenefitsOther than Pensions
 

(In millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010  
 

  
 

 Non-current assets
  
$
54
  
 
$
58
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—  
  

 Current liabilities
  
 
(23
) 
 
 
(22
) 
 
 
(56
) 
 
 
(60) 
  

 Non-current liabilities
  
 
(1,343
) 
 
 
(1,354
) 
 
 
(505
) 
 
 
(554) 
  

 Recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, pre-tax:
  



 



 



 




 Net loss
  
 
      2,455
  
 
 
    1,977
  
 
 
      91
  
 
 
      120  
  

 Prior service cost (credit)
  
 
129
  
 
 
138
  
 
 
(50
) 
 
 
(35) 
  

  
 

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $6.0 billion and $5.5 billion at December 31, 2011
and January 1, 2011, respectively, which includes $360 million and $334 million, respectively, in accumulated benefit obligations for unfunded plans where funding is not permitted or in foreign environments where funding is not feasible.
 Pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations exceeding the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 
   












(In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Projected benefit obligation
  
$
    6,153
  
  
$
    5,706
  

 Accumulated benefit obligation
  
 
5,784
  
  
 
5,288
  

 Fair value of plan assets
  
 
4,786
  
  
 
4,329
  

  75 


Table of Contents
Assumptions  The weighted-average assumptions we use for our pension and postretirement plans are as follows:   
 




























 
  
Pension Benefits
 
  
Postretirement BenefitsOther than Pensions
 

  
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009  
 

  
 

 Net periodic benefit cost
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Discount rate
  
 
5.71%
  
  
 
6.20%
  
  
 
6.61%
  
  
 
5.50%
  
  
 
5.50%
  
  
 
6.25%  
  

 Expected long-term rate of return on assets
  
 
7.84%
  
  
 
8.26%
  
  
 
8.58%
  
  



  



  




 Rate of compensation increase
  
 
3.99%
  
  
 
4.00%
  
  
 
4.36%
  
  



  



  




 Benefit obligations at year-end
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Discount rate
  
 
4.95%
  
  
 
5.71%
  
  
 
6.19%
  
  
 
4.75%
  
  
 
5.50%
  
  
 
5.50%  
  

 Rate of compensation increases
  
 
3.49%
  
  
 
3.99%
  
  
 
4.00%
  
  



  



  




  
 

Assumed healthcare cost trend rates are as follows:   
 












  
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010  
 

  
 

 Medical cost trend rate
  
 
9%
  
  
 
8%  
  

 Prescription drug cost trend rate
  
 
9%
  
  
 
9%  
  

 Rate to which medical and prescription drug cost trend rates will gradually decline
  
 
5%
  
  
 
5%  
  

 Year that the rates reach the rate where we assume they will remain
  
 
2021
  
  
 
2020  
  

  
 

These assumed healthcare cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the postretirement benefits other than
pensions. A one-percentage-point change in these assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects:   
 












(In millions)
  
 One- Percentage-PointIncrease
 
  
One- Percentage- Point Decrease 
 

  
 

 Effect on total of service and interest cost components
  
$
4
  
  
$
(3) 
  

 Effect on postretirement benefit obligations other than pensions
  
 
40
  
  
 
(35) 
  

  
 

Pension Assets  The
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is determined based on a variety of considerations, including the established asset allocation targets and expectations for those asset classes, historical returns of the plans’ assets and other
market considerations. We invest our pension assets with the objective of achieving a total rate of return, over the long term, sufficient to fund future pension obligations and to minimize future pension contributions. We are willing to tolerate a
commensurate level of risk to achieve this objective based on the funded status of the plans and the long-term nature of our pension liability. Risk is controlled by maintaining a portfolio of assets that is diversified across a variety of asset
classes, investment styles and investment managers. All of the assets are managed by external investment managers, and the majority of the assets are actively managed. Where possible, investment managers are prohibited from owning our stock in the
portfolios that they manage on our behalf.  For U.S. plan assets, which represent the majority of our plan assets, asset allocation target
ranges are established consistent with our investment objectives, and the assets are rebalanced periodically. For foreign plan assets, allocations are based on expected cash flow needs and assessments of the local practices and markets. Our target
allocation ranges are as follows:     






  

 U.S. Plan Assets
  


 Domestic equity securities
  
27 % to 41%  

 International equity securities
  
11% to 22%  

 Debt securities
  
26% to 34%  

 Private equity partnerships
  
5% to 11%  

 Real estate
  
9% to 15%  

 Hedge funds
  
0% to   7%  

 Foreign Plan Assets
  


 Equity securities
  
25% to 70%  

 Debt securities
  
30% to 60%  

 Real estate
  
3% to 17%  

  

  76 


Table of Contents
The fair value of total pension plan assets by major category and level in the fair value hierarchy as
defined in Note 9 is as follows:     




























 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
January 1, 2011
 

  
 

(In millions)
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3  
 

  
 

 Cash and equivalents
  
$
14
  
  
$
183
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
3
  
  
$
178
  
  
$
—  
  

 Equity securities:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Domestic
  
 
1,017
  
  
 
482
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,052
  
  
 
469
  
  
 
—  
  

 International
  
 
777
  
  
 
233
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
688
  
  
 
251
  
  
 
—  
  

 Debt securities:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 National, state and local governments
  
 
630
  
  
 
254
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
39
  
  
 
570
  
  
 
—  
  

 Corporate debt
  
 
34
  
  
 
494
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
432
  
  
 
—  
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
3
  
  
 
74
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
103
  
  
 
—  
  

 Private equity partnerships
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
314
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
324  
  

 Real estate
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
407
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
337  
  

 Hedge funds
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
97
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
101  
  

  
 

 Total
  
$
  2,475
  
  
$
  1,720
  
  
$
    818
  
  
$
  1,794
  
  
$
  2,003
  
  
$
    762  
  

  
 

Cash equivalents and equity and debt securities include comingled funds, which represent investments in funds offered to institutional
investors that are similar to mutual funds in that they provide diversification by holding various equity and debt securities. Since these comingled funds are not quoted on any active market, they are priced based on the relative value of the
underlying equity and debt investments and their individual prices at any given time; accordingly, they are classified as Level 2. Debt securities are valued based on same day actual trading prices, if available. If such prices are not available, we
use a matrix pricing model with historical prices, trends and other factors.  Private equity partnerships represent investments in funds,
which, in turn, invest in stocks and debt securities of companies that, in most cases, are not publicly traded. These partnerships are valued using income and market methods that include cash flow projections and market multiples for various
comparable companies. Real estate includes owned properties and investments in partnerships. Owned properties are valued using certified appraisals at least every three years, which then are updated at least annually by the real estate investment
manager, who considers current market trends and other available information. These appraisals generally use the standard methods for valuing real estate, including forecasting income and identifying current transactions for comparable real estate
to arrive at a fair value. Real estate partnerships are valued similar to private equity partnerships, with the general partner using standard real estate valuation methods to value the real estate properties and securities held within their fund
portfolios. We believe these assumptions are consistent with assumptions that market participants would use in valuing these investments. 
Hedge funds represent an investment in a diversified fund of hedge funds of which we are the sole investor. The fund invests in portfolio funds that are
not publicly traded and are managed by various portfolio managers. Investments in portfolio funds are typically valued on the basis of the most recent price or valuation provided by the relevant fund’s administrator. The administrator for the
fund aggregates these valuations with the other assets and liabilities to calculate the net asset value of the fund.  The table below presents
a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances for fair value measurements that use significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) by major category:   
 
















(In millions)
  
Hedge Funds
 
 
Private EquityPartnerships
 
 
Real Estate  
 

  
 

 Balance at beginning of year
  
$
101
  
 
$
324
  
 
$
337  
  

 Actual return on plan assets:
  



 



 




 Related to assets still held at reporting date
  
 
(4
) 
 
 
7
  
 
 
32  
  

 Related to assets sold during the period
  
 
—
  
 
 
31
  
 
 
2  
  

 Purchases, sales and settlements, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
(48
) 
 
 
36  
  

  
 

 Balance at end of year
  
$
97
  
 
$
314
  
 
$
407  
  

  
 

  77 


Table of Contents
Estimated Future Cash Flow Impact  Defined benefits under salaried plans are based on salary and years of service. Hourly plans generally provide benefits based on stated amounts for each year of service. Our funding policy is consistent
with applicable laws and regulations. In 2012, we expect to contribute approximately $175 million to fund our qualified pension plans, non-qualified plans and foreign plans. Additionally, we expect to contribute $25 million to the RAP. We do not
expect to contribute to our other postretirement benefit plans. Benefit payments provided below reflect expected future employee service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid, net of estimated participant contributions, and do not include the
Medicare Part D subsidy we expect to receive. These payments are based on the same assumptions used to measure our benefit obligation at the end of fiscal 2011. While pension benefit payments primarily will be paid out of qualified pension trusts,
we will pay postretirement benefits other than pensions out of our general corporate assets. Benefit payments that we expect to pay are as follows:   
 




























(In millions)
  
2012
 
 
2013
 
 
2014
 
  
2015
 
  
2016
 
  
2017-2012  
 

  
 

 Pension benefits
  
$
340
  
 
$
347
  
 
$
352
  
  
$
358
  
  
$
365
  
  
$
1,957  
  

 Post-retirement benefits other than pensions
  
 
58
  
 
 
55
  
 
 
54
  
  
 
52
  
  
 
50
  
  
 
214  
  

 Expected Medicare Part D Subsidy
  
 
      (2
) 
 
 
      (1
) 
 
 
      —
  
  
 
      —
  
  
 
      —
  
  
 
      (1) 
  

  
 

Note 14. Income Taxes 
We conduct business globally and, as a result, file numerous consolidated and separate income tax returns within and outside the U.S.
For all of our U.S. subsidiaries, we file a consolidated federal income tax return. Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes is as follows:   
 
















  
 

(In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

  
 

 U.S.
  
$
137
  
  
$
(63
) 
 
$
(229) 
  

 Non-U.S.
  
 
200
  
  
 
149
  
 
 
80  
  

  
 

 Total income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes
  
$
      337
  
  
$
      86
  
 
$
      (149) 
  

  
 

Income tax expense (benefit) for continuing operations is summarized as follows: 
   
















  
 

(In millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

  
 

 Current:
  



 



 




 Federal
  
$
(23
) 
 
$
(79
) 
 
$
160  
  

 State
  
 
15
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
17  
  

 Non-U.S.
  
 
29
  
 
 
19
  
 
 
(8) 
  

  
 


  
 
21
  
 
 
(57
) 
 
 
169  
  

  
 

 Deferred:
  



 



 




 Federal
  
 
67
  
 
 
59
  
 
 
(238) 
  

 State
  
 
1
  
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
(22) 
  

 Non-U.S.
  
 
6
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
15  
  

  
 


  
 
74
  
 
 
51
  
 
 
(245) 
  

  
 

 Income tax expense (benefit)
  
$
      95
  
 
$
        (6
) 
 
$
      (76) 
  

  
 

The current federal and state provisions for 2011 and 2009 include $37 million and $85 million, respectively, of tax related to the
sale of certain leverage leases in the Finance segment for which we had previously recorded significant deferred tax liabilities. A substantial portion of the $85 million was paid in 2010. 
  78 


Table of Contents
The following table reconciles the federal statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax rate for
continuing operations:     
















  
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009          
 

  
 

 Federal statutory income tax rate
  
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 
 
 
(35.0)% 
  

 Increase (decrease) in taxes resulting from:
  



 



 




 State income taxes
  
 
3.1
  
 
 
(2.7
) 
 
 
0.4      
  

 Non-U.S. tax rate differential and foreign tax credits
  
 
(9.4
) 
 
 
(60.5
) 
 
 
(13.5)     
  

 Unrecognized tax benefits and interest
  
 
1.2
  
 
 
17.5
  
 
 
(4.1)     
  

 Nondeductible healthcare claims
  
 
—
  
 
 
12.7
  
 
 
—      
  

 Change in status of subsidiaries
  
 
—
  
 
 
12.0
  
 
 
(3.6)     
  

 Research credit
  
 
(2.5
) 
 
 
(5.4
) 
 
 
(4.7)     
  

 Cash surrender value of life insurance
  
 
(1.5
) 
 
 
(5.1
) 
 
 
(1.9)     
  

 Valuation allowance on contingent receipts
  
 
—
  
 
 
(2.0
) 
 
 
(7.3)     
  

 Goodwill impairment
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
18.5      
  

 Other, net
  
 
2.2
  
 
 
(7.9
) 
 
 
0.2      
  

  
 

 Effective rate
  
 
28.1
% 
 
 
(6.4
)% 
 
 
(51.0)% 
  

  
 

The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and non-U.S.
tax authorities, which may result in proposed assessments. Our estimate for the potential outcome for any uncertain tax issue is highly judgmental. We assess our income tax positions and record tax benefits for all years subject to examination based
upon management’s evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. For those tax positions for which it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, we record the largest amount of tax
benefit with a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. Interest and penalties are accrued, where applicable. If we do not believe that it is not more
likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit is recognized.  Our future results may include favorable or unfavorable
adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities due to settlement of income tax examinations, new regulatory or judicial pronouncements, expiration of statutes of limitations or other relevant events. As a result, our effective tax rate may fluctuate
significantly on a quarterly and annual basis.  Our unrecognized tax benefits represent tax positions for which reserves have been
established. Unrecognized state tax benefits and interest related to unrecognized tax benefits are reflected net of applicable tax benefits.
 A reconciliation of our unrecognized tax benefits, excluding accrued interest, is as follows:   
 










  
 

(In millions)
 
 December 31,
2011
  
 January 1,  
2011  
 

  
 

 Balance at beginning of year
 
$           285
  
$
294  
  

 Additions for tax positions related to current year
 
8
  
 
7  
  

 Additions for tax positions of prior years
 
8
  
 
8  
  

 Reductions for tax positions of prior years
 
(7)
  
 
(17) 
  

 Reductions for expiration of statute of limitations
 
—
  
 
(5) 
  

 Reductions for settlements with tax authorities
 
—
  
 
(2) 
  

  
 

 Balance at end of year
 
$           294
  
$
285  
  

  
 

At December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, approximately $206 million and $197 million, respectively, of these unrecognized
tax benefits, if recognized, would favorably affect our effective tax rate in a future period. The remaining $88 million in unrecognized tax benefits are related to discontinued operations. Unrecognized tax benefits were reduced in 2011 and 2010,
primarily related to favorable tax audit resolutions. Based on the outcome of appeals proceedings and the expiration of statutes of limitations, it is possible that certain audit cycles for U.S. and foreign jurisdictions could be completed during
the next 12 months, which could result in a change in our balance of unrecognized tax benefits with the aggregate tax effect of the differences between tax return positions and the benefits being recognized in our financial statements. Although the
outcome of these matters cannot be determined, we believe adequate provision has been made for any potential unfavorable financial statement impact.  In the normal course of business, we are subject to examination by taxing authorities throughout the world, including major jurisdictions such as Belgium, Canada, Germany, Japan and the U.S. With few
exceptions, we no longer are subject to U.S. federal, state and local income tax examinations for years before 1997. We are no longer subject to non-U.S. income tax examinations in our major jurisdictions for years before 2005. 
  79 


Table of Contents
During 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recognized net tax-related interest expense totaling approximately $10
million, $19 million and $12 million, respectively, in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. At December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, we had a total of $132 million and $122 million, respectively, of net accrued interest expense
included in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of our net
deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:     












  
 

(In millions)
 
 December 31,
2011
 
 
 January 1,  
2011  
 

  
 

 Deferred tax assets
 



 




 Obligation for pension and postretirement benefits
 
$
635
  
 
$
692  
  

 Deferred compensation
 
 
196
  
 
 
203  
  

 Accrued expenses*
 
 
193
  
 
 
255  
  

 Valuation allowance on finance receivables held for sale
 
 
130
  
 
 
29  
  

 Loss carryforwards
 
 
74
  
 
 
66  
  

 Allowance for credit losses
 
 
68
  
 
 
141  
  

 Deferred income
 
 
52
  
 
 
59  
  

 Inventory
 
 
38
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other, net
 
 
172
  
 
 
177  
  

  
 

 Total deferred tax assets
 
 
1,558
  
 
 
1,622  
  

 Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets
 
 
(189
) 
 
 
(200) 
  

  
 


 
$
1,369
  
 
$
1,422  
  

  
 

 Deferred tax liabilities
 



 




 Leasing transactions
 
$
(285
) 
 
$
(387) 
  

 Property, plant and equipment, principally depreciation
 
 
(145
) 
 
 
(132) 
  

 Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles
 
 
(111
) 
 
 
(135) 
  

 Inventory
 
 
—
  
 
 
(15) 
  

  
 

 Total deferred tax liabilities
 
 
(541
) 
 
 
(669) 
  

  
 

 Net deferred tax asset
 
$
828
  
 
$
753  
  

  
 

* Accrued expenses includes warranty and product maintenance reserves, self-insured liabilities, interest and restructuring
reserves.  We believe that our earnings during the periods when the temporary differences become deductible will be sufficient to realize
the related future income tax benefits. For those jurisdictions where the expiration date of tax carryforwards or the projected operating results indicate that realization is not more than likely, a valuation allowance is provided. 
The following table presents the breakdown between current and long-term net deferred tax assets: 
   










  
 

(In millions)
 
 December 31,
2011
  
 January 1,  
2011  
 

  
 

 Current
 
$          288
  
$
290  
  

 Non-current
 
532
  
 
571  
  

  
 


 
820
  
 
861  
  

 Finance group’s net deferred tax asset (liability)
 
8
  
 
(108) 
  

  
 

 Net deferred tax asset
 
$          828
  
$
753  
  

  
 

Our net operating loss and credit carryforwards at December 31, 2011 are as follows: 
   








(In millions)
  
 
 

  
 

 Non-U.S. net operating loss with no expiration
  
$
        98  
  

 Non-U.S. net operating loss expiring through 2031
  
 
45  
  

 State net operating loss and tax credits, net of tax benefits, expiring through 2027
  
 
36  
  

 U.S. federal tax credits beginning to expire in 2021
  
 
30  
  

  
 

The undistributed earnings of our non-U.S. subsidiaries approximated $470 million
at December 31, 2011. We consider the undistributed earnings to be indefinitely reinvested; therefore, we have not provided a deferred tax liability for any residual U.S. tax that may be due upon repatriation of these earnings. Because of the
effect of U.S. foreign tax credits, it is not practicable to estimate the amount of tax that might be payable on these earnings in the event they no longer are indefinitely reinvested. 
  80 


Table of Contents
Note 15. Contingencies and Commitments 
We are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including proceedings and claims
relating to commercial and financial transactions; government contracts; compliance with applicable laws and regulations; production partners; product liability; employment; and environmental, safety and health matters. Some of these legal
proceedings and claims seek damages, fines or penalties in substantial amounts or remediation of environmental contamination. As a government contractor, we are subject to audits, reviews and investigations to determine whether our operations are
being conducted in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. Under federal government procurement regulations, certain claims brought by the U.S. Government could result in our being suspended or debarred from U.S. Government contracting
for a period of time. On the basis of information presently available, we do not believe that existing proceedings and claims will have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. 
On February 7, 2012, a lawsuit was filed in the United States Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Ohio, Eastern Division (Akron) by Brian A.
Bash, Chapter 7 Trustee for Fair Finance Company against TFC, Fortress Credit Corp. and Fair Facility I, LLC. TFC provided a revolving line of credit of up to $17.5 million to Fair Finance Company from 2002 through 2007. The complaint alleges
numerous counts against TFC, as Fair Finance Company’s working capital lender, including receipt of fraudulent transfers and assisting in fraud perpetrated on Fair Finance investors. The Trustee seeks avoidance and recovery of alleged
fraudulent transfers in the amount of $316 million as well as damages of $223 million on the other claims. The Trustee also seeks trebled damages on all claims under Ohio law. This action was filed very recently; therefore, we are still in the
process of reviewing the complaint and assessing these claims. We intend to vigorously defend this lawsuit. An estimate of a range of possible loss cannot be made at this time due to the early stage of the litigation. 
In the ordinary course of business, we enter into standby letter of credit agreements and surety bonds with financial institutions to meet various
performance and other obligations. These outstanding letter of credit arrangements and surety bonds aggregated to approximately $260 million and $325 million at the end of 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
Environmental Remediation  As with other
industrial enterprises engaged in similar businesses, we are involved in a number of remedial actions under various federal and state laws and regulations relating to the environment that impose liability on companies to clean up, or contribute to
the cost of cleaning up, sites on which hazardous wastes or materials were disposed or released. Our accrued environmental liabilities relate to installation of remediation systems, disposal costs, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency oversight
costs, legal fees, and operating and maintenance costs for both currently and formerly owned or operated facilities. Circumstances that can affect the reliability and precision of the accruals include the identification of additional sites,
environmental regulations, level of cleanup required, technologies available, number and financial condition of other contributors to remediation, and the time period over which remediation may occur. We believe that any changes to the accruals that
may result from these factors and uncertainties will not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations.  Based
upon information currently available, we estimate that our potential environmental liabilities are within the range of $48 million to $192 million. At December 31, 2011, environmental reserves of approximately $79 million have been established
to address these specific estimated liabilities. We estimate that we will likely pay our accrued environmental remediation liabilities over the next five to 10 years and have classified $25 million as current liabilities. Expenditures to evaluate
and remediate contaminated sites approximated $9 million, $10 million and $11 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Leases
 Rental expense approximated $93 million in 2011, $92 million in 2010 and $100 million in 2009. Future minimum rental commitments for
noncancelable operating leases in effect at December 31, 2011 approximated $58 million for 2012, $46 million for 2013, $38 million for 2014, $31 million for 2015, $27 million for 2016 and a total of $138 million thereafter. 
  81 


Table of Contents
Note 16. Supplemental Cash Flow Information 
We have made the following cash payments:   
 
















  
 

(In millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
  
2009  
 

  
 

 Interest paid:
  



 



  




 Manufacturing group
  
$
    135
  
 
$
    145
  
  
$
    116  
  

 Finance group
  
 
89
  
 
 
127
  
  
 
171  
  

 Taxes paid, net of refunds received:
  



 



  




 Manufacturing group
  
 
30
  
 
 
59
  
  
 
49  
  

 Finance group
  
 
(65
) 
 
 
101
  
  
 
(75) 
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
—
  
 
 
2
  
  
 
156  
  

  
 

Cash paid for interest by the Finance group includes amounts paid to the Manufacturing group of $26 million, $32 million and $3 million
in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  In 2010, taxes paid, net of refunds received for the Finance group includes $103 million in taxes paid
primarily attributable to a settlement related to the challenge of tax deductions we took in prior years for certain leverage lease transactions. 
Note 17. Segment and Geographic Data 
We operate in, and report financial information for, the following five business segments: Cessna,
Bell, Textron Systems, Industrial and Finance. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 1. 
Cessna products include Citation business jets, Caravan single-engine turboprops, single-engine piston aircraft, and aftermarket
services sold to a diverse base of corporate and individual buyers.  Bell products include military and commercial helicopters, tiltrotor
aircraft and related spare parts and services for U.S. and non-U.S. governments in the defense and aerospace industries and general aviation markets.  Textron Systems products include armored security vehicles, advanced marine craft, precision weapons, airborne and ground-based surveillance systems and services, the Unmanned Aircraft System, training
and simulation systems and countersniper devices, and intelligence and situational awareness software for U.S. and non-U.S. governments in the defense and aerospace industries and general aviation markets. 
Industrial products and markets include the following:   


•
 
 Kautex products include blow-molded plastic fuel systems, windshield and headlamp washer systems, selective catalytic reduction systems, engine
camshafts and other parts that are marketed primarily to automobile original equipment manufacturers, as well as plastic bottles and containers for various uses; 
 


•
 
 Greenlee products include powered equipment, electrical test and measurement instruments, hand and hydraulic powered tools, and electrical and fiber
optic assemblies, principally used in the electrical construction and maintenance, plumbing, wiring, telecommunications and data communications industries; and 
 


•
 
 E-Z-GO and Jacobsen products include golf cars; professional turf-maintenance equipment; and off-road, multipurpose utility and specialized turf-care
vehicles that are marketed primarily to golf courses, resort communities, municipalities, sporting venues, and commercial and industrial users. 
  82 


Table of Contents
The Finance segment provided secured commercial loans and leases primarily in North America to the aviation,
golf equipment, asset-based lending, distribution finance, golf mortgage, hotel, structured capital and timeshare markets through the fourth quarter of 2008, when we announced a plan to exit the non-captive portion of the commercial finance business
of the segment while retaining the captive portion of the business that supports customer purchases of products that we manufacture.  Segment
profit is an important measure used for evaluating performance and for decision-making purposes. Segment profit for the manufacturing segments excludes interest expense, certain corporate expenses and special charges. The measurement for the Finance
segment excludes special charges and includes interest income and expense along with intercompany interest expense. Provisions for losses on finance receivables involving the sale or lease of our products are recorded by the selling manufacturing
division when our Finance group has recourse to the Manufacturing group.  Our revenues by segment, along with a reconciliation of segment
profit to income from continuing operations before income taxes, are as follows:     




























 
  
Revenues
 
  
Segment Profit (Loss)
 

  
 

(In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009  
 

  
 

 Cessna
  
$
2,990
  
  
$
2,563
  
  
$
3,320
  
  
$
60
  
 
$
(29
) 
 
$
198  
  

 Bell
  
 
3,525
  
  
 
3,241
  
  
 
2,842
  
  
 
521
  
 
 
427
  
 
 
304  
  

 Textron Systems
  
 
1,872
  
  
 
1,979
  
  
 
1,899
  
  
 
141
  
 
 
230
  
 
 
240  
  

 Industrial
  
 
2,785
  
  
 
2,524
  
  
 
2,078
  
  
 
202
  
 
 
162
  
 
 
27  
  

 Finance
  
 
103
  
  
 
218
  
  
 
361
  
  
 
(333
) 
 
 
(237
) 
 
 
(294) 
  

  
 


  
$
  11,275
  
  
$
10,525
  
  
$
10,500
  
  
 
591
  
 
 
553
  
 
 
475  
  

  
 

 Special charges
  



  



  



  
 
—
  
 
 
(190
) 
 
 
(317) 
  

 Corporate expenses and other, net
  



  



  



  
 
(114
) 
 
 
(137
) 
 
 
(164) 
  

 Interest expense, net for Manufacturing group
  



  



  



  
 
(140
) 
 
 
(140
) 
 
 
(143) 
  

  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes
  



  



  



  
$
337
  
 
$
86
  
 
$
  (149) 
  

  
 

Revenues by major product type are summarized below:   
 
















 
  
Revenues
 

  
 

(In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009  
 

  
 

 Fixed-wing aircraft
  
$
2,990
  
  
$
2,563
  
  
$
3,320  
  

 Rotor aircraft
  
 
3,525
  
  
 
3,241
  
  
 
2,842  
  

 Unmanned aircraft systems, armored security vehicles, precision weapons and other
  
 
1,872
  
  
 
1,979
  
  
 
1,899  
  

 Fuel systems and functional components
  
 
1,823
  
  
 
1,640
  
  
 
1,287  
  

 Powered tools, testing and measurement equipment
  
 
402
  
  
 
330
  
  
 
300  
  

 Golf and turf-care products
  
 
560
  
  
 
554
  
  
 
491  
  

 Finance
  
 
103
  
  
 
218
  
  
 
361  
  

  
 


  
$
  11,275
  
  
$
  10,525
  
  
$
  10,500  
  

  
 

Our revenues included sales to the U.S. Government of approximately $3.5 billion, $3.6 billion and $3.3 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively, primarily in the Bell and Textron Systems segments.  Other information by segment is provided below: 
   




































 
  
Assets
 
  
Capital Expenditures
 
  
Depreciation and Amortization
 

  
 

(In millions)
  
December 31,2011
 
  
January 1,2011
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009  
 

  
 

 Cessna
  
$
2,078
  
  
$
2,294
  
  
$
101
  
  
$
47
  
  
$
65
  
  
$
109
  
  
$
106
  
  
$
115  
  

 Bell
  
 
2,247
  
  
 
2,079
  
  
 
184
  
  
 
123
  
  
 
101
  
  
 
95
  
  
 
92
  
  
 
83  
  

 Textron Systems
  
 
1,948
  
  
 
1,997
  
  
 
37
  
  
 
41
  
  
 
31
  
  
 
85
  
  
 
81
  
  
 
85  
  

 Industrial
  
 
1,664
  
  
 
1,604
  
  
 
94
  
  
 
51
  
  
 
38
  
  
 
72
  
  
 
72
  
  
 
76  
  

 Finance
  
 
3,213
  
  
 
4,949
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
32
  
  
 
31
  
  
 
36  
  

 Corporate
  
 
2,465
  
  
 
2,359
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
14  
  

  
 


  
$
13,615
  
  
$
15,282
  
  
$
  423
  
  
$
  270
  
  
$
  238
  
  
$
403
  
  
$
393
  
  
$
409  
  

  
 

  83 


Table of Contents
Geographic Data  Presented below is selected financial information of our continuing operations by geographic area:   
 
























 
  
Revenues*
 
  
Property, Plant andEquipment, net**
 

  
 

(In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
December 31,2011
 
  
January 1,   2011  
 

  
 

 United States
  
$
7,138
  
  
$
6,688
  
  
$
6,563
  
  
$
1,557
  
  
$
1,565  
  

 Europe
  
 
1,577
  
  
 
1,448
  
  
 
1,625
  
  
 
236
  
  
 
220  
  

 Canada
  
 
289
  
  
 
347
  
  
 
344
  
  
 
100
  
  
 
89  
  

 Latin America and Mexico
  
 
820
  
  
 
815
  
  
 
815
  
  
 
36
  
  
 
22  
  

 Asia and Australia
  
 
1,032
  
  
 
776
  
  
 
553
  
  
 
76
  
  
 
52  
  

 Middle East and Africa
  
 
419
  
  
 
451
  
  
 
600
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—  
  

  
 


  
$
  11,275
  
  
$
  10,525
  
  
$
  10,500
  
  
$
  2,005
  
  
$
  1,948  
  

  
 
 * Revenues are attributed to countries based on the location of the customer. 
** Property, plant and equipment, net are based on the location of the asset. 
  84 


Table of Contents
 
Schedule
Quarterly Data 
 




































  
 

(Unaudited)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

  
 

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
 
Q1
 
 
Q2
 
 
Q3
 
 
Q4
 
 
Q1
 
 
Q2
 
 
Q3
 
 
Q4
 

  
 

 Revenues
 



 



 



 


 
 



 



 



 




 Cessna
 
$
556
  
 
$
652
  
 
$
771
  
 
$
1,011
  
 
$
433
  
 
$
635
  
 
$
535
  
 
$
960  
  

 Bell
 
 
749
  
 
 
872
  
 
 
894
  
 
 
1,010
  
 
 
618
  
 
 
823
  
 
 
825
  
 
 
975  
  

 Textron Systems
 
 
445
  
 
 
452
  
 
 
462
  
 
 
513
  
 
 
458
  
 
 
534
  
 
 
460
  
 
 
527  
  

 Industrial
 
 
703
  
 
 
719
  
 
 
655
  
 
 
708
  
 
 
625
  
 
 
661
  
 
 
600
  
 
 
638  
  

 Finance
 
 
26
  
 
 
33
  
 
 
32
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
76
  
 
 
56
  
 
 
59
  
 
 
27  
  

  
 

 Total revenues
 
$
2,479
  
 
$
2,728
  
 
$
2,814
  
 
$
3,254
  
 
$
2,210
  
 
$
2,709
  
 
$
2,479
  
 
$
3,127  
  

  
 

 Segment profit
 



 



 



 


 
 



 



 



 




 Cessna
 
$
(38
) 
 
$
5
  
 
$
33
  
 
$
60
  
 
$
(24
) 
 
$
3
  
 
$
(31
) 
 
$
23  
  

 Bell
 
 
91
  
 
 
120
  
 
 
143
  
 
 
167
  
 
 
74
  
 
 
108
  
 
 
107
  
 
 
138  
  

 Textron Systems (a)
 
 
53
  
 
 
49
  
 
 
47
  
 
 
(8
) 
 
 
55
  
 
 
70
  
 
 
50
  
 
 
55  
  

 Industrial
 
 
61
  
 
 
55
  
 
 
37
  
 
 
49
  
 
 
49
  
 
 
51
  
 
 
37
  
 
 
25  
  

 Finance (b)
 
 
(44
) 
 
 
(33
) 
 
 
(24
) 
 
 
(232
) 
 
 
(58
) 
 
 
(71
) 
 
 
(51
) 
 
 
(57) 
  

  
 

 Total segment profit
 
 
123
  
 
 
196
  
 
 
236
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
96
  
 
 
161
  
 
 
112
  
 
 
184  
  

 Corporate expenses and other, net
 
 
(39
) 
 
 
(23
) 
 
 
(13
) 
 
 
(39
) 
 
 
(37
) 
 
 
(17
) 
 
 
(35
) 
 
 
(48) 
  

 Interest expense, net for Manufacturing group
 
 
(38
) 
 
 
(38
) 
 
 
(37
) 
 
 
(27
) 
 
 
(36
) 
 
 
(35
) 
 
 
(32
) 
 
 
(37) 
  

 Special charges (c)
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(12
) 
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
(114
) 
 
 
(54) 
  

 Income tax benefit (expense)
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
(43
) 
 
 
(50
) 
 
 
13
  
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
(18
) 
 
 
21
  
 
 
18  
  

  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations
 
 
31
  
 
 
92
  
 
 
136
  
 
 
(17
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
81
  
 
 
(48
) 
 
 
63  
  

 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
6
  
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
1
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3) 
  

  
 

 Net income (loss)
 
$
29
  
 
$
90
  
 
$
142
  
 
$
(19
) 
 
$
(8
) 
 
$
82
  
 
$
(48
) 
 
$
60  
  

  
 

 Basic earnings per share
 



 



 



 


 
 



 



 



 




 Continuing operations
 
$
0.11
  
 
$
0.33
  
 
$
0.49
  
 
$
(0.06
) 
 
$
(0.01
) 
 
$
0.30
  
 
$
(0.17
) 
 
$
0.23  
  

 Discontinued operations
 
 
(0.01
) 
 
 
(0.01
) 
 
 
0.02
  
 
 
(0.01
) 
 
 
(0.02
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(0.01) 
  

  
 

 Basic earnings per share
 
$
0.10
  
 
$
0.32
  
 
$
0.51
  
 
$
(0.07
) 
 
$
(0.03
) 
 
$
0.30
  
 
$
(0.17
) 
 
$
0.22  
  

  
 

 Basic average shares outstanding (In thousands)
 
 
276,358
  
 
 
277,406
  
 
 
278,090
  
 
 
278,881
  
 
 
273,174
  
 
 
274,098
  
 
 
274,896
  
 
 
275,640  
  

  
 

 Diluted earnings per share (d) 
 



 



 



 


 
 



 



 



 




 Continuing operations
 
$
0.10
  
 
$
0.29
  
 
$
0.45
  
 
$
(0.06
) 
 
$
(0.01
) 
 
$
0.27
  
 
$
(0.17
) 
 
$
0.20  
  

 Discontinued operations
 
 
(0.01
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.02
  
 
 
(0.01
) 
 
 
(0.02
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(0.01) 
  

  
 

 Diluted earnings per share
 
$
0.09
  
 
$
0.29
  
 
$
0.47
  
 
$
(0.07
) 
 
$
(0.03
) 
 
$
0.27
  
 
$
(0.17
) 
 
$
0.19  
  

  
 

 Diluted average shares outstanding (In thousands)
 
 
319,119
  
 
 
315,208
  
 
 
300,866
  
 
 
278,881
  
 
 
273,174
  
 
 
302,397
  
 
 
274,896
  
 
 
308,491  
  

  
 

 Segment profit margins
 



 



 



 


 
 



 



 



 




 Cessna
 
 
(6.8
)% 
 
 
0.8
% 
 
 
4.3
% 
 
 
5.9
% 
 
 
(5.5
)% 
 
 
0.5
% 
 
 
(5.8
)% 
 
 
2.4%
  

 Bell
 
 
12.1
  
 
 
13.8
  
 
 
16.0
  
 
 
16.5
  
 
 
12.0
  
 
 
13.1
  
 
 
13.0
  
 
 
14.2  
  

 Textron Systems
 
 
11.9
  
 
 
10.8
  
 
 
10.2
  
 
 
(1.6
) 
 
 
12.0
  
 
 
13.1
  
 
 
10.9
  
 
 
10.4  
  

 Industrial
 
 
8.7
  
 
 
7.6
  
 
 
5.6
  
 
 
6.9
  
 
 
7.8
  
 
 
7.7
  
 
 
6.2
  
 
 
3.9  
  

 Finance
 
 
(169.2
) 
 
 
(100.0
) 
 
 
(75.0
) 
 
 
(1,933.3
) 
 
 
(76.1
) 
 
 
(126.8
) 
 
 
(86.4
) 
 
 
(211.1) 
  

  
 

 Segment profit margin
 
 
5.0
% 
 
 
7.2
% 
 
 
8.4
% 
 
 
1.1
% 
 
 
4.3
% 
 
 
5.9
% 
 
 
4.5
% 
 
 
5.9%
  

  
 

 Common stock information (d) 
 



 



 



 


 
 



 



 



 




 Price range: High
 
$
28.87
  
 
$
28.65
  
 
$
25.17
  
 
$
20.41
  
 
$
23.46
  
 
$
25.30
  
 
$
21.52
  
 
$
24.18  
  

               Low
 
$
23.50
  
 
$
20.86
  
 
$
14.66
  
 
$
16.37
  
 
$
17.96
  
 
$
15.88
  
 
$
16.02
  
 
$
19.92  
  

 Dividends declared per share
 
$
0.02
  
 
$
0.02
  
 
$
0.02
  
 
$
0.02
  
 
$
0.02
  
 
$
0.02
  
 
$
0.02
  
 
$
0.02  
  

  
 
  


(a)
The fourth quarter of 2011 includes a $41 million impairment charge to write down certain intangible assets and approximately $19 million in severance costs related
to a workforce reduction at the segment.   


(b)
The fourth quarter of 2011 includes a $186 million initial mark-to-market adjustment for remaining finance receivables in the Golf Mortgage portfolio that were
transferred to the held for sale classification in the quarter.   


(c)
Special charges include restructuring charges of $99 million in 2010, primarily related to severance and asset impairment charges. In addition, in the third quarter
of 2010, special charges include a $91 million charge to reclassify a foreign exchange loss from equity to the income statement as a result of substantially liquidating a Finance segment entity. 
 


(d)
For the fourth quarter of 2011 and the first and third quarters of 2010, the potential dilutive effect of stock options, restricted stock units and the shares that
could be issued upon the conversion of our convertible senior notes and upon the exercise of the related warrants was excluded from the computation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding as the shares would have an anti-dilutive effect on
the loss from continuing operations. 
  85 


Table of Contents
   
SCHEDULE
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 
 
















  
 

(In millions)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009  
 

  
 

 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  



 



 




 Balance at beginning of year
  
$
    20
  
 
$
    23
  
 
$
    24  
  

 Charged to costs and expenses
  
 
7
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
8  
  

 Deductions from reserves*
  
 
(9
) 
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
(9) 
  

  
 

 Balance at end of year
  
$
18
  
 
$
20
  
 
$
23  
  

  
 

 Inventory FIFO reserves
  



 



 




 Balance at beginning of year
  
$
133
  
 
$
158
  
 
$
114  
  

 Charged to costs and expenses
  
 
35
  
 
 
54
  
 
 
126  
  

 Deductions from reserves*
  
 
(34
) 
 
 
(79
) 
 
 
(82) 
  

  
 

 Balance at end of year
  
$
134
  
 
$
133
  
 
$
158  
  

  
 
  


*
Deductions primarily include amounts written off on uncollectable accounts (less recoveries), inventory disposals and currency translation adjustments.

  86 


Table of Contents
Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
 None.  Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures  Disclosure Controls and Procedures — We have carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with
the participation of our management, including our President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Act”)) as of the end of the fiscal year covered by this report. Based upon that evaluation, our CEO and CFO concluded that
our disclosure controls and procedures are effective in providing reasonable assurance that (a) the information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported
within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and (b) such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosure.  Report of Management — See page 42.  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over Financial Reporting — See page 43  Changes in Internal Controls — There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report that have
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
  87 


Table of Contents
PART III  Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  The information
appearing under “ELECTION OF DIRECTORS— Nominees for Director,” “— Directors Continuing in Office,” “—The Board of Directors— Corporate Governance,” “—The Board of Directors—
Code of Ethics,” “–Board Committees— Audit Committee,” and “SECTION 16(a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE” in the Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
April 25, 2012 is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Information regarding our executive officers is
contained in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Item 11. Executive Compensation 
The information appearing under “ELECTION OF DIRECTORS — The Board of Directors— Compensation of Directors,” “ELECTION OF
DIRECTORS — Board Committees— Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation,” “COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT,” “COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS” and “EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION” in
the Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 25, 2012 is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  The information appearing under “SECURITY OWNERSHIP” and “EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION – Equity Compensation Plan Information” in the Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on April 25, 2012 is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Item 13. Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence  The information appearing under “ELECTION OF DIRECTORS — The
Board of Directors—Director Independence” and “EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION — Transactions with Related Persons” in the Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 25, 2012 is
incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 
The information appearing under “RATIFICATION OF APPOINTMENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM — Fees to Independent
Auditors” in the Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 25, 2012 is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  88 


Table of Contents
PART IV  Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  Financial Statements and
Schedules — See Index on Page 41.   






 Exhibits    
  
 




3.1A
  
Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Textron as filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on April 29, 2010. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Textron’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 3, 2010.




3.1B
  
Certificate of Amendment of Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Textron Inc., filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on April 27, 2011. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3.1 to Textron’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 2, 2011.




3.2
  
 Amended and Restated By-Laws of Textron Inc., effective April 28, 2010 and as further amended April 27, 2011.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Textron’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 2,
2011.




4.1
  
Support Agreement dated as of May 25, 1994, between Textron Inc. and Textron Financial Corporation.




NOTE:
  
Instruments defining the rights of holders of certain issues of long-term debt of Textron and Textron Financial Corporation have not been filed as exhibits because the authorized
principal amount of any one of such issues does not exceed 10% of the total assets of Textron and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Textron agrees to furnish a copy of each such instrument to the Commission upon request.




NOTE:
  
Exhibits 10.1 through 10.19 below are management contracts or compensatory plans, contracts or agreements.




10.1A
  
Textron Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (Amended and Restated as of April 28, 2010). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99(D)(1) to Textron’s Schedule TO filed on July 1,
2010.




10.1B
  
Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Textron’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
June 30, 2007.




10.1C
  
Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Textron’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30,
2007.




10.1D
  
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Grant Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Textron’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30,
2007.




10.1E
  
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Grant Agreement with Dividend Equivalents. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Textron’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
fiscal quarter ended March 29, 2008.




10.1F
  
Form of Cash-Settled Restricted Stock Unit Grant Agreement with Dividend Equivalents. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1G to Textron’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended January 3, 2009.




10.1G
  
Form of Performance Share Unit Grant Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1H to Textron’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3,
2009.

  89 


Table of Contents









10.1H
  
Form of Performance Cash Unit Grant Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Textron’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 4,
2009.




10.2
  
Textron Inc. Short-Term Incentive Plan (As amended and restated effective January 3, 2010). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Textron’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the fiscal quarter ended April 3, 2010.




10.3A
  
Textron Inc. 1999 Long-Term Incentive Plan for Textron Employees (Amended and Restated Effective April 28, 2010). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Textron’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 3, 2010.




10.3B
  
Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Textron’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 3,
2004. (SEC File No. 001-05480)




10.3C
  
Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Textron’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 3, 2004.
(SEC File No. 001-05480)




10.4
  
Textron Spillover Savings Plan, effective January 3, 2010, including Appendix A, Defined Contribution Provisions of the Supplemental Benefits Plan for Textron Key Executives (As in
effect before January 1, 2008). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Textron’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 3, 2010.




10.5A
  
Textron Spillover Pension Plan, As Amended and Restated Effective January 3, 2010, including Appendix A (as amended and restated effective January 3, 2010), Defined Benefit
Provisions of the Supplemental Benefits Plan for Textron Key Executives (As in effect before January 1, 2007). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Textron’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 3,
2010.




10.5B
  
Amendments to the Textron Spillover Pension Plan, dated October 12, 2011.




10.6
  
Supplemental Retirement Plan for Textron Key Executives, As Amended and Restated Effective January 3, 2010, including Appendix A, Provisions of the Supplemental Retirement Plan
for Textron Key Executives (As in effect before January 1, 2008). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Textron’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 3, 2010.




10.7
  
Deferred Income Plan for Textron Executives, Effective January 3, 2010, including Appendix A, Provisions of the Deferred Income Plan for Textron Key Executives (As in effect
before January 1, 2008). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Textron’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 3, 2010.




10.8
  
Deferred Income Plan for Non-Employee Directors, As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2009, including Appendix A, Prior Plan Provisions (As in effect before
January 1, 2008). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Textron’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2009.




10.9
  
Survivor Benefit Plan for Textron Key Executives (As amended and restated effective January 3, 2010). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Textron’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 3, 2010.




10.10A
  
Severance Plan for Textron Key Executives, As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2010. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to Textron’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2010.




10.10B
  
First Amendment to the Severance Plan for Textron Key Executives, dated October 26, 2010. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10B to Textron’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2011.




10.11
  
Form of Indemnity Agreement between Textron and its executive officers. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Textron’s Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of
Shareholders on April 29, 1987. (SEC File No. 001-05480)

  90 


Table of Contents









10.12
  
Form of Indemnity Agreement between Textron and its non-employee directors (approved by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors on July 21,
2009 and entered into with all non-employee directors, effective as of August 1, 2009). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Textron’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended October 3,
2009.




10.13
  
Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between Textron and John D. Butler dated as of February 26, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Textron’s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 28, 2008.




10.14A
  
Letter Agreement between Textron and Scott C. Donnelly, dated June 26, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Textron’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
quarter ended June 28, 2008.




10.14B
  
Amendment to Letter Agreement between Textron and Scott C. Donnelly, dated December 16, 2008, together with Addendum No.1 thereto, dated December 23, 2008. Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.15B to Textron’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2009.




10.14C
  
Agreement between Textron and Scott C. Donnelly, dated May 1, 2009, related to Mr. Donnelly’s personal use of a portion of hangar space at T.F. Green Airport which is leased by
Textron. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Textron’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 4, 2009.




10.14D
  
Hangar License and Services Agreement made and entered into on April 25, 2011 to be effective as of December 5, 2010, between Textron Inc. and Mr. Donnelly’s limited liability
company. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Textron’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 2, 2011.




10.15
  
Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between Textron and Terrence O’Donnell dated as of February 26, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to
Textron’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 28, 2008.




10.16A
  
Letter Agreement between Textron and Frank Connor, dated July 27, 2009. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Textron’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
quarter ended October 3, 2009.




10.16B
  
Hangar License and Services Agreement made and entered into on April 25, 2011 to be effective as of December 5, 2010, between Textron Inc. and Mr. Connor’s limited liability
company. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Textron’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 2, 2011.




10.17
  
Letter Agreement between Textron and E. Robert Lupone, dated December 22, 2011.




10.18
  
Director Compensation. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to Textron’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007.




10.19
  
Form of Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement between Textron and its executive officers. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Textron’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the fiscal quarter ended September 27, 2008.




10.20A
  
Credit Agreement, dated as of March 23, 2011, among Textron, the Lenders listed therein, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Citibank, N.A. and Bank of America,
N.A., as Syndication Agents, and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Documentation Agents. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Textron’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
March 28, 2011.




10.20B
  
Amendment No. 1, dated as of April 13, 2011, to Credit Agreement, dated as of March 23, 2011, among Textron, the Lenders listed therein, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
Administrative Agent, Citibank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agents, and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Documentation Agents. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
Textron’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 15, 2011.

  91 


Table of Contents









10.21A
  
Master Services Agreement between Textron Inc. and Computer Sciences Corporation dated October 27, 2004. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to Textron’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2005. * (SEC File No. 001-05480)




10.21B
  
Amendment No. 4 to Master Services Agreement between Textron Inc. and Computer Sciences Corporation, dated July 1, 2007. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
Textron’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2007.




10.21C
  
Amendment No. 5 to Master Services Agreement between Textron Inc. and Computer Sciences Corporation, dated as of March 13, 2008. * Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22C to
Textron’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2011.




10.21D
  
Amendment No. 6 to Master Services Agreement between Textron Inc. and Computer Sciences Corporation, dated as of June 17, 2009. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22D to
Textron’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2011.




10.21E
  
Amendment No. 7 to Master Services Agreement between Textron Inc. and Computer Sciences Corporation, dated as of September 30, 2010. * Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22E to
Textron’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2011.




10.22A
  
Convertible Bond Hedge Transaction Confirmation, dated April 29, 2009, between Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Textron. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
Textron’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 5, 2009.




10.22B
  
Issuer Warrant Transaction Confirmation, dated April 29, 2009, between Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Textron. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Textron’s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 5, 2009.




10.22C
  
Convertible Bond Hedge Transaction Confirmation, dated April 29, 2009, between JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association and Textron. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
Textron’s Current Report on Form 8-K filedMay 5, 2009.




10.22D
  
Issuer Warrant Transaction Confirmation, dated April 29, 2009, between JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association and Textron. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to
Textron’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 5, 2009.




10.22E
  
Bond Hedge Amendment and Termination Agreement, dated October 25, 2011, with respect to each of the Convertible Bond Hedge Transaction Confirmations, dated April 29, 2009
and April 30, 2009, between Textron and Goldman, Sachs & Co. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Textron’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 25, 2011.




10.22F
  
Warrant Amendment and Termination Agreement, dated October 25, 2011, with respect to each of the Issuer Warrant Transaction Confirmations, dated April 29, 2009 and
April 30, 2009, as reformed, between Textron and Goldman, Sachs & Co. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Textron’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 25, 2011.




10.22G
  
Bond Hedge Amendment and Termination Agreement, dated October 25, 2011, to each of the Convertible Bond Hedge Transaction Confirmations, dated April 29, 2009 and
April 30, 2009, between Textron and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Textron’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 25, 2011.




10.22H
  
Warrant Amendment and Termination Agreement, dated October 25, 2011, to each of the Issuer Warrant Transaction Confirmations, dated April 29, 2009 and April 30, 2009,
as reformed, between Textron and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Textron’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 25, 2011.

  92 


Table of Contents









10.22I
  
Issuer Warrant Transaction Reformation Agreement, dated May 4, 2009, between Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Textron. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to
Textron’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 5, 2009.




10.22J
  
Issuer Warrant Transaction Reformation Agreement, dated May 4, 2009, between JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association and Textron. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10
to Textron’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 5, 2009.




10.22K
  
Amendment to Base Bond Hedge Transaction, dated December 29, 2011, between Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Textron.




10.22L
  
Amendment to Base Warrant Transaction, dated December 29, 2011, between Goldman Sachs & Co. and Textron.




10.22M
  
Amendment to Base Bond Hedge Transaction, dated December 29, 2011, between JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association and Textron.




10.22N
  
Amendment to Base Warrant Transaction, dated December 29, 2011, between JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association and Textron.




12.1
  
Computation of ratio of income to fixed charges of Textron Inc.’s Manufacturing group.




12.2
  
Computation of ratio of income to fixed charges of Textron Inc., including all majority-owned subsidiaries.




21
  
Certain subsidiaries of Textron. Other subsidiaries, which considered in the aggregate do not constitute a significant subsidiary, are omitted from such list.




23
  
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.




24
  
Power of attorney.




31.1
  
Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




31.2
  
Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




32.1
  
Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




32.2
  
Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




101
  
The following materials from Textron Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the
Consolidated Statements of Operations, (ii) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, (v) the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and
(vi) Schedule II – Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.
  


*
Confidential Treatment has been requested for portions of this document. 
  93 


Table of Contents
Signatures  Pursuant to the requirement of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Annual Report on Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on this 23rd day of February 2012.   







 
TEXTRON INC.


 
Registrant




By:
 
/s/ Frank T. Connor


 
Frank T. Connor


 
 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

  94 


Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Annual Report on Form 10-K
has been signed below on this 23rd day of February 2012 by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated:   






 Name
  
 Title




 /s/ Scott C. Donnelly
Scott C. Donnelly
  
 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
(principal executive officer)




 * Kathleen M. Bader
  
 Director




 * R. Kerry Clark
  
 Director




 * James T. Conway
  
 Director




 * Ivor J. Evans
  
 Director




 * Lawrence K. Fish
  
 Director




 * Joe T. Ford
  
 Director




 * Paul E. Gagné
  
 Director




 * Dain M. Hancock
  
 Director




 * Lord Powell of Bayswater KCMG
  
 Director




 * Lloyd G. Trotter
  
 Director




 * James L. Ziemer
  
 Director




 /s/ Frank T. Connor
Frank T. Connor
  
 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(principal financial officer)




 /s/ Richard L. Yates
Richard L. Yates
  
 Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller
(principal accounting officer)










*By:
 
/s/ Jayne M. Donegan


 
Jayne M. Donegan, Attorney-in-fact

  95 



