
10-K
1
d264873d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549   
  FORM 10-K
    
 


x
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 
OR   


¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the transition period from             to
              Commission file number 1-4694 
   
R. R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   
   






Delaware
 
36-1004130

(State or other jurisdiction ofincorporation or organization)
 
(I.R.S. EmployerIdentification No.)




111 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois
 
60606

(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(ZIP Code)
 Registrant’s telephone number—(312) 326-8000 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
 






 Title of each Class
 
 Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock (Par Value $1.25)
 
NASDAQ and Chicago Stock Exchange
    
Indicated by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes  þ    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes  ¨    No  þ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to the filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes  þ    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes  þ    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.  þ  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act:   










Large accelerated filer  þ
 
Accelerated filer  ¨
  
Non-accelerated filer  ¨
  
Smaller reporting company  ¨


 

  
(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).    Yes  ¨    No  þ 
The aggregate market value of the shares of common stock (based on the closing price of these shares on the NASDAQ Stock
Exchange—Composite Transactions) on June 30, 2011, the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, held by nonaffiliates was $3,662,762,507. 
As of February 17, 2012, 178,499,353 shares of common stock were outstanding. 
Documents Incorporated By Reference  Portions of the Registrant’s proxy statement related to its annual meeting of stockholders scheduled to be held on May 17, 2012 are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.
    
 


Table of Contents
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 












 
  
Form 10-KItem No.
  
 Name of Item
  
Page
 

 Part I
  

  

  





  
Item 1.
  
 Business
  
 
3
  


  
Item 1A.
  
 Risk Factors
  
 
9
  


  
Item 1B.
  
 Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
13
  


  
Item 2.
  
 Properties
  
 
13
  


  
Item 3.
  
 Legal Proceedings
  
 
14
  


  
Item 4.
  
 Mine Safety Disclosures
  
 
14
  


  

  
 Executive Officers of R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company
  
 
15
  






 Part II
  

  

  





  
Item 5.
  
 Market for R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases
 of Equity Securities
  
 
16
  


  
Item 6.
  
 Selected Financial Data
  
 
18
  


  
Item 7.
  
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
  
 
19
  


  
Item 7A.
  
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
  
 
53
  


  
Item 8.
  
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
54
  


  
Item 9.
  
 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure
  
 
54
  


  
Item 9A.
  
 Controls and Procedures
  
 
54
  


  
Item 9B.
  
 Other Information
  
 
57
  






 Part III
  

  

  





  
Item 10.
  
 Directors and Executive Officers of R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company and Corporate
Governance
  
 
58
  


  
Item 11.
  
 Executive Compensation
  
 
58
  


  
Item 12.
  
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters
  
 
58
  


  
Item 13.
  
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
60
  


  
Item 14.
  
 Principal Accounting Fees and Services
  
 
60
  






 Part IV
  

  

  





  
Item 15.
  
 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
  
 
61
  


  

  
 Signatures
  
 
62
  

  2 


Table of Contents
PART I 
 


ITEM 1.
BUSINESS  Company overview
 R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company (“RR Donnelley,” the “Company,” “we,”
“us,” and “our”) is a global provider of integrated communications. The Company works collaboratively with more than 60,000 customers worldwide to develop custom communications solutions that reduce costs, enhance return on
investment and ensure compliance. Drawing on a range of proprietary and commercially available digital and conventional technologies deployed across four continents, the Company employs a suite of leading Internet-based capabilities and other
resources to provide premedia, printing, logistics and business process outsourcing products and services to leading clients in virtually every private and public sector.  Business acquisitions  On November 21, 2011, the Company
acquired StratusGroup, Inc. (“Stratus”), a full service manufacturer of custom pressure sensitive label and paperboard packaging products for health and beauty, food, beverage and other segments. Stratus’ operations are located in
West Chester, Ohio and included in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment.  On September 6, 2011, the Company
acquired Genesis Packaging & Design Inc. (“Genesis”), a full service provider of custom packaging, including designing, printing, die cutting, finishing and assembling. Genesis’ operations are located in Lemont, Illinois and
included in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment.  On August 16, 2011, the Company acquired LibreDigital, Inc.
(“LibreDigital”), a leading provider of digital content distribution, e-reading software, content conversion, data analytics and business intelligence services. LibreDigital’s operations are located in Austin, Texas and included in
the U.S. Print and Related Services segment.  On August 15, 2011, the Company acquired Sequence Personal LLC
(“Sequence”), a provider of proprietary software that enables readers to select relevant content to be digitally produced as specialized publications. Sequence’s operations are included in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment.
 On June 21, 2011, the Company acquired Helium, Inc. (“Helium”), an online community offering publishers,
catalogers and other customers stock and custom content, as well as a comprehensive range of editorial solutions, in which the Company previously held an equity investment. Helium’s operations are located in Andover, Massachusetts and included
in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment.  On March 24, 2011, the Company acquired Journalism Online, LLC
(“Journalism Online”), an online provider of tools that allow consumers to purchase online subscriptions from publishers. Journalism Online’s operations are located in New York, New York and included in the U.S. Print and Related
Services segment.  On December 31, 2010, the Company acquired 8touches, an online provider of tools that allow real
estate associates, brokers, Multiple Listing Service (MLS) associations and other marketers to create customized communications materials. 8touches’ operations are located in Sealy, Texas and included in the U.S. Print and Related Services
segment.  On December 14, 2010, the Company acquired Nimblefish Technologies (“Nimblefish”), a provider of
multi-channel marketing services to leading retail, technology, telecommunications, hospitality and other customers, located in San Francisco, California. Nimblefish’s operations are included in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment.

  3 


Table of Contents
On November 24, 2010, the Company acquired Bowne & Co., Inc.
(“Bowne”), a provider of shareholder and marketing communication services located in New York, New York, with operations in North America, Latin America, Europe and Asia. Bowne’s operations are included in both the U.S. Print and
Related Services and International segments.  On June 18, 2009, the Company acquired Prospectus Central, LLC
(“Prospectus”), an e-delivery company located in Fitzgerald, Georgia. Prospectus’s operations are included in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment.  On January 2, 2009, the Company acquired PROSA, a web printing company located in Santiago, Chile. PROSA’s operations, which produce magazines, catalogs, retail inserts and soft-cover textbooks,
are included in the International segment.  Segment descriptions 
The Company operates primarily in the printing industry, with products and related service offerings designed to offer customers complete
solutions for communicating their messages to target audiences. The Company’s segments and their products and service offerings are summarized below:  U.S. Print and Related Services  The U.S. Print and Related Services
segment includes the Company’s U.S. printing operations, managed as one integrated platform, along with logistics, premedia, print management and other print related services. This segment’s products and related service offerings include
magazines, catalogs, retail inserts, books, directories, financial printing and related services, direct mail, forms, labels, office products, statement printing, premedia and logistics services. 
The U.S. Print and Related Services segment accounted for approximately 74% of the Company’s consolidated net sales in 2011.
 International 
The International segment includes the Company’s non-U.S. printing operations in Asia, Europe, Latin America and Canada. This
segment’s products and related service offerings include magazines, catalogs, retail inserts, books, directories, financial printing and related services, direct mail, forms, labels, packaging, manuals, statement printing, premedia and
logistics services. Additionally, this segment includes the Company’s business process outsourcing and Global Turnkey Solutions operations. Business process outsourcing provides transactional print and outsourcing services, statement printing,
direct mail and print management services through its operations in Europe, Asia and North America. Global Turnkey Solutions provides outsourcing capabilities, including product configuration, customized kitting and order fulfillment for technology,
medical device and other companies around the world through its operations in Europe, North America and Asia.  The
International segment accounted for approximately 26% of the Company’s consolidated net sales in 2011.  Corporate 
Corporate consists of unallocated general and administrative activities and associated expenses including, in part, executive, legal,
finance, information technology, human resources, certain facility costs and LIFO inventory provisions. In addition, certain costs and earnings of employee benefit plans, primarily components of net pension and postretirement benefits expense other
than service cost, are included in Corporate and not allocated to operating segments. In addition, Corporate manages the Company’s cash pooling structure, which enables participating international locations to draw on the Company’s
overseas cash resources to meet local liquidity needs. 
  4 


Table of Contents
Financial and other information related to these segments is included in Item 7,
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in Note 18, Segment Information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additional information related to the Company’s
International operations is included in Note 19, Geographic Area and Products and Services Information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  Competition and strategy  The print and related services industry,
in general, continues to have excess capacity and remains highly competitive. Despite some consolidation in recent years, the printing industry remains highly fragmented. Across the Company’s range of products and services, competition is based
primarily on price, in addition to quality and the ability to service the special needs of customers. Management expects that prices for the Company’s products and services will continue to be a focal point for customers in coming years.
Therefore, the Company believes it needs to continue to lower its cost structure and differentiate its products and service offerings.  Technological changes, including the electronic distribution of documents and data, online distribution and hosting of media content, advances in digital printing, print-on-demand and Internet
technologies, continue to impact the market for the Company’s products and services. The Company seeks to leverage the distinctive capabilities of its products and services to improve its customers’ communications, whether in paper form or
through electronic communications. The Company’s goal remains to help its customers succeed by delivering effective and targeted communications in the right format to the right audiences at the right time. Management believes that with the
Company’s competitive strengths, including its broad range of complementary print-related services, strong logistics capabilities, technology leadership, depth of management experience, customer relationships and economies of scale, the Company
has developed and can further develop valuable, differentiated solutions for its customers. The Company seeks to leverage its unified platform and strong customer relationships in order to serve a larger share of its customers’ print and
related services needs.  As a substitute for print, the impact of digital technologies has been felt mainly in books,
directories, forms and statement printing. Electronic communication and transaction technology has eliminated or reduced the role of many traditional paper products and has continued to accelerate electronic substitution in directory and statement
printing, in part driven by environmental concerns and cost pressures at key customers. In addition, rapid growth in the adoption of e-books is having an increasing impact on consumer print book volume, though only a limited impact on educational
and specialty books. The future impact of technology on the Company’s business is difficult to predict and could result in additional expenditures to restructure impacted operations or develop new technologies. In addition, the Company has made
targeted acquisitions and investments in the Company’s existing business to offer customers innovative services and solutions that further secure the Company’s position as a technology leader in the industry. 
The Company has implemented a number of strategic initiatives to reduce its overall cost structure and improve efficiency, including the
restructuring, reorganization and integration of operations and streamlining of administrative and support activities. Future cost reduction initiatives could include the reorganization of operations and the consolidation of facilities. Implementing
such initiatives might result in future restructuring or impairment charges, which may be substantial. Management also reviews the Company’s operations and management structure on a regular basis to balance appropriate risks and opportunities
to maximize efficiencies and to support the Company’s long-term strategic goals.  Seasonality 
Advertising and consumer spending trends affect demand in several of the end-markets served by the Company. Historically, demand for
printing of magazines, catalogs, retail inserts and books is higher in the second half of the year driven by increased advertising pages within magazines, and holiday catalog, retail insert and book volumes. This typical seasonal pattern can be
impacted by overall trends in the U.S. and world economy. The seasonal pattern in 2011 was in line with historical trends. 
  5 


Table of Contents
Raw materials  The primary raw materials the Company uses in its print businesses are paper and ink. The Company negotiates with leading suppliers to maximize its purchasing efficiencies and uses a wide variety of paper
grades, formats, ink formulations and colors. In addition, a substantial amount of paper used by the Company is supplied directly by customers. Variations in the cost and supply of certain paper grades and ink formulations used in the manufacturing
process may affect the Company’s consolidated financial results. Paper prices fluctuated during 2011, and volatility in future years is expected. Generally, customers directly absorb the impact of changing prices on customer-supplied paper.
With respect to paper purchased by the Company, the Company has historically passed most increases and decreases through to its customers. Contractual arrangements and industry practice should support the Company’s continued ability to pass on
any future paper price increases, but there is no assurance that market conditions will continue to enable the Company to successfully do so. Management believes that paper supply is consolidating, and there may be shortfalls in the future in
supplies necessary to meet the demands of the entire marketplace. Higher paper prices and tight paper supplies may have an impact on customers’ demand for printed products. Additionally, the Company has undertaken various strategic initiatives
to mitigate any foreseeable supply disruptions with respect to the Company’s ink requirements.  The Company continues to
monitor the impact of changes in the price of crude oil and other energy costs, which impacts the Company’s ink suppliers, logistics operations and manufacturing costs. Crude oil and energy prices continue to be volatile. The Company believes
its logistics operations will continue to be able to pass a substantial portion of any increases in fuel prices directly to its customers in order to offset the impact of related cost increases. The Company generally cannot pass on to customers the
impact of higher energy prices on its manufacturing costs. The Company cannot predict sudden changes in energy prices and the impact that possible future energy price increases or decreases might have upon either future operating costs or customer
demand and the related impact either will have on the Company’s consolidated annual results of operations, financial position or cash flows.  Distribution  The Company’s products are distributed to
end-users through the U.S. or foreign postal services, through retail channels, electronically or by direct shipment to customer facilities. Through its logistics operations, the Company manages the distribution of most customer products printed by
the Company in the U.S. and Canada to maximize efficiency and reduce costs for customers.  Postal costs are a significant
component of many customers’ cost structures and postal rate changes can influence the number of pieces that the Company’s customers are willing to print and mail. On January 22, 2012, the United States Postal Service
(“USPS”) increased postage rates for certain types of first-class postage. The new rates increased the cost of mailing these classes of mail by approximately 2%, which is the cap under the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act. Under
this act, it is anticipated that postage will increase annually by an amount equal to or slightly less than the Consumer Price Index. As a leading provider of print logistics and the largest mailer of standard mail in the U.S., the Company works
closely with the USPS and its customers to offer innovative products and services to minimize costs. While the Company does not directly absorb the impact of higher postal rates on its customers’ mailings, demand for products distributed
through the U.S. or foreign postal services is expected to be impacted by changes in the postal rates.  Customers 
For each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, no customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s
consolidated net sales. 
  6 


Table of Contents
Technology, Research and Development 
The Company has a research facility in Grand Island, New York that supports the development and implementation of new technologies to meet
customer needs and improve operating efficiencies. The Company’s cost for research and development activities is not material to the Company’s consolidated annual results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 
Environmental Compliance  It is the Company’s policy to conduct its global operations in accordance with all applicable laws, regulations and other requirements. While it is not possible to quantify with certainty the
potential impact of actions regarding environmental matters, particularly remediation and other compliance efforts that the Company may undertake in the future, in the opinion of management, compliance with the present environmental protection laws,
before taking into account estimated recoveries from third parties, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated annual results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 
Employees  As of
December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately 58,000 employees.  Available Information 
The Company maintains an Internet website at www.rrdonnelley.com where our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available without charge, as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
The Principles of Corporate Governance of the Company’s Board of Directors, the charters of the Audit, Human Resources and Corporate Responsibility & Governance Committees of the Board of Directors and the Company’s Principles of
Ethical Business Conduct are also available on the Investor Relations portion of www.rrdonnelley.com, and will be provided, free of charge, to any shareholder who requests a copy. References to the Company’s website address do not constitute
incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website, and the information contained on the website is not part of this document.  Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  We have made
forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of the Company. Generally, forward-looking statements include information concerning
possible or assumed future actions, events, or results of operations of the Company.  These statements may include, or be
preceded or followed by, the words “may,” “will,” “should,” “might,” “could,” “would,” “potential,” “possible,” “believe,” “expect,”
“anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “estimate,” “hope” or similar expressions. The Company claims the protection of the Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements contained in the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for all forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of
performance. The following important factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, could affect the future results of the Company and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those
expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements:   


 
•
 
 the volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, and adverse changes in the global economy; 
 


 
•
 
 successful execution and integration of acquisitions; 
  7 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 successful negotiation of future acquisitions; and the ability of the Company to integrate operations successfully and achieve enhanced earnings or
effect cost savings;   


 
•
 
 the ability to implement comprehensive plans for the integration of sales forces, cost containment, asset rationalization, systems integration and
other key strategies;   


 
•
 
 the ability to divest non-core businesses;   


 
•
 
 future growth rates in the Company’s core businesses; 
 


 
•
 
 competitive pressures in all markets in which the Company operates; 
 


 
•
 
 the Company’s ability to access unsecured debt in the capital markets and the participants’ ability to perform to our contractual lending and
insurance agreements;   


 
•
 
 changes in technology, including the electronic substitution and migration of paper based documents to digital data formats;
  


 
•
 
 factors that affect customer demand, including changes in postal rates and postal regulations, changes in the capital markets, changes in advertising
markets, customers’ budgetary constraints and changes in customers’ short-range and long-range plans;   


 
•
 
 the ability to gain customer acceptance of the Company’s new products and technologies; 
 


 
•
 
 the ability to secure and defend intellectual property rights and, when appropriate, license required technology; 
 


 
•
 
 customer expectations and financial strength;   


 
•
 
 performance issues with key suppliers;   


 
•
 
 changes in the availability or costs of key materials (such as ink, paper and fuel) or in prices received for the sale of by-products;
  


 
•
 
 changes in ratings of the Company’s debt securities; 
 


 
•
 
 the ability to generate cash flow or obtain financing to fund growth; 
 


 
•
 
 the effect of inflation, changes in currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates; 
 


 
•
 
 the effect of changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, trade, tax, environmental compliance (including the emission
of greenhouse gases and other air pollution controls), health and welfare benefits (including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as modified by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, and further healthcare reform
initiatives), price controls and other regulatory matters and the cost, which could be substantial, of complying with these laws and regulations;   


 
•
 
 contingencies related to actual or alleged environmental contamination; 
 


 
•
 
 the retention of existing, and continued attraction of additional customers and key employees; 
 


 
•
 
 the effect of a material breach of security of any of the Company’s systems; 
 


 
•
 
 the effect of labor disruptions or labor shortages;   


 
•
 
 the effect of economic and political conditions on a regional, national or international basis; 
 


 
•
 
 the effect of economic weakness and constrained advertising; 
 


 
•
 
 uncertainty about future economic conditions;   


 
•
 
 the possibility of future terrorist activities or the possibility of a future escalation of hostilities in the Middle East or elsewhere;
  


 
•
 
 the possibility of a regional or global health pandemic outbreak; 
  8 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 adverse outcomes of pending and threatened litigation; and 
 


 
•
 
 other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company’s filings with the SEC. 
Because forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those
expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Undue reliance should not be placed on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this document or the date of any document that may be incorporated by reference into this document.
 Consequently, readers of this Annual Report on Form 10-K should consider these forward-looking statements only as our current
plans, estimates and beliefs. We do not undertake and specifically decline any obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect future events or circumstances after the date
of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect any new events or any change in
conditions or circumstances.   


ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS  The
Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows can be adversely affected by various risks. These risks include, but are not limited to, the principal factors listed below and the other matters set forth in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should carefully consider all of these risks.  Risks Relating to the Businesses of the Company
 Global market and economic conditions, as well as the effects of these conditions on our customers’ businesses, have adversely
affected the Company and those effects could continue.  Global economic conditions affect our customers’
businesses and the markets they serve. Demand for advertising tends to correlate with changes in the level of economic activity in the markets our customers serve. Because a significant part of our business relies on our customers’ advertising
spending, a prolonged downturn in the global economy and an uncertain economic outlook has and could further reduce the demand for printing and related services that we provide these customers. Economic weakness and constrained advertising spending
have resulted, and may in the future result, in decreased revenue, operating margin, earnings and growth rates and difficulty in managing inventory levels and collecting accounts receivable. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the
future, reduced demand for our products and services due to economic conditions and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumers’ and businesses’ spending behavior. In addition, customer difficulties have resulted in, and could result
in, increases in bad debt write-offs and our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable. In particular, our exposure to certain industries currently experiencing financial difficulties and certain financially troubled customers could have an adverse
effect on our results of operations. We also have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, operating margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures, inventory write-downs, cost
increases for wages and materials, and increases in pension and postretirement funding requirements. Economic downturns may also result in restructuring actions and associated expenses and impairment of long-lived assets, including goodwill and
other intangibles. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Delays or reductions in our customers’ spending are expected to have an
adverse effect on demand for our products and services, and consequently our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flow and those adverse effects could be material.  Adverse credit market conditions may limit our ability to obtain future financing and the cost of any such capital may be higher than in past periods. 
Our access to future financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, our
credit ratings and our credit capacity at the time we pursue such financing. Uncertainty 
  9 


Table of Contents

and volatility in global financial markets may cause financial markets institutions to fail or may cause lenders to hoard capital and reduce lending. The failure of a financial institution that
supports our existing credit agreement would reduce the size of our committed facility unless a replacement institution were added. Our current credit ratings are below investment grade and, as a result, our borrowing costs have increased.
Additionally, we may not be able to replace or renew our existing revolving credit facility and /or rollover other existing debt on favorable terms. If adequate capital is not available to us and our internal sources or liquidity prove to be
insufficient, or if future financings require more restrictive covenants, such combination of events could adversely affect our ability to (i) acquire new businesses or enter new markets, (ii) service or refinance our existing debt,
(iii) make necessary capital investments, and (iv) make other expenditures necessary for the ongoing conduct of our business. 
Fluctuations in the costs of paper, ink, energy and other raw materials may adversely impact the Company. 
Purchases of paper, ink, energy and other raw materials represent a large portion of the Company’s costs. Increases in the costs of
these inputs may increase the Company’s costs, and the Company may not be able to pass these costs on to customers through higher prices. In addition, the Company may not be able to resell waste paper and other by-products or may be adversely
impacted by decreases in the prices for these by-products. Increases in the cost of materials may adversely impact our customers’ demand for printing and related services.  The Company may be adversely affected by a decline in the availability of raw materials.  The Company is dependent on the availability of paper, ink and other raw materials to support its operations. Unforeseen developments in these markets could result in a decrease in the supply of paper,
ink or other raw materials and could cause a decline in the Company’s revenues.  The financial condition of our customers may
deteriorate.  Many of our customers participate in highly competitive markets, and their financial condition may
deteriorate as a result. A decline in the financial condition of our customers would hinder the Company’s ability to collect amounts owed by customers. In addition, such a decline would result in lower demand for the Company’s products and
services. A lack of liquidity in the capital markets or a sustained period of unfavorable economic conditions will increase our exposure to credit risks and result in increases in bad debt write-offs and our allowance for doubtful accounts.
 The Company may be unable to improve its operating efficiency rapidly enough to meet market conditions. 
Because the markets in which the Company competes are highly competitive, the Company must continue to improve its operating efficiency in
order to maintain or improve its profitability. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to do so in the future. In addition, the need to reduce ongoing operating costs may result in significant up-front costs to reduce workforce, close
or consolidate facilities, or upgrade equipment and technology.  The Company may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of
acquired businesses and may not achieve the cost savings and increased revenues anticipated as a result of these acquisitions.  Achieving the anticipated benefits of acquisitions will depend in part upon the Company’s ability to integrate these businesses in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of companies that
have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, and the Company may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. In particular, the coordination of geographically dispersed organizations with
differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. The integration of acquired businesses may also require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily distract
management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of the Company. In 
  10 


Table of Contents

addition, the process of integrating operations may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of the Company’s businesses and the loss of key personnel
from the Company or the acquired businesses. Further, employee uncertainty and lack of focus during the integration process may disrupt the businesses of the Company or the acquired businesses. The Company’s strategy is, in part, predicated on
our ability to realize cost savings and to increase revenues through the acquisition of businesses that add to the breadth and depth of the Company’s products and services. Achieving these cost savings and revenue increases is dependent upon a
number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. In particular, the Company may not be able to realize the benefits of more comprehensive product and service offerings, anticipated integration of sales forces, asset rationalization and
systems integration.  The Company may be unable to hire and retain talented employees, including management. 
The Company’s success depends, in part, on our general ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled employees. The
loss of a significant number of the Company’s employees or the inability to attract, hire, develop, train and retain additional skilled personnel could have a serious negative effect on the Company. Various locations may encounter competition
with other manufacturers for skilled labor. Many of these competitors may be able to offer significantly greater compensation and benefits or more attractive lifestyle choices than the Company offers. In addition, many members of the Company’s
management have significant industry experience that is valuable to the Company’s competitors. The Company enters into non-solicitation and, as appropriate, non-competition agreements with its executive officers, prohibiting them contractually
from soliciting the Company’s customers and employees and from leaving and joining a competitor within a specified period. If one or more members of our senior management team leave and we cannot replace them with a suitable candidate quickly,
we could experience difficulty in managing our business properly, which could harm our business prospects and consolidated results of operations.  The trend of increasing costs to provide health care and other benefits to the Company’s employees and retirees may continue. 
The Company provides health care and other benefits to both employees and retirees. In recent years, costs for health care have increased
more rapidly than general inflation in the U.S. economy. If this trend in health care costs continues, the Company’s cost to provide such benefits could increase, adversely impacting the Company’s profitability. Changes to health care
regulations in the U.S. may also increase the Company’s cost of providing such benefits. In addition, the funded status of the Company’s pension and postretirement plans is dependent upon many factors, including returns on invested assets
and the level of certain market interest rates. Declines in the market value of the securities held by plans, as experienced in prior years, have reduced and could again in the future materially reduce the funded status of the plans. These
reductions have increased the level of expected required pension and postretirement contributions in future years and further increases could occur. Market conditions may lead to changes in the discount rate used to value the year-end benefit
obligations of the plans, which could partially mitigate or worsen the effects of the lower asset returns. If an economic crisis were to continue for an extended period of time, our costs and required cash contributions associated with pension and
postretirement plans may substantially increase in future periods.  There are risks associated with operations outside the United
States.  The Company has significant operations outside the United States. Revenues from the Company’s operations
outside the United States accounted for approximately 24% of the Company’s consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2011. As a result, the Company is subject to the risks inherent in conducting business outside the United
States, including the impact of economic and political instability of those countries in which we operate. The volatile economic environment has increased the risk of disruption and losses resulting from hyper-inflation, currency devaluation and tax
or regulatory changes in certain countries in which the Company has operations. 
  11 


Table of Contents
The Company is exposed to significant risks related to potential adverse changes in currency exchange
rates.  The Company is exposed to market risks resulting from changes in the currency exchange rates of the currencies
in the countries in which it does business. Although operating in local currencies may limit the impact of currency rate fluctuations on the operating results of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, fluctuations in such rates may affect the translation of
these results into the Company’s consolidated financial statements. To the extent revenues and expenses are not in the applicable local currency, the Company may enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. We
cannot be sure, however, that the Company’s efforts at hedging will be successful and could, in certain circumstances, lead to losses. 
A decline in expected profitability of the Company or individual reporting units of the Company could result in the impairment of assets, including
goodwill, other long-lived assets and deferred tax assets.  The Company holds material amounts of goodwill, other
long-lived assets and deferred tax assets on its balance sheet. A decline in expected profitability, particularly if there is a decline in the global economy, could call into question the recoverability of our related goodwill, other long-lived
tangible and intangible assets or deferred tax assets and require us to write down or write off these assets or, in the case of deferred tax assets, recognize a valuation allowance through a charge to income. Such an occurrence could have a
material adverse effect on our consolidated annual results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  Risks Related to Our Industry
 The highly competitive market for the Company’s products and industry consolidation may continue to create adverse pricing
pressures.  The markets for the majority of the Company’s product categories are highly fragmented and the Company
has a large number of competitors. We believe that excess capacity in the Company’s markets has caused downward pricing pressure and that this trend is likely to continue. In addition, consolidation in the markets in which the Company competes
may increase competitive pricing pressures due to competitors lowering prices as a result of synergies achieved.  The substitution of
electronic delivery for printed materials may continue adversely to affect our businesses.  Electronic delivery of
documents and data, including the online distribution and hosting of media content, offer alternatives to traditional delivery of printed documents. Consumers continue to accept electronic substitution in directory and statement printing and are
replacing traditional reading of print materials with online, hosted media content or other e-reading devices. The extent to which consumers will continue to accept electronic delivery is uncertain and it is difficult to predict future rates of
acceptance of these alternatives. Electronic delivery has negatively impacted our products, such as books, directories, forms and statement printing, and to the extent that consumers, our customers and regulators continue to accept these
alternatives, our products will be adversely affected.  Changes in the rules and regulations to which the Company is subject may
increase the Company’s costs.  The Company is subject to numerous rules and regulations, including, but not
limited to, product safety, environmental and health and welfare benefit regulations. These rules and regulations may be changed by local, state or federal governments in countries in which the Company operates. Changes in these regulations may
result in a significant increase in the Company’s costs to comply. Compliance with changes in rules and regulations could require increases to the Company’s workforce, increased cost for compensation and benefits, or investments in new or
upgraded equipment. In addition, growing concerns about climate change, including the impact of global warming, may result in new regulations with respect to greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide) and/or “cap and trade”
legislation. Compliance with this legislation could result in additional costs to the Company. 
  12 


Table of Contents
Declines in general economic conditions may adversely impact the Company’s business.
 In general, demand for our products and services are highly correlated with general economic conditions. Declines in
economic conditions in the U.S. or in other countries in which the Company operates may adversely impact the Company’s consolidated financial results. Because such declines in demand are difficult to predict, the Company or the industry may
have increased excess capacity as a result. An increase in excess capacity may result in declines in prices for the Company’s products and services. The overall business climate may also be impacted by wars or acts of terrorism. Such acts may
have sudden and unpredictable adverse impacts on demand for the Company’s products and services.  Changes in the rules and
regulations to which our customers are subject may impact demand for the Company’s products and services.  Many of
the Company’s customers are subject to rules and regulations requiring certain printed or electronic communications, governing the form of such communications, and protecting the privacy of consumers. Changes in these regulations may impact our
customers’ business practices and could reduce demand for printed products and related services. Changes in such regulations could eliminate the need for certain types of printed communications altogether or such changes may impact the quantity
or format of printed communications.  Changes in postal rates and regulations may adversely impact demand for the Company’s
products and services.  Postal costs are a significant component of many of our customers’ cost structures and
postal rate changes can influence the number of pieces and types of mailings that the Company’s customers mail. In addition, the United States Postal Service has incurred significant financial losses in recent years and may, as a result,
implement significant changes to the breadth or frequency of its mail delivery. If implemented, such changes could impact our customers’ ability or willingness to communicate by mail. Declines in print volumes mailed could have an adverse
effect on the Company’s business.  Changes in the advertising, retail and capital markets may impact the demand for printing and
related services.  Many of the end markets in which our customers compete are experiencing changes due to technological
progress and changes in consumer preferences. The Company cannot predict the impact that these changes will have on demand for the Company’s products and services. Such changes may decrease demand, increase pricing pressures, require investment
in updated equipment and technology, or cause other adverse impacts to the Company’s business. In addition, the Company must monitor changes in our customers’ markets and develop new solutions to meet customers’ needs. The development
of such solutions may be costly, and there is no assurance that these solutions will be accepted by customers.   


ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 
The Company has no unresolved written comments from the SEC staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934.   


ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES  The
Company’s corporate office is located in leased office space in Chicago, Illinois. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, the Company leases or owns 335 U.S. facilities, some of which have multiple buildings and warehouses, and these U.S.
facilities encompass approximately 39.5 million square feet. The Company leases or owns 161 international facilities encompassing approximately 9.7 million square feet in Canada, Latin America, South America, Europe, and Asia. Of our U.S.
and international facilities, approximately 31.3 million square feet of space is owned, while the remaining 17.9 million square feet of space is leased. 
  13 


Table of Contents


ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  The
Company is subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. The Company provides for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Such
accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change. The Company has been designated as a potentially responsible party in eleven active federal and state Superfund and other multiparty remediation sites. In addition to these
sites, the Company may also have the obligation to remediate nine other previously owned facilities and four other currently owned facilities. At the Superfund sites, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act provides
that the Company’s liability could be joint and several, meaning that the Company could be required to pay an amount in excess of its proportionate share of the remediation costs. The Company’s understanding of the financial strength of
other potentially responsible parties at the multiparty sites and of other liable parties at the previously owned facilities has been considered, where appropriate, in the determination of the Company’s estimated liability. The Company has
established reserves, recorded in accrued liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities, that it believes are adequate to cover its share of the potential costs of remediation at each of the multiparty sites and the previously and currently owned
facilities. While it is not possible to quantify with certainty the potential impact of actions regarding environmental matters, particularly remediation and other compliance efforts that the Company may undertake in the future, in the opinion of
management, compliance with the present environmental protection laws, before taking into account estimated recoveries from third parties, will not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated annual results of operations, financial
position or cash flows.  From time to time, the Company’s customers and others file voluntary petitions for
reorganization under United States bankruptcy laws. In such cases, certain pre-petition payments received by the Company from these parties could be considered preference items and subject to return. In addition, the Company may be party to certain
litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. Management believes that the final resolution of these preference items and litigation will not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated annual results of operations, financial
position or cash flows.   


ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
Not applicable. 
  14 


Table of Contents
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY 
 










 Name, Age and Positions with the Company
  
OfficerSince
 
  
 Business Experience During
Past Five Years

 Thomas J. Quinlan, III 49, President and Chief Executive Officer
  
 
2004
  
  
Served as RR Donnelley’s President and Chief Executive Officer since April 2007. Prior to this, served as Group President, Global Services since October 2006 and Chief
Financial Officer since April 2006. Prior to this, served as Executive Vice President, Operations since February 2004.





 Suzanne S. Bettman 47, Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Corporate Secretary & Chief Compliance Officer
  
 
2004
  
  
Served as RR Donnelley’s Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Corporate Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer since January 2007. Served previously as Senior Vice
President, General Counsel since March 2004.





 Andrew B. Coxhead 43, Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer
  
 
2007
  
  
Served as RR Donnelley’s Senior Vice President, Controller since October 2007. Prior to this, served as Vice President, Assistant Controller since September 2006. Prior to
this, from 1995 until 2006, served in various capacities with RR Donnelley in financial planning, accounting, manufacturing management, operational finance and mergers and acquisitions.





 Dan L. Knotts 47, Group President
  
 
2007
  
  
Served as RR Donnelley’s Group President since April 2007. Prior to this, served as Chief Operating Officer, Global Print Solutions since January 2007. Prior to this, from
1986 until 2007, served in various capacities with RR Donnelley, including Group Executive Vice President, Operations, Publishing and Retail Services and President, Catalog/Retail/Magazine Solutions, RR Donnelley Print Solutions.





 Daniel N. Leib 45, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
  
 
2009
  
  
Served as RR Donnelley’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 2011. Prior to this, served as Group Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice
President, Mergers and Acquisitions since August 2009 and Treasurer from June 2008 to February 2010. Prior to this, served as RR Donnelley’s Senior Vice President, Treasurer, Mergers and Acquisitions and Investor Relations since July 2007.
Prior to this, from May 2004 to 2007, served in various capacities in financial management, corporate strategy and investor relations.





 John R. Paloian 53, Chief Operating Officer
  
 
2004
  
  
Served as RR Donnelley’s Chief Operating Officer since April 2007. Served previously as Group President, Global Print Solutions since March 2004.

  15 


Table of Contents
PART II 
 


ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF SECURITIES 
RR Donnelley’s common stock is listed and traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market and the Chicago Stock Exchange. 
As of February 10, 2012, there were approximately 8,259 stockholders of record of our common stock. Quarterly closing prices of the
Company’s common stock, as reported on NASDAQ, and dividends paid per share during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, are contained in the chart below: 
 




























 
  
Dividends Paid
 
  
Closing Common Stock Prices
 

 
  
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
High
 
  
Low
 
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 First Quarter
  
$
0.26
  
  
$
0.26
  
  
$
19.39
  
  
$
17.49
  
  
$
23.19
  
  
$
19.02
  

 Second Quarter
  
 
0.26
  
  
 
0.26
  
  
 
21.34
  
  
 
18.58
  
  
 
22.60
  
  
 
16.37
  

 Third Quarter
  
 
0.26
  
  
 
0.26
  
  
 
20.44
  
  
 
13.33
  
  
 
18.05
  
  
 
14.96
  

 Fourth Quarter
  
 
0.26
  
  
 
0.26
  
  
 
16.65
  
  
 
13.27
  
  
 
18.82
  
  
 
15.76
  
 ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
 




















 Period
  
TotalNumber ofSharesPurchased
 
  
AveragePrice Paidper Share
 
  
Total Number ofShares Purchasedas Part of PubliclyAnnounced
Plansor Programs
 
  
Dollar
Valueof Shares that MayYet be Purchased Underthe Plans or Programs
 

 October 1, 2011–October 31, 2011
  
 
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
$
600,000,000
  

 November 1, 2011–November 30, 2011
  
 
9,252,810
  
  
$
17.13
  
  
 
9,252,810
  
  
$
500,000,000
  

 December 1, 2011–December 31, 2011
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
$
500,000,000
  


  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  




 Total
  
 
9,252,810
  
  
$
17.13
  
  
 
9,252,810
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  



 On May 3, 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a program that authorizes the
repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of the Company’s common stock through December 31, 2012 and terminated its existing authorization of October 29, 2008 for the repurchase of up to 10 million shares. Share repurchases under the
program may be made from time to time through a variety of methods as determined by the Company’s management.  As part of
the share repurchase program, on May 5, 2011, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement (“ASR”) with an investment bank under which the Company agreed to repurchase $500.0 million of its common stock. On
May 10, 2011, the Company paid the $500.0 million purchase price and received an initial delivery of 19.9 million shares from the investment bank. The shares delivered were subject to a 20%, or $100.0 million holdback, which resulted in
the Company receiving an additional 9.3 million shares on November 17, 2011. The additional shares received were calculated based upon the $17.13 volume weighted average price of the Company’s common stock over an averaging period,
subject to a discount agreed upon with the investment bank. The averaging period ended on November 14, 2011.  PEER PERFORMANCE TABLE
 The graph below compares five-year returns of the Company’s common stock with those of the S&P 500 Index and a
selected peer group of companies. The comparison assumes all dividends have been reinvested, and an initial investment of $100 on December 31, 2006. The returns of each company in the peer group have been weighted to reflect their market
capitalizations. 
  16 


Table of Contents
Because our services and customers are so diverse, the Company does not believe that any
single published industry index is appropriate for comparing stockholder return. Therefore, the peer group used in the performance graph combines two industry groups identified by Value Line Publishing, Inc., the publishing group (including printing
companies) and the newspaper group. The Company itself has been excluded, and its contributions to the indices cited have been subtracted out. Changes in the peer group from year to year result from companies being added to or deleted from the Value
Line publishing group or newspaper group.  Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return Among RR Donnelley, S&P 500
Index and Peer Group*    

  




























 
  
BasePeriod2006
 
  
Fiscal Years Ended December 31,
 

 Company Name / Index
  
  
2007
 
  
2008
 
  
2009
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 

 RR Donnelley
  
 
100
  
  
 
109.13
  
  
 
41.09
  
  
 
72.66
  
  
 
60.43
  
  
 
53.13
  

 Standard & Poor’s 500
  
 
100
  
  
 
105.49
  
  
 
66.46
  
  
 
84.05
  
  
 
96.71
  
  
 
98.76
  

 Peer Group
  
 
100
  
  
 
76.36
  
  
 
32.54
  
  
 
49.69
  
  
 
54.17
  
  
 
56.52
  
 Below are the specific companies included in the peer group. 
 






 *Peer Group Companies
  
 

 A.H. Belo Corp. American
Greetings Consolidated Graphics Inc.
Deluxe Corp. EW Scripps
Gannett Co. Journal Communications
Inc. McClatchy Co.
  
 McGraw-Hill Companies Media
General Meredith Corp. New York Times
Co. Scholastic Corp. Washington
Post Wiley (John) & Sons

  17 


Table of Contents


ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  (in millions, except per share data)   
























 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Net sales
  
$
10,611.0
  
 
$
10,018.9
  
  
$
9,857.4
  
 
$
11,581.6
  
 
$
11,587.1
  

 Net earnings (loss) from continuing operations attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders
  
 
(122.6
) 
 
 
221.7
  
  
 
(27.3
) 
 
 
(191.7
) 
 
 
(48.4
) 

 Net earnings (loss) from continuing operations attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders per diluted share
  
 
(0.63
) 
 
 
1.06
  
  
 
(0.13
) 
 
 
(0.91
) 
 
 
(0.22
) 

 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1.8
  
 
 
(0.5
) 

 Net earnings (loss) attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders
  
 
(122.6
) 
 
 
221.7
  
  
 
(27.3
) 
 
 
(189.9
) 
 
 
(48.9
) 

 Net earnings (loss) attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders per diluted share
  
 
(0.63
) 
 
 
1.06
  
  
 
(0.13
) 
 
 
(0.90
) 
 
 
(0.22
) 

 Total assets
  
 
8,281.7
  
 
 
9,083.2
  
  
 
8,747.6
  
 
 
9,494.3
  
 
 
12,086.7
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
3,416.8
  
 
 
3,398.6
  
  
 
2,982.5
  
 
 
3,203.3
  
 
 
3,601.9
  

 Cash dividends per common share
  
 
1.04
  
 
 
1.04
  
  
 
1.04
  
 
 
1.04
  
 
 
1.04
  
  


Reflects
results of acquired businesses from the relevant acquisition dates.  Includes the following significant items:   


 
•
 
 For 2011: Pre-tax restructuring and impairment charges of $667.8 million, $74.8 million recognition of income tax benefits due to the expiration of
U.S. federal statutes of limitations for certain years, $69.9 million pre-tax loss on the repurchases of $427.8 million of senior notes, $38.7 million pre-tax gain on pension curtailment, $15.3 million pre-tax contingent compensation related to the
Journalism Online acquisition, $9.8 million pre-tax gain on Helium investment and $2.2 million of acquisition-related expenses;   


 
•
 
 For 2010: Pre-tax restructuring and impairment charges of $157.9 million, $13.5 million of acquisition-related expenses, $8.9 million pre-tax loss on
the currency devaluation in Venezuela, including an increase in loss attributable to noncontrolling interests of $3.6 million; and a pre-tax $1.1 million write-down of affordable housing investments; 
 


 
•
 
 For 2009: Pre-tax restructuring and impairment charges of $382.7 million, $15.6 million of income tax expense due to the reorganization of entities
within the International segment, a $10.3 million pre-tax loss on the repurchases of $640.6 million of senior notes, reclassification of a pre-tax loss of $2.7 million from accumulated other comprehensive income to loss on debt extinguishment due to
the change in the hedged forecasted interest payments resulting from the repurchase of senior notes, a $2.4 million write-down of affordable housing investments and $1.6 million of acquisition-related expenses; 
 


 
•
 
 For 2008: Pre-tax restructuring and impairment charges of $1,184.7 million, a $9.9 million pre-tax loss associated with the termination of
cross-currency swaps, a tax benefit of $228.8 million related to the decline in value and reorganization of certain entities within the International segment and a tax benefit of $38.0 million from the recognition of uncertain tax positions upon
settlement of certain U.S. federal tax audits for the years 2000 – 2002; and   


 
•
 
 For 2007: Pre-tax restructuring and impairment charges of $839.0 million and a tax benefit of $9.3 million from the reduction in net deferred tax
liabilities due to a decrease in the statutory tax rate in the United Kingdom. 
  18 


Table of Contents


ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
The following discussion of RR Donnelley’s financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our
consolidated financial statements and notes to those statements included in Item 15 of Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Business  R.R.
Donnelley & Sons Company (“RR Donnelley,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our”) is a global provider of integrated communications. The Company works collaboratively with more than 60,000
customers worldwide to develop custom communications solutions that reduce costs, enhance return on investment and ensure compliance. Drawing on a range of proprietary and commercially available digital and conventional technologies deployed across
four continents, the Company employs a suite of leading Internet-based capabilities and other resources to provide premedia, printing, logistics and business process outsourcing products and services to leading clients in virtually every private and
public sector.  The Company operates primarily in the commercial print portion of the printing industry, with related products
and service offerings designed to offer customers complete solutions for communicating their messages to target audiences. The Company’s reportable segments reflect the management reporting structure of the organization and the manner in which
the chief operating decision maker regularly assesses information for decision-making purposes, including the allocation of resources. The reporting structure includes two segments: “U.S. Print and Related Services” and
“International.”  The U.S. Print and Related Services segment includes the Company’s U.S. printing operations,
managed as one integrated platform, along with logistics, premedia, print management and other print related services. This segment’s products and related service offerings include magazines, catalogs, retail inserts, books, directories,
financial printing and related services, direct mail, forms, labels, office products, statement printing, premedia and logistics services.  The International segment includes the Company’s non-U.S. printing operations in Asia, Europe, Latin America and Canada. This segment’s products and related service offerings include magazines,
catalogs, retail inserts, books, directories, financial printing and related services, direct mail, forms, labels, packaging, manuals, statement printing, premedia and logistics services. Additionally, this segment includes the Company’s
business process outsourcing and Global Turnkey Solutions operations. Business process outsourcing provides transactional print and outsourcing services, statement printing, direct mail and print management services through its operations in Europe,
Asia and North America. Global Turnkey Solutions provides outsourcing capabilities, including product configuration, customized kitting and order fulfillment for technology, medical device and other companies around the world through its operations
in Europe, North America and Asia.  The Company separately reports its net sales and related costs of sales for its products
and service offerings. The Company’s product offerings primarily consist of magazines, catalogs, retail inserts, books, directories, direct mail, financial print, forms, labels, statement printing, commercial print, office products and print
management. The Company’s service offerings primarily consist of logistics, premedia, EDGAR-related and XBRL financial services and certain business process outsourcing services. 
  19 


Table of Contents
Executive Overview  2011 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE  The changes in the Company’s income from
operations, operating margin, net earnings (loss) attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders and net earnings (loss) attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2011, from the year
ended December 31, 2010, were due to the following (in millions, except margin and per share data):   




















 
  
IncomefromOperations
 
 
OperatingMargin
 
 
Net Earnings (Loss)Attributable toRR DonnelleyCommonShareholders
 
 
Net Earnings (Loss)Attributable toRR DonnelleyCommonShareholdersperDiluted Share
 

 For the year ended December 31, 2010
  
$
555.5
  
 
 
5.5
% 
 
$
221.7
  
 
$
1.06
  

 2011 restructuring and impairment charges
  
 
(667.8
) 
 
 
(6.3
%) 
 
 
(532.8
) 
 
 
(2.75
) 

 2010 restructuring and impairment charges
  
 
157.9
  
 
 
1.6
% 
 
 
130.0
  
 
 
0.62
  

 Acquisition-related expenses
  
 
11.3
  
 
 
0.1
% 
 
 
9.8
  
 
 
0.05
  

 2011 gain on Helium investment
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9.5
  
 
 
0.05
  

 2011 loss on debt extinguishment
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(44.1
) 
 
 
(0.23
) 

 2011 gain on pension curtailment
  
 
38.7
  
 
 
0.4
% 
 
 
24.3
  
 
 
0.13
  

 2011 Journalism Online contingent compensation
  
 
(15.3
) 
 
 
(0.1
%) 
 
 
(9.7
) 
 
 
(0.05
) 

 2010 Venezuela devaluation
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4.5
  
 
 
0.02
  

 Recognition of income tax benefits
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
74.8
  
 
 
0.39
  

 Operations
  
 
(15.1
) 
 
 
(0.6
%) 
 
 
(10.6
) 
 
 
0.08
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 For the year ended December 31, 2011
  
$
65.2
  
 
 
0.6
% 
 
$
(122.6
) 
 
$
(0.63
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 2011 restructuring and impairment charges: included charges of $392.3 million and $90.7 million for
the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, respectively; $76.7 million for employee termination costs; $59.6 million of other restructuring costs, including lease termination costs and multi-employer pension plan partial withdrawal charges of
$15.1 million due to the closing of three manufacturing facilities within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment; and $48.5 million for impairment of other long-lived assets, primarily for land, buildings, machinery and equipment and leasehold
improvements associated with facility closures.  2010 restructuring and impairment charges: included $61.0 million and
$26.9 million of non-cash charges for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, respectively; charges of $35.9 million for employee termination costs; $29.5 million of other restructuring costs, of which $13.6 million related to
multi-employer pension plan partial withdrawal charges primarily attributable to two closed manufacturing facilities within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment; and $4.6 million for impairment of other long-lived assets. 
Acquisition-related expenses: included pre-tax charges of $2.2 million ($2.0 million after-tax) related to legal, accounting and
other expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011 associated with acquisitions completed or contemplated. For the year ended December 31, 2010, these pre-tax charges were $13.5 million ($11.8 million after-tax). 
2011 gain on Helium investment: included a pre-tax gain of $9.8 million as a result of the acquisition of Helium, in which the
Company previously held an equity investment. The pre-tax gain is net of the Company’s portion of the transaction costs incurred by Helium as a result of the acquisition.  2011 loss on debt extinguishment: included a pre-tax loss of $69.9 million on the repurchases of $227.8 million of the 11.25% senior notes due February 1, 2019, $100 million of the 6.125%
senior notes due January 15, 2017 and $100 million of the 5.50% senior notes due May 15, 2015. The $69.9 million pre-tax 
  20 


Table of Contents

loss also included the reclassification of a $0.5 million pre-tax loss from accumulated other comprehensive loss to loss on debt extinguishment due to the change in the hedged forecasted interest
payments resulting from the repurchase of the 5.50% senior notes.  2011 gain on pension curtailment: included a pre-tax
gain of $38.7 million related to the remeasurement of the plans’ assets and obligations that was required with the announced freeze on further benefit accruals under all of the Company’s U.S. pension plans as of December 31,
2011. 2011 Journalism Online contingent compensation: included pre-tax expense of $15.3 million related to contingent
compensation earned by the prior owners, based on achieving certain volume milestones for Journalism Online’s business following its acquisition by the Company.  2010 Venezuela devaluation: currency devaluation in Venezuela resulted in a pre-tax loss of $8.9 million ($8.1 million after-tax) and an increase in loss attributable to noncontrolling interests of
$3.6 million.  Recognition of income tax benefits: included the recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits due
to the expiration of U.S. federal statutes of limitations for certain years. See discussion in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  Operations: reflected a net decrease in volume within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, higher pension and other benefits-related expenses and continued price pressures. These decreases
were partially offset by higher volume in the International segment, higher recovery on by-products, cost savings from restructuring actions, productivity efforts and lower incentive compensation expense. Income tax expense also decreased due to the
recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits related to certain state tax matters. In addition, purchases of shares pursuant to the Company’s share repurchase program resulted in higher interest expense and fewer weighted average shares
outstanding. See further details in the review of operating results by segment that follows below.  2011 Overview 
Although net sales increased during 2011 compared to 2010, due to the acquisition of Bowne, the Company’s net sales declined by
approximately 0.6% on a pro forma basis (See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Changes in foreign exchange rates increased net sales by approximately 0.7%. The net sales decline on a pro forma basis resulted from lower overall volume
and ongoing price pressure driven by worldwide market volatility, continued economic uncertainty and the increasing impact of electronic substitution on certain products. Despite this difficult environment, the International segment, along with
certain products and services within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, achieved organic growth for the year. In particular, the Company had organic growth in Latin America and Asia, as well as in its logistics and commercial print
offerings. The largest organic net sales declines were experienced in books and directories, due mostly to electronic substitution, variable print, due to the production and distribution of materials for the U.S. Census in 2010, and financial
printing and related services, due to the 2011 decline in capital markets transactions activity.  The Company continued to
focus on productivity improvements throughout the year, and achieved significant savings from acquisition synergies, facility closures and continued cost management actions. The Company continued to make significant progress in the integration of
Bowne, which included restructuring actions to eliminate duplicate facilities and personnel throughout the affected operations. In addition, amounts earned under the Company’s 2011 employee incentive compensation plans declined, reducing
expenses by $74.5 million compared to amounts earned in 2010.  The Company’s operating cash flow for the year ended
December 31, 2011 increased by approximately $193.8 million from 2010, reflecting improvements in working capital management, including the benefits of process and systems integration efforts related to the Bowne acquisition, improved credit
and collection efforts, inventory reductions and increased standardization of vendor payment terms. The improvement to operating cash flow was also due to lower cash payments for restructuring and occurred despite a significant increase in cash
payments for incentive compensation plans related to amounts earned in 2009 and 2010. 
  21 


Table of Contents
On November 2, 2011, the Company announced a freeze on further benefit accruals under
all of its U.S. pension plans as of December 31, 2011. Beginning January 1, 2012, participants ceased earning additional benefits under the plans and no new participants will enter these plans. The plan freeze required a remeasurement
of the plans’ funded status as of November 2, 2011, which resulted in a non-cash curtailment gain of $38.7 million recognized in the fourth quarter of 2011. Also effective January 1, 2012, the Company instituted a defined contribution
matching program for most U.S. employees. This program includes a Company match equal to 40% of contributions on up to 6% of eligible compensation on a pay period basis. The cost of the Company match will be determined by the level of eligible
employee contributions made to the plan and the related expense will be recognized as incurred.  On May 3, 2011, the
Board of Directors of the Company approved a program that authorized the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of the Company’s common stock through December 31, 2012. Share repurchases under the program may be made from time to time through a
variety of methods as determined by the Company’s management. As part of the share repurchase program, on May 5, 2011, the Company entered into an ASR with an investment bank under which the Company agreed to repurchase $500.0 million
of its common stock. On May 10, 2011, the Company paid the $500.0 million purchase price and received an initial delivery of 19.9 million shares from the investment bank. The shares delivered were subject to a 20%, or $100.0 million
holdback, which resulted in the Company receiving an additional 9.3 million shares on November 17, 2011. The additional shares received were calculated based upon the $17.13 volume weighted average price of the Company’s common stock
over an averaging period, subject to a discount agreed upon with the investment bank. The averaging period ended on November 14, 2011. 
OUTLOOK  Vision and Strategy
 RR Donnelley’s vision is to improve on our existing position as a global provider of integrated communications by
providing our customers with the highest quality products and services.  The Company’s long-term strategy is focused on
maximizing long-term shareholder value by driving profitable growth, continuing its focus on productivity and maintaining a disciplined approach to capital deployment. To increase shareholder value, the Company pursues three major strategic
objectives. These objectives are summarized below, along with more specific areas of focus.   






 Strategic Objective
  
 2012 Priorities

 Profitable growth
  
 —New product development
—Leverage existing customer base to generate organic growth —Targeted mergers and acquisitions




 Productivity and cost control
  
 —Disciplined cost management —Flexible cost structure




 Cash flow and liquidity
  
 —Prudent capital investment —Disciplined approach to mergers and acquisitions
 The Company’s long-term strategy is to generate profitable growth. In order to accomplish this, the
Company will continue to make targeted capital investments to support new business and leverage its global platform. The Company is focusing its information technology efforts on projects that facilitate integration and make it easier for customers
to manage their full range of communication needs. The Company is also working to more fully integrate its sales efforts to broaden customer relationships and meet our customers’ demands. The Company’s global platform provides
differentiated solutions for its customers through its broad range of complementary print-related services, strong logistics capabilities, and its innovative leadership in both conventional and digital technologies. 
  22 


Table of Contents
Management believes productivity improvement and cost reduction are critical to the
Company’s competitiveness, while enhancing the value the Company delivers to its customers. The Company continues to implement strategic initiatives across all platforms to reduce its overall cost structure and enhance productivity, including
restructuring, consolidation, reorganization and integration of operations, and streamlining of administrative and support activities.  The Company seeks to deploy its capital using a balanced approach in order to ensure financial flexibility and provide returns to shareholders. Priorities for capital deployment, over time, include
principal and interest payments on debt obligations, dividend payments to shareholders, capital expenditures, share repurchases and targeted acquisitions. The Company believes that a strong financial condition is important to customers focused on
establishing or growing long-term relationships with a stable provider of print and related services. The Company also expects to make targeted acquisitions that extend its capabilities, drive cost savings and reduce future capital spending needs.
 The Company uses several key indicators to gauge progress toward achieving these objectives. These indicators include net
sales growth, operating margins, cash flow from operations and capital expenditures. The Company targets long-term net sales growth at or above industry levels, while achieving modest growth in operating margins. Combined with working capital
management, this growth is expected to drive increasing cash flow from operations over time. Cash flow from operations can, however, be significantly impacted by the timing of non-recurring or infrequent receipts and expenditures and by the level of
required pension plan contributions.  The Company faces many challenges and risks as a result of competing in highly
competitive global markets. Item 1A, Risk Factors, discusses many of these issues, and the Company’s strategy is primarily focused on meeting the challenges of industry-wide price competition and the advancement of technology.
 2012 Outlook  In 2012, the Company expects net sales to increase from 2011 primarily as a result of organic growth in the International segment, which will largely be offset by continuing pricing pressures, as a result
of the slow economy in the U.S. and volume declines driven by electronic substitution for certain of the Company’s products and services. The highly competitive market conditions and unused industry capacity will continue to put pricing
pressure on both transactional work and contract renewals. The Company’s plans assume that the slow and uneven recovery of the U.S. economy will continue during 2012, with significantly faster growth in developing economies and a likely
recession in Europe. The Company expects limited further improvement in consumer discretionary spending and a stable level of advertising spending by our customers. We will continue to leverage the “One RR Donnelley” platform and powerful
customer relationships in order to provide a larger share of our customers’ print and related integrated communications needs. In addition, the Company expects to continue cost control and productivity initiatives, including selected facility
consolidations across certain platforms.  On November 2, 2011, the Company announced a freeze on further benefit
accruals under all its U.S. pension plans as of December 31, 2011, which is expected to have a significant impact on operating earnings in 2012 and in future years. Concurrent with the pension freeze announcement, the Company reinstituted its
defined contribution matching program for most U.S. employees which will partially offset the decrease in projected pension costs. As a result of the adoption of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the Company will benefit from the
Employer Group Waiver Program (“EGWP”) and a decrease in post retirement benefits expense in 2012 is expected. U.S. Print
and Related Services  Net sales in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment are expected to slightly decrease in 2012
driven by increased pricing pressures and volume declines in books and directories. Lower volume is expected to result from declines in directory demand primarily due to the impact of electronic substitution and legislation changes, and a decline in
book demand driven by electronic substitution, as well as consumer spending. These decreases are expected to be partially offset by an increase in educational book volumes due to the projected state spending

  23 


Table of Contents

recovery. Net sales in magazines, catalogs and retail inserts is also expected to decline due mainly to continuing price declines on major contract renewals. These declines are expected to be
largely offset by higher logistics volumes, primarily driven by continuing growth in mail services and international mail, along with third party print logistics and modest increases in most of the Company’s other products and services.
Although there is continued uncertainty around capital markets transactions activity, a substantial recovery could result in increased net sales within financial print.  Despite price pressures and lower volume, the Company expects the U.S. Print and Related Services operating income to increase from 2011, as the result of an improved cost structure from ongoing
productivity efforts, partially offset by inflationary pressures on certain raw materials.  International 
Net sales in the International segment are expected to increase from 2011 primarily driven by anticipated volume increases in business
process outsourcing and Asia. Volume increases in business process outsourcing should include outsourced services resulting from new customers and a large proportion of pass-through materials. Higher volume in Asia is expected to result from focused
domestic offerings, global print management efforts and an increase in capital markets transactions activity, partially offset by continued volume declines from an existing customer and price reductions. 
The International segment is expected to generate operating income roughly in line with that of 2011, as the higher volume is expected to
be offset by lower prices and cost inflation.  Other  Pension and postretirement benefits expenses are expected to decrease by approximately $65.3 million in 2012, primarily reflecting the impact of the pension freeze, partially offset by the impact of lower
discount rates and further recognition in operating earnings of historical asset losses that were initially recorded in other comprehensive income. The Company’s pension and postretirement plans were underfunded by $1,074.0 million and $228.4
million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011, as reported in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets and further described in Note 11, Retirement Plans, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Governmental regulations for
measuring pension plan funded status differ from those required under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for financial statement preparation. Based on the plans’ regulatory funded status
as of January 1, 2011 and future years, required contributions in 2012 under all pension and postretirement plans are expected to be approximately $220.8 million, which is an increase of approximately $162.9 million compared to contributions
made in 2011. The Company expects that required contributions in future years will decrease from this level, but changes in market conditions may have a significant impact on the level of required funding. The defined contribution matching
contributions and the anticipated increase in healthcare costs due to inflation are expected to partially offset the forecasted decrease in pension and postretirement benefits expenses. 
Cash flow from operating activities in 2012 are forecasted to be lower as compared to 2011 due to the expected increase in pension and
postretirement plan contributions and less benefit from working capital management, partially offset by lower payments for employee incentive compensation. The Company expects capital expenditures to be approximately $200.0 million to $225.0 million
in 2012. The Company expects to maintain its quarterly dividend, which must be approved by the Company’s Board of Directors, at the current $0.26 per share level. Significant changes in market conditions or the consummation of one or more
significant acquisitions could result in increased borrowings, reductions in capital expenditures or the dividend, or other changes to the Company’s capital structure.  Significant Accounting Policies and Critical Estimates  The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported

  24 


Table of Contents

amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. The Company’s most critical accounting policies are those that are most important to the portrayal of its financial condition and results of operations, and which require the Company to make its most difficult and subjective
judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. The Company has identified the following as its most critical accounting policies and judgments. Although management believes that its estimates and
assumptions are reasonable, they are based upon information available when they are made. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.  Revenue Recognition  The Company recognizes revenue for the majority of its
products upon the transfer of title and risk of loss, which is generally upon shipment to the customer. Contracts and customer agreements generally specify F.O.B. shipping point terms. Under agreements with certain customers, custom products may be
stored by the Company for future delivery. In these situations, the Company may also receive a logistics or warehouse management fee for the services it provides. In certain of these cases, delivery and billing schedules are outlined in the customer
agreement and product revenue is recognized when manufacturing is complete, title and risk of loss transfer to the customer, and there is a reasonable assurance as to collectability. Because substantially all of the Company’s products are
customized, product returns are not significant; however, the Company accrues for the estimated amount of customer credits at the time of sale.  Revenue from services is recognized as services are performed. Within the Company’s financial print operations, which serve the global financial services end market, the Company produces highly
customized materials such as regulatory S-filings, initial public offerings and EDGAR-related and XBRL services. Revenue is recognized for these services following final delivery of the printed product or upon completion of the service performed.
Revenues related to the Company’s premedia operations, which include digital content management, photography, color services and page production, are recognized in accordance with the terms of the contract, typically upon completion of the
performed service and acceptance by the customer. With respect to the Company’s logistics operations, whose operations include the delivery of printed material, the Company recognizes revenue upon completion of the delivery of services.
 Certain revenues earned by the Company require judgment to determine if revenue should be recorded gross as a principal or
net of related costs as an agent. Billings for third-party shipping and handling costs, primarily in the Company’s logistics operations, and out-of-pocket expenses are recorded gross. In the Company’s Global Turnkey Solutions operations,
each contract is evaluated using various criteria to determine if revenue for components and other materials should be recognized on a gross or net basis. In general, these revenues are recognized on a gross basis if the Company has control over
selecting vendors and pricing, is the primary obligor in the arrangement and bears credit risk and the risk of loss for inventory in its possession. Revenue from contracts that do not meet these criteria is recognized on a net basis. Many of the
Company’s operations process materials, primarily paper, that may be supplied directly by customers or may be purchased by the Company and sold to customers. No revenue is recognized for customer-supplied paper, but revenues for
Company-supplied paper are recognized on a gross basis. As a result, the Company’s reported sales and margins may be impacted by the mix of customer-supplied paper and Company-supplied paper. 
The Company records deferred revenue in situations where amounts are invoiced but the revenue recognition criteria outlined above are not
met. Such revenue is recognized when all criteria are subsequently met.  Accounts Receivable 
The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts, which is reviewed for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its
customers to make required payments for products and services. Specific customer provisions are made when a review of significant outstanding amounts, utilizing information about 
  25 


Table of Contents

customer creditworthiness and current economic trends, indicates that collection is doubtful. In addition, provisions are made at differing rates, based upon the age of the receivable and the
Company’s historical collection experience. The Company’s estimates of the recoverability of accounts receivable could change, and additional changes to the allowance could be necessary in the future, if a major customer’s
creditworthiness deteriorates or actual defaults are higher than the Company’s historical experience.  Inventories 
The Company records inventories at the lower of cost or market value. Most of the Company’s inventories are valued under the last-in
first-out (LIFO) basis. Changes in inflation indices may cause an increase or decrease in the value of inventories accounted for under the LIFO costing method. The Company maintains inventory allowances for excess and obsolete inventories determined
in part by future demand forecasts. If there were a sudden and significant decrease in demand for its products, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of changing technology and customer requirements, the Company could
be required to increase its inventory allowances.  Goodwill and Other Long-Lived Assets 
The Company’s methodology for allocating the purchase price of acquisitions is based on established valuation techniques that reflect
the consideration of a number of factors, including valuations performed by third-party appraisers when appropriate. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the cost of an acquired entity over the fair value assigned to identifiable assets acquired
and liabilities assumed. Based on its organization structure, the Company has identified fifteen reporting units for which cash flows are determinable and to which goodwill may be allocated. Goodwill is either assigned to a specific reporting unit
or allocated between reporting units based on the relative excess fair value of each reporting unit. When the Company’s organization structure changes, new or revised reporting units may be identified, and goodwill is reallocated, if necessary,
based on relative excess fair value.  The Company performs its goodwill impairment tests annually as of October 31, or
more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. As of October 31, 2011, all reporting units had goodwill except for business process
outsourcing. In 2011, the Company recognized a total non-cash charge of $392.3 million for the impairment of goodwill in the commercial, forms and labels, Canada and Latin America reporting units. As of December 31, 2011, there was $7.4 million
of goodwill remaining in the forms and labels reporting unit related to the acquisition of Stratus, which was acquired on November 21, 2011. The commercial, Canada and Latin America reporting units had no remaining goodwill as of
December 31, 2011.  The Company adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-08 “Intangibles – Goodwill
and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment” (“ASU 2011-08”) for its October 31, 2011 annual goodwill impairment analysis. ASU 2011-08 allows the option to perform a qualitative, rather than quantitative, assessment to
determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. In performing this qualitative analysis the Company considered various factors, including the excess of prior year estimates of
fair value compared to carrying value, the effect of market or industry changes, and the reporting units’ actual results compared to projected results.  As part of the qualitative review for impairment, management analyzed potential changes in fair value of these reporting units based on each reporting unit’s operating results for the ten months
ended October 31, 2011 compared to expected results. In addition, management considered how other key assumptions, including discount rates and expected long-term growth rates, used in the 2010 impairment analysis could be impacted by changes
in market conditions and economic events. Since October 31, 2010, the market value of the Company’s stock has decreased and market yields on the Company’s debt have increased, which management considered in performing its qualitative
assessment of whether it was more likely than not that the fair values of these reporting 
  26 


Table of Contents

units were less than their carrying values. Based on this qualitative assessment, management concluded that as of October 31, 2011, it was more likely than not that the fair value of the
following three reporting units was greater than their carrying value: logistics, Asia and Global Turnkey Solutions.  For the
remaining eleven reporting units, a two-step method was used for determining goodwill impairment. In the first step (“Step One”), the Company compared the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount, including
goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeded the estimated fair value, the second step (“Step Two”) was completed to determine the amount of the impairment loss. Step Two requires the allocation of the estimated fair value
of the reporting unit to the assets, including any unrecognized intangible assets, and liabilities in a hypothetical purchase price allocation. Any remaining unallocated fair value represents the implied fair value of goodwill, which is compared to
the corresponding carrying value of goodwill to compute the goodwill impairment amount.  As part of its impairment analysis
for these eleven reporting units, the Company engaged a third-party appraisal firm to assist the Company in its determination of the estimated fair value. This determination included estimating the fair value using both the income and market
approaches. The income approach requires management to estimate a number of factors for each reporting unit, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, discount rates, and the allocation of
shared or corporate items. The market approach estimates fair value using comparable marketplace fair value data from within a comparable industry grouping. The Company weighted both the income and market approach equally to estimate the concluded
fair value of each reporting unit.  The determination of fair value in Step One and the allocation of that value to individual
assets and liabilities in Step Two required the Company to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily included, but are not limited to: the selection of appropriate peer group companies; control premiums
appropriate for acquisitions in the industries in which the Company competes; the discount rate; terminal growth rates; and forecasts of revenue, operating income, depreciation and amortization, restructuring charges and capital expenditures. The
allocation of fair value under Step Two required several analyses to determine the fair value of assets and liabilities including, among others, trade names, customer relationships, and property, plant and equipment. 
Although we believe our estimates of fair value are reasonable, actual financial results could differ from those estimates due to the
inherent uncertainty involved in making such estimates. Changes in assumptions concerning future financial results or other underlying assumptions could have a significant impact on either the fair value of the reporting units, the amount of the
goodwill impairment charge, or both. Future declines in the overall market value of the Company’s equity and debt securities may also result in a conclusion that the fair value of one or more reporting units has declined below its carrying
value.  One measure of the sensitivity of the amount of goodwill impairment charges to key assumptions is the amount by which
each reporting unit “passed” (fair value exceeds the carrying amount) or “failed” (the carrying amount exceeds fair value) Step One of the goodwill impairment test. For the seven units that passed Step One, fair values exceeded
the carrying amounts by between 18.0% and 184.0% of their respective estimated fair values. Small changes in the Company’s key assumptions would not have resulted in any additional reporting units failing Step One. For the four reporting units
that failed, the carrying amount exceeded fair value by between 23.0% and 222.0% of their respective estimated fair values. Relatively small changes in key assumptions would not have resulted in these reporting units passing Step One. 
Generally, changes in estimates of expected future cash flows would have a similar effect on the estimated fair value of the reporting
unit. That is, a 1.0% decrease in estimated annual future cash flows would decrease the estimated fair value of the reporting unit by approximately 1.0%. The estimated long-term net sales growth rate can have a significant impact on the estimated
future cash flows, and therefore, the fair value of each reporting unit. A 1.0% decrease in the long-term net sales growth rate would have resulted in no additional reporting units 
  27 


Table of Contents

failing Step One of the goodwill impairment test. Of the other key assumptions that impact the estimated fair values, most reporting units have the greatest sensitivity to changes in the
estimated discount rate. The discount rate for the reporting units in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment was estimated to be 9.5% for most reporting units as of October 31, 2011. Estimated discount rates for units in the International
segment ranged from 9.5% to 15.0%. A 1.0% increase in estimated discount rates would have resulted in no additional reporting units failing Step One. The Company believes that its estimates of future cash flows and discount rates are reasonable, but
future changes in the underlying assumptions could differ due to the inherent uncertainty in making such estimates. Additionally, further price deterioration or lower volume could have a significant impact on the fair values of the reporting units.
 The Company evaluates the recoverability of other long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and certain
identifiable intangible assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The Company performs impairment tests of indefinite-lived intangible assets on an annual basis or more
frequently in certain circumstances. Factors considered important which could trigger an impairment review include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of use of
the assets or the strategy for the overall business, a significant decrease in the market value of the assets or significant negative industry or economic trends. When the Company determines that the carrying amount of long-lived assets may not be
recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the indicators, the assets are assessed for impairment based on the estimated future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. If the
carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recorded for the excess of the asset’s carrying amount over its fair value. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company
recognized non-cash impairment charges of $90.7 million, substantially all related to acquired customer relationship intangible assets in the forms and labels reporting unit within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. In addition, the
Company recognized non-cash impairment charges of $49.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2011, related to land, buildings, machinery and equipment and leasehold improvements, primarily as a result of restructuring actions. 
Commitments and Contingencies  The Company is subject to lawsuits, investigations and other claims related to environmental, employment and other matters, as well as preference claims related to amounts received from customers and
others prior to their seeking bankruptcy protection. Periodically, the Company reviews the status of each significant matter and assesses potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable
and the related liability is estimable, the Company accrues a liability for the estimated loss. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes
available, the Company reassesses the potential liability related to pending claims and may revise its estimates.  The Company
purchases third-party insurance for workers’ compensation, automobile and general liability claims that exceed a certain level. The Company is responsible for the payment of claims below and above these insured limits, and consulting actuaries
are utilized to assist the Company in estimating the obligation associated with incurred losses, which are recorded in accrued liabilities and other non-current liabilities. Historical loss development factors for both the Company and the industry
are utilized to project the future development of incurred losses, and these amounts are adjusted based upon actual claims experience and settlement. If actual experience of claims development is significantly different from these estimates, an
adjustment in future periods may be required.  Restructuring  The Company records restructuring charges when liabilities are incurred as part of a plan approved by management with the appropriate level of authority for the elimination of duplicative functions, the
closure of facilities, or the exit of a line of business, generally in order to reduce the Company’s overall cost structure. The 
  28 


Table of Contents

restructuring liabilities might change in future periods based on several factors that could differ from original estimates and assumptions. These include, but are not limited to: contract
settlements on terms different than originally expected; ability to sublease properties based on market conditions at rates or on timelines different than originally estimated; or changes to original plans as a result of acquisitions. Such changes
might result in reversals of or additions to restructuring charges that could affect amounts reported in the Consolidated Statements of Operations of future periods.  Accounting for Income Taxes  Significant judgment is required in
determining the provision for income taxes and related accruals, deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations where
the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Additionally, the Company’s tax returns are subject to audit by various U.S. and foreign tax authorities. The Company recognizes a tax position in its financial statements when it is more likely than not
(i.e., a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that the position would be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. This recognized tax position is then measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of
being realized upon ultimate settlement. The Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 reflect these tax positions. Although management believes that its estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of uncertain tax
positions may be materially different from that which is reflected in the Company’s historical financial statements.  The
Company has recorded deferred tax assets related to future deductible items, including domestic and foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards. The Company evaluates these deferred tax assets by tax jurisdiction. The utilization of these tax assets
is limited by the amount of taxable income expected to be generated within the allowable carryforward period and other factors. Accordingly, management has provided a valuation allowance to reduce certain of these deferred tax assets when management
has concluded that, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be fully realized. If actual results differ from these estimates, or the estimates are adjusted in future periods,
adjustments to the valuation allowance might need to be recorded. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, valuation allowances of $273.2 million and $259.5 million, respectively, were recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
 Deferred U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes are not provided on the excess of the investment value for financial
reporting over the tax basis of investments in those foreign subsidiaries for which such excess is considered to be permanently reinvested in those operations. The Company has recognized deferred tax liabilities of $3.0 million as of
December 31, 2011, related to certain foreign earnings which are not considered to be permanently reinvested.  Share-Based
Compensation  The Company recognizes share-based compensation expense based on estimated fair values for all share-based
awards made to employees and directors, including stock options, restricted stock units and performance share units. The Company recognizes compensation expense for share-based awards expected to vest on a straight-line basis over the requisite
service period of the award based on their grant date fair value. The amount of expense recognized for these awards is determined by the Company’s estimates of several factors, including future forfeitures of awards, expected volatility of the
Company’s stock and the average life of options prior to expiration. See Note 16, Stock and Incentive Programs for Employees, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 
Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans  The Company records annual amounts relating to its pension and postretirement benefit plans based on calculations which include various actuarial assumptions including discount rates, expected long-term
rates of return, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. The Company reviews its actuarial 
  29 


Table of Contents

assumptions on an annual basis as of December 31 (or more frequently if a significant event requiring remeasurement occurs) and modifies the assumptions based on current rates and trends
when it is appropriate to do so. The effects of modifications are recognized immediately on the balance sheet, but are generally amortized into operating earnings over future periods, with the deferred amount recorded in accumulated other
comprehensive income. The Company believes that the assumptions utilized in recording its obligations under its plans are reasonable based on its experience, market conditions and input from its actuaries and investment advisors. The Company
determines its assumption for the discount rate to be used for purposes of computing annual service and interest costs based on an index of high-quality corporate bond yields and matched-funding yield curve analysis as of that date. The discount
rates for pension benefits at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were 4.9% and 5.5%, respectively. The discount rates for postretirement benefits at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were 4.8% and 5.2%, respectively. 
A one-percentage point decrease in the discount rates at December 31, 2011 would have increased the accumulated benefit obligation
and projected benefit obligation by the following amounts (in millions):  Pension Plans 
 








 Accumulated benefit obligation
  
$
563.5
  

 Projected benefit obligation
  
 
568.7
  
 Postretirement Plans 
 








 Accumulated benefit obligation
  
$
43.1
  
 On November 2, 2011, the Company announced a freeze on further benefit accruals under all of its
U.S. pension plans as of December 31, 2011. Beginning January 1, 2012, participants ceased earning additional benefits under the plans and no new participants will enter these plans. The plan freeze required a remeasurement of the
plans’ assets and obligations as of November 2, 2011, which resulted in a non-cash curtailment gain of $38.7 million recognized in the fourth quarter of 2011 and a reduction in its pension liability by $61.6 million. The remeasurement did
not have a material effect on other components of net periodic pension expense for the year ended December 31, 2011.  On
August 3, 2011, the Company announced the decision to convert its current prescription drug program for certain medicare-eligible retirees to a group-based Company sponsored Medicare Part D program, or the EGWP, resulting from the adoption of
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Beginning January 1, 2013, the EGWP subsidies provided to or for the benefit of this program will be used to reduce the Company’s net retiree medical and prescription drug costs until such
Company net costs are eliminated, and any of the EGWP subsidies received in excess of the amount necessary to offset such net costs will be used to reduce the included group of retirees’ premiums. The Company accounted for this change as a
plan amendment requiring remeasurement of plan assets and obligations, which resulted in the Company reducing its postretirement benefits liability by $81.5 million in the second quarter of 2011. 
The Company employs a total return investment approach for its pension and postretirement benefit plans whereby a mix of equities, fixed
income and, for certain pension plans, alternative investments is used to maximize the long-term return of pension and postretirement plan assets. The intent of this strategy is to minimize plan contributions by outperforming the growth in plan
liabilities over the long run. Risk tolerance is established through careful consideration of plan liabilities, plan funded status, and corporate financial condition. The investment portfolios contain a diversified blend of equity, fixed income and
alternative investments. Furthermore, equity investments are diversified across geography, market capitalization and investment style through investments in U.S. large-capitalization stocks, U.S. small-capitalization stocks and international
securities. Investment risk is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through annual liability measurements, periodic asset/liability studies and quarterly investment portfolio reviews. The expected long-term

  30 


Table of Contents

rate of return for plan assets is based upon many factors including expected asset allocations, historical asset returns, current and expected future market conditions and risk. In addition, the
Company considered the impact of the current interest rate environment on the expected long-term rate of return for certain asset classes, particularly fixed income. The prospective target asset allocation percentage for both the pension and
postretirement benefit plans is approximately 75.0% for equity and other securities and approximately 25.0% for fixed income. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption at December 31, 2011 was 8.5% and 7.5% for the
Company’s major U.S. and Canadian pension plans, respectively, and 7.6% for the Company’s U.S. postretirement benefit plan.  The Company also maintains several pension plans in other international locations. The expected returns on plan assets and discount rates for these plans are determined based on each plan’s
investment approach, local interest rates and plan participant profiles.  The health care cost trend rates used in valuing the
Company’s postretirement benefit obligations are established based upon actual health care cost trends and consultation with actuaries and benefit providers. At December 31, 2011, the current weighted average health care trend rate
assumption for the major U.S. postretirement plan was 7.0% for both pre-age and post-age 65 participants. The current trend rate increases to 8.0% in 2013 before decreasing to an ultimate trend rate of 6.0%. The current weighted average health care
trend rate assumption for the Canada postretirement plan was 7.0% for both pre-age and post-age 65 participants, gradually decreasing to an ultimate trend rate of 4.5%.  A one-percentage point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects (in millions): 
 








 Postretirement benefit obligation
  
$
5.2
  

 Total postretirement benefit service and interest cost components
  
 
0.5
  
 A one-percentage point decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following
effects (in millions):   








 Postretirement benefit obligation
  
$
(4.9
) 

 Total postretirement benefit service and interest cost components
  
 
(0.5
) 
 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  Other than non-cancelable operating lease commitments, the Company does not have off-balance sheet arrangements, financings, or special purpose entities. 
Financial Review  In the
financial review that follows, the Company discusses its consolidated results of operations, financial position, cash flows and certain other information. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Company’s consolidated financial
statements and related notes that begin on page F-1. 
  31 


Table of Contents
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011 AS COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
2010  The following table shows the results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, which
reflects the results of acquired businesses from the relevant acquisition dates:   




















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
$ Change
 
 
% Change
 

 
  
(in millions, except percentages)
 
 
 
 

 Net sales
  



  



 




 Products
  
$
9,375.1
  
  
$
8,956.4
  
  
$
418.7
  
 
 
4.7
% 

 Services
  
 
1,235.9
  
  
 
1,062.5
  
  
 
173.4
  
 
 
16.3
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net sales
  
 
10,611.0
  
  
 
10,018.9
  
  
 
592.1
  
 
 
5.9
% 

 Products cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization)
  
 
7,185.2
  
  
 
6,857.8
  
  
 
327.4
  
 
 
4.8
% 

 Services cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization)
  
 
906.6
  
  
 
785.1
  
  
 
121.5
  
 
 
15.5
% 

 Selling, general and administrative expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization)
  
 
1,236.3
  
  
 
1,123.4
  
  
 
112.9
  
 
 
10.0
% 

 Restructuring and impairment charges
  
 
667.8
  
  
 
157.9
  
  
 
509.9
  
 
 
322.9
% 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
549.9
  
  
 
539.2
  
  
 
10.7
  
 
 
2.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
  
 
10,545.8
  
  
 
9,463.4
  
  
 
1,082.4
  
 
 
11.4
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
$
65.2
  
  
$
555.5
  
  
$
(490.3
) 
 
 
(88.3
%) 
 Consolidated  Net sales of products for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased $418.7 million, or 4.7%, to $9,375.1 million versus the prior year. Net sales of products increased due to the acquisition of
Bowne, higher volume driven by increased business in Asia, Latin America and commercial print reporting units, changes in foreign exchange rates of $59.5 million, or 0.7%, and increases in pass-through paper sales. These increases were partially
offset by decreases in net sales primarily attributable to lower volume within the books and directories reporting unit, the production and distribution of materials for the U.S. Census in 2010, continued price pressures and a decline in capital
markets transactions activity.  Net sales from services for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased $173.4 million, or
16.3%, to $1,235.9 million versus the prior year. Net sales from services increased due to the acquisition of Bowne and higher logistics volumes. Additionally, net sales from services increased due to changes in foreign exchange rates of $8.1
million, or 0.8%.  Products cost of sales increased $327.4 million to $7,185.2 million for the year ended December 31,
2011 versus the prior year, primarily due to the acquisition of Bowne and higher materials costs, partially offset by lower incentive compensation expense, a gain on pension curtailment and a higher recovery on by-products. Products cost of sales as
a percentage of products net sales remained constant.  Services cost of sales increased $121.5 million to $906.6 million for
the year ended December 31, 2011 versus the prior year, primarily due to the acquisition of Bowne and higher logistics volume. Services cost of sales as a percentage of net sales decreased from 73.9% to 73.4%, reflecting lower incentive
compensation expense, a gain on pension curtailment and productivity improvements, partially offset by an unfavorable mix within the financial print reporting unit and an increase in costs of transportation within the logistics reporting unit.
 Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $112.9 million to $1,236.3 million, or from 11.2% to 11.7% as a
percentage of consolidated net sales, for the year ended December 31, 2011 versus the prior year, due to the acquisition of Bowne and higher pension and other benefits-related expenses, partially offset by a gain on pension curtailment. These
increases were also partially offset by cost savings from lower incentive compensation expense and restructuring activities. 
  32 


Table of Contents
For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recorded a net restructuring and
impairment provision of $667.8 million compared to $157.9 million in 2010. In 2011, these charges included non-cash pre-tax charges of $392.3 million for the impairment of goodwill for the commercial and forms and labels reporting units within the
U.S. Print and Related Services segment and the Latin America and Canada reporting units within the International segment. The goodwill impairment charge resulted from reductions in the estimated fair value of the commercial, forms and labels,
Canada and Latin America reporting units, based on lower expectations for future revenue, profitability and cash flows due to continued impacts of electronic substitution on demand for business forms and other products, as well as continued price
pressure. In addition, the Company recorded a non-cash charge of $90.7 million primarily related to the impairment of acquired customer relationship intangible assets in the forms and labels reporting unit within the U.S. Print and Related Services
segment. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company also recorded $76.7 million for workforce reductions of 2,899 employees (of whom 2,790 were terminated as of December 31, 2011) associated with actions resulting from the
reorganization of certain operations, primarily related to the closings of certain facilities and headcount reductions due to the Bowne acquisition. In addition, these charges related to the completed or announced closing of four books and
directories manufacturing facilities and one commercial manufacturing facility within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. These actions also included the reorganization of certain operations within the books and directories and magazines,
catalogs and retail inserts reporting units within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, as well as the reorganization of certain operations within the Latin America and Europe reporting units within the International segment. Additionally,
the Company incurred other restructuring charges, including lease termination and other facility closure costs of $59.6 million, of which $15.1 million related to multi-employer pension plan partial withdrawal charges primarily due to the completed
closing of three manufacturing facilities, and $48.5 million of impairment charges primarily for land, buildings, machinery and equipment and leasehold improvements associated with the facility closings. 
For the year ended December 31, 2010, these charges included non-cash pre-tax charges of $61.0 million for the impairment of
goodwill for the forms and labels reporting unit within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. The goodwill impairment charge resulted from reductions in the estimated fair value of the forms and labels reporting unit, based on lower
expectations for future revenue and cash flows due to continued impacts of electronic substitution on forms demand and increasing price pressure. In addition, the lower fair value reflects higher estimated spending on information technology and
capital equipment, in part to better position this reporting unit for increased growth in labels volume as forms demand continues to decline. Impairment charges also included $26.9 million for the impairment of acquired customer relationship
intangible assets in the Global Turnkey Solutions reporting unit within the International segment. The impairment of the customer relationship intangible asset primarily resulted from the termination of a customer contract. Additionally, for the
year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recorded $35.9 million for workforce reductions of 1,458 employees (substantially all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2011) associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of
certain operations. These actions included the reorganization of certain operations within the Financial Print reporting unit within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment due to the acquisition of Bowne. In addition, these actions included the
closing of one Latin America manufacturing facility, one business process outsourcing manufacturing facility and one Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facility within the International segment. Further, continuing charges resulting from the
closing of two Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facilities in 2009 within the International segment were recorded in 2010. These actions also included the reorganization of certain operations within the magazine, catalog and retail insert and
variable print reporting units and the closing of one forms and labels manufacturing facility within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. In addition, the Company recorded $4.6 million of impairment charges of other long-lived assets and
$29.5 million of other restructuring charges. The other restructuring costs included $13.6 million related to multi-employer pension plan partial withdrawal charges primarily attributable to two closed manufacturing facilities within the U.S. Print
and Related Services segment, as well as lease termination and other facility closure costs. 
  33 


Table of Contents
Depreciation and amortization increased $10.7 million to $549.9 million for the year ended
December 31, 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to higher amortization expense associated with customer relationship intangible assets resulting from the acquisition of Bowne, partially offset by the impact of lower capital spending in recent
years compared to historical levels. Depreciation and amortization included $112.2 million and $99.3 million of amortization of purchased intangibles related to customer relationships, patents, trade names, licenses and non-compete agreements for
the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Income from operations for the year ended December 31,
2011 was $65.2 million compared to $555.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, a decrease of 88.3%. The decrease was primarily driven by higher restructuring and impairment charges, continued price pressure and higher pension and other
benefits-related expenses, partially offset by higher volume, primarily related to the Bowne acquisition, a gain on pension curtailment, lower incentive compensation expense and benefits achieved from restructuring activities. 
Net interest expense increased by $20.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 versus the same period in 2010, primarily due
to the issuance of $400 million of 7.625% senior notes on June 21, 2010 and $600 million of 7.25% senior notes on June 1, 2011, partially offset by the repayment of $325.7 million of 4.95% senior notes that matured on May 15, 2010.
Additionally, net interest expense increased due to borrowings under the unsecured and committed revolving credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) used to finance the Company’s ASR and increased borrowing rates and commitment fees
related to the rating actions of credit rating agencies. These increases were also partially offset by interest savings due to the repurchase of debt in June and September 2011. 
Net investment and other income (expense) for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 was income of $10.6 million and expense of
$9.9 million, respectively. The year ended December 31, 2011 included a $10.0 million gain recognized on the acquisition of Helium, in which the Company previously held an equity investment. For year ended December 31, 2010, the Company
recorded an $8.9 million loss related to the devaluation of the Venezuelan currency, of which $3.6 million increased the loss attributable to noncontrolling interests as reflected below. 
Loss on debt extinguishment for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $69.9 million. The loss was due to the repurchases of $227.8
million of the 11.25% senior notes due February 1, 2019, $100 million of the 6.125% senior notes due January 15, 2017 and $100 million of the 5.50% senior notes due May 15, 2015. These senior notes were repurchased to improve the debt
maturity profile of the Company and to take advantage of the low interest rate environment.  The effective income tax rate for
the year ended December 31, 2011 was 49.0% compared to 32.8% in 2010. The tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2011 reflected recognition of $74.8 million of previously unrecognized tax benefits due to the expiration of U.S. federal
statutes of limitations for certain years. The 2010 effective tax rate reflected the release of a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets due to the forecasted increase in net earnings for certain operations within Latin America. 
Income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests was income of $1.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 and a loss of
$4.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The loss in 2010 as compared to income in 2011 primarily reflects the impact of the 2010 currency devaluation in Venezuela. 
Net loss attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $122.6 million, or $0.63 per
diluted share, compared to net earnings attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders of $221.7 million, or $1.06 per diluted share, for the year ended December 31, 2010. In addition to the factors described above, the per share results
reflect a decrease in weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 15.9 million primarily due to the purchase of shares during the year ended December 31, 2011 as a result of the accelerated share repurchase program. 
  34 


Table of Contents
U.S. Print and Related Services 
The following tables summarize net sales, income from operations and certain items impacting comparability within the U.S. Print and
Related Services segment:   












 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
        2011        

 
 
        2010        

 

 
  
(in millions, except percentages)
 

 Net sales
  
$
7,846.5
  
 
$
7,532.2
  

 Income from operations
  
 
232.9
  
 
 
638.9
  

 Operating margin
  
 
3.0
% 
 
 
8.5
% 

 Restructuring and impairment charges
  
 
505.1
  
 
 
94.0
  

 Journalism Online contingent compensation
  
 
15.3
  
 
 
—  
  
  




















 Reporting unit
  
2011Net Sales
 
  
2010Net Sales
 
  
$ Change
 
 
% Change
 

 
  
(in millions, except percentages)
 
 
 
 

 Magazines, catalogs and retail inserts
  
$
1,903.9
  
  
$
1,934.2
  
  
$
(30.3
) 
 
 
(1.6
%) 

 Books and directories
  
 
1,292.5
  
  
 
1,425.6
  
  
 
(133.1
) 
 
 
(9.3
%) 

 Variable print(1)
  
 
1,250.1
  
  
 
1,233.4
  
  
 
16.7
  
 
 
1.4
% 

 Financial print
  
 
907.6
  
  
 
556.5
  
  
 
351.1
  
 
 
63.1
% 

 Forms and labels
  
 
789.0
  
  
 
822.4
  
  
 
(33.4
) 
 
 
(4.1
%) 

 Logistics
  
 
688.9
  
  
 
598.4
  
  
 
90.5
  
 
 
15.1
% 

 Commercial(1)
  
 
639.6
  
  
 
588.0
  
  
 
51.6
  
 
 
8.8
% 

 Office products
  
 
220.7
  
  
 
212.4
  
  
 
8.3
  
 
 
3.9
% 

 Premedia
  
 
154.2
  
  
 
161.3
  
  
 
(7.1
) 
 
 
(4.4
%) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total U.S. Print and Related Services
  
$
7,846.5
  
  
$
7,532.2
  
  
$
314.3
  
 
 
4.2
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The amounts included in the above table represent net sales by reporting unit and the descriptions above
reflect the primary products or services provided by each. Included in these net sales amounts are sales of other products or services that may be produced within a reporting unit to meet customer needs and improve operating efficiency. 
 


(1)
Certain prior year amounts were restated to conform to the Company’s current reporting unit structure. 
Net sales for the U.S. Print and Related Services segment for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $7,846.5 million, an increase of
$314.3 million, or 4.2%, compared to 2010. Net sales increased due to the acquisition of Bowne, as well as higher logistics and commercial volumes. The increases not related to the Bowne acquisition were more than offset by lower volume in books and
directories, the production and distribution of materials for the U.S. Census in 2010, continued price pressures and a decline in capital markets transactions activity within financial print. An analysis of net sales by reporting unit follows:
  


 
•
 
 Magazine, catalogs and retail inserts: Sales decreased due to continued price pressures and lower volume, partially offset by higher pass-through paper
sales.   


 
•
 
 Books and directories: Sales decreased primarily as a result of lower volume in consumer books, educational books and directories, as well as lower
pass-through paper sales in directories. The decrease in the volume of consumer books was due to the increasing popularity of e-books and the liquidation of a large bookstore chain. The decrease in the volume of educational books was the result of
lower state funding for education instructional materials.   


 
•
 
 Variable print: Sales increased due to the acquisition of Bowne, higher volume due to a contract with a large retail chain and higher direct mailings
from financial services customers. These increases were partially offset by the production and distribution of materials for the U.S. Census in 2010, lower statement printing volume, reduction in pass-through postage sales and increased price
pressure. 
  35 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Financial print: Sales increased as a result of the Bowne acquisition and higher volume in compliance and investment management transactions. These
increases were partially offset by a decline in capital markets transactions activity.   


 
•
 
 Forms and labels: Sales decreased primarily due to lower forms volume and continued price pressure on both forms and labels, partially offset by
increased volume in labels.   


 
•
 
 Logistics: Sales increased primarily due to higher print logistics services volumes along with higher fuel surcharges, as well as growth in mail center
and commingling services.   


 
•
 
 Commercial: Sales increased due to higher volume from new customers, as well as an increase in pass-through sales due to growth in print management,
partially offset by increased price pressure.   


 
•
 
 Office products: Sales increased due to new business from existing customers. 
 


 
•
 
 Premedia: Sales decreased primarily due to continued price pressures and lower volume from existing customers, partially offset by higher volume from
new customers.  Income from operations decreased $406.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011,
mainly driven by higher restructuring and impairment charges, continued price pressures and lower volumes in books and directories, partially offset by the acquisition of Bowne and lower incentive compensation expense. Operating margins decreased
from 8.5% for the year ended December 31, 2010 to 3.0% for the year ended December 31, 2011, primarily due to higher restructuring and impairment charges. Operating margins also decreased due to higher pass-through paper sales in
magazines, catalogs and retail inserts, increased compliance volume in financial print and higher pass-through sales due to growth in print management.  International  The following tables summarize net sales, income from
operations and certain items impacting comparability within the International segment:   












 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
        2011        

 
 
        2010        

 

 
  
(in millions, except percentages)
 

 Net sales
  
$
2,764.5
  
 
$
2,486.7
  

 Income from operations
  
 
35.4
  
 
 
149.5
  

 Operating margin
  
 
1.3
% 
 
 
6.0
% 

 Restructuring and impairment charges
  
 
157.0
  
 
 
50.6
  
  




















 Reporting unit
  
2011Net Sales
 
  
2010Net Sales
 
  
$ Change
 
 
% Change
 

 
  
(in millions, except percentages)
 
 
 
 

 Asia
  
$
629.6
  
  
$
550.6
  
  
$
79.0
  
 
 
14.3
% 

 Business process outsourcing
  
 
574.3
  
  
 
553.4
  
  
 
20.9
  
 
 
3.8
% 

 Latin America
  
 
522.4
  
  
 
457.9
  
  
 
64.5
  
 
 
14.1
% 

 Europe
  
 
473.4
  
  
 
401.8
  
  
 
71.6
  
 
 
17.8
% 

 Global Turnkey Solutions
  
 
290.9
  
  
 
300.6
  
  
 
(9.7
) 
 
 
(3.2
%) 

 Canada
  
 
273.9
  
  
 
222.4
  
  
 
51.5
  
 
 
23.2
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total International
  
$
2,764.5
  
  
$
2,486.7
  
  
$
277.8
  
 
 
11.2
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  36 


Table of Contents
Net sales for the International segment for the year ended December 31, 2011 were
$2,764.5 million, an increase of $277.8 million, or 11.2%, compared to 2010. The net sales increase was due to the acquisition of Bowne, increased business in Asia and Latin America, changes in foreign exchange rates of $67.1 million, or 2.7%, as
well as higher pass-through paper sales. An analysis of net sales by reporting unit follows:   


 
•
 
 Asia: Sales increased due to higher domestic sales of catalogs and retail inserts, increased volume from technology manuals and packaging products and
changes in foreign exchange rates, partially offset by a decline in capital markets transactions activity and continued price pressures.   


 
•
 
 Business process outsourcing: Sales increased due to changes in foreign exchange rates and higher pass-through sales, partially offset by lower direct
mailings and expiring contracts.   


 
•
 
 Latin America: Sales increased due to increased commercial print volumes in Argentina, Chile and Mexico, higher sales of books in Brazil and Chile, as
well as changes in foreign exchange rates, partially offset by the continued decline in forms volumes in Brazil and continued price pressures.   


 
•
 
 Europe: Sales increased due to higher pass-through paper sales, changes in foreign exchange rates, increased commercial print volume and the
acquisition of Bowne, partially offset by lower prices, as well as a decrease in technology and telecommunications packaging and directories volume.   


 
•
 
 Global Turnkey Solutions: Sales decreased due to lower volume from existing customers and an expiring contract, partially offset by volume increases
from a new customer contract and other existing customers.   


 
•
 
 Canada: Sales increased due to the acquisition of Bowne and changes in foreign exchange rates, partially offset by a decline in capital markets
transactions activity and lower forms volume.  Income from operations decreased $114.1 million for the year
ended December 31 2011, primarily due to higher impairment charges and continued price pressure, partially offset by the acquisition of Bowne. Operating margins decreased from 6.0% for the year ended December 31, 2010 to 1.3% for the year
ended December 31, 2011, primarily due to higher impairment charges, increased pass-through paper sales in Europe and lower prices, partially offset by higher volume.  Corporate  The following table summarizes unallocated operating expenses
and certain items impacting comparability within the activities presented as Corporate:   












 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
        2011        

 
  
        2010        

 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Operating expenses
  
$
203.1
  
  
$
232.9
  

 Restructuring and impairment charges
  
 
5.7
  
  
 
13.3
  

 Acquisition-related expenses
  
 
2.2
  
  
 
13.5
  

 Gain on pension curtailment
  
 
38.7
  
  
 
—  
  
 Corporate operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $203.1 million, a decrease of
$29.8 million compared to 2010. The decrease was primarily driven by a gain on pension curtailment of $38.7 million, largely offset by higher pension and other benefits-related expenses. The decrease was also due to a lower bad debt provision, as
well as a decline in acquisition-related and incentive compensation expenses, partially offset by an increase in information technology costs related to recent acquisitions and higher workers’ compensation expense. 
  37 


Table of Contents
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010 AS COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
2009   




















 
 
IncomefromOperations
 
 
OperatingMargin
 
 
Net Earnings(Loss) Attributable toRR DonnelleyCommonShareholders
 
 
Net Earnings (Loss)Attributable toRR DonnelleyCommonShareholders
perDiluted Share
 

 For the year ended December 31, 2009
 
$
344.3
  
 
 
3.5
% 
 
$
(27.3
) 
 
$
(0.13
) 

 2010 restructuring and impairment charges
 
 
(157.9
) 
 
 
(1.6
%) 
 
 
(130.0
) 
 
 
(0.62
) 

 2009 restructuring and impairment charges
 
 
382.7
  
 
 
3.9
% 
 
 
334.0
  
 
 
1.63
  

 Acquisition-related expenses
 
 
(11.9
) 
 
 
(0.1
%) 
 
 
(10.8
) 
 
 
(0.06
) 

 2010 Venezuela devaluation
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4.5
) 
 
 
(0.02
) 

 2009 losses related to debt extinguishment
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
8.0
  
 
 
0.04
  

 Write-down of affordable housing investments
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
0.8
  
 
 
0.01
  

 Income tax adjustments
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
15.6
  
 
 
0.08
  

 Operations
 
 
(1.7
) 
 
 
(0.2
%) 
 
 
35.9
  
 
 
0.13
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 For the year ended December 31, 2010
 
$
555.5
  
 
 
5.5
% 
 
$
221.7
  
 
$
1.06
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 2010 restructuring and impairment charges: included $61.0 million and $26.9 million of non-cash
charges for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, respectively; charges of $35.9 million for employee termination costs; $29.5 million of other restructuring costs, of which $13.6 million related to multi-employer pension plan partial
withdrawal charges primarily attributable to two closed manufacturing facilities within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment; and $4.6 million for impairment of other long-lived assets. 
2009 restructuring and impairment charges: included $128.5 million of non-cash charges for the impairment of goodwill; charges of
$118.6 million, as discounted for future cash payments, for the termination of a significant long-term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment, of which $117.2 million, $0.8 million and
$0.6 million are reflected as other restructuring charges, impairment and employee terminations, respectively; $78.8 million for other employee termination costs, substantially all of which were associated with restructuring actions resulting from
the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities; $32.1 million of other restructuring costs, primarily lease termination costs; and $24.7 million for impairment of long-lived assets. 
Acquisition-related expenses: included pre-tax charges of $13.5 million ($11.8 million after-tax) related to legal, accounting and
other expenses for the year ended December 31, 2010 associated with acquisitions completed or contemplated. For the year ended December 31, 2009, these pre-tax charges were $1.6 million ($1.0 million after-tax). 
2010 Venezuela devaluation: currency devaluation in Venezuela resulted in a pre-tax loss of $8.9 million ($8.1 million after-tax)
and an increase in loss attributable to noncontrolling interests of $3.6 million.  2009 losses related to debt
extinguishment: included a $10.3 million pre-tax loss on the repurchases of $466.4 million of the 5.625% senior notes due January 15, 2012 and $174.2 million of the 4.95% senior notes due May 15, 2010, as well as the reclassification
of a pre-tax loss of $2.7 million from accumulated other comprehensive income to loss on debt extinguishment due to the change in the hedged forecasted interest payments resulting from the repurchase of the 4.95% senior notes. 
Write-down of affordable housing investments: Investment and other expense included a $1.1 million ($0.7 million after-tax) and
$2.4 million ($1.5 million after tax) write-down of the Company’s affordable housing investments in 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  38 


Table of Contents
Income tax adjustments: included $15.6 million of income tax expense in 2009 due to
the reorganization of entities within the International segment.  Operations: reflected higher net sales in Asia,
logistics, variable print and financial print, cost savings from restructuring actions and productivity efforts, higher pricing on by-products recoveries and reduced depreciation and amortization and material costs, which were more than offset by
price pressures, higher incentive compensation expense, LIFO inventory provisions and pension and postretirement expense. In addition, a lower effective tax rate due to the release of a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets and lower interest
expense due to effect of the interest rate swaps attributed to the increase in net earnings from operations. See further details in the review of operating results by segment that follows below. 
The following table shows the results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, which reflects the results of
acquired businesses from the relevant acquisition dates:   




















 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
$ Change
 
 
% Change
 

 
  
(in millions, except percentages)
 
 
 
 

 Net sales
  



  



 




 Products
  
$
8,956.4
  
  
$
8,925.4
  
  
$
31.0
  
 
 
0.3
% 

 Services
  
 
1,062.5
  
  
 
932.0
  
  
 
130.5
  
 
 
14.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net sales
  
 
10,018.9
  
  
 
9,857.4
  
  
 
161.5
  
 
 
1.6
% 

 Products cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization)
  
 
6,857.8
  
  
 
6,789.8
  
  
 
68.0
  
 
 
1.0
% 

 Services cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization)
  
 
785.1
  
  
 
673.1
  
  
 
112.0
  
 
 
16.6
% 

 Selling, general and administrative expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization)
  
 
1,123.4
  
  
 
1,088.5
  
  
 
34.9
  
 
 
3.2
% 

 Restructuring and impairment charges
  
 
157.9
  
  
 
382.7
  
  
 
(224.8
) 
 
 
(58.7
%) 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
539.2
  
  
 
579.0
  
  
 
(39.8
) 
 
 
(6.9
%) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
  
 
9,463.4
  
  
 
9,513.1
  
  
 
(49.7
) 
 
 
(0.5
%) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
$
555.5
  
  
$
344.3
  
  
$
211.2
  
 
 
(61.3
%) 
 Consolidated  Net sales of products for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $31.0 million, or 0.3%, to $8,956.4 million versus the prior year. Net sales of products increased due to the increased sales from
the production of mailings for the U.S. Census and higher volume in Asia. In addition, net sales increased due to the acquisition of Bowne and changes in foreign exchange rates of $8.5 million, or 0.1%. These increases were partially offset by
decreases primarily attributable to continued price pressure and reductions in pass-through paper sales in magazines, catalogs and retail inserts and books and directories.  Net sales from services for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $130.5 million, or 14.0%, to $1,062.5 million versus the prior year. Net sales from services increased due to higher logistics
volumes driven in part by growth in mail center and commingling services. In addition, net sales increased due to the acquisition of Bowne.  Products cost of sales increased $68.0 million to $6,857.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 versus the prior year, primarily due to the acquisition of Bowne, volume increases, higher LIFO
inventory provisions and higher incentive compensation expense, partially offset by higher pricing on by-products recoveries and lower material costs. Products cost of sales as a percentage of products net sales increased from 76.1% to 76.6%,
reflecting the continued price pressures on net sales, higher LIFO inventory provisions and higher incentive compensation expense as a result of the Company achieving certain targets, partially offset by the benefits of continued productivity
efforts. 
  39 


Table of Contents
Services cost of sales increased $112.0 million to $785.1 million for the year ended
December 31, 2010 versus the prior year, primarily due to logistics volume increases, higher incentive compensation expense and the acquisition of Bowne. Services cost of sales as a percentage of services net sales increased from 72.2% to
73.9%, reflecting the continued price pressures on net sales and higher incentive compensation expense.  Selling, general and
administrative expenses increased $34.9 million to $1,123.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 versus the prior year due to higher pension and postretirement expenses, the acquisition of Bowne and higher incentive compensation
expense, partially offset by benefits achieved from restructuring activities. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated net sales increased from 11.0% to 11.2%, reflecting the acquisition of Bowne and higher
incentive compensation expense.  For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recorded a net restructuring and
impairment provision of $157.9 million compared to $382.7 million in 2009. In 2010, these charges included non-cash pre-tax charges of $61.0 million for the impairment of goodwill for the forms and labels reporting unit within the U.S. Print and
Related Services segment. The goodwill impairment charge resulted from reductions in the estimated fair value of the forms and labels reporting unit, based on lower expectations for future revenue and cash flows due to continued impacts of
electronic substitution on forms demand and increasing price pressure. In addition, the lower fair value reflects higher estimated spending on information technology and capital equipment, in part to better position this reporting unit for increased
growth in labels volume as forms demand continues to decline. Impairment charges also included $26.9 million for the impairment of acquired customer relationship intangible assets in the Global Turnkey Solutions reporting unit within the
International segment. The impairment of the customer relationship intangible asset primarily resulted from the termination of a customer contract. Additionally, for the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recorded $35.9 million for
workforce reductions of 1,458 employees (substantially all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2011) associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations. These actions included the reorganization of certain
operations within the Financial Print reporting unit within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment due to the acquisition of Bowne. In addition, these actions included the closing of one Latin America manufacturing facility, one business
process outsourcing manufacturing facility and one Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facility within the International segment. Further, continuing charges resulting from the closing of two Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facilities in
2009 within the International segment were recorded in 2010. These actions also included the reorganization of certain operations within the magazine, catalog and retail insert and variable print reporting units and the closing of one forms and
labels manufacturing facility within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. In addition, the Company recorded $4.6 million of impairment charges of other long-lived assets and $29.5 million of other restructuring charges. The other
restructuring costs included $13.6 million related to multi-employer pension plan partial withdrawal charges primarily attributable to two closed manufacturing facilities within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, as well as lease
termination and other facility closure costs.  For the year ended December 31 2009, these charges included a non-cash
pre-tax charge of $128.5 million for the impairment of goodwill and $118.6 million, discounted for future cash payments, for the termination of a significant long-term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the
International segment, which allowed the Company to withdraw from certain unprofitable operations in this area. In addition, these charges included $78.8 million for workforce reductions of 4,043 employees (all of whom were terminated as of
December 31, 2010) associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations. These actions also included the closings of two catalog, magazine and retail insert manufacturing facilities, two book manufacturing facilities
and one premedia facility within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment and the closing of one Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facility, one business process outsourcing facility, one Latin America manufacturing facility and one European
manufacturing facility within the International segment. Additionally, the Company recorded $24.7 million of impairment charges for other long-lived assets and $32.1 million of other restructuring costs, including lease termination and other
facility closure costs.  Depreciation and amortization decreased $39.8 million to $539.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to a declining trend in capital expenditures over recent years. Depreciation 
  40 


Table of Contents

and amortization included $99.3 million and $99.1 million of amortization of purchased intangibles related to customer relationships, patents, trade names, licenses and non-compete agreements for
the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Income from operations for the year ended December 31,
2010 was $555.5 million compared to $344.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of 61.3%. The increase was primarily driven by the lower restructuring and impairment charges in 2010, procurement savings and benefits
achieved from restructuring activities, partially offset by cost inflation, price pressures, higher LIFO inventory provisions and higher incentive compensation expense.  Net interest expense decreased by $12.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 versus the same period in 2009, primarily due to lower average outstanding borrowings and the effect of the
interest rate swaps. In addition, 2009 was impacted by the accelerated amortization of debt issuance costs and unamortized discounts related to the repurchase of $640.6 million of senior notes. 
Net investment and other income (expense) for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was $9.9 million and $3.6 million,
respectively. In 2010, the Company recorded an $8.9 million loss related to the devaluation of the Venezuelan currency, of which $3.6 million increased the loss attributable to noncontrolling interests. 
The Company recorded a loss on debt extinguishment of $13.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. There was no loss on debt
extinguishment for the year ended December 31, 2010. The 2009 loss was due to the repurchases of $640.6 million of the senior notes maturing in 2012 and 2010. As a result of the repurchase of the senior notes due May 15, 2010, the Company
reclassified a loss of $2.7 million from accumulated other comprehensive income to loss on debt extinguishment in 2009 due to changes in the hedged forecasted interest payments. 
The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 was 32.8% compared to 123.0% in 2009. The lower effective tax
rate in 2010 reflects the release of a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets due to the forecasted increase in net earnings for certain operations within the Latin America reporting unit. The higher rate in 2009 reflected a larger impact from
the non-deductible, non-cash goodwill impairment charges and the partially deductible charges, discounted for future cash payments, of $118.6 million for the termination of a significant long-term customer contract in the business process
outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment.  Income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests was a
loss of $4.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and income of $5.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The loss in 2010 as compared to income in 2009 primarily reflects the impact of the currency devaluation in
Venezuela.  Net earnings (loss) from operations attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders for the year ended
December 31, 2010 was $221.7 million, or $1.06 per diluted share, compared to a loss of $27.3 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, for the year ended December 31, 2009. In addition to the factors described above, the per share results
reflect an increase in weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 4.5 million primarily resulting from the Company’s net loss in 2009 causing all outstanding options and unvested share awards to be anti-dilutive, as well as increases
in the average stock price and the issuance of shares related to the vesting of restricted stock units and stock options. 
  41 


Table of Contents
U.S. Print and Related Services 
The following tables summarize net sales, income from operations and certain items impacting comparability within the U.S. Print and
Related Services segment:   












 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
      2010      
 
 
      2009      
 

 
  
(in millions, except percentages)
 

 Net sales
  
$
7,532.2
  
 
$
7,437.0
  

 Income from operations
  
 
638.9
  
 
 
489.2
  

 Operating margin
  
 
8.5
% 
 
 
6.6
% 

 Restructuring and impairment charges
  
 
94.0
  
 
 
163.8
  
  




















 Reporting unit
  
2010Net Sales
 
  
2009Net Sales
 
  
$ Change
 
 
% Change
 

 
  
(in millions, except percentages)
 
 
 
 

 Magazines, catalogs and retail inserts
  
$
1,934.2
  
  
$
2,050.4
  
  
$
(116.2
) 
 
 
(5.7
%) 

 Books and directories
  
 
1,425.6
  
  
 
1,462.0
  
  
 
(36.4
) 
 
 
(2.5
%) 

 Variable print(1)
  
 
1,233.4
  
  
 
1,174.8
  
  
 
58.6
  
 
 
5.0
% 

 Forms and labels
  
 
822.4
  
  
 
829.5
  
  
 
(7.1
) 
 
 
(0.9
%) 

 Commercial(1)
  
 
588.0
  
  
 
576.6
  
  
 
11.4
  
 
 
2.0
% 

 Logistics
  
 
598.4
  
  
 
495.1
  
  
 
103.3
  
 
 
20.9
% 

 Financial print
  
 
556.5
  
  
 
471.5
  
  
 
85.0
  
 
 
18.0
% 

 Office products
  
 
212.4
  
  
 
228.7
  
  
 
(16.3
) 
 
 
(7.1
%) 

 Premedia
  
 
161.3
  
  
 
148.4
  
  
 
12.9
  
 
 
8.7
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total U.S. Print and Related Services
  
$
7,532.2
  
  
$
7,437.0
  
  
$
95.2
  
 
 
1.3
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The amounts included in the above table represent net sales by reporting unit and the descriptions above
reflect the primary products or services provided by each. Included in these net sales amounts are sales of other products or services that may be produced within a reporting unit to meet customer needs and improve operating efficiency. 
   


(1)
Certain prior year amounts were restated to conform to the Company’s current reporting unit structure. 
Net sales for the U.S. Print and Related Services segment for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $7,532.2 million, an increase of
$95.2 million, or 1.3%, compared to 2009. Net sales increased due to higher logistics volumes, increased sales from the production of mailings for the U.S. Census and the acquisition of Bowne. These increases were partially offset by reductions in
pass-through paper sales across the magazines, catalogs and retail inserts and books and directories reporting units and price declines across most reporting units. An analysis by reporting unit follows: 
 


 
•
 
 Magazine, catalogs and retail inserts: Sales decreased due to reductions in pass-through paper sales, lower prices and lower volume on contract
renewals.   


 
•
 
 Books and directories: Sales decreased primarily as a result of reductions in pass-through paper sales, lower prices and lower sales in directories,
partially offset by higher volume in educational books and related materials, as well as consumer books.   


 
•
 
 Variable print: Sales increased due to the production of mailings for the U.S. Census and higher direct mailings from financial services and retail
customers, partially offset by reduced print fulfillment and distribution volume from healthcare customers.   


 
•
 
 Forms and labels: Sales decreased due to continued price pressure on both forms and labels and lower forms volume, partially offset by increased sales
of labels. 
  42 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Commercial: Sales increased due to higher volume from financial services and retail customers, partially offset by increased price pressure.
  


 
•
 
 Logistics: Sales increased primarily due to higher print and other logistics services volumes along with growth in mail center and commingling
services, as well as higher fuel surcharges.   


 
•
 
 Financial print: Sales increased due to increased capital market transactions and the acquisition of Bowne, partially offset by lower investment
management and compliance volume.   


 
•
 
 Office products: Sales decreased due to lower volume from large existing customers, customer losses and unfavorable pricing.
  


 
•
 
 Premedia: Sales increased due to volume from new customers and significantly higher volume at existing customers, partially offset by lower pricing.
 U.S. Print and Related Services segment income from operations increased $149.7 million mainly driven by
lower restructuring and impairment charges, cost reductions resulting from restructuring actions and productivity initiatives, higher pricing on by-products recoveries and higher volumes, partially offset by the price declines discussed above.
Operating margins in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment increased from 6.6% for the year ended December 31, 2009 to 8.5% for the year ended December 31, 2010 due to lower restructuring and impairment charges, the cost reductions
discussed above and higher pricing on by-products sales, which more than offset the impact of lower prices and higher incentive compensation expense.  International  The following tables summarize net sales, income from
operations and certain items impacting comparability within the International segment:   












 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
      2010      
 
 
      2009      
 

 
  
(in millions, except percentages)
 

 Net sales
  
$
2,486.7
  
 
$
2,420.4
  

 Income (loss) from operations
  
 
149.5
  
 
 
(36.0
) 

 Operating margin
  
 
6.0
% 
 
 
(1.5
%) 

 Restructuring and impairment charges
  
 
50.6
  
 
 
210.7
  
  




















 Reporting unit
  
2010Net Sales
 
  
2009Net Sales
 
  
$ Change
 
 
% Change
 

 
  
(in millions, except percentages)
 
 
 
 

 Business process outsourcing
  
$
553.4
  
  
$
603.3
  
  
$
(49.9
) 
 
 
(8.3
%) 

 Asia
  
 
550.6
  
  
 
436.2
  
  
 
114.4
  
 
 
26.2
% 

 Latin America
  
 
457.9
  
  
 
467.9
  
  
 
(10.0
) 
 
 
(2.1
%) 

 Europe
  
 
401.8
  
  
 
388.7
  
  
 
13.1
  
 
 
3.4
% 

 Global Turnkey Solutions
  
 
300.6
  
  
 
321.6
  
  
 
(21.0
) 
 
 
(6.5
%) 

 Canada
  
 
222.4
  
  
 
202.7
  
  
 
19.7
  
 
 
9.7
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total International
  
$
2,486.7
  
  
$
2,420.4
  
  
$
66.3
  
 
 
2.7
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Net sales for the International segment for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $2,486.7 million,
an increase of $66.3 million, or 2.7%, compared to 2009. Net sales increased due to the acquisition of Bowne and changes in foreign exchange rates of $7.4 million, or 0.3%. An analysis by reporting unit follows: 
 


 
•
 
 Business process outsourcing: Sales decreased due to the lower volume resulting from the termination of a significant customer contract in 2009,
partially offset by higher volume from a new customer contract. 
  43 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Asia: Sales increased due to higher volume of books exported to the U.S. and Europe, higher local sales of catalogs and retail inserts and increased
volume from technology manuals and packaging products, partially offset by lower prices on print packaging products.   


 
•
 
 Latin America: Sales decreased due to the impact of the currency devaluation in Venezuela, disruptions caused by the Chilean earthquake and continued
decreases in demand for business forms, particularly in Brazil, partially offset by changes in foreign exchange rates.   


 
•
 
 Europe: Sales increased due to increased volume in technology manuals and other packaging products and changes in foreign exchange rates, partially
offset by declining prices.   


 
•
 
 Global Turnkey Solutions: Sales decreased due to unfavorable product mix from existing customers, partially offset by volume from new customers and
changes in foreign exchange rates.   


 
•
 
 Canada: Sales increased due to changes in foreign exchange rates and the acquisition of Bowne, partially offset by lower statement printing volume.
 Income (loss) from operations increased $185.5 million primarily due to lower restructuring and impairment
charges and increased business in Asia, partially offset by lower prices. Operating margins increased from a loss of 1.5% for the year ended December 31, 2009 to 6.0% for the year ended December 31, 2010, of which 6.7 percentage points
were due to lower restructuring and impairment charges. The remaining increase resulted from cost reductions driven by restructuring actions and productivity improvements and the termination of the significant customer contract in 2009, which more
than offset lower prices, cost inflation and higher incentive compensation expense.  Corporate 
The following table summarizes unallocated operating expenses and certain items impacting comparability within the activities presented as
Corporate:   












 
  
Years EndedDecember 
31,
 

 
  
    2010    
 
  
    2009    
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Operating expenses
  
$
232.9
  
  
$
108.9
  

 Restructuring and impairment charges
  
 
13.3
  
  
 
8.2
  

 Acquisition-related expenses
  
 
13.5
  
  
 
1.6
  
 Corporate operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $232.9 million, an increase
of $124.0 million compared to 2009. The increase was driven by higher pension and postretirement benefit expense of $45.2 million, LIFO inventory provisions of $10.2 million in 2010 compared to a benefit of $17.6 million in 2009, higher
acquisition-related expenses of $11.9 million and higher restructuring and impairment charges of $5.1 million related to the integration of Bowne, partially offset by cost reductions from productivity initiatives and restructuring actions.
 RESTRUCTURING AND IMPAIRMENT CHARGES  During 2011, the Company recorded net restructuring and impairment charges of $667.8 million. These charges included $392.3 million for the impairment of goodwill within the commercial and forms and
labels reporting units, reflected in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment and the Canada and Latin America reporting units in the International segment. In addition, these charges included $90.7 million primarily related to impairment of the
acquired customer relationship intangible assets in the forms and labels reporting unit within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, as well as $48.5 million of impairment charges, primarily for land, buildings, machinery and equipment and
leasehold improvements associated with facility closings. These charges also included $76.7 million for workforce reductions of 2,899 employees (of whom 2,790 were terminated as of 
  44 


Table of Contents

December 31, 2011) associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations. These charges are primarily related to the closings of certain facilities and headcount
reductions due to the Bowne acquisition. In addition, these charges related to the completed or announced closing of four books and directories manufacturing facilities and one commercial manufacturing facility within the U.S. Print and Related
Services segment. These actions also included the reorganization of certain operations within the books and directories and magazines, catalogs and retail inserts reporting units within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, as well as the
reorganization of certain operations within the Latin America and Europe reporting units within the International segment. Additionally, the Company incurred other restructuring charges, including lease termination and other facility closure costs
of $59.6 million, of which $15.1 million related to multi-employer pension plan partial withdrawal charges primarily due to the completed closing of three manufacturing facilities. 
 
























 2011
  
EmployeeTerminations
 
  
OtherCharges
 
  
TotalRestructuring
 
  
Impairment
 
  
Total
 

 U.S. Print and Related Services
  
$
49.2
  
  
$
52.5
  
  
$
101.7
  
  
$
403.4
  
  
$
505.1
  

 International
  
 
24.2
  
  
 
7.0
  
  
 
31.2
  
  
 
125.8
  
  
 
157.0
  

 Corporate
  
 
3.3
  
  
 
0.1
  
  
 
3.4
  
  
 
2.3
  
  
 
5.7
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
76.7
  
  
$
59.6
  
  
$
136.3
  
  
$
531.5
  
  
$
667.8
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 During 2010, the Company recorded net restructuring and impairment charges of $157.9 million. These
charges included $61.0 million for the impairment of goodwill within the forms and labels reporting unit in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, $26.9 million for the impairment of acquired customer relationship intangible assets in the
Global Turnkey Solutions reporting unit within the International segment and $4.6 million for the impairment of other long-lived assets. Additionally, these charges included $35.9 million related to workforce reductions of 1,458 employees
(substantially all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2011), associated with actions resulting from reorganization of certain operations. These actions included the reorganization of certain operations within the Financial Print
reporting unit within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment due to the acquisition of Bowne. In addition, these actions included the closing of one Latin America manufacturing facility, one business process outsourcing manufacturing facility
and one Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facility within the International segment. Further, continuing charges resulting from the closing of two Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facilities in 2009 within the International segment were
recorded in 2010. These actions also included the reorganization of certain operations within the magazine, catalog and retail insert and variable print reporting units and the closing of one Forms and Labels manufacturing facility within the U.S.
Print and Related Services segment. Finally, the Company recorded $29.5 million of other restructuring charges, of which $13.6 million related to multi-employer pension plan partial withdrawal charges primarily attributable to two closed
manufacturing facilities within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, as well as lease termination and other facility closure costs.   
























 2010
  
EmployeeTerminations
 
  
OtherCharges
 
  
TotalRestructuring
 
  
Impairment
 
  
Total
 

 U.S. Print and Related Services
  
$
5.9
  
  
$
24.0
  
  
$
29.9
  
  
$
64.1
  
  
$
94.0
  

 International
  
 
17.9
  
  
 
4.5
  
  
 
22.4
  
  
 
28.2
  
  
 
50.6
  

 Corporate
  
 
12.1
  
  
 
1.0
  
  
 
13.1
  
  
 
0.2
  
  
 
13.3
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
35.9
  
  
$
29.5
  
  
$
65.4
  
  
$
92.5
  
  
$
157.9
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 During 2009, the Company recorded net restructuring and impairment charges of $382.7 million. These
charges included $128.5 million for the impairment of goodwill and $24.7 million for the impairment of other long-lived assets. In addition, the Company recorded charges, discounted for future cash payments, of $118.6 million for the termination of
a significant long-term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment, of which $117.2 million, $0.8 million and $0.6 million are reflected in other charges, impairment and employee
terminations, respectively. Additionally, these charges included $78.8 million related to workforce reductions of 4,043 employees (all of whom were terminated as of 
  45 


Table of Contents

December 31, 2011), associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities. These actions included the closings of two
magazine, catalog and retail insert manufacturing facilities, two book manufacturing facilities and one premedia facility within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment and the closing of two Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facilities,
one business process outsourcing facility, one Latin America manufacturing facility and one European manufacturing facility within the International segment. Finally, the Company incurred other restructuring charges of $32.1 million, including lease
termination and other facility closure costs.   
























 2009
  
EmployeeTerminations
 
  
OtherCharges
 
  
TotalRestructuring
 
  
Impairment
 
  
Total
 

 U.S. Print and Related Services
  
$
36.5
  
  
$
19.2
  
  
$
55.7
  
  
$
108.1
  
  
$
163.8
  

 International
  
 
40.5
  
  
 
124.3
  
  
 
164.8
  
  
 
45.9
  
  
 
210.7
  

 Corporate
  
 
2.4
  
  
 
5.8
  
  
 
8.2
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
8.2
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
79.4
  
  
$
149.3
  
  
$
228.7
  
  
$
154.0
  
  
$
382.7
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The Company made cash payments of $104.2 million, $158.1 million and $126.4 million for restructuring
activities during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. $95.8 million of the $158.1 million paid in 2010 and $22.2 million of the $126.4 million paid in 2009 related to the terminated customer contract discussed
previously. These outlays were all funded using cash generated from operations and cash on hand.  In 2012, the Company expects
to realize further cost savings associated with the restructuring actions taken in 2011 and 2010, primarily through reduced employee and facility costs. Restructuring actions have been and will continue to be taken in conjunction with the
integration of Bowne, which will result in additional restructuring charges in 2012. In addition, the Company expects to identify other cost reduction opportunities within both current and newly acquired businesses and possibly take further actions
in 2012, which may result in significant additional restructuring charges. These restructuring actions will be funded by cash generated from operations and cash on hand or, if necessary, the Company will fund these costs by utilizing its credit
facilities.  LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  The following describes the Company’s cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.  Cash Flows From Operating Activities  Operating cash inflows are largely
attributable to sales of the Company’s products and services. Operating cash outflows are largely attributable to recurring expenditures for raw materials, labor, rent, interest, taxes and other operating activities. 
2011 compared to 2010 
Net cash provided by operating activities of operations was $946.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $752.5
million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in operating cash flow reflected improvements in working capital management, including the benefits of process and systems integration efforts related to the Bowne acquisition, improved
credit and collections efforts, inventory reductions and increased standardization of vendor payment terms. The increase in operating cash flow also reflected the $57.5 million payment in January 2010 related to the termination of a long-term
customer contract in 2009 and lower income tax payments. These increases were partially offset by higher incentive compensation payments in the first quarter of 2011 (for incentives earned in 2010) compared to 2010 (for incentives earned in 2009)
due to better operating results in 2010 as compared to the operating results of 2009. Additionally, the payments for incentives earned in 2009 were deferred equally over four years, while the incentives earned in 2010 were fully paid in 2011.
Further decreases were due to restructuring and pension payments related to the Bowne acquisition 
  46 


Table of Contents

and higher interest payments primarily related to the June 2010 issuance of $400.0 million of long-term senior notes. Higher interest payments were also due to increased borrowings under the
Credit Agreement in 2011 used to finance the Company’s ASR, as well as higher interest rates and commitment fees related to the rating actions of credit rating agencies, as compared to the Company’s borrowings under the previous revolving
credit facility (“previous Facility”) in 2010.  2010 compared to 2009 
Net cash provided by operating activities of operations was $752.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to $1,425.8
million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in operating cash flow reflected the $515.8 million benefit from reductions in net working capital driven by volume declines and efficiency improvement in 2009, a non-recurring tax
refund of $164.1 million in 2009, continued price pressures on net sales in 2010, a 2009 $57.5 million long-term customer contract payment and incentive compensation payments in the first quarter of 2010 compared to no such payments in 2009. These
decreases were partially offset by higher operating earnings in 2010 driven by cost reductions from productivity and restructuring actions and a $22.2 million payment in the third quarter of 2009 related to the termination of the long-term customer
contract in 2009.  Cash Flows From Investing Activities  2011 compared to 2010  Net cash used in investing activities for the year
ended December 31, 2011 was $375.4 million compared to $674.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Net cash used for acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2011 was $142.4 million for the acquisitions of Helium,
Stratus, LibreDigital, Journalism Online, Genesis and Sequence, compared to $439.8 million for the acquisitions of Bowne, Nimblefish and 8touches during the year ended December 31, 2010. The Company also used $7.0 million to purchase a
long-term investment during the year ended December 31, 2011. During 2010, the Company purchased long-term investments, as well as short-term deposits that were subsequently liquidated, for a net payment of $16.8 million. Capital expenditures
for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $250.9 million, an increase of $21.5 million compared to 2010. The Company continues to fund capital expenditures primarily through cash provided by operations. 
2010 compared to 2009 
Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $674.5 million compared to $260.9 million for the year
ended December 31, 2009. Net cash used for 2010 acquisitions was $439.8 million and the acquisitions of PROSA and Prospectus during 2009 was $26.6 million. The Company used $17.0 million to purchase long-term investments and $14.7 million to
purchase short-term deposits during 2010. The short-term term deposits were subsequently liquidated for $14.9 million during 2010. The Company received proceeds from the sale of investments and other assets of $11.2 million during 2010 compared to
$2.2 million during 2009. Capital expenditures were $229.4 million in 2010, an increase of $34.4 million compared to 2009. Finally, in 2009, the Company transferred $43.7 million to restricted cash within other noncurrent assets on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets related to a customer contract termination within the business process outsourcing reporting unit and received transfers from restricted cash of $6.2 million.  Cash Flows From Financing Activities  2011 compared to 2010 
Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $651.0 million compared to $58.0 million in
2010. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company received proceeds from the issuance of $600.0 million of long-term senior notes and paid $500.0 million for the acquisition of the Company’s common stock under its accelerated
share repurchase, which was entered into during the second 
  47 


Table of Contents

quarter of 2011. The Company also paid a total of $493.4 million to repurchase senior notes in the aggregate principal amount of $427.8 million, maturing February 1,
2019, January 15, 2017 and May 15, 2015. These increases were partially offset by proceeds of $65.0 million received from net borrowings under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2011, as compared to $120.0 million for 2010.
For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company received proceeds of $400.0 million from the issuance of long-term senior notes, paid $325.7 million for the May 15, 2010 maturity of senior notes and repaid $27.3 million of debt assumed
as part of the 2010 acquisitions.  2010 compared to 2009  Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $58.0 million compared to $1,028.0 million in 2009. During 2010, Company received proceeds of $400.0 million
from the issuance of long-term senior notes which were partly used to repay borrowings on the previous Facility. Proceeds from the previous Facility borrowings were used, along with cash on hand, to pay the May 15, 2010 maturity of senior notes
of $325.7 million. In addition, the Company repaid $25.4 million and $1.9 million of debt assumed as part of the Bowne and Nimblefish acquisitions, respectively. During 2009, the Company received proceeds from the issuance of $750.0 million of
long-term senior notes and repaid $400.0 million in senior notes that matured April 1, 2009 and repurchased $466.4 million and $174.2 million of senior notes maturing January 15, 2012 and May 15, 2010, respectively. Net borrowings
under the Credit Agreement and previous Facility were $120.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Net repayments under the previous Facility were $200.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The net change in other
short-term debt was a cash outflow of $305.6 million during 2009 primarily due to the pay down of commercial paper.  Other 
The Company’s cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, including substantial amounts held outside of the
United States. Most of the amounts held outside of the United States could be repatriated to the United States but, under current law, would be subject to United States federal income taxes and local country taxes. Repatriation of some foreign
balances is restricted by local laws.  Included in cash and cash equivalents of $449.7 million at December 31, 2011 were
short-term investments in the amount of $7.8 million, which primarily consist of certificate and short-term deposits and money market funds. These investments are with institutions with sound credit ratings and are believed to be highly liquid.
 Dividends 
Cash dividends paid to shareholders totaled $205.2 million, $214.4 million and $213.6 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The
Company has consistently paid a dividend since becoming a public company in 1956 and currently has no plans to cease or reduce its dividend payments in 2012. The Company believes it will continue to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to
pay future dividends that may be approved by the Company’s Board of Directors. On January 13, 2012, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.26 per common share, payable on March 1, 2012 to
shareholders of record on January 27, 2012. 
  48 


Table of Contents
Contractual Cash Obligations and Other Commitments and Contingencies 
The following table quantifies the Company’s future contractual obligations as of December 31, 2011: 
 
































 
  
Payments Due In
 

 
  
Total
 
  
2012
 
  
2013
 
  
2014
 
  
2015
 
  
2016
 
  
Thereafter
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Debt
  
$
3,647.5
  
  
$
243.7
  
  
$
0.9
  
  
$
600.9
  
  
$
404.0
  
  
$
350.6
  
  
$
2,047.4
  

 Interest due on debt
  
 
1,544.6
  
  
 
229.4
  
  
 
225.5
  
  
 
217.8
  
  
 
194.1
  
  
 
152.9
  
  
 
524.9
  

 Operating leases(1)
  
 
585.1
  
  
 
147.6
  
  
 
111.5
  
  
 
87.3
  
  
 
64.9
  
  
 
45.9
  
  
 
127.9
  

 Pension and postretirement contributions
  
 
220.8
  
  
 
220.8
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Outsourced services
  
 
184.6
  
  
 
151.3
  
  
 
29.0
  
  
 
4.2
  
  
 
0.1
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Incentive compensation
  
 
107.4
  
  
 
86.7
  
  
 
20.7
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Deferred compensation
  
 
91.4
  
  
 
6.6
  
  
 
9.4
  
  
 
2.4
  
  
 
2.3
  
  
 
2.1
  
  
 
68.6
  

 Other(2)
  
 
164.0
  
  
 
128.2
  
  
 
7.0
  
  
 
6.9
  
  
 
2.0
  
  
 
2.0
  
  
 
17.9
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total as of December 31, 2011
  
$
6,545.4
  
  
$
1,214.3
  
  
$
404.0
  
  
$
919.5
  
  
$
667.4
  
  
$
553.5
  
  
$
2,786.7
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Operating leases include obligations to landlords. 


(2)
Other represents contractual obligations for purchases of property, plant and equipment ($41.9 million), estimated defined contribution Company match ($33.2 million),
multi-employer pension withdrawal obligations ($27.9 million), employee restructuring-related severance payments ($27.2 million), contingent consideration ($10.6 million) and purchases of natural gas ($10.1 million). The contractual obligation for
the estimated defined contribution Company match includes the 2012 estimated payments and does not include the obligations for subsequent periods, as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate amount. Additionally, the Company has
included $13.1 million of uncertain tax liabilities that are classified as current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as payments due in 2012. Excluded from the table are $63.3 million of uncertain tax liabilities, as the Company is
unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate amount or timing of settlement.  The contractual obligations included
above for pension and postretirement plans include the 2012 estimated payments and do not include the obligations for subsequent periods, as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate amount. 
The minimum annual contributions to the multi-employer pension plans are determined by the terms and conditions of each plan to which the
Company contributes. Although the Company cannot currently estimate the amount of multi-employer pension plan contributions that will be required for 2012, the Company expects contributions to be consistent with those of prior years. 
As of December 31, 2011, the Company is authorized under the terms of its share repurchase program to repurchase up to $1.0 billion
of the Company’s common stock through December 31, 2012, of which the Company repurchased $500 million during the year ended December 31, 2011 as part of the ASR. The repurchase authorizations do not obligate the Company to acquire
any particular amount of common stock or adopt any particular method of repurchase and may be modified, suspended or terminated at any time at the Company’s discretion.  LIQUIDITY  The Company believes it has sufficient liquidity to support its
ongoing operations and to invest in future growth to create value for its shareholders. Operating cash flows are the Company’s primary source of liquidity and are expected to be used for, among other things, interest and principal on the
Company’s debt obligations, capital expenditures as necessary to support productivity improvement and growth, future common stock or debt repurchases based upon market conditions, completion of restructuring programs, dividend payments that may
be approved by the Board of Directors and acquisitions. 
  49 


Table of Contents
Cash and cash equivalents of $449.7 million as of December 31, 2011 included $51.5
million in the U.S. and $398.2 million at international locations, most of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxes and local country taxes if repatriated to the U.S. In addition, repatriation of some foreign cash is further restricted by local
laws. The Company has recognized deferred tax liabilities of $3.0 million as of December 31, 2011, related to certain foreign earnings which are not considered to be permanently reinvested. The Company maintains a cash pooling structure that
enables participating international locations to draw on the Company’s overseas cash resources to meet local liquidity needs. The foreign cash balances may be loaned to U.S. operating entities on a temporary basis in order to reduce the
Company’s short-term borrowing costs or for other purposes.  The Company has a $1.75 billion revolving Credit Agreement
which expires December 17, 2013, subject to a possible one-year extension if agreed to by the lending institutions. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate dependent on the Company’s credit ratings at the time of
borrowing and will be calculated according to a base or Eurocurrency rate plus an applicable margin. The Company pays annual commitment fees at rates dependent on the Company’s credit ratings. The Credit Agreement can be used for general
corporate purposes, including letters of credit. The Credit Agreement is subject to a number of financial covenants that, in part, may limit the use of proceeds, and the ability of the Company to create liens on assets, incur subsidiary debt, engage
in mergers and consolidations, or dispose of assets. The financial covenants require a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio, both to be computed on a pro forma basis as defined in the Credit Agreement. Based on the
Company’s results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 and existing term debt structure, the Company could utilize an additional $1.4 billion of the $1.75 billion Credit Agreement and not be in violation of the maximum
leverage ratio, as shown in the table below. However, the Company does not expect the reduction in availability on the Credit Agreement to impact its ability to meet its liquidity requirements. As of December 31, 2011, there were $65.0 million
of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement. The availability under the Credit Agreement at December 31, 2011 is shown in the following table:   








 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Availability
  




 Committed credit facility
  
$
1,750.0
  

 Availability reduction from covenants
  
 
332.3
  


  
  
  
 


  
 
1,417.7
  

 Usage
  




 Borrowings under the committed credit facility
  
 
65.0
  


  
  
  
 

 Current availability at December 31, 2011
  
$
1,352.7
  


  
  
  
 
 The Company was in compliance with its debt covenants as of December 31, 2011, and expects to remain
in compliance based on management’s estimates of operating and financial results for 2012 and the foreseeable future. In addition, the Company met all the conditions required to borrow under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2011 and
management expects the Company to continue to meet the applicable borrowing conditions.  The Company also has $151.8 million
in credit facilities outside of the U.S., most of which are uncommitted. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had $60.9 million in outstanding letters of credit. The failure of a financial institution supporting the Credit Agreement would
reduce the size of our committed facility unless a replacement institution was added. Currently, the Credit Agreement is supported by twenty-one U.S. and international financial institutions. 
On May 4, 2011, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“S&P”) lowered the Company’s long-term
corporate credit and senior unsecured debt ratings from BBB with a negative outlook to BBB- and placed the Company on CreditWatch with negative implications. Subsequently, on May 16, 2011, S&P lowered the Company’s long-term corporate
credit and senior unsecured debt ratings from BBB- to BB+ with a stable outlook and the 
  50 


Table of Contents

Company’s short-term credit rating from A-3 to B-1. On November 29, 2011, S&P reaffirmed the Company’s long-term corporate credit and senior unsecured debt rating at BB+ but
placed the Company’s ratings on a negative outlook, which was reaffirmed by S&P on January 18, 2012.  On
May 4, 2011, Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”) placed the Company’s Baa3 credit rating with a stable outlook on review for possible downgrade. Subsequently on May 16, 2011, Moody’s lowered the
Company’s senior unsecured debt ratings from Baa3 to Ba1 with a stable outlook. On January 20, 2012, Moody’s reaffirmed the Company’s long-term and senior unsecured debt rating, but placed the Company’s ratings on a negative
outlook. As a result of the downgrades by the rating agencies, the interest rate on the Company’s 11.25% senior notes due February 1, 2019 was increased to 11.75%. Additionally, the downgrades in ratings increased annual commitment fees
and interest rates incurred on borrowings under the Credit Agreement.  Acquisitions 
During the three months ended December 31, 2011, the Company paid $29.0 million, net of cash acquired, to purchase Stratus. During
the three months ended September 30, 2011, the Company paid $37.9 million, net of cash acquired, to purchase LibreDigital, Genesis and Sequence. During the three months ended June 30, 2011, the Company paid $55.9 million, net of cash
acquired, to purchase the remaining equity of Helium. Additionally, during the three months ended March 31, 2011, the Company paid $19.6 million, net of cash acquired, to purchase Journalism Online. The Company financed all of these
acquisitions with cash on hand.  During the three months ended December 31, 2010, the Company paid $485.6 million to
purchase Bowne, Nimblefish and 8touches. The Company financed all of these acquisitions with cash on hand and through borrowings under the previous Facility.  During the three months ended March 31, 2009, the Company paid $24.0 million to purchase PROSA. The Company financed the acquisition with cash on hand. 
Debt Issuances  On
June 1, 2011, the Company issued $600.0 million of 7.25% senior notes due May 15, 2018. Interest on the notes is payable semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 of each year, commencing on November 15, 2011. The net proceeds
from the offering were used to repurchase an initial $216.2 million of the 11.25% senior notes due February 1, 2019, $100 million of the 6.125% senior notes due January 15, 2017 and $100 million of the 5.50% senior notes due May 15,
2015. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes and to repay outstanding borrowings under the Credit Agreement. On September 28, 2011, the Company repurchased an additional $11.6 million of the 11.25% senior notes due
February 1, 2019.  On June 21, 2010, the Company issued $400 million of 7.625% senior notes due June 15, 2020.
The Company used the net proceeds to repay borrowings under the previous Facility that were drawn on May 13, 2010 and used, together with cash on hand, to repay $325.7 million of senior notes due May 15, 2010. The remaining net proceeds
were used for general corporate purposes.  On August 26, 2009, the Company issued $350 million of 8.60% senior notes due
August 15, 2016. The Company used the net proceeds, along with borrowings under the previous Facility and cash on hand, to repurchase $466.4 million of the 5.625% senior notes due January 15, 2012 and $174.2 million of the 4.95% senior
notes due May 15, 2010.  On January 14, 2009, the Company issued $400 million of 11.25% senior notes due
February 1, 2019. The Company used the net proceeds to pay down commercial paper and borrowings under the previous Facility. On May 17, 2011, the interest rate on the 11.25% senior notes due February 1, 2019 was increased to 11.75%,
as a result of downgrades in the ratings below investment grade. The Company borrowed $400.0 million in March 2009 under the previous Facility to repay the April 1, 2009 maturity of $400 million in senior notes. During the second quarter 2009,
the Company repaid the $400 million of previous Facility borrowings. 
  51 


Table of Contents
Other Significant Events  On May 3, 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a program that authorizes the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of the Company’s common stock through December 31, 2012 and
terminated its existing authorization of October 29, 2008 for the repurchase of up to 10 million shares. Share repurchases under the program may be made from time to time through a variety of methods as determined by the Company’s
management. The repurchase authorizations do not obligate the Company to acquire any particular amount of common stock or adopt any particular method of repurchase and may be modified, suspended or terminated at any time at the Company’s
discretion.  As part of the share repurchase program, on May 5, 2011, the Company entered into an ASR with an
investment bank under which the Company agreed to repurchase $500 million of its common stock. On May 10, 2011, the Company paid the $500 million purchase price and received an initial delivery of 19.9 million shares from the investment
bank. The shares delivered were subject to a 20%, or $100.0 million holdback, which resulted in the Company receiving an additional 9.3 million shares on November 17, 2011. The additional shares received were calculated based upon the
$17.13 volume weighted average price of the Company’s common stock over an averaging period, subject to a discount agreed upon with the investment bank. The averaging period ended on November 14, 2011. 
In the third quarter of 2009, the Company terminated a significant long-term customer contract in the business process outsourcing
reporting unit within the International segment. The Company paid approximately $118.0 million in related restructuring costs, of which $22.2 million was paid in the third quarter of 2009, $57.5 million was paid in January 2010 and $38.3 million was
paid in December 2010.  Risk Management  The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its variable debt and price risk on its fixed-rate debt. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 81.3% of the Company’s outstanding term debt was
comprised of fixed-rate debt. At December 31, 2011, the Company’s exposure to rate fluctuations on variable-interest borrowings was $686.7 million, including $600.0 million notional value of interest rate swap agreements (See Note 14,
Derivatives, to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and $86.7 million in borrowings under the Credit Agreement, international credit facilities and other long-term debt. 
The Company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations in certain countries in which it operates. The exposure to foreign
currency movements is limited in most countries because the operating revenues and expenses of its various subsidiaries and business units are substantially in the local currency of the country in which they operate. To the extent that borrowings,
sales, purchases, revenues, expenses or other transactions are not in the local currency of the operating unit, the Company is exposed to currency risk and may enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. As of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, the aggregate notional amount of outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts was approximately $78.3 million and $100.9 million, respectively, (See Note 14, Derivatives, to the Consolidated Financial
Statements). Net unrealized losses from these foreign exchange contracts were less than $0.1 million at December 31, 2011 and net unrealized gains were $0.2 million at December 31, 2010. The Company does not use derivative financial
instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  The Company assesses market risk based on changes in interest rates
utilizing a sensitivity analysis that measures the potential loss in earnings, fair values and cash flows based on a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates. Using this sensitivity analysis, such changes would not have a material effect on
interest income or expense and cash flows and would change the fair values of fixed rate debt at December 31, 2011 and 2010 by approximately $122.9 million and $101.8 million, respectively. 
  52 


Table of Contents
OTHER INFORMATION  Environmental, Health and Safety  For a discussion of certain
environmental, health and safety issues involving the Company, see Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  Litigation and Contingent Liabilities  For a discussion of certain
litigation involving the Company, see Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  New
Accounting Pronouncements and Pending Accounting Standards  During 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company adopted various
accounting standards. See Note 20, New Accounting Pronouncements, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the accounting standards adopted during 2011. 
Pending standards and their estimated effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements are described in Note 20, New
Accounting Pronouncements, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   


ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its variable-rate debt and price risk on its fixed-rate debt. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 81.3% of the Company’s outstanding term debt
was comprised of fixed-rate debt. At December 31, 2011, the Company’s exposure to rate fluctuations on variable-interest borrowings was $686.7 million, including $600.0 million notional value of interest rate swap agreements (See Note 14,
Derivatives, to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and $86.7 million in borrowings under the Credit Agreement, international credit facilities and other long-term debt. 
The Company assesses market risk based on changes in interest rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis that measures the potential loss in
earnings, fair values and cash flows based on a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates. Using this sensitivity analysis, such changes would not have a material effect on interest income or expense and cash flows and would change the fair values
of fixed rate debt at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 by approximately $122.9 million and $101.8 million, respectively.  The Company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations in certain countries in which it operates. The exposure to foreign currency movements is limited in most countries because the
operating revenues and expenses of its various subsidiaries and business units are substantially in the local currency of the country in which they operate. Although operating in local currencies may limit the impact of currency rate fluctuations on
the operating results of the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries, fluctuations in such rates may affect the translation of these results into the Company’s consolidated financial statements. To the extent borrowings, sales, purchases,
revenues, expenses or other transactions are not in the local currency of the operating unit, the Company is exposed to currency risk and may enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. As of December 31, 2011 and
2010, the aggregate notional amount of outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts was approximately $78.3 million and $100.9 million, respectively.  Credit Risk  The Company is exposed to credit risk on accounts receivable
balances. This risk is mitigated due to the Company’s large, diverse customer base, dispersed over various geographic regions and industrial sectors. No single customer comprised more than 10% of the Company’s consolidated net sales in
2011, 2010 or 2009. The Company maintains provisions for potential credit losses and any such losses to date have normally been within 
  53 


Table of Contents

the Company’s expectations. The Company evaluates the solvency of its customers on an ongoing basis to determine if additional allowances for doubtful accounts need to be recorded, and
additional economic disruptions or a further slowdown in the economy could result in significant additional charges.  Commodities
 The primary raw materials used by the Company are paper and ink. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the
Company has incorporated price adjustment clauses in certain sales contracts. Management believes a hypothetical 10% change in the price of paper and other raw materials would not have a significant effect on the Company’s consolidated annual
results of operations or cash flows because these costs are generally passed through to its customers.   


ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  The financial information required by Item 8 is contained in Item 15 of Part IV.   


ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
None.   


ITEM 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  Disclosure
Controls and Procedures  As required by Rule 13a-15(b) and Rule 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective disclosure controls and procedures, as defined under Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As of December 31, 2011, an evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the
design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2011 were
effective in ensuring information required to be disclosed in our SEC reports was recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information was accumulated and
communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.  Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  There have not been
any changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2011 that has materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.  Report of
Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  The management of the Company, including the Company’s Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). 
Management of the Company, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, assessed the effectiveness
of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 
  54 


Table of Contents

2011. Management based this assessment on criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting described in “Internal Control—Integrated Framework” issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  Based on this assessment, management determined that, as of
December 31, 2011, the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting.  Deloitte &
Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, who audited the consolidated financial statements of the Company included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K , has also audited the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control
over financial reporting as stated in its report appearing below.  February 22, 2012 
  55 


Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of 
R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company  Chicago,
Illinois  We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company and
subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The
Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management
on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that
a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed by, or under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company’s board of directors, management, and other personnel to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could
have a material effect on the financial statements.  Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial
reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.  In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated
financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011 of the Company and our report dated February 22, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements. 
/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP 
Chicago, Illinois  February 22, 2012

  56 


Table of Contents


ITEM 9B.
OTHER INFORMATION  None.

  57 


Table of Contents
PART III 
 


ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Information regarding directors and executive officers of the Company is incorporated herein by reference to the descriptions under
“Proposal 1: Election of Directors,” “The Board’s Committees and their Functions” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” of our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
scheduled to be held May 17, 2012 (the “2012 Proxy Statement”). See also the information with respect to our executive officers at the end of Part I of this Report under the caption “Executive Officers of R.R.
Donnelley & Sons Company.”  The Company has adopted a policy statement entitled Code of Ethics that
applies to our chief executive officer and our senior financial officers. In the event that an amendment to, or a waiver from, a provision of the Code of Ethics is made or granted, the Company intends to post such information on its web site,
www.rrdonnelley.com. A copy of our Code of Ethics has been filed as Exhibit 14 to the Company’s Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003. 
 


ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
Information regarding executive and director compensation is incorporated by reference to the material under the captions
“Compensation Discussion and Analysis,” “Human Resources Committee Report,” “Executive Compensation,” “Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control,” and “Director Compensation” of the
2012 Proxy Statement.   


ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated herein by reference to the material
under the heading “Stock Ownership” of the 2012 Proxy Statement.  Equity Compensation Plan Information 
Information as of December 31, 2011 concerning compensation plans under which RR Donnelley’s equity securities are authorized
for issuance is as follows:  Equity Compensation Plan Information 
 
















 Plan Category(1)
  
Number of Securitiesto Be Issued
uponExercise
ofOutstanding Options,Warrants and Rights
 
  
Weighted-AverageExercise Price
ofOutstanding Options,Warrants
andRights(4)
 
  
Number of SecuritiesRemaining
Available forFuture Issuance underEquity Compensation Plans(Excluding SecuritiesReflected in Column (a))
 

 
  
 (in thousands)
(a)
 
  
(b)
 
  
 (in thousands)
(c)
 

 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders(2)
  
 
9,090.9
  
  
$
20.31
  
  
 
2,314.3
(5) 

 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders(3)
  
 
537.8
  
  
 
25.56
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
9,628.7
  
  
$
20.81
  
  
 
2,314.3
  


  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 Upon the acquisition of Moore Wallace on February 27, 2004, stock options and units outstanding under certain Moore Wallace plans were exchanged
for or converted into stock options and units with respect to 
  58 


Table of Contents


 

common stock of the Company. As of December 31, 2011, 63,170 shares were issuable under these plans upon the exercise of stock options with a weighted average exercise price per share of
$16.95. Information regarding these awards is not included in the table. 


(2)
Includes 5,531,613 shares issuable upon the vesting of restricted stock units. 


(3)
Represents the 2000 Broad-Based Incentive Plan and the Moore Wallace 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Includes 165,000 shares issuable upon the vesting of restricted
stock units issued under the Moore Wallace 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan. 


(4)
Restricted stock units were excluded when determining the weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights. 


(5)
All of these shares are available for issuance under the 2004 Performance Incentive Plan. The 2004 Performance Incentive Plan allows grants in the form of cash or bonus
awards, stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, stock units or combinations thereof. The maximum number of shares of common stock that may be granted with respect to bonus awards, including performance awards or fixed awards in
the form of restricted stock or other form, is 10,000,000 in the aggregate (excluding any such awards made pursuant to an employment agreement with a newly-hired Chief Executive Officer of the Company), of which 1,044,908 remain available for
issuance.  Moore Wallace 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan 
Upon acquiring Moore Wallace, the Company assumed the Moore Wallace 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan (2003 LTIP). The shareholders of Moore
Wallace previously had approved the 2003 LTIP. Under the 2003 LTIP, all employees of Moore Wallace and its subsidiaries who demonstrated significant management potential or who had the capacity for contributing in a substantial measure to the
successful performance of Moore Wallace were eligible to participate in the plan. Awards under the 2003 LTIP consisted of restricted stock or restricted stock units, and also pursuant to the plan, a one-time grant of 85,000 options to purchase
common shares of Moore Wallace was issued to a particular employee. The 2003 LTIP is administered by the Board of Directors of the Company which may delegate any or all of its responsibilities to the Human Resources Committee of the Board of
Directors. In April 2008, the 2003 LTIP was frozen and no new awards may be made under the plan.  There were 6,300,000 shares
of common stock of the Company reserved and authorized for issuance under the 2003 LTIP (as adjusted to reflect the conversion ratio used in the acquisition of Moore Wallace). As of December 31, 2011, there were 165,000 restricted stock units
outstanding under the 2003 LTIP. The restricted stock units generally vest equally over a period of four years and are forfeited upon termination of employment prior to vesting (subject in some cases to early vesting upon specified events, including
death or permanent disability of the grantee, termination of the grantee’s employment under certain circumstances or a “change in control”).  2000 Broad-Based Stock Incentive Plan  In 2000, the Board of Directors
approved the adoption of the 2000 Broad-Based Stock Incentive Plan (2000 Broad-Based Plan) to provide incentives to key employees of the Company and its subsidiaries. Awards under the 2000 Broad-Based Plan were generally not restricted to any
specific form or structure and could include, without limitation, stock options, stock units, restricted stock awards, cash or stock bonuses and stock appreciation rights. The 2000 Broad-Based Plan is administered by the Human Resources Committee of
the Board of Directors, which may delegate its responsibilities to the chief executive officer or another executive officer. The 2000 Broad-Based Plan was terminated in February 2004 and no new awards may be made under the plan. 
Originally, 2,000,000 shares of RR Donnelley common stock were reserved and authorized for issuance under the 2000 Broad-Based Plan. An
additional 3,000,000 shares (for an aggregate of 5,000,000 shares) were subsequently reserved and authorized for issuance under the 2000 Broad-Based Plan. As of December 31, 2011, options to purchase 372,831 shares of common stock were
outstanding under the 2000 Broad-Based Plan. These 
  59 


Table of Contents

options have a purchase price equal to the fair market value of a share of common stock at the time of the grant. All of the outstanding options generally vest over a period of three years, are
not exercisable unless vested (subject in some cases to early vesting and exercisability upon specified events, including the death or permanent disability of the optionee, termination of the optionee’s employment under specified circumstances
or a “change in control”) and generally expire 10 years after the date of grant. No awards other than options were made under the 2000 Broad-Based Plan.   


ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE  Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions and director independence is incorporated herein by reference to the material under the heading “Certain Transactions,”
“The Board’s Committees and Their Functions” and “Corporate Governance—Independence of Directors” of the 2012 Proxy Statement.   


ITEM 14.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  Information regarding principal accounting fees and services is incorporated herein by reference to the material under the heading “The Company’s Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm” of the 2012 Proxy Statement. 
  60 


Table of Contents
PART IV 
 


ITEM 15.
EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   


(a)
1. Financial Statements  The financial statements listed in the accompanying index (page F-1) to the financial statements are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
 


(b)
Exhibits  The exhibits listed
on the accompanying index (pages E-1 through E-3) are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   


(c)
Financial Statement Schedules omitted  Certain schedules have been omitted because the required information is included in the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto or because they are not applicable or not required. 
  61 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 22nd day of February 2012.   






R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY




By:
 
 /S/    DANIEL N.
LEIB        

 
 
 Daniel N. Leib Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal
Financial Officer)
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated, on the 22nd day of February 2012.   






 Signature and Title
  
 Signature and Title




 /S/    THOMAS J.
QUINLAN, III        
  
 /S/    JUDITH H.
HAMILTON*        

 Thomas J. Quinlan, III President and Chief Executive Officer, Director (Principal Executive
Officer)
  
 Judith H. Hamilton Director




 /S/    DANIEL N.
LEIB        
  
 /S/    THOMAS S.
JOHNSON*        

 Daniel N. Leib Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal
Financial Officer)
  
 Thomas S. Johnson Director




 /S/    ANDREW B.
COXHEAD        
  
 /S/    JOHN C.
POPE*        

 Andrew B. Coxhead Senior Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting
Officer)
  
 John C. Pope Director




 /S/    SUSAN M.
CAMERON*        
  
 /S/    MICHAEL T.
RIORDAN*        

 Susan M. Cameron Director
  
 Michael T. Riordan Director




 /S/    LEE A.
CHADEN*        
  
 /S/    OLIVER R.
SOCKWELL*        

 Lee A. Chaden Director
  
 Oliver R. Sockwell Director




 /S/    RICHARD L.
CRANDALL*        
  
 /S/    STEPHEN M.
WOLF*        

 Richard L. Crandall Director
  
 Stephen M. Wolf Chairman of the Board, Director
  






By:
 
 /S/    SUZANNE S.
BETTMAN        


 
 Suzanne S. Bettman As Attorney-in-Fact
  


*
By Suzanne S. Bettman as Attorney-in-Fact pursuant to Powers of Attorney executed by the directors listed above, which Powers of Attorney have been filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission 
  62 


Table of Contents


ITEM 15(a).
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   








 
  
Page
 

 Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years in the period ended December 
31, 2011
  
 
F-2
  

 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010
  
 
F-3
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 
31, 2011
  
 
F-4
  

 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
 2011
  
 
F-5
  

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
F-6
  

 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
F-53
  

 Unaudited Interim Financial Information, Dividend Summary and Financial Summary
  
 
F-54
  

  F-1



Table of Contents
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES (“RR DONNELLEY”)

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
(in millions, except per share data) 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net sales
  



 



 




 Products
  
$
9,375.1
  
 
$
8,956.4
  
 
$
8,925.4
  

 Services
  
 
1,235.9
  
 
 
1,062.5
  
 
 
932.0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net sales
  
 
10,611.0
  
 
 
10,018.9
  
 
 
9,857.4
  

 Products cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization)
  
 
7,185.2
  
 
 
6,857.8
  
 
 
6,789.8
  

 Services cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization)
  
 
906.6
  
 
 
785.1
  
 
 
673.1
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization)
  
 
1,236.3
  
 
 
1,123.4
  
 
 
1,088.5
  

 Restructuring and impairment charges—net (Note 3)
  
 
667.8
  
 
 
157.9
  
 
 
382.7
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
549.9
  
 
 
539.2
  
 
 
579.0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
  
 
10,545.8
  
 
 
9,463.4
  
 
 
9,513.1
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
65.2
  
 
 
555.5
  
 
 
344.3
  

 Interest expense—net (Note 13)
  
 
243.3
  
 
 
222.6
  
 
 
234.6
  

 Investment and other income (expense)—net
  
 
10.6
  
 
 
(9.9
) 
 
 
(3.6
) 

 Loss on debt extinguishment
  
 
(69.9
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(13.0
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings (loss) before income taxes
  
 
(237.4
) 
 
 
323.0
  
 
 
93.1
  

 Income tax expense (benefit) (Note 12)
  
 
(116.3
) 
 
 
105.9
  
 
 
114.5
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net earnings (loss)
  
 
(121.1
) 
 
 
217.1
  
 
 
(21.4
) 

 Less: Income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
1.5
  
 
 
(4.6
) 
 
 
5.9
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net earnings (loss) attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders
  
$
(122.6
) 
 
$
221.7
  
 
$
(27.3
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net earnings (loss) per share attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders (Note 15):
  



 



 




 Basic net earnings (loss) per share
  
$
(0.63
) 
 
$
1.07
  
 
$
(0.13
) 

 Diluted net earnings (loss) per share
  
$
(0.63
) 
 
$
1.06
  
 
$
(0.13
) 






 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding (Note 15):
  



 



 




 Basic
  
 
193.8
  
 
 
206.4
  
 
 
205.2
  

 Diluted
  
 
193.8
  
 
 
209.7
  
 
 
205.2
  

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  F-2



Table of Contents
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES (“RR DONNELLEY”)

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
(in millions, except per share data) 
 












 
 
December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 ASSETS
 



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
449.7
  
 
$
519.1
  

 Receivables, less allowances for doubtful accounts of $62.6 in 2011 (2010—$71.0)(Note 5)
 
 
1,844.2
  
 
 
1,922.9
  

 Income taxes receivable (Note 12)
 
 
32.4
  
 
 
49.3
  

 Inventories (Note 6)
 
 
510.9
  
 
 
560.6
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
 
 
131.4
  
 
 
115.4
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
 
 
2,968.6
  
 
 
3,167.3
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property, plant and equipment—net (Note 7)
 
 
1,854.6
  
 
 
2,138.7
  

 Goodwill (Note 4)
 
 
2,222.1
  
 
 
2,526.8
  

 Other intangible assets—net (Note 4)
 
 
590.3
  
 
 
775.0
  

 Other noncurrent assets
 
 
646.1
  
 
 
475.4
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
 
$
8,281.7
  
 
$
9,083.2
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 LIABILITIES
 



 




 Accounts payable
 
$
1,063.3
  
 
$
939.8
  

 Accrued liabilities (Note 9)
 
 
817.0
  
 
 
902.2
  

 Short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt (Note 13)
 
 
243.7
  
 
 
131.4
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
 
 
2,124.0
  
 
 
1,973.4
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Long-term debt (Note 13)
 
 
3,416.8
  
 
 
3,398.6
  

 Pension liability (Note 11)
 
 
1,076.3
  
 
 
533.0
  

 Postretirement benefits (Note 11)
 
 
227.3
  
 
 
287.4
  

 Deferred income taxes (Note 12)
 
 
20.6
  
 
 
174.5
  

 Other noncurrent liabilities
 
 
354.5
  
 
 
470.9
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
 
 
7,219.5
  
 
 
6,837.8
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Commitments and Contingencies (Note 10)
 



 








 EQUITY
 



 




 RR Donnelley shareholders’ equity
 



 




 Preferred stock, $1.00 par value
 



 




 Authorized: 2.0 shares; Issued: None
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Common stock, $1.25 par value
 



 




 Authorized: 500.0 shares;
 



 




 Issued: 243.0 shares in 2011 and 2010
 
 
303.7
  
 
 
303.7
  

 Additional paid-in-capital
 
 
2,888.7
  
 
 
2,907.0
  

 Retained earnings
 
 
342.4
  
 
 
670.2
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
 
 
(863.3
) 
 
 
(490.4
) 

 Treasury stock, at cost, 64.5 shares in 2011 (2010—36.4 shares)
 
 
(1,628.8
) 
 
 
(1,166.2
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total RR Donnelley shareholders’ equity
 
 
1,042.7
  
 
 
2,224.3
  

 Noncontrolling interests
 
 
19.5
  
 
 
21.1
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total equity
 
 
1,062.2
  
 
 
2,245.4
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and equity
 
$
8,281.7
  
 
$
9,083.2
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  F-3



Table of Contents
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES (“RR DONNELLEY”)

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
(in millions)   
















 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 OPERATING ACTIVITIES
 



 



 




 Net earnings (loss)
 
$
(121.1
) 
 
$
217.1
  
 
$
(21.4
) 

 Adjustments to reconcile net earnings (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities:
 



 



 




 Impairment charges
 
 
532.0
  
 
 
92.5
  
 
 
154.0
  

 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
549.9
  
 
 
539.2
  
 
 
579.0
  

 Provision for doubtful accounts receivable
 
 
18.8
  
 
 
22.8
  
 
 
19.7
  

 Share-based compensation
 
 
28.3
  
 
 
28.6
  
 
 
24.0
  

 Deferred taxes
 
 
(123.0
) 
 
 
(34.6
) 
 
 
(54.1
) 

 Change in uncertain tax positions
 
 
(107.8
) 
 
 
(42.6
) 
 
 
(2.6
) 

 (Gain) loss on sale of investments and other assets—net
 
 
(16.0
) 
 
 
(1.8
) 
 
 
3.2
  

 Loss related to Venezuela currency devaluation
 
 
—  
  
 
 
8.9
  
 
 
—  
  

 Loss on debt extinguishment
 
 
69.9
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
10.3
  

 Gain on pension curtailment
 
 
(38.7
) 
 
 
(0.4
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Other
 
 
27.3
  
 
 
47.5
  
 
 
41.8
  

 Changes in operating assets and liabilities—net of acquisitions:
 



 



 




 Accounts receivable—net
 
 
38.3
  
 
 
(152.1
) 
 
 
244.0
  

 Inventories
 
 
43.1
  
 
 
31.0
  
 
 
145.5
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
 
 
(1.8
) 
 
 
8.2
  
 
 
31.4
  

 Accounts payable
 
 
135.4
  
 
 
17.7
  
 
 
94.9
  

 Income taxes payable and receivable
 
 
9.5
  
 
 
15.0
  
 
 
114.6
  

 Accrued liabilities and other
 
 
(97.8
) 
 
 
(44.5
) 
 
 
41.5
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
 
 
946.3
  
 
 
752.5
  
 
 
1,425.8
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INVESTING ACTIVITIES
 



 



 




 Capital expenditures
 
 
(250.9
) 
 
 
(229.4
) 
 
 
(195.0
) 

 Acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired
 
 
(142.4
) 
 
 
(439.8
) 
 
 
(26.6
) 

 Proceeds from return of capital and sale of investments and other assets
 
 
27.2
  
 
 
26.1
  
 
 
2.2
  

 Purchases of investments
 
 
(7.0
) 
 
 
(31.7
) 
 
 
(4.0
) 

 Transfers from/(to) restricted cash
 
 
(2.3
) 
 
 
0.3
  
 
 
(37.5
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
 
 
(375.4
) 
 
 
(674.5
) 
 
 
(260.9
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 FINANCING ACTIVITIES
 



 



 




 Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt
 
 
600.0
  
 
 
400.0
  
 
 
750.0
  

 Net change in short-term debt
 
 
10.7
  
 
 
(3.8
) 
 
 
(305.6
) 

 Payments of current maturities and long-term debt
 
 
(495.1
) 
 
 
(355.2
) 
 
 
(1,051.9
) 

 Payments of credit facility borrowings—net
 
 
(55.0
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(845.0
) 

 Proceeds from credit facility borrowings—net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
120.0
  
 
 
645.0
  

 Debt issuance costs
 
 
(10.0
) 
 
 
(12.2
) 
 
 
(6.0
) 

 Issuance of common stock
 
 
7.1
  
 
 
9.2
  
 
 
1.5
  

 Acquisition of common stock
 
 
(500.0
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Dividends paid
 
 
(205.2
) 
 
 
(214.4
) 
 
 
(213.6
) 

 Distributions to noncontrolling interests
 
 
(3.5
) 
 
 
(1.6
) 
 
 
(2.4
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in financing activities
 
 
(651.0
) 
 
 
(58.0
) 
 
 
(1,028.0
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effect of exchange rate on cash and cash equivalents
 
 
10.7
  
 
 
(0.1
) 
 
 
38.3
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
(69.4
) 
 
 
19.9
  
 
 
175.2
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
 
 
519.1
  
 
 
499.2
  
 
 
324.0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
 
$
449.7
  
 
$
519.1
  
 
$
499.2
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental non-cash disclosure:
 



 



 




 Use of restricted cash to pay restructuring costs
 
$
—  
  
 
$
38.3
  
 
$
—  
  

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  F-4



Table of Contents
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES (“RR DONNELLEY”)

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
(in millions)   












































 
 
Common Stock
 
 
AdditionalPaid-in-Capital
 
 
Treasury Stock
 
 
RetainedEarnings
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveLoss
 
 
Total RRDonnelley’sShareholders’Equity
 
 
NoncontrollingInterests
 
 
TotalEquity
 

 
 
Shares
 
 
Amount
 
 
 
Shares
 
 
Amount
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Balance at January 1, 2009
 
 
243.0
  
 
 
303.7
  
 
 
2,885.7
  
 
 
(37.2
) 
 
 
(1,194.0
) 
 
 
903.8
  
 
 
(580.7
) 
 
 
2,318.5
  
 
 
23.4
  
 
 
2,341.9
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net earnings (loss)
 



 



 



 



 



 
 
(27.3
) 
 



 
 
(27.3
) 
 
 
5.9
  
 
 
(21.4
) 

 Translation adjustments
 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
99.1
  
 
 
99.1
  
 
 
0.1
  
 
 
99.2
  

 Pension and other benefit liability adjustments
 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
(65.7
) 
 
 
(65.7
) 
 



 
 
(65.7
) 

 Change in fair value of derivatives and hedge reclassifications
 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
2.3
  
 
 
2.3
  
 



 
 
2.3
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
8.4
  
 
 
6.0
  
 
 
14.4
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Share-based compensation
 



 



 
 
20.5
  
 
 
0.1
  
 
 
2.8
  
 



 



 
 
23.3
  
 



 
 
23.3
  

 Withholdings for share-based awards and other
 



 



 



 
 
(0.2
) 
 
 
(2.6
) 
 



 



 
 
(2.6
) 
 



 
 
(2.6
) 

 Cash dividends paid
 



 



 



 



 



 
 
(213.6
) 
 



 
 
(213.6
) 
 



 
 
(213.6
) 

 Distributions to noncontrolling interests
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2.4
) 
 
 
(2.4
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
 
 
243.0
  
 
 
303.7
  
 
 
2,906.2
  
 
 
(37.3
) 
 
 
(1,193.8
) 
 
 
662.9
  
 
 
(545.0
) 
 
 
2,134.0
  
 
 
27.0
  
 
 
2,161.0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net earnings (loss)
 



 



 



 



 



 
 
221.7
  
 



 
 
221.7
  
 
 
(4.6
) 
 
 
217.1
  

 Translation adjustments
 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
12.3
  
 
 
12.3
  
 
 
0.3
  
 
 
12.6
  

 Pension and other benefit liability adjustments
 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
42.0
  
 
 
42.0
  
 



 
 
42.0
  

 Change in fair value of derivatives and hedge reclassifications
 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
0.3
  
 
 
0.3
  
 



 
 
0.3
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income (loss)
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
276.3
  
 
 
(4.3
) 
 
 
272.0
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Share-based compensation
 



 



 
 
0.8
  
 
 
1.3
  
 
 
36.3
  
 



 



 
 
37.1
  
 



 
 
37.1
  

 Withholdings for share-based awards and other.
 



 



 



 
 
(0.4
) 
 
 
(8.7
) 
 



 



 
 
(8.7
) 
 



 
 
(8.7
) 

 Cash dividends paid
 



 



 



 



 



 
 
(214.4
) 
 



 
 
(214.4
) 
 



 
 
(214.4
) 

 Distributions to noncontrolling interests
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1.6
) 
 
 
(1.6
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
 
 
243.0
  
 
$
303.7
  
 
$
2,907.0
  
 
 
(36.4
) 
 
$
(1,166.2
) 
 
$
670.2
  
 
$
(490.4
) 
 
$
2,224.3
  
 
$
21.1
  
 
$
2,245.4
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net earnings (loss)
 



 



 



 



 



 
 
(122.6
) 
 



 
 
(122.6
) 
 
 
1.5
  
 
 
(121.1
) 

 Translation adjustments
 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
(70.5
) 
 
 
(70.5
) 
 
 
0.4
  
 
 
(70.1
) 

 Pension and other benefit liability adjustments
 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
(303.1
) 
 
 
(303.1
) 
 



 
 
(303.1
) 

 Change in fair value of derivatives and hedge reclassifications
 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
0.7
  
 
 
0.7
  
 



 
 
0.7
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
(495.5
) 
 
 
1.9
  
 
 
(493.6
) 


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Share-based compensation
 



 



 
 
28.3
  
 



 



 



 



 
 
28.3
  
 



 
 
28.3
  

 Issuance of share-based awards, net of withholdings and other
 



 



 
 
(46.6
) 
 
 
1.1
  
 
 
37.4
  
 



 



 
 
(9.2
) 
 



 
 
(9.2
) 

 Cash dividends paid
 



 



 



 



 



 
 
(205.2
) 
 



 
 
(205.2
) 
 



 
 
(205.2
) 

 Acquisition of common stock.
 



 



 



 
 
(29.2
) 
 
 
(500.0
) 
 



 



 
 
(500.0
) 
 



 
 
(500.0
) 

 Distributions to noncontrolling interests
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
—  
  
 
 
(3.5
) 
 
 
(3.5
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
 
 
243.0
  
 
$
303.7
  
 
$
2,888.7
  
 
 
(64.5
) 
 
$
(1,628.8
) 
 
$
342.4
  
 
$
(863.3
) 
 
$
1,042.7
  
 
$
19.5
  
 
$
1,062.2
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  F-5



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated) 
Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
Basis of Presentation—The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company and its subsidiaries (the “Company” or “RR Donnelley”) and have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
(“GAAP”). All intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The accounts of businesses acquired during 2011, 2010 and 2009 are included in the consolidated financial statements from the dates of acquisition (see Note 2).
 Nature of Operations—The Company is a global provider of integrated communications which works collaboratively
with more than 60,000 customers worldwide to develop custom communications solutions that reduce costs, enhance return on investment and ensure compliance. Drawing on a range of proprietary and commercially available digital and conventional
technologies deployed across four continents, the Company employs a suite of leading Internet-based capabilities and other resources to provide premedia, printing, logistics and business process outsourcing products and services to leading clients
in virtually every private and public sector.  Use of Estimates—The preparation of consolidated financial
statements, in conformity with GAAP, requires the extensive use of management’s estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Estimates are used when accounting for items and matters including, but not limited to, allowance
for uncollectible accounts receivable, inventory obsolescence, asset valuations and useful lives, employee benefits, self-insurance reserves, taxes, restructuring and other provisions and contingencies. 
Foreign Operations—Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange
rate existing at the respective balance sheet dates. Income and expense items are translated at the average rates during the respective periods. Translation adjustments resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates are recorded as a separate
component of other comprehensive loss within shareholders’ equity while transaction gains and losses are recorded in net earnings (loss). As of December 31, 2009, the three-year cumulative inflation for Venezuela using the blended Consumer
Price Index and National Consumer Price Index (“NCPI) exceeded 100%. As a result, as of January 1, 2010, Venezuela’s economy was considered highly inflationary and the financial statements of the Company’s Venezuelan entities
were remeasured as if the functional currency were the U.S. Dollar. Consistent with historical practices and the Company’s future intent, the financial statements were remeasured based on the official rate. On January 8, 2010, the
government of Venezuela changed its primary fixed exchange rate from 2.15 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar to 4.3 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar, devaluing the Bolivar by 50%. This devaluation resulted in a pre-tax loss of $8.9 million ($8.1 million
after-tax) and a reduction in income attributable to noncontrolling interest of $3.6 million. As of December 31, 2011 Venezuela’s economy continued to be considered highly inflationary as the three-year cumulative inflation using the NCPI
continued to exceed 100%.  Fair Value Measurements— Certain assets and liabilities are required to be recorded at
fair value on a recurring basis. Fair value is determined based on the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an
orderly transaction between market participants. The Company records the fair value of its foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps, pension plan assets and other postretirement plan assets on a recurring basis. Assets measured at
fair value on a nonrecurring basis include long-lived assets held and used, long-lived assets held for sale, goodwill and other intangible assets. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, short-term debt and accounts payable
approximate their carrying values. The three-tier value hierarchy, which prioritizes valuation methodologies based on the reliability of the inputs, is:  Level 1—Valuations based on quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. 
  F-6



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
Level 2—Valuations based on observable inputs other than quoted
prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be
corroborated by observable market data.  Level 3—Valuations based on unobservable inputs reflecting the
Company’s own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. 
Revenue Recognition—The Company recognizes revenue for the majority of its products upon transfer of title and the passage of
the risk of loss, which is generally upon shipment to the customer. Contracts generally specify F.O.B. shipping point terms. Under agreements with certain customers, custom products may be stored by the Company for future delivery. In these
situations, the Company may also receive a logistics or warehouse management fee for the services it provides. In certain of these cases, delivery and billing schedules are outlined in the customer agreement and product revenue is recognized when
manufacturing is complete, title and risk of loss transfer to the customer, and there is a reasonable assurance as to collectability. Because the majority of products are customized, product returns are not significant; however, the Company accrues
for the estimated amount of customer credits at the time of sale.  Revenue from services is recognized as services are
performed. Within the Company’s financial print operations, which serve the global financial services end market, the Company produces highly customized materials such as regulatory S-filings, initial public offerings, XBRL and EDGAR-related
services. Revenue is recognized for these services following final delivery of the printed product or upon completion of the service performed. Revenues related to the Company’s premedia operations, which include digital content management,
photography, color services and page production, are recognized in accordance with the terms of the contract, typically upon completion of the performed service and acceptance by the customer. With respect to the Company’s logistics operations,
whose operations include the delivery of printed material and other products, the Company recognizes revenue upon completion of the delivery of services.  The Company records deferred revenue in situations where amounts are invoiced but the revenue recognition criteria outlined above are not met. Such revenue is recognized when all criteria are subsequently
met.  Certain revenues earned by the Company require judgment to determine if revenue should be recorded gross as a principal
or net of related costs as an agent. Billings for third-party shipping and handling costs, primarily in the Company’s logistics operations, and out-of-pocket expenses are recorded gross. In the Company’s Global Turnkey Solutions
operations, each contract is evaluated using various criteria to determine if revenue for components and other materials should be recognized on a gross or net basis. In general, these revenues are recognized on a gross basis if the Company has
control over selecting vendors and pricing, is the primary obligor in the arrangement, bears all credit risk and bears the risk of loss for inventory in its possession. Revenue from contracts that do not meet these criteria is recognized on a net
basis. Many of the Company’s operations process materials, primarily paper, that may be supplied directly by customers or may be purchased by the Company and sold to customers. No revenue is recognized for customer-supplied paper, but revenues
for Company-supplied paper are recognized on a gross basis.  The Company records taxes collected from customers and remitted
to governmental authorities on a net basis.  By-product recoveries—The Company records the sale of by-products as
a reduction of cost of sales.  Cash and cash equivalents—The Company considers all highly liquid investments with
original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Short-term securities consist of investment grade instruments of governments, financial institutions and corporations. 
  F-7



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
Receivables—Receivables are stated net of allowances for doubtful accounts
and primarily include trade receivables, notes receivable and miscellaneous receivables from suppliers. No single customer comprised more than 10% of the Company’s consolidated net sales in 2011, 2010 or 2009. Specific customer provisions are
made when a review of significant outstanding amounts, utilizing information about customer creditworthiness and current economic trends, indicates that collection is doubtful. In addition, provisions are made at differing rates, based upon the age
of the receivable and the Company’s historical collection experience. See Note 5 for details of activity affecting the allowance for doubtful accounts.  Inventories—Inventories include material, labor and factory overhead and are stated at the lower of cost or market. The cost of approximately 65.7% and 66.9% of the inventories at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, has been determined using the Last-In, First-Out (LIFO) method. This method reflects the effect of inventory replacement costs within results of operations; accordingly, charges to cost of sales reflect
recent costs of material, labor and factory overhead. The Company uses an external-index method of valuing LIFO inventories. The remaining inventories, primarily related to certain acquired and international operations, are valued using the
First-In, First-Out (FIFO) or specific identification methods.  Long-lived Assets—The Company assesses potential
impairments to its long-lived assets if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently, if events
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. An impaired asset is written down to its estimated fair value based upon the most recent information available. Estimated fair market value is generally measured by
discounting estimated future cash flows. Long-lived assets, other than goodwill and intangible assets, that are held for sale are recorded at the lower of the carrying value or the fair market value less the estimated cost to sell. 
Property, plant and equipment—Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost and depreciated on a straight-line basis
over their estimated useful lives. Useful lives range from 15 to 40 years for buildings, the lesser of 7 years or the lease term for leasehold improvements and from 3 to 15 years for machinery and equipment. Maintenance and repair costs are charged
to expense as incurred. Major overhauls that extend the useful lives of existing assets are capitalized. When properties are retired or disposed, the costs and accumulated depreciation are eliminated and the resulting profit or loss is recognized in
the results of operations.  Goodwill—Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually as of October 31 or more
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying value. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Update
No. 2011-08 “Intangibles – Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment,” which allows the option to perform a qualitative, rather than quantitative, assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not
that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. In performing this qualitative analysis, the Company considers various factors, including the excess of prior year estimates of fair value compared to carrying value, the
effect of market or industry changes and the reporting units’ actual results compared to projected results. Based on this qualitative analysis, if management determines that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit
is greater than its carrying value, no further impairment testing is performed.  For the remaining reporting units, the
Company compares each reporting unit’s fair value, estimated based on comparable company market valuations and expected future discounted cash flows to be generated by the reporting unit, to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the
reporting unit’s fair value, the Company performs an additional fair value measurement calculation to determine the impairment loss, which is charged to operations in the period identified. See Note 3 for further discussion. 
  F-8



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
Amortization—Certain costs to acquire and develop internal-use computer
software are capitalized and amortized over their estimated useful life using the straight-line method, up to a maximum of five years. Amortization expense, primarily related to internally-developed software, was $21.8 million, $15.3 million and
$18.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Deferred debt issue costs are amortized over the term of the related debt. Identifiable intangible assets, except for those intangible assets with indefinite
lives, are recognized apart from goodwill and are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized.  Financial Instruments—The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge exposures to interest rate and foreign exchange fluctuations in the ordinary course of business. 
All derivatives are recorded as other current or noncurrent assets or other current or noncurrent liabilities on the balance sheet at
their respective fair values with unrealized gains and losses recorded in comprehensive income (loss), net of applicable income taxes, or in the results of operations, depending on the purpose for which the derivative is held. For derivatives
designated and that qualify as fair value hedges, the gain or loss on the derivative, as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk, are recognized in the results of operations. Changes in the fair value
of derivatives that do not meet the criteria for designation as a hedge at inception, or fail to meet the criteria thereafter, are recognized currently in the results of operations. At inception of a hedge transaction, the Company formally documents
the hedge relationship and the risk management objective for undertaking the hedge. In addition, the Company assesses, both at inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivative in the hedging transaction has been highly
effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows of the hedged item and whether the derivative is expected to continue to be highly effective. The impact of any ineffectiveness is recognized currently in the results of operations. See
Note 14 for further discussion.  Share-Based Compensation—The Company recognizes share-based compensation expense
based on estimated fair values for all share-based awards made to employees and directors, including stock options, restricted stock units and performance share units. The Company recognizes compensation expense for share-based awards expected to
vest on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the award based on their grant date fair value.  Pension
and Postretirement Plans—The Company records annual income and expense amounts relating to its pension and postretirement plans based on calculations which include various actuarial assumptions, including discount rates, mortality, assumed
rates of return, compensation increases, turnover rates and healthcare cost trend rates. The Company reviews its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and makes modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed
appropriate to do so. The effect of modifications on the value of plan obligations and assets is recognized immediately within other comprehensive income (loss) and amortized into operating earnings over future periods. The Company believes that the
assumptions utilized in recording its obligations under its plans are reasonable based on its experience, market conditions and input from its actuaries and investment advisors. See Note 11 for further discussion. 
Taxes on Income—Deferred taxes are provided using an asset and liability method whereby deferred tax assets are recognized
for deductible temporary differences and operating loss carryforwards and deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences. Temporary differences are the differences between the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
their tax basis. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
are adjusted for the effects of changes in tax laws and rates on the date of enactment.  The Company is regularly audited by
foreign and domestic tax authorities. These audits occasionally result in proposed assessments where the ultimate resolution might result in the Company owing additional taxes, 
  F-9



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 

including in some cases, penalties and interest. The Company recognizes a tax position in its financial statements when it is more likely than not (i.e., a likelihood of more than fifty percent)
that the position would be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. This recognized tax position is then measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Although
management believes that its estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of uncertain tax positions may be materially different from that which is reflected in the Company’s financial statements. The Company adjusts such reserves upon changes
in circumstances that would cause a change to the estimate of the ultimate liability, upon effective settlement or upon the expiration of the statute of limitations, in the period in which such event occurs. See Note 12 for further discussion.
 Comprehensive Income (Loss)—Comprehensive income (loss) for the Company consists of net earnings (loss),
unrecognized actuarial gains and losses, prior service cost for pension and postretirement benefit plans, changes in the fair value of certain derivative financial instruments and foreign currency translation adjustments. Comprehensive income (loss)
is presented in the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity. 
Note 2. Acquisitions 
2011 Acquisitions  On November 21, 2011, the Company acquired StratusGroup, Inc. (“Stratus”), a full service manufacturer of custom pressure sensitive label and paperboard packaging products for health and
beauty, food, beverage and other segments. Stratus’ decorative labeling and paperboard resources complement the Company’s prime label, corrugated and other global packaging capabilities. The purchase price for Stratus was $29.0 million net
of cash acquired of $0.1 million. Stratus’ operations are included in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment.  On
September 6, 2011, the Company acquired Genesis Packaging & Design Inc. (“Genesis”), a full service provider of custom packaging, including designing, printing, die cutting, finishing and assembling. The addition of Genesis
complements the Company’s existing packaging and merchandising business with a centrally located facility and enhanced ability to service customers in a range of industries. The purchase price for Genesis was $10.1 million. Genesis’
operations are included in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment.  On August 16, 2011, the Company acquired
LibreDigital, Inc. (“LibreDigital”), a leading provider of digital content distribution, e-reading software, content conversion, data analytics and business intelligence services. LibreDigital’s capabilities will enable the Company to
offer a broader selection of digital content creation and delivery services to publishing, retail, e-reader provider and other customers. The purchase price for LibreDigital was $19.9 million net of cash acquired of $0.1 million. LibreDigital’s
operations are included in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment.  On August 15, 2011, the Company acquired
Sequence Personal LLC (“Sequence”), a provider of proprietary software that enables readers to select relevant content to be digitally produced as specialized publications. Sequence’s software offers publishers and other customers a
practical way to increase revenues by allowing advertisers to select unique ad selection criteria for targeted delivery. The purchase price for Sequence, which includes the Company’s estimate of contingent consideration, was $14.7 million net
of cash acquired of $0.1 million. A former equity holder of Sequence is entitled to receive the contingent consideration in the form of cash payments of up to $14.0 million, subject to Sequence achieving certain milestones related to volume or
revenue in 2013 and 2014. The Company estimated the fair value of the contingent consideration as of the acquisition date to be $6.8 million, using a probability weighting of the potential payouts. Subsequent changes in the estimated contingent
consideration will be recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Sequence’s operations are included in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. 
  F-10



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
On June 21, 2011, the Company acquired Helium, Inc. (“Helium”), an online
community offering publishers, catalogers and other customers stock and custom content, as well as a comprehensive range of editorial solutions. The ability to bundle Helium’s content development solutions with the Company’s complete
offering of content delivery resources addresses customers’ needs across the full breadth of the supply chain. As the Company previously held a 23.7% equity investment in Helium, the purchase price for the remaining equity of Helium was $57.0
million net of cash acquired of $0.1 million and included an amount due from Helium of $1.1 million. The fair value of the Company’s previously held equity investment was $12.8 million, resulting in the recognition of a $10.0 million gain,
which is reflected in investment and other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2011. The fair value of the previously held equity investment was determined based on the purchase price
paid for the remaining equity less an estimated control premium and was determined to be Level 3 under the fair value hierarchy. Helium’s operations are included in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. 
On March 24, 2011, the Company acquired Journalism Online, LLC (“Journalism Online”), an online provider of tools that
allow consumers to purchase online subscriptions from publishers. Journalism Online’s Press+ offering provides subscription management and online content payment services that increase the breadth of services the Company offers to its existing
base of publishing customers. The purchase price for Journalism Online was $19.6 million net of cash acquired of $0.4 million. Journalism Online’s operations are included in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. 
The operations of these acquired businesses are complementary to the Company’s existing products and services. As a result, the
additions of these businesses are expected to improve the Company’s ability to serve customers and reduce redundant management, support and manufacturing costs. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recorded $2.2 million of
acquisition-related expenses, associated with acquisitions completed or contemplated, within selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
The Stratus, Genesis, LibreDigital, Sequence, Helium and Journalism Online acquisitions were recorded by allocating the cost of the
acquisitions to the assets acquired, including intangible assets, based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of the cost of the acquisitions and the fair value of the previously-held investments in Helium over the net
amounts assigned to the fair value of the assets acquired was recorded as goodwill. $47.4 million of goodwill related to these acquisitions is expected to be tax deductible. Based on the valuations, the final purchase price allocation for these
acquisitions were as follows:   








 Accounts receivable
  
$
6.0
  

 Inventories
  
 
2.3
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
 
0.4
  

 Property, plant and equipment and other long-term assets
  
 
16.8
  

 Amortizable intangible assets
  
 
16.2
  

 Goodwill
  
 
118.3
  

 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
  
 
(8.2
) 

 Other noncurrent liabilities
  
 
(2.9
) 

 Deferred taxes-net
  
 
14.2
  


  
  
  
 

 Total purchase price-net of cash acquired
  
 
163.1
  

 Less: fair value of Company’s previously-held investments in Helium
  
 
13.9
  

 Less: fair value of contingent consideration
  
 
6.8
  


  
  
  
 

 Net cash paid
  
$
142.4
  


  
  
  
 

  F-11



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
The fair values of property, plant and equipment, amortizable intangible assets,
contingent consideration and goodwill associated with the acquisitions of Stratus, Genesis, LibreDigital, Sequence, Helium and Journalism Online were determined to be Level 3 under the fair value hierarchy. Property, plant and equipment values were
estimated based on discussions with machinery and equipment brokers, dealer quotes and internal expertise related to the equipment and current marketplace conditions. Customer relationships intangible asset values were estimated based on expected
future cash flows discounted using an estimated weighted-average cost of capital. Estimates of future customer attrition rates were considered in estimating the expected future cash flows from customer relationships. Tradename intangible asset
values were estimated based on the relief of royalty method.  2010 Acquisitions 
On December 31, 2010, the Company acquired 8touches, an online provider of tools that allow real estate associates, brokers, Multiple
Listing Service (MLS) associations and other marketers to create customized communications materials. The purchase price for 8touches was $1.1 million. 8touches’ operations are included in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment.
 On December 14, 2010, the Company acquired Nimblefish Technologies (“Nimblefish”), a provider of multi-channel
marketing services to leading retail, technology, telecom, hospitality and other customers. The purchase price for Nimblefish was $3.9 million, including debt assumed of $2.0 million. The Company subsequently repaid $1.9 million of the debt assumed
in December 2010. Nimblefish’s operations are included in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment.  On
November 24, 2010, the Company acquired Bowne & Co., Inc. (“Bowne”), a provider of shareholder and marketing communication services with operations in North America, Latin America, Europe and Asia. The purchase price for
Bowne was $465.2 million, including debt assumed of $26.2 million and net of cash acquired of $41.4 million. Immediately following the acquisition, the Company repaid $25.4 million of the debt assumed. Bowne’s operations are included in both
the U.S. Print and Related Services and International segments.  The operations of these acquired businesses are complementary
to the Company’s existing products and services. As a result, the additions of these businesses are expected to improve the Company’s ability to serve customers and reduce redundant management, real estate and manufacturing costs. For the
year ended December 31, 2010, the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements included $61.2 million of net sales and a net loss of $9.3 million related to these acquired businesses. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company
recorded $13.5 million of acquisition-related expenses, associated with acquisitions completed or contemplated, within selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
  F-12



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
The Bowne, Nimblefish and 8touches acquisitions were recorded by allocating the cost of
the acquisitions to the assets acquired, including intangible assets, based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of the cost of the acquisitions over the net amounts assigned to the fair value of the assets acquired was
recorded as goodwill, most of which is not tax deductible. Based on the valuations, the final purchase price allocations for these acquisitions were as follows:   








 Accounts receivable
  
$
129.0
  

 Inventories
  
 
32.1
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
 
18.1
  

 Property, plant and equipment and other long-term assets
  
 
127.3
  

 Amortizable intangible assets
  
 
159.8
  

 Goodwill
  
 
257.9
  

 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
  
 
(159.7
) 

 Pension benefits and other long-term liabilities
  
 
(76.7
) 

 Deferred taxes—net
  
 
(17.6
) 


  
  
  
 

 Total purchase price—net of cash acquired
  
 
470.2
  

 Less: debt assumed
  
 
28.2
  


  
  
  
 

 Net cash paid
  
$
442.0
  


  
  
  
 
 The fair values of property, plant and equipment, amortizable intangible assets and goodwill associated
with the acquisitions of Bowne, Nimblefish and 8touches were determined to be Level 3 under the fair value hierarchy. Property, plant and equipment values were estimated using the cost approach or market approach, if a secondhand market existed.
Customer relationships intangible asset values were estimated based on expected future cash flows discounted using an estimated weighted-average cost of capital. Estimates of future customer attrition rates were considered in estimating the expected
future cash flows from customer relationships. The tradename intangible asset value was estimated based on the relief of royalty method. 
2009 Acquisitions 
On June 18, 2009, the Company acquired Prospectus Central, LLC (“Prospectus”), an e-delivery company, for a purchase price
of $3.0 million. Prospectus’s operations are included in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment.  On January 2,
2009, the Company acquired PROSA, a web printing company located in Santiago, Chile. The purchase price for PROSA was approximately $23.6 million. PROSA’s operations are included in the International segment. 
The operations of these acquired businesses are complementary to the Company’s existing products and services. As a result, the
addition of these businesses has improved the Company’s ability to serve customers, increased capacity utilization, and reduced management, procurement and manufacturing costs. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company’s
Consolidated Financial Statements included $18.7 million of net sales and net earnings of $3.5 million related to these acquired businesses. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company recorded $1.6 million of acquisition-related
expenses, associated with acquisitions completed or contemplated, within selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.  The PROSA and Prospectus acquisitions were recorded by allocating the cost of the acquisitions to the assets acquired, including intangible assets, based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition
date. The 
  F-13



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 

excess of the cost of the acquisitions over the net amounts assigned to the fair value of the assets acquired was recorded as goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. Based on the valuations,
the final purchase price allocations for these acquisitions were as follows:   








 Accounts receivable
  
$
2.4
  

 Property, plant and equipment
  
 
9.2
  

 Amortizable intangible assets
  
 
11.6
  

 Goodwill
  
 
6.5
  

 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
  
 
(2.5
) 

 Deferred taxes—net
  
 
(0.6
) 


  
  
  
 

 Net cash paid
  
$
26.6
  


  
  
  
 
 The fair values of property, plant and equipment, amortizable intangible assets and goodwill associated
with the acquisitions of PROSA and Prospectus were determined to be Level 3 under the fair value hierarchy. Property, plant and equipment values were estimated based on discussions with machinery and equipment brokers, dealer quotes, and internal
expertise related to equipment and current marketplace conditions. Intangible asset values, including customer relationships and a non-compete agreement, were estimated based on expected future cash flows discounted using an estimated
weighted-average cost of capital. Estimates of future customer attrition rates were considered in estimating the expected future cash flows from customer relationships.  Pro forma results  The following unaudited pro forma financial
information for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 presents the combined results of operations of the Company and the 2010 and 2011 acquisitions described above, as if the acquisitions had occurred at January 1, 2010. 
The unaudited pro forma financial information is not intended to represent or be indicative of the Company’s consolidated results of
operations or financial condition that would have been reported had these acquisitions been completed as of the beginning of the periods presented and should not be taken as indicative of the Company’s future consolidated results of operations
or financial condition. Pro forma adjustments are tax-effected at the applicable statutory tax rates.   












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Net sales
  
$
10,646.5
  
 
$
10,711.5
  

 Net earnings (loss) attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders
  
 
(76.3
) 
 
 
137.1
  

 Net earnings (loss) per share attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders:
  



 




 Basic
  
$
(0.39
) 
 
$
0.66
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted
  
$
(0.39
) 
 
$
0.65
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-14



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
The unaudited pro forma financial information for the years ended December 31, 2011
and 2010 included $113.2 million and $116.3 million, respectively, for the amortization of purchased intangibles. The unaudited pro forma financial information includes restructuring and impairment charges from operations of $579.5 million and
$275.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Additionally, the pro forma adjustments affecting net earnings (loss) attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders for the years ended December 31, 2011 and
2010 were as follows:   












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Depreciation and amortization of purchased assets, pre-tax
  
$
(0.5
) 
 
$
(6.0
) 

 Acquisition-related expenses, pre-tax
  
 
1.5
  
 
 
40.5
  

 Restructuring and impairment charges, pre-tax
  
 
88.3
  
 
 
(108.6
) 

 Inventory fair value adjustments, pre-tax
  
 
3.6
  
 
 
(3.8
) 

 Other pro forma adjustments, pre-tax
  
 
(7.1
) 
 
 
4.0
  

 Income taxes
  
 
(34.5
) 
 
 
50.1
  

Note 3. Restructuring and Impairment 
The Company recorded restructuring and impairment charges of $667.8 million, $157.9 million and $382.7 million for the
years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The charges in 2011 included $392.3 million for the impairment of goodwill and $90.7 million of impairment primarily related to acquired customer relationship intangible assets.
Additionally in 2011, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $76.7 million for employee termination costs, $59.6 million for other restructuring charges, of which $15.1 million related to multi-employer pension plan partial withdrawal charges
primarily attributable to the closing of three manufacturing facilities within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment and the remaining amount related to lease termination and other facility closure costs, and $48.5 million of impairment
charges for other long-lived assets. The charges in 2010 included $87.9 million for the impairment of goodwill and acquired customer relationship intangible assets. Additionally in 2010, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $35.9 million
for employee termination costs, $29.5 million for other restructuring charges, of which $13.6 million related to multi-employer pension plan partial withdrawal charges primarily attributable to two closed manufacturing facilities within the U.S.
Print and Related Services segment and the remaining amount related to lease termination and other facility closure costs, and $4.6 million of impairment charges for other long-lived assets. The charges in 2009 included $128.5 million for the
impairment of goodwill, as well as charges, discounted for future cash payments, of $118.6 million for the termination of a significant long-term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment,
of which $117.2 million, $0.8 million and $0.6 million are reflected in other charges, impairment and employee terminations, respectively. Additionally in 2009, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $78.8 million for employee termination
costs, other restructuring charges, including lease termination and other facility closure costs, of $32.1 million and $24.7 million of impairment charges for other long-lived assets. 
The restructuring charges recorded are based on restructuring plans that have been committed to by management and are, in part, based
upon management’s best estimates of future events. Changes to the estimates may require future adjustments to the restructuring liabilities. 
  F-15



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
Restructuring and Impairment Costs Charged to Results of Operations 
 
























 2011
  
EmployeeTerminations
 
  
OtherCharges
 
  
TotalRestructuring
 
  
Impairment
 
  
Total
 

 U.S. Print and Related Services
  
$
49.2
  
  
$
52.5
  
  
$
101.7
  
  
$
403.4
  
  
$
505.1
  

 International
  
 
24.2
  
  
 
7.0
  
  
 
31.2
  
  
 
125.8
  
  
 
157.0
  

 Corporate
  
 
3.3
  
  
 
0.1
  
  
 
3.4
  
  
 
2.3
  
  
 
5.7
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
76.7
  
  
$
59.6
  
  
$
136.3
  
  
$
531.5
  
  
$
667.8
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 In the fourth quarter of 2011, as a result of the Company’s annual goodwill impairment test, the
Company recorded non-cash charges of $170.4 million and $99.9 million to recognize the impairment of goodwill in the commercial and forms and labels reporting units, respectively, within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, as well as
non-cash charges of $62.2 million and $59.8 million to recognize the impairment of goodwill in the Canada and Latin America reporting units, respectively, within the International segment. These goodwill impairment charges resulted from reductions
in the estimated fair value of the commercial, forms and labels, Canada and Latin America reporting units, based on lower expectations for future revenue, profitability and cash flows due to the continued impact of electronic substitution on demand
for business forms and other products and continued price pressure. Because the fair values of these reporting units were below their carrying amounts, including goodwill, the Company performed an additional fair value measurement calculation to
determine the amount of impairment loss. As part of this impairment calculation, the Company also estimated the fair value of the significant tangible and intangible long-lived assets of these reporting units. The goodwill impairments were
determined using Level 3 inputs, including discounted cash flow analyses, comparable marketplace fair value data and management’s assumptions in valuing the significant tangible and intangible assets. 
Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company recorded non-cash charges of $90.7 million primarily related to the
impairment of acquired customer relationship intangible assets in the forms and labels reporting unit within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. The impairment of the acquired customer relationship intangible assets resulted from lower
expectations for future revenue, profitability and cash flows due to the continued impact of electronic substitution on demand for business forms and continued price pressure. The impairment of the acquired customer relationship intangible assets
was determined using Level 3 inputs and estimated based on cash flow analysis, which included estimates of customer attrition rates and management’s assumptions related to future revenues and profitability. After recording the impairment
charge, the remaining customer relationship intangible asset in the forms and labels reporting unit was $12.2 million, related to the acquisition of Stratus on November 21, 2011. 
For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company also recorded net restructuring charges of $76.7 million for employee termination
costs for 2,899 employees, of whom 2,790 were terminated as of December 31, 2011. These charges primarily related to the closings of certain facilities and headcount reductions due to the Bowne acquisition. These charges also related to the
completed or announced closing of four books and directories manufacturing facilities and one commercial manufacturing facility within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. These actions included the reorganization of certain operations
within the books and directories and the magazines, catalogs and retail inserts reporting units within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. The restructuring activities also included the reorganization of certain operations within the Latin
America and Europe reporting units within the International segment. Additionally, the Company incurred multi-employer pension plan partial withdrawal charges, lease termination and other restructuring charges of $59.6 million for the year ended
December 31, 2011. The multi-employer pension plan partial withdrawal charges of $15.1 million are primarily attributable to the closing of three manufacturing facilities within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. For the year ended
December 31, 2011, the Company also recorded $48.5 
  F-16



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 

million of impairment charges primarily related to land, buildings, machinery and equipment and leasehold improvements associated with the facility closings. The fair values of the land,
buildings, machinery and equipment and leasehold improvements were determined to be Level 3 under the fair value hierarchy and were estimated based on discussions with real estate brokers, review of comparable properties, if available, discussions
with machinery and equipment brokers, dealer quotes and internal expertise related to the current marketplace conditions.   
























 2010
  
EmployeeTerminations
 
  
OtherCharges
 
  
TotalRestructuring
 
  
Impairment
 
  
Total
 

 U.S. Print and Related Services
  
$
5.9
  
  
$
24.0
  
  
$
29.9
  
  
$
64.1
  
  
$
94.0
  

 International
  
 
17.9
  
  
 
4.5
  
  
 
22.4
  
  
 
28.2
  
  
 
50.6
  

 Corporate
  
 
12.1
  
  
 
1.0
  
  
 
13.1
  
  
 
0.2
  
  
 
13.3
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
35.9
  
  
$
29.5
  
  
$
65.4
  
  
$
92.5
  
  
$
157.9
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 In the fourth quarter of 2010, as a result of the Company’s annual impairment test, the Company
recorded a non-cash charge of $61.0 million to reflect the impairment of goodwill in the forms and labels reporting unit within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. The goodwill impairment charge of $61.0 million resulted from reductions in
the estimated fair value of the forms and labels reporting unit, based on lower expectations for future revenue and cash flows due to the continued impacts of electronic substitution on forms demand and increasing price pressure. In addition, the
lower fair value reflects higher estimated spending on information technology and capital equipment, in part to better position this reporting unit for increased growth in labels volume as forms’ demand continues to decline. Because the fair
value of this reporting unit was below its carrying amount including goodwill, the Company performed an additional fair value measurement calculation to determine the amount of impairment loss. As part of this impairment calculation, the Company
also estimated the fair value of the significant tangible and intangible long-lived assets of this reporting unit. The goodwill impairment was determined using Level 3 inputs, including discounted cash flow analyses, comparable marketplace fair
value data, as well as management’s assumptions in valuing the significant tangible and intangible assets.  Additionally,
during the third quarter of 2010, the Company recorded a non-cash charge of $26.9 million for the impairment of acquired customer relationship intangible assets in the Global Turnkey Solutions reporting unit within the International segment. The
impairment of the acquired customer relationship intangible assets primarily resulted from the termination of a customer contract and was determined using Level 3 inputs and estimated based on cash flow analysis and management’s assumptions
related to future revenues and profitability of certain customers. After recording the impairment charge, remaining customer relationship intangible assets in the Global Turnkey Solutions reporting unit were $32.6 million and $43.0 million as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $35.9 million for employee termination costs for 1,458 employees, substantially all of whom were terminated
as of December 31, 2011, associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations. These actions included the reorganization of certain operations within the Financial Print reporting unit within the U.S. Print and
Related Services segment due to the acquisition of Bowne. In addition, these actions included the closing of one Latin America manufacturing facility, one business process outsourcing manufacturing facility and one Global Turnkey Solutions
manufacturing facility within the International segment. Further, continuing charges resulting from the closing of two Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facilities in 2009 within the International segment were recorded in 2010. These actions
also included the reorganization of certain operations within the magazine, catalog and retail insert and variable print reporting units and the closing of one Forms and Labels manufacturing facility within the U.S. Print and Related Services
segment. Additionally, the Company incurred other restructuring charges of $29.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, of which $13.6 
  F-17



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 

million related to multi-employer pension plan partial withdrawal charges primarily attributable to two closed manufacturing facilities within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. The
remaining charges included lease termination and other facility closure costs partially offset by gains on the sales of two previously closed facilities within both the International and U.S. Print and Related Services segment. Finally, for the year
ended December 31, 2010, the Company recorded $4.6 million of impairment charges primarily for machinery and equipment and leasehold improvements associated with the facility closings. The fair values of the machinery and equipment and
leasehold improvements were determined to be Level 3 under the fair value hierarchy and were estimated based on discussions with machinery and equipment brokers, dealer quotes and internal expertise related to the equipment and current marketplace
conditions.   
























 2009
  
EmployeeTerminations
 
  
OtherCharges
 
  
TotalRestructuring
 
  
Impairment
 
  
Total
 

 U.S. Print and Related Services
  
$
36.5
  
  
$
19.2
  
  
$
55.7
  
  
$
108.1
  
  
$
163.8
  

 International
  
 
40.5
  
  
 
124.3
  
  
 
164.8
  
  
 
45.9
  
  
 
210.7
  

 Corporate
  
 
2.4
  
  
 
5.8
  
  
 
8.2
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
8.2
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
79.4
  
  
$
149.3
  
  
$
228.7
  
  
$
154.0
  
  
$
382.7
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company recorded a non-cash charge of $128.5 million to reflect the
impairment of goodwill, of which $93.8 million and $34.7 million are reflected in the U.S. Print and Related Services and International segments, respectively. The goodwill impairment charges of $93.8 million and $34.7 million resulted from
reductions in the estimated fair value of the forms and labels and Canada reporting units, respectively, based on lower expectations for revenue due to declines in business and consumer spending and continued price pressure. Because the fair value
of these reporting units was below their carrying amounts including goodwill, the Company performed an additional fair value measurement calculation to determine the amount of impairment loss. As part of this impairment calculation, the Company
estimated the fair value of the significant tangible and intangible long-lived assets of each reporting unit.  For the year
ended December 31, 2009, the Company also recorded net restructuring and impairment charges, discounted for future cash payments, of $118.6 million for the termination of a significant long-term customer contract in the business process
outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment, of which $117.2 million, $0.8 million and $0.6 million are reflected in other charges, impairment and employee terminations, respectively. In addition, for the year ended December 31,
2009, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $78.8 million for employee termination costs for 4,043 employees, all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2011, associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain
operations. These actions included the closings of two magazine, catalog and retail insert manufacturing facilities, two book manufacturing facilities and one premedia facility within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment and the closing of
two Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facilities, one business process outsourcing facility, one Latin America manufacturing facility and one European manufacturing facility within the International segment. Additionally, the Company incurred
other restructuring charges, including lease termination and other facility closure costs, of $32.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Finally, for the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company recorded $24.7 million of
impairment charges primarily for machinery and equipment associated with the facility closings. The fair values of the machinery and equipment were determined to be Level 3 under the fair value hierarchy and were estimated based on discussions with
machinery and equipment brokers, dealer quotes, internal expertise related to the equipment and current marketplace conditions. 
  F-18



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
Restructuring Reserve 
Activity impacting the Company’s restructuring reserve for the year ended December 31, 2011 was as follows: 
 
























 
  
December 31,2010
 
  
RestructuringCharges
 
  
ForeignExchange andOther
 
 
Cash Paid
 
 
December 31,2011
 

 Employee terminations
  
$
11.2
  
  
$
76.7
  
  
$
(0.5
) 
 
$
(60.2
) 
 
$
27.2
  

 Multi-employer pension withdrawal obligations
  
 
13.6
  
  
 
15.1
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(0.8
) 
 
 
27.9
  

 Lease terminations and other
  
 
29.2
  
  
 
44.5
  
  
 
2.1
  
 
 
(43.2
) 
 
 
32.6
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
54.0
  
  
$
136.3
  
  
$
1.6
  
 
$
(104.2
) 
 
$
87.7
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The current portion of restructuring reserves of $43.9 million was included in accrued liabilities at
December 31, 2011, while the long-term portion of $43.8 million, primarily related to multi-employer pension plan partial withdrawal obligations and lease termination costs, was included in other noncurrent liabilities at December 31,
2011.  The Company anticipates that payments associated with the employee terminations reflected in the above table will be
substantially completed by December 2012 and payments on certain of the multi-employer pension plan partial withdrawal obligations are scheduled to continue until 2031.  As of December 31, 2011, the restructuring liabilities classified as “lease terminations and other” consisted of lease terminations, other facility closing costs and contract termination
costs. Payments on certain of the lease obligations are scheduled to continue until 2026. Market conditions and the Company’s ability to sublease these properties could affect the ultimate charge related to the lease obligations. Any potential
recoveries or additional charges could affect amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements of future periods. 
Activity impacting the Company’s restructuring reserve for the year ended December 31, 2010 was as follows: 
 
























 
  
December 31,2009
 
  
RestructuringCharges
 
  
ForeignExchange andOther
 
  
Cash Paid
 
 
December 31,2010
 

 Employee terminations
  
$
20.4
  
  
$
35.9
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
(45.1
) 
 
$
11.2
  

 Multi-employer pension withdrawal obligations
  
 
—  
  
  
 
13.6
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
13.6
  

 Lease terminations and other
  
 
120.5
  
  
 
15.9
  
  
 
5.8
  
  
 
(113.0
) 
 
 
29.2
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
140.9
  
  
$
65.4
  
  
$
5.8
  
  
$
(158.1
) 
 
$
54.0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The current portion of restructuring reserves of $28.4 million was included in accrued liabilities at
December 31, 2010, while the long-term portion of $25.6 million, primarily related to multi-employer pension plan partial withdrawal obligations and lease termination costs, was included in other noncurrent liabilities at December 31,
2010.  As of December 31, 2010, the restructuring liabilities classified as “lease terminations and other”
consisted of lease terminations, other facility closing costs and contract termination costs. In 2010, the Company paid $57.5 million and $38.3 million in January and December, respectively, related to the termination of a significant long-term
customer contract. 
  F-19



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
Note 4. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows:
  
















 
  
U.S. Print andRelated Services
 
 
International
 
 
Total
 

 Net book value at January 1, 2010
  



 



 




 Goodwill
  
$
2,977.6
  
 
$
1,216.2
  
 
$
4,193.8
  

 Accumulated impairment losses
  
 
(878.2
) 
 
 
(982.3
) 
 
 
(1,860.5
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
2,099.4
  
 
 
233.9
  
 
 
2,333.3
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Acquisitions
  
 
165.9
  
 
 
92.0
  
 
 
257.9
  

 Foreign exchange and other adjustments
  
 
(1.8
) 
 
 
(1.6
) 
 
 
(3.4
) 

 Impairment charge
  
 
(61.0
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(61.0
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net book value at December 31, 2010
  



 



 




 Goodwill
  
 
3,141.7
  
 
 
1,298.5
  
 
 
4,440.2
  

 Accumulated impairment losses
  
 
(939.2
) 
 
 
(974.2
) 
 
 
(1,913.4
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
2,202.5
  
 
 
324.3
  
 
 
2,526.8
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Acquisitions
  
 
118.3
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
118.3
  

 Foreign exchange and other adjustments
  
 
(17.4
) 
 
 
(13.3
) 
 
 
(30.7
) 

 Impairment charges
  
 
(270.3
) 
 
 
(122.0
) 
 
 
(392.3
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net book value at December 31, 2011
  



 



 




 Goodwill
  
 
3,242.6
  
 
 
1,278.4
  
 
 
4,521.0
  

 Accumulated impairment losses
  
 
(1,209.5
) 
 
 
(1,089.4
) 
 
 
(2,298.9
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
2,033.1
  
 
$
189.0
  
 
$
2,222.1
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 In the fourth quarters of 2011 and 2010, the Company recorded non-cash charges of $392.3 million and
$61.0 million, respectively, to reflect impairment of goodwill. See Note 3 for further discussion regarding these impairment charges.  The components of other intangible assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows:   




























 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
GrossCarryingAmount
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
 
Net BookValue
 
  
GrossCarryingAmount
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
 
Net BookValue
 

 Trademarks, licenses and agreements
  
$
28.7
  
  
$
(24.4
) 
 
$
4.3
  
  
$
25.7
  
  
$
(23.0
) 
 
$
2.7
  

 Patents
  
 
98.3
  
  
 
(95.8
) 
 
 
2.5
  
  
 
98.3
  
  
 
(83.6
) 
 
 
14.7
  

 Customer relationship intangibles
  
 
1,164.4
  
  
 
(613.6
) 
 
 
550.8
  
  
 
1,244.3
  
  
 
(519.8
) 
 
 
724.5
  

 Trade names
  
 
23.9
  
  
 
(9.3
) 
 
 
14.6
  
  
 
22.7
  
  
 
(7.7
) 
 
 
15.0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total amortizable purchased intangible assets
  
 
1,315.3
  
  
 
(743.1
) 
 
 
572.2
  
  
 
1,391.0
  
  
 
(634.1
) 
 
 
756.9
  

 Indefinite-lived trade names
  
 
18.1
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
18.1
  
  
 
18.1
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
18.1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total purchased intangible assets
  
$
1,333.4
  
  
$
(743.1
) 
 
$
590.3
  
  
$
1,409.1
  
  
$
(634.1
) 
 
$
775.0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company recorded non-cash charges of $90.7 million to reflect the
impairment of acquired customer relationship intangible assets and other intangible assets within the U.S. Print 
  F-20



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 

and Related Services segment. In the third quarter of 2010, the Company recorded a non-cash charge of $26.9 million to reflect impairment of acquired customer relationship intangible assets in
the International segment.  See Note 3 for further discussion regarding these impairment charges. 
During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company recorded additions to other intangible assets of $19.9 million and
$159.8 million, respectively. The components of other intangible assets added during 2011 and 2010 were as follows:   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Amount
 
  
WeightedAverageAmortizationPeriod
 
  
Amount
 
  
WeightedAverageAmortizationPeriod
 

 Trademarks, licenses and agreements
  
$
4.1
  
  
 
4.5
  
  
$
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Customer relationship intangibles
  
 
14.7
  
  
 
13.9
  
  
 
158.3
  
  
 
10.0
  

 Trade names
  
 
1.1
  
  
 
3.5
  
  
 
1.5
  
  
 
1.5
  


  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  




 Total additions
  
$
19.9
  
  



  
$
159.8
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  



 Amortization expense for other intangible assets was $112.2 million, $99.3 million and $99.1 million for
the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The following table outlines the estimated future amortization expense related to other intangible assets as of December 31, 2011: 
 








 
  
Amount
 

 2012
  
$
90.0
  

 2013
  
 
86.9
  

 2014
  
 
84.3
  

 2015
  
 
76.8
  

 2016
  
 
49.2
  

 2017 and thereafter
  
 
185.0
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
572.2
  


  
  
  
 

Note 5. Accounts Receivable 
Transactions affecting the allowance for doubtful accounts during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
were as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Balance, beginning of year
  
$
71.0
  
 
$
70.3
  
 
$
80.5
  

 Provisions charged to expense
  
 
18.8
  
 
 
22.8
  
 
 
19.7
  

 Write-offs and other
  
 
(27.2
) 
 
 
(22.1
) 
 
 
(29.9
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, end of year
  
$
62.6
  
 
$
71.0
  
 
$
70.3
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-21



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
Note 6. Inventories 
The components of the Company’s inventories at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows: 
 












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Raw materials and manufacturing supplies
  
$
218.0
  
 
$
259.6
  

 Work in process
  
 
171.2
  
 
 
184.3
  

 Finished goods
  
 
218.1
  
 
 
204.7
  

 LIFO reserve
  
 
(96.4
) 
 
 
(88.0
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
510.9
  
 
$
560.6
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The Company recognized LIFO expense of $8.4 million and $10.2 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, and
a LIFO benefit of $17.6 million in 2009. 
Note 7. Property, Plant and Equipment 
The components of the Company’s property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows:
  












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Land
  
$
107.4
  
 
$
111.4
  

 Buildings
  
 
1,173.2
  
 
 
1,197.9
  

 Machinery and equipment
  
 
6,054.4
  
 
 
6,098.8
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
7,335.0
  
 
 
7,408.1
  

 Less: Accumulated depreciation
  
 
(5,480.4
) 
 
 
(5,269.4
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
1,854.6
  
 
$
2,138.7
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, depreciation expense was $415.9 million,
$424.6 million and $461.6 million, respectively.  Assets Held for Sale 
Primarily as a result of restructuring actions, certain facilities and equipment are considered held for sale. The net book value of
assets held for sale was $20.2 million and $6.5 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. These assets were included in other current assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010 at the lower of their
historical net book value or their estimated fair value, less estimated costs to sell. 
Note 8. Fair Value Measurement 
Certain assets and liabilities are required to be recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. The Company’s only
assets and liabilities adjusted to fair value on a recurring basis are pension and other postretirement plan assets, foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swaps. See Note 11 for the fair value of the Company’s pension and other
postretirement plan assets as of December 31, 2011 and Note 14 for further discussion on the fair value of the Company’s foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swaps as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
  F-22



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
In addition to assets and liabilities that are recorded at fair value on a recurring
basis, the Company is required to record certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, generally as a result of acquisitions or the remeasurement of assets resulting in impairment charges. See Note 2 for further discussion on
the fair value of assets and liabilities associated with acquisitions. Assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis subsequent to initial recognition during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are summarized below:
  
















 2011
  
Impairmentcharge
 
  
Fair valuemeasurement(Level 3)
 
  
Net bookvalue
 

 Long-lived assets held and used
  
$
14.7
  
  
$
68.8
  
  
$
61.3
  

 Long-lived assets held for sale or disposal
  
 
34.3
  
  
 
12.8
  
  
 
11.7
  

 Goodwill
  
 
392.3
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Other intangible assets
  
 
90.7
  
  
 
2.2
  
  
 
2.1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
532.0
  
  
$
83.8
  
  
$
75.1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
















 2010
  
Impairmentcharge
 
  
Fair valuemeasurement(Level 3)
 
  
Net bookvalue
 

 Long-lived assets held and used
  
$
2.2
  
  
$
3.0
  
  
$
2.7
  

 Long-lived assets held for sale or disposal
  
 
2.2
  
  
 
3.6
  
  
 
3.5
  

 Goodwill
  
 
61.0
  
  
 
102.7
  
  
 
102.7
  

 Other intangible assets
  
 
26.9
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
92.3
  
  
$
109.3
  
  
$
108.9
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
















 2009
  
Impairmentcharge
 
  
Fair valuemeasurement(Level 3)
 
  
Net bookvalue
 

 Long-lived assets held and used
  
$
20.2
  
  
$
4.0
  
  
$
3.8
  

 Long-lived assets held for sale or disposal
  
 
5.0
  
  
 
6.5
  
  
 
6.1
  

 Goodwill
  
 
128.5
  
  
 
184.2
  
  
 
184.9
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
153.7
  
  
$
194.7
  
  
$
194.8
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, impairment charges of $14.7 million, $2.2
million and $20.2 million, respectively, were recognized on long-lived assets held and used. These assets had carrying amounts before the impairment charges of $83.5 million, $5.2 million and $24.2 million during the years ended December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and were written down to fair values of $68.8 million, $3.0 million and $4.0 million during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, impairment charges of $34.3 million, $2.2 million and $5.0 million,
respectively, were recognized on long-lived assets held for sale or disposal. These assets had carrying amounts before the impairment charges of $47.1 million, $5.7 million and $11.1 million during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively, and were written down to fair values of $12.8 million, $3.6 million and $6.5 million during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These fair values were reduced by estimated costs to sell of $0.1
million and $0.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. There were no costs to sell related to long-lived assets held for sale or disposal as of December 31, 2011. 
The fair values of the long-lived assets held and used and long-lived assets held for sale or disposal were determined using Level 3
inputs and were estimated based on discussions with real estate brokers, review of 
  F-23



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 

comparable properties, if available, discussions with machinery and equipment brokers, dealer quotes and internal expertise related to the current marketplace conditions. 
During the year ended December 31, 2011, goodwill for the commercial, forms and labels, Canada and Latin America reporting units
with carrying amounts of $170.4 million, $99.9 million, $62.2 million and $59.8 million, respectively, were written down to implied fair values of zero, resulting in a total impairment charge of $392.3 million. As of December 31, 2011, there
was $7.4 million of goodwill remaining on the forms and labels reporting unit related to the acquisition of Stratus, which was acquired on November 21, 2011.  During the year ended December 31, 2010, goodwill for the forms and labels reporting unit with a carrying amount of $163.7 million was written down to an implied fair value of $102.7 million,
resulting in an impairment charge of $61.0 million for the year.  During the year ended December 31, 2009, goodwill for
the forms and labels and Canada reporting units with a carrying amount of $257.5 million and $55.3 million, respectively, was written down to implied fair values of $163.7 million and $20.6 million, respectively, resulting in impairment charges of
$128.5 million for the year.  Determination of goodwill impairment was based on Level 3 inputs, which included discounted cash
flow analyses, comparable marketplace fair value data, as well as management’s assumptions in valuing significant tangible and intangible assets. See Note 3 for further discussion on the factors leading to the recognition of the impairment.
 During the year ended December 31, 2011, acquired customer relationship intangible assets, substantially all of which
were related to the forms and labels reporting unit, with an aggregate carrying amount of $89.7 million, were written down to an implied fair value of zero, resulting in an impairment charge of $89.7 million. The remaining acquired customer
relationship intangible asset in the forms and labels reporting unit as of December 31, 2011 was $12.2 million and related to the acquisition of Stratus on November 21, 2011. Additionally, other intangible assets for the financial print
reporting unit with a carrying amount of $3.2 million were written down to an implied fair value of $2.2 million, resulting in an impairment charge of $1.0 million for the year. The determination of the impairment charges was based on Level 3
inputs, which included estimates based on cash flow analysis, customer attrition rates and management’s assumptions related to future revenues and profitability.  During the year ended December 31, 2010, acquired customer relationship intangible assets for the Global Turnkey Solutions reporting unit with a carrying amount of $26.9 million were written down to
an implied fair value of zero, resulting in an impairment charge of $26.9 million for the year. The determination of the impairment was based on Level 3 inputs, which included cash flow analysis and management’s assumptions related to the
future revenues and profitability of certain customers. After recording the impairment charge, remaining customer relationship intangible assets in the Global Turnkey Solutions reporting unit were $32.6 million and $43.0 million as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. See Note 3 for further discussion regarding the impairment charge.  See Note 13
for the fair value of the Company’s debt. 
  F-24



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
Note 9. Accrued Liabilities 
The components of the Company’s accrued liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows:
  












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Employee-related liabilities
  
$
285.8
  
  
$
387.3
  

 Deferred revenue
  
 
139.5
  
  
 
129.9
  

 Restructuring liabilities
  
 
43.9
  
  
 
28.4
  

 Other
  
 
347.8
  
  
 
356.6
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total accrued liabilities
  
$
817.0
  
  
$
902.2
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Employee-related liabilities consist primarily of payroll, incentive compensation, sales commission,
workers’ compensation and employee benefit accruals. Incentive compensation accruals include amounts earned pursuant to the Company’s primary employee incentive compensation plans. Other accrued liabilities include income and other tax
liabilities, interest expense accruals and miscellaneous operating accruals. The increase in restructuring liabilities was primarily due to employee terminations related to the closings of certain facilities and headcount reductions. 
Note 10. Commitments and Contingencies 
As of December 31, 2011, authorized expenditures on incomplete projects for the purchase of property, plant and
equipment totaled approximately $135.8 million. Of this total, approximately $41.9 million had been committed. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, the Company had a commitment of $27.2 million for severance payments related to employee
restructuring activities. The Company also has contractual commitments of approximately $184.6 million for outsourced services, including technology, professional, maintenance and other services. The Company has a variety of contracts with suppliers
for the purchase of paper, ink and other commodities for delivery in future years at prevailing market prices. In addition, the Company has natural gas purchase commitments that are at fixed prices. As of December 31, 2011, the Company was
committed to purchase $10.1 million of natural gas under these contracts.  Future minimum rental commitments under
non-cancelable operating leases are as follows:   








 Year Ended December 31
  
Amount
 

 2012
  
$
124.1
  

 2013
  
 
93.9
  

 2014
  
 
72.7
  

 2015
  
 
53.8
  

 2016
  
 
39.6
  

 2017 and thereafter
  
 
112.3
  


  
  
  
 


  
$
496.4
  


  
  
  
 
 The Company has non-cancelable operating lease commitments totaling $496.4 million extending through
various periods to 2044. Rent expense was $152.7 million, $212.5 million and $215.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Future rental commitments for leases have not been reduced by minimum non-cancelable sublease rentals aggregating approximately $39.8 million. The Company remains secondarily liable under these leases in
the event that the sub-lessee defaults under the sublease terms. The Company does not believe that material payments will be required as a result of the secondary liability provisions of the primary lease agreements. 
  F-25



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
Litigation  The Company is subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. The Company provides for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations when such amounts are
probable and can be reasonably estimated. Such accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change and are not discounted. The Company has been designated as a potentially responsible party in eleven federal and state Superfund
and other multiparty remediation sites. In addition to these sites, the Company may also have the obligation to remediate nine other previously owned facilities and four other currently owned facilities. At the Superfund sites, the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act provides that the Company’s liability could be joint and several, meaning that the Company could be required to pay an amount in excess of its proportionate share of the remediation costs.
The Company’s understanding of the financial strength of other potentially responsible parties at the multiparty sites and of other liable parties at the previously owned facilities has been considered, where appropriate, in the determination
of the Company’s estimated liability. The Company established reserves, recorded in accrued liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities, that it believes are adequate to cover its share of the potential costs of remediation at each of the
multiparty sites and the previously and currently owned facilities. While it is not possible to quantify with certainty the potential impact of actions regarding environmental matters, particularly remediation and other compliance efforts that the
Company may undertake in the future, in the opinion of management, compliance with the present environmental protection laws, before taking into account estimated recoveries from third parties, will not have a material effect on the Company’s
consolidated annual results of operations, financial position or cash flows.  From time to time, the Company’s customers
and others file voluntary petitions for reorganization under United States bankruptcy laws. In such cases, certain pre-petition payments received by the Company from these parties could be considered preference items and subject to return. In
addition, the Company may be party to certain litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. Management believes that the final resolution of these preference items and litigation will not have a material effect on the Company’s
consolidated annual results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 
Note 11. Retirement Plans 
The Company sponsors various funded and unfunded retirement income plans for most of its employees in the U.S., Canada
and certain other international locations. The Company also participates in various multi-employer pension plans in the U.S. and makes contributions pursuant to the terms of the applicable collective bargaining agreements. Benefits are generally
based upon years of service and compensation. The retirement income plans are funded in conformity with the applicable government regulations. The Company funds at least the minimum amount required for all funded plans using actuarial cost methods
and assumptions acceptable under government regulations  On November 2, 2011, the Company announced a freeze on further
benefit accruals under all of its U.S. pension plans as of December 31, 2011. Beginning January 1, 2012, participants ceased earning additional benefits under the plans and no new participants will enter these plans. The plan freeze
required a remeasurement of the plans’ assets and obligations as of November 2, 2011, which resulted in a non-cash curtailment gain of $38.7 million, which was recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Operations during the fourth
quarter of 2011. The remeasurement of the plans’ assets and obligations also resulted in a reduction in the Company’s pension liability of $61.6 million. The remeasurement did not have a material effect on other components of net periodic
pension expense for the year ended December 31, 2011.  In addition to the pension plans, the Company sponsors a 401(k)
savings plan, which is a defined contribution retirement income plan. 
  F-26



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
Former employees are entitled to certain healthcare and life insurance benefits provided
they have met certain eligibility requirements. Generally, the Company’s benefits eligible U.S. employees become eligible for healthcare benefits if they meet all of the following requirements at the time of termination: (a) have attained
at least 55 or more points (full years of service and age combined), (b) are at least fifty years of age, (c) have at least two years of continuous, regular, full-time, benefits-eligible service and (d) have completed at least two or
more years of continuous service with a participating employer, which ends on their termination date. Additional requirements need to be met in order to receive subsidized coverage. Certain of the plan expenses are paid through a tax-exempt trust.
Some of the assets of the trust are invested in trust-owned life insurance policies covering certain current and former employees of the Company. The underlying assets of the policies are invested primarily in marketable equity, corporate fixed
income and government securities.  On August 3, 2011, the Company announced the decision to convert its current
prescription drug program for certain medicare-eligible retirees to a group-based Company sponsored Medicare Part D program, or Employer Group Waiver Program (“EGWP”), resulting from the adoption of the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act. Beginning January 1, 2013, the EGWP subsidies provided to or for the benefit of this program will be used to reduce the Company’s net retiree medical and prescription drug costs until such net costs of the Company are eliminated,
and any EGWP subsidies received in excess of the amount necessary to offset such net costs will be used to reduce the included group of retirees’ premiums. The Company accounted for this change as a plan amendment requiring remeasurement
of plan assets and obligations, which resulted in the Company reducing its postretirement benefits liability by $81.5 million in the second quarter of 2011.  As noted above, the Company also maintains several pension and postretirement benefit plans in certain international locations. The expected returns on plan assets and discount rates for these plans are
determined based on each plan’s investment approach, local interest rates and plan participant profiles.  The pension and
postretirement obligations are calculated using generally accepted actuarial methods and are measured as of December 31. Prior to the plans’ freeze actuarial gains and losses were amortized using the corridor method over the average
remaining service life of active plan participants. Following the plans’ freeze, actuarial gains and losses are amortized using the corridor method over the average remaining expected life of active plan participants. 
The components of the net periodic benefit expense (income) and total expense (income) are as follows: 
 




























 
  
Pension Benefits
 
 
Postretirement Benefits
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Service cost
  
$
86.6
  
 
$
80.4
  
 
$
70.1
  
 
$
8.2
  
 
$
12.2
  
 
$
10.3
  

 Interest cost
  
 
192.0
  
 
 
184.0
  
 
 
177.6
  
 
 
22.7
  
 
 
28.4
  
 
 
31.0
  

 Expected return on plan assets
  
 
(266.4
) 
 
 
(258.7
) 
 
 
(256.2
) 
 
 
(14.8
) 
 
 
(15.5
) 
 
 
(15.5
) 

 Amortization of prior service credit
  
 
(4.4
) 
 
 
(1.9
) 
 
 
(5.3
) 
 
 
(12.5
) 
 
 
(10.8
) 
 
 
(14.6
) 

 Amortization of actuarial loss
  
 
50.1
  
 
 
29.7
  
 
 
8.9
  
 
 
0.1
  
 
 
1.3
  
 
 
(2.6
) 

 Curtailments
  
 
(38.7
) 
 
 
(0.4
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net periodic benefit expense (income)
  
 
19.2
  
 
 
33.1
  
 
 
(4.9
) 
 
 
3.7
  
 
 
15.6
  
 
 
8.6
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average assumption used to calculate net periodic benefit expense:
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Discount rate
  
 
5.5
% 
 
 
6.0
% 
 
 
6.8
% 
 
 
5.2
% 
 
 
5.7
% 
 
 
6.9
% 

 Rate of compensation increase
  
 
4.0
% 
 
 
4.0
% 
 
 
4.0
% 
 
 
3.6
% 
 
 
4.0
% 
 
 
4.0
% 

 Expected return on plan assets
  
 
8.4
% 
 
 
8.3
% 
 
 
8.3
% 
 
 
7.6
% 
 
 
7.6
% 
 
 
8.0
% 

  F-27



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
The following provides a reconciliation of the benefit obligation, plan assets and the
funded status of the pension and postretirement plans as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:   




















 
  
Pension Benefits
 
 
Postretirement Benefits
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 

 Benefit obligation at beginning of year
  
$
3,583.1
  
 
$
3,168.1
  
 
$
490.3
  
 
$
513.7
  

 Service cost
  
 
86.6
  
 
 
80.4
  
 
 
8.2
  
 
 
12.2
  

 Interest cost
  
 
192.0
  
 
 
184.0
  
 
 
22.7
  
 
 
28.4
  

 Plan participants’ contributions
  
 
1.2
  
 
 
1.2
  
 
 
17.8
  
 
 
16.8
  

 Medicare reimbursements
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3.3
  
 
 
3.3
  

 Acquisitions and other
  
 
—  
  
 
 
167.2
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1.2
  

 Actuarial loss (gain)
  
 
306.4
  
 
 
133.8
  
 
 
(22.5
) 
 
 
(39.8
) 

 Plan amendments
  
 
(0.5
) 
 
 
3.3
  
 
 
(72.4
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Curtailments and settlements
  
 
(61.6
) 
 
 
(0.4
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
(5.4
) 
 
 
4.3
  
 
 
(0.8
) 
 
 
1.8
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(178.2
) 
 
 
(158.8
) 
 
 
(43.5
) 
 
 
(47.3
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Benefit obligation at end of year
  
$
3,923.6
  
 
$
3,583.1
  
 
$
403.1
  
 
$
490.3
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year
  
$
3,029.6
  
 
$
2,654.4
  
 
$
191.9
  
 
$
182.6
  

 Actual return on assets
  
 
(44.4
) 
 
 
394.5
  
 
 
(4.7
) 
 
 
26.5
  

 Acquisitions and other
  
 
—  
  
 
 
98.0
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Employer contributions
  
 
44.7
  
 
 
38.8
  
 
 
13.2
  
 
 
13.3
  

 Plan participants’ contributions
  
 
1.2
  
 
 
1.2
  
 
 
17.8
  
 
 
16.8
  

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
(3.3
) 
 
 
1.5
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(178.2
) 
 
 
(158.8
) 
 
 
(43.5
) 
 
 
(47.3
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair value of plan assets at end of year
  
$
2,849.6
  
 
$
3,029.6
  
 
$
174.7
  
 
$
191.9
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Funded status at end of year
  
$
(1,074.0
) 
 
$
(553.5
) 
 
$
(228.4
) 
 
$
(298.4
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $3,901.7 million and
$3,512.9 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.  Amounts recognized in the Consolidated
Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows:   




















 
  
Pension Benefits
 
 
Postretirement Benefits
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 

 Prepaid pension cost (included in other noncurrent assets)
  
$
9.5
  
 
$
4.4
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  

 Accrued benefit cost (included in accrued liabilities)
  
 
(7.2
) 
 
 
(24.9
) 
 
 
(1.1
) 
 
 
(11.0
) 

 Pension liability
  
 
(1,076.3
) 
 
 
(533.0
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Postretirement benefits
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(227.3
) 
 
 
(287.4
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net liability recognized in the consolidated balance sheets
  
$
(1,074.0
) 
 
$
(553.5
) 
 
$
(228.4
) 
 
$
(298.4
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-28



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
The amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive loss in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets, excluding tax effects, that have not yet been recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows:   




















 
  
Pension Benefits
 
 
Postretirement Benefits
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (income)
  



  



 



 




 Net actuarial loss (gain)
  
$
1,574.3
  
  
$
1,069.4
  
 
$
(9.1
) 
 
$
(6.0
) 

 Net transition obligation
  
 
0.2
  
  
 
0.3
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Net prior service credit
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(43.1
) 
 
 
(87.8
) 
 
 
(27.9
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
1,574.5
  
  
$
1,026.6
  
 
$
(96.9
) 
 
$
(33.9
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The amounts recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) in 2011 as components of net periodic benefit
costs were as follows:   












 
  
PensionBenefits
 
 
PostretirementBenefits
 

 Amortization of:
  



 




 Net actuarial loss
  
$
(109.7
) 
 
$
(0.1
) 

 Net prior service credit
  
 
43.5
  
 
 
12.5
  

 Amounts arising during the period:
  



 




 Net actuarial loss (gain)
  
 
616.0
  
 
 
(3.0
) 

 Net prior service credit
  
 
(0.4
) 
 
 
(72.4
) 

 Foreign currency gain
  
 
(1.5
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
547.9
  
 
$
(63.0
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Actuarial gains and losses in excess of 10.0% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the
market-related value of plan assets were recognized as a component of net periodic benefit costs over the average remaining service period of a plan’s active employees. As a result of the plans’ freeze, the actuarial gains and losses are
recognized as a component of net periodic benefit costs over the average remaining life of a plan’s active employees. Unrecognized prior service costs or credit are also recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost over the average
remaining service period of a plan’s active employees. The amounts in accumulated other comprehensive loss that are expected to be recognized as components of net periodic benefit costs over the next year are shown below: 
 












 
  
PensionBenefits
 
  
PostretirementBenefits
 

 Amortization of:
  



  




 Net actuarial loss (gain)
  
$
30.2
  
  
$
(0.1
) 

 Net prior service credit
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(19.7
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
30.2
  
  
$
(19.8
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-29



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
The following provides the weighted average assumptions used to determine the benefit
obligation at the measurement date:   




















 
  
Pension Benefits
 
 
PostretirementBenefits
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Discount rate
  
 
4.9
% 
 
 
5.5
% 
 
 
4.8
% 
 
 
5.2
% 

 Rate of compensation increase
  
 
0.9
% 
 
 
4.0
% 
 
 
3.6
% 
 
 
3.5
% 

 Health care cost trend:
  



 



 



 




 Current
  



 



 



 




 Pre-Age 65
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7.0
% 
 
 
7.8
% 

 Post-Age 65
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7.0
% 
 
 
7.8
% 

 Ultimate
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5.9
% 
 
 
6.0
% 
 Summary of under-funded or unfunded pension benefit plans with projected benefit obligation in excess of
plan assets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:   












 
  
Pension Benefits
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Projected benefit obligation
  
$
3,906.7
  
  
$
3,561.9
  

 Fair value of plan assets
  
 
2,823.2
  
  
 
3,004.0
  
 Summary of pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets: 
 












 
  
Pension Benefits
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Accumulated benefit obligation
  
$
3,881.6
  
  
$
3,490.2
  

 Fair value of plan assets
  
 
2,818.7
  
  
 
3,001.8
  
 The current health care cost trend rate gradually declines through 2019 to the ultimate trend rate and
remains level thereafter. A one-percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:   












 
  
1.0%Increase
 
  
1.0%Decrease
 

 Postretirement benefit obligation
  
$
5.2
  
  
$
(4.9
) 

 Total postretirement service and interest cost components
  
 
0.5
  
  
 
(0.5
) 
 The Company determines its assumption for the discount rate to be used for purposes of computing annual
service and interest costs based on an index of high-quality corporate bond yields and matched-funding yield curve analysis as of the measurement date.  The Company expects to make cash contributions of approximately $216.1 million to its pension plans and approximately $4.7 million to its postretirement plans in 2012, and additional non-required
contributions could be made. The Company cannot currently estimate the amount of pension plan contributions that will be required in 2013 and future years.  The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 included a prescription drug benefit under Medicare Part D, as well as a federal subsidy that began in 2006, to sponsors of
retiree health care 
  F-30



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 

plans that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent, as defined in the Act, to Medicare Part D. Two of the Company’s retiree health care plans are at least actuarially
equivalent to Medicare Part D and eligible for the federal subsidy. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company received approximately $3.3 million in subsidies. The Company will no longer receive certain of these subsidies
once the EGWP subsidies become effective on January 1, 2013. Cash flow from the subsidies is expected to be approximately $1.5 million in 2012.  Benefit payments are expected to be paid as follows:   
















 
  
PensionBenefits
 
  
PostretirementBenefits-Gross
 
  
Estimated MedicareSubsidyReimbursements
 

 2012
  
$
180.9
  
  
$
32.8
  
  
$
1.5
  

 2013
  
 
185.4
  
  
 
31.4
  
  
 
—  
  

 2014
  
 
188.6
  
  
 
31.2
  
  
 
—  
  

 2015
  
 
193.1
  
  
 
30.9
  
  
 
—  
  

 2016
  
 
198.9
  
  
 
30.8
  
  
 
—  
  

 2017-2021
  
 
1,131.7
  
  
 
145.3
  
  
 
—  
  
 Plan Assets  The Company employs a total return investment approach for its pension and postretirement benefit plans, whereby a mix of equities, fixed income and alternative investments is used to maximize the
long-term return of pension and postretirement plan assets. The intent of this strategy is to minimize plan expenses by outperforming plan liabilities over the long run. Risk tolerance is established through careful consideration of plan
liabilities, plan funded status and corporate financial condition. The investment portfolios contain a diversified blend of equity, fixed income and alternative investments. Furthermore, equity investments are diversified across geography, market
capitalization and investment style through investments in U.S. large-capitalization stocks, U.S. small-capitalization stocks and international securities. Fixed income investments include holdings of corporate bonds, government bonds and
asset-backed securities. Investment risk is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through annual liability measurements, periodic asset/liability studies and quarterly investment portfolio reviews. The expected long-term rate of return for plan
assets is based upon many factors including asset allocations, historical asset returns, current and expected future market conditions, risk and active management premiums. The prospective target asset allocation percentage for both the pension and
postretirement plans is approximately 75% for equity and other securities and approximately 25% for fixed income.  The Company
segregated its plan assets by the following major categories and levels for determining their fair value as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:  Cash and cash equivalents—Carrying value approximates fair value. As such, these assets were classified as Level 1.  Equity—The values of individual equity securities were based on quoted prices in active markets. As such, these assets are classified as Level 1. Additionally, the Company invests in certain
equity funds that are valued at calculated net asset value per share (“NAV”), but are not quoted on active markets. As such, these assets were classified as Level 2. Additionally, this category includes underlying securities in trust owned
life insurance policies which are invested in certain equity securities. These investments are not quoted on active markets; therefore, they are classified as Level 2.  Fixed income—Fixed income securities are typically priced based on a valuation model rather than a last trade basis and are not exchange-traded. These valuation models involve utilizing dealer
quotes, analyzing 
  F-31



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 

market information, estimating prepayment speeds and evaluating underlying collateral. Accordingly, the Company classified these fixed income securities as Level 2. Fixed income securities also
include investments in various asset-backed securities that are part of a government sponsored program. The prices of these asset-backed securities were obtained by independent third parties using multi-dimensional, collateral specific prepayments
tables. Inputs include monthly payment information and collateral performance. As the values of these assets was determined based on models incorporating observable inputs, these assets were classified as Level 2. The Company also invests in certain
fixed income funds that were priced on active markets and were classified as Level 1. Additionally, this category includes underlying securities in trust owned life insurance policies which are invested in certain fixed income securities. These
investments are not quoted on active markets; therefore, they are classified as Level 2.  Derivatives and
other—This category includes assets and liabilities that are futures or swaps traded on a primary exchange and are priced by multiple providers. Accordingly, the Company classified these assets and liabilities as Level 1. This category also
includes various other assets in which carrying value approximates fair value.  Real estate—The fair market value
of real estate investment trusts is based on observable inputs for similar assets in active markets, for instance, appraisals and market comparables. Accordingly, the real estate investments were categorized as Level 2. The Company also invests in
certain exchange-traded real estate investment trust funds that were classified as Level 1.  Private
equity—Includes the Company’s interest in various private equity funds that are valued by the investment manager on a periodic basis with models that use market, income and cost valuation methods. The valuation inputs are not highly
observable, and these interests are not actively traded on an open market. Accordingly, this interest was categorized as Level 3.  The valuation methodologies described above may generate a fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable value or future fair values. While the Company believes the valuation
methodologies used are appropriate, the use of different methodologies or assumptions in calculating fair value could result in different amounts. The Company invests in various assets in which valuation is determined by NAV. The Company believes
that the NAV is representative of fair value at the reporting date, as there are no significant restrictions on redemption of these investments or other reasons to indicate that the investment would be redeemed at an amount different than the NAV.
 The fair values of the Company’s pension plan assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, by asset category were as
follows:   




































 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 Asset Category
  
Total
 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Total
 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
65.2
  
  
$
43.4
  
  
$
21.8
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
13.4
  
  
$
13.4
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  

 Equity
  
 
1,857.0
  
  
 
1,604.4
  
  
 
252.6
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,065.0
  
  
 
1,683.3
  
  
 
381.7
  
  
 
—  
  

 Fixed income
  
 
779.1
  
  
 
214.8
  
  
 
564.3
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
841.6
  
  
 
213.7
  
  
 
627.9
  
  
 
—  
  

 Derivatives and other
  
 
6.9
  
  
 
3.6
  
  
 
3.3
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
5.3
  
  
 
2.1
  
  
 
3.2
  
  
 
—  
  

 Real estate
  
 
111.3
  
  
 
7.1
  
  
 
104.2
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
88.8
  
  
 
6.9
  
  
 
81.9
  
  
 
—  
  

 Private equity
  
 
30.1
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
30.1
  
  
 
15.5
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
15.5
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
2,849.6
  
  
$
1,873.3
  
  
$
946.2
  
  
$
30.1
  
  
$
3,029.6
  
  
$
1,919.4
  
  
$
1,094.7
  
  
$
15.5
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-32



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
The fair values of the Company’s other postretirement benefit plan assets at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, by asset category were as follows:   




































 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 Asset Category
  
Total
 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Total
 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
17.7
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
17.7
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
4.1
  
  
$
4.1
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  

 Equity
  
 
114.3
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
114.3
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
149.4
  
  
 
12.4
  
  
 
137.0
  
  
 
—  
  

 Fixed income
  
 
42.7
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
42.7
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
38.2
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
38.2
  
  
 
—  
  

 Derivatives and other
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
0.2
  
  
 
0.2
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
174.7
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
174.7
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
191.9
  
  
$
16.7
  
  
$
175.2
  
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The following table provides a summary of changes in the fair value of the Company’s Level 3 assets:
  














 
  
PrivateEquity
 
 
 
  
 
  
 

 Balance at January 1, 2010
  
$
6.9
  
 

  

  


 Unrealized losses—net
  
 
(0.3
) 
 

  

  


 Purchases, sales and settlements
  
 
8.9
  
 

  

  



  
  
  
 
 

  

  


 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
$
15.5
  
 

  

  



  
  
  
 
 

  

  


 Unrealized gains—net
  
 
3.2
  
 

  

  


 Purchases, sales and settlements
  
 
11.4
  
 

  

  



  
  
  
 
 

  

  


 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
30.1
  
 

  

  



  
  
  
 
 

  

  

 Employee 401(k) Savings Plan—The Company maintains a savings plan that is intended to be
qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. Substantially all of the Company’s U.S. employees are eligible for this plan. Under this plan, employees may contribute a percentage of eligible compensation on both a before-tax
and after-tax basis. The Company has historically matched a percentage of a participating employee’s before-tax contributions, although the Company suspended its 401(k) match for 2009, 2010 and 2011. As of January 1, 2012, the Company
reinstituted a 401(k) match for most U.S. employees, which matches 40% of contributions on up to 6% of eligible compensation on a pay period basis. The cost of the match will be determined by the level of eligible employee before-tax contributions
and Roth 401(k) contributions made to the plan. The related expense will be recognized as incurred.  Multi-Employer Pension
Plans—The Company contributes to six multi-employer pension plans in which employees across several facilities within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment do or did participate. The risk of participating in these multi-employer
pension plans differs significantly from the risk associated with the Company-sponsored defined benefit plans. These plans receive contributions from two or more unrelated employers pursuant to one or more collective bargaining agreements and the
assets contributed by one employer may be used to fund the benefits of all employees covered within the plan.  The Company is
required to make contributions to these plans as determined by the terms and conditions of collective bargaining agreements and plan terms. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company made regular contributions of $1.7
million, $1.7 million and $1.9 million, respectively, to these multi-employer pension plans. The Company cannot currently estimate the amount of multi-employer pension plan contributions that will be required in 2012 and future years, but these
contributions could significantly increase due to other employers’ withdrawals, changes in the funded status of the plans or changes in the Company’s workforce. The Company’s contributions for 2011, 2010, and 2009 represented more
than 5.0% of total contributions for three of the multi-employer pension plans. 
  F-33



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
In addition, the Company is exposed to significant risks and uncertainties arising from
its participation in these plans. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recorded charges of $15.1 million relating to the complete or partial withdrawal from certain multi-employer pension plans primarily resulting from the closure
of three manufacturing facilities. These charges were recorded as restructuring and impairment charges and represent the Company’s best estimate of the expected settlement of these withdrawal liabilities. For the year ended December 31,
2010, the Company recorded charges of $13.6 million relating to the partial withdrawal from certain multi-employer pension plans resulting from the closure of two manufacturing facilities. There were no charges due to partial or complete withdrawal
liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2011, the Company has completely withdrawn from two multi-employer pension plans and has partially withdrawn from three other plans. While it is not possible to quantify
the potential impact of future actions, further reductions in participation or withdrawal from these multi-employer pension plans could have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated annual results of operations, financial position, or
cash flows.  The Company’s participation in multi-employer pension plans is subject to collective bargaining agreements
with expiration dates ranging from March 31, 2011 (contract renewal negotiations are ongoing) to December 31, 2013. All six plans to which the Company contributes are estimated to be underfunded as of December 31, 2011, with five
plans having a Pension Protection Act zone status of red and one having a zone status of yellow. All six plans have rehabilitation plans in place. A zone status of red identifies plans that are under 65.0% funded, with a short-term credit balance
deficiency. A zone status of yellow identifies plans that are less than 80.0% funded. All six of the plans have imposed surcharges due to their critical funding status. Surcharges are imposed by a multi-employer pension plan when the plan reaches
critical status, as defined under the Pension Protection Act and such surcharges are based on a percentage of required contributions for each plan year. 
Note 12. Income Taxes 
Income taxes have been based on the following components of earnings (loss) from operations before income taxes for the
years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 

 U.S.
  
$
(274.5
) 
 
$
171.0
  
  
$
123.9
  

 Foreign
  
 
37.1
  
 
 
152.0
  
  
 
(30.8
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
(237.4
) 
 
$
323.0
  
  
$
93.1
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The components of income tax expense (benefit) from operations for the years ended December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Federal:
  



 



 




 Current
  
$
(10.1
) 
 
$
100.1
  
 
$
95.0
  

 Deferred
  
 
(82.1
) 
 
 
(1.7
) 
 
 
(35.5
) 

 State:
  



 



 




 Current
  
 
(19.5
) 
 
 
(1.2
) 
 
 
21.1
  

 Deferred
  
 
(21.5
) 
 
 
(10.3
) 
 
 
(2.5
) 

 Foreign:
  



 



 




 Current
  
 
36.3
  
 
 
41.6
  
 
 
52.5
  

 Deferred
  
 
(19.4
) 
 
 
(22.6
) 
 
 
(16.1
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
(116.3
) 
 
$
105.9
  
 
$
114.5
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-34



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
The following table outlines the reconciliation of differences between the Federal
statutory tax rate and the Company’s effective income tax rate:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Federal statutory tax rate
  
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 

 Adjustment of uncertain tax positions
  
 
30.2
  
 
 
(3.1
) 
 
 
6.5
  

 Foreign tax rate differential
  
 
15.5
  
 
 
(4.8
) 
 
 
(51.7
) 

 Adjustment of interest on uncertain tax positions
  
 
10.1
  
 
 
0.6
  
 
 
(4.7
) 

 Domestic manufacturing deduction
  
 
2.2
  
 
 
(2.6
) 
 
 
(7.1
) 

 Acquisition-related expenses
  
 
(0.1
) 
 
 
1.2
  
 
 
—  
  

 Change in valuation allowances
  
 
(1.0
) 
 
 
(4.4
) 
 
 
27.6
  

 State and local income taxes, net of U.S. federal income tax benefit
  
 
(1.6
) 
 
 
(0.2
) 
 
 
10.2
  

 Restructuring and impairment charges
  
 
(39.5
) 
 
 
8.3
  
 
 
91.6
  

 International reorganization
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
16.9
  

 Enactment of Health Care Reform Act
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1.0
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other
  
 
(1.8
) 
 
 
1.8
  
 
 
(1.3
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effective income tax rate
  
 
49.0
% 
 
 
32.8
% 
 
 
123.0
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Included in 2011 is a benefit of $74.8 million reflecting the expiration of U.S. federal statutes of
limitations for certain years.  Included in 2010 is a benefit of $19.3 million reflecting the release of a valuation allowance
on deferred tax assets due to the forecasted increase in net earnings for certain operations within the Latin America reporting unit.  Included in 2009 is an expense of $15.6 million relating to the reorganization of certain entities within the International segment.  Deferred income taxes  The significant deferred tax assets and
liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows:   












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  



 




 Pensions and postretirement
  
$
489.3
  
 
$
311.8
  

 Net operating loss and other tax carryforwards
  
 
339.3
  
 
 
306.2
  

 Accrued liabilities
  
 
178.5
  
 
 
174.2
  

 Other
  
 
81.8
  
 
 
101.5
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax assets
  
 
1,088.9
  
 
 
893.7
  

 Valuation allowance
  
 
(273.2
) 
 
 
(259.5
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax assets
  
$
815.7
  
 
$
634.2
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



 




 Accelerated depreciation
  
$
(257.7
) 
 
$
(275.0
) 

 Intangible assets
  
 
(212.5
) 
 
 
(335.3
) 

 Other
  
 
(69.6
) 
 
 
(74.9
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax liabilities
  
 
(539.8
) 
 
 
(685.2
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax assets (liabilities)
  
$
275.9
  
 
$
(51.0
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-35



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
The above amounts are classified as current or long-term in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets in accordance with the asset or liability to which they relate on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis.  Transactions
affecting the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Balance, beginning of year
  
$
259.5
  
 
$
277.5
  
 
$
224.7
  

 Current year expense (benefit)
  
 
2.4
  
 
 
(9.6
) 
 
 
69.0
  

 Write-offs
  
 
(1.8
) 
 
 
(9.4
) 
 
 
(29.8
) 

 Foreign exchange and other
  
 
13.1
  
 
 
1.0
  
 
 
13.6
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, end of year
  
$
273.2
  
 
$
259.5
  
 
$
277.5
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 As of December 31, 2011, the Company had domestic and foreign net operating loss and other tax
carryforwards of approximately $75.1 million and $264.2 million, respectively ($26.1 million and $280.1 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010), of which $179.6 million expires between 2012 and 2021. Limitations on the utilization of these
tax assets may apply. The Company has provided a valuation allowance to reduce the carrying value of certain deferred tax assets, as management has concluded that, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that the
deferred tax assets will not be fully realized.  Deferred U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes are not provided on
the excess of the investment value for financial reporting over the tax basis of investments in those foreign subsidiaries for which such excess is considered to be permanently reinvested in those operations. The Company has recognized deferred tax
liabilities of $3.0 million as of December 31, 2011, related to certain foreign earnings which are not considered to be permanently reinvested. Determination of the amount of unrecognized U.S. income tax liabilities with respect to certain
foreign earnings which have been reinvested abroad is not practical.  Cash payments for income taxes were $106.5 million,
$181.1 million and $198.9 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Cash refunds for income taxes were $11.2 million, $52.0 million and $164.1 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
The Company’s income taxes payable for federal and state purposes has been reduced by the tax benefits associated with the exercise
of employee stock options and the vesting of restricted stock units. A component of the income tax benefit, calculated as the tax effect of the difference between the fair market value at the time stock options are exercised or restricted stock
units vest and the grant date fair market value, is credited directly to RR Donnelley shareholders’ equity. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, $3.6 million and $1.1 million, respectively, of such benefits were recognized in RR
Donnelley shareholders’ equity. There were no tax benefits on stock option exercises or restricted stock unit vestings for the year ended December 31, 2009. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the changes in other comprehensive income were net of tax benefits of $182.8 million related to the change in funded status for pension and postretirement plans
and the adjustment for net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs, as well as tax provisions of $0.4 million related to the change in the fair value of derivatives. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the changes in other
comprehensive income were net of tax provisions of $26.6 million related to the change in funded status for pension and postretirement plans and the adjustment for net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs and $0.3 million related to the
change in the fair value of derivatives. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the changes in other comprehensive income were net of tax benefits of $36.2 million related to the change in funded status for pension and postretirement plans and
related to the adjustment for net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost and net of tax provisions of $1.5 million related to changes in the fair value of derivatives. 
  F-36



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
Uncertain tax positions 
Changes in the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Balance at beginning of year
  
$
157.1
  
 
$
176.4
  
 
$
162.9
  

 Additions for tax positions of the current year
  
 
6.1
  
 
 
10.2
  
 
 
19.2
  

 Additions for tax positions of prior years
  
 
6.0
  
 
 
9.5
  
 
 
2.4
  

 Reductions for tax positions of prior years
  
 
(26.9
) 
 
 
(18.1
) 
 
 
(3.5
) 

 Settlements during the year
  
 
(3.3
) 
 
 
(9.6
) 
 
 
(1.5
) 

 Lapses of applicable statutes of limitations
  
 
(62.3
) 
 
 
(13.6
) 
 
 
(7.3
) 

 Foreign exchange and other
  
 
(0.3
) 
 
 
2.3
  
 
 
4.2
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at end of year
  
$
76.4
  
 
$
157.1
  
 
$
176.4
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 As of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company had $76.4 million, $157.1 million and $176.4
million, respectively, of unrecognized tax benefits. Unrecognized tax benefits of $53.4 million as of December 31, 2011, if recognized, would have decreased income taxes and the corresponding effective income tax rate and increased net
earnings. This potential impact on net earnings (loss) reflects the reduction of these unrecognized tax benefits, net of certain deferred tax assets and the federal tax benefit of state income tax items. 
As of December 31, 2011, it is reasonably possible that the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits will decrease within twelve
months by as much as $43.2 million due to the resolution of audits or expirations of statutes of limitations related to U.S. federal and state tax positions.  The Company classifies interest expense and any related penalties related to income tax uncertainties as a component of income tax expense. The total interest expense, net of tax benefits, related to tax
uncertainties recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, was a benefit of $24.0 million due to the reversal of interest accrued on previously unrecognized tax benefits that were recognized
during the year. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company recognized total interest expense, net of tax benefits, related to tax uncertainties of $1.9 million and $6.2 million, respectively. A benefit of $2.5 million was
recognized for the year ended December 31, 2011 from the reversal of accrued penalties. Provisions for penalties of $0.9 million and $0.7 million were recognized for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Accrued
interest of $13.4 million and $52.5 million related to income tax uncertainties were reported as a component of other noncurrent liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Accrued penalties of
$3.9 million and $6.7 million related to income tax uncertainties were reported in other noncurrent liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
The Company has tax years from 2003 that remain open and subject to examination by the IRS, certain state taxing authorities and certain
foreign tax jurisdictions.  Tax Holidays  The Company has been granted “tax holidays” in certain foreign countries as an incentive to attract international investment. Generally, a tax holiday is an agreement between the Company and a
foreign government under which the Company receives certain tax benefits in that country. The Company’s most significant tax holiday agreements expired in 2011. The aggregate effect on income tax expense in 2011, 2010 and 2009, as a result of
these agreements, was approximately $7.9 million, $8.1 million and $10.6 million, respectively. 
  F-37



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
Note 13. Debt 
The Company’s debt at December 31, 2011 and 2010 consisted of the following: 
 












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Credit facility borrowings
  
$
65.0
  
 
$
120.0
  

 5.625% senior notes due January 15, 2012
  
 
158.6
  
 
 
158.6
  

 4.95% senior notes due April 1, 2014
  
 
599.5
  
 
 
599.2
  

 5.50% senior notes due May 15, 2015
  
 
399.8
  
 
 
499.6
  

 8.60% senior notes due August 15, 2016
  
 
346.8
  
 
 
346.0
  

 6.125% senior notes due January 15, 2017
  
 
522.9
  
 
 
622.0
  

 7.25% senior notes due May 15, 2018
  
 
600.0
  
 
 
—  
  

 11.25% senior notes due February 1, 2019(a)
  
 
172.2
  
 
 
400.0
  

 7.625% senior notes due June 15, 2020
  
 
400.0
  
 
 
400.0
  

 8.875% debentures due April 15, 2021
  
 
80.9
  
 
 
80.9
  

 6.625% debentures due April 15, 2029
  
 
199.3
  
 
 
199.3
  

 8.820% debentures due April 15, 2031
  
 
69.0
  
 
 
68.9
  

 Other(b)
  
 
46.5
  
 
 
35.5
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total debt
  
 
3,660.5
  
 
 
3,530.0
  

 Less: current portion
  
 
(243.7
) 
 
 
(131.4
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Long-term debt
  
$
3,416.8
  
 
$
3,398.6
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(a)
On May 17, 2011, the interest rate on the 11.25% senior notes due February 1, 2019 was increased to 11.75%, as a result of downgrades in the ratings of the
notes by the rating agencies.   


(b)
Other includes the fair value adjustment to the Company’s 4.95% senior notes due April 1, 2014 related to the Company’s fair value hedges, capital leases
and other miscellaneous debt obligations.  The fair values of the senior notes and debentures, which were based
upon interest rates available to the Company for borrowings with similar teams and maturities, were determined to be Level 2 under the fair value hierarchy. The fair value of the Company’s debt was less than its book value by approximately
$80.1 million and greater than its book value by approximately $259.3 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
On June 1, 2011, the Company issued $600.0 million of 7.25% senior notes due May 15, 2018. Interest on the notes is payable
semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 of each year, commencing on November 15, 2011. The net proceeds from the offering were used to repurchase an initial $216.2 million of the 11.25% senior notes due February 1, 2019, $100
million of the 6.125% senior notes due January 15, 2017 and $100 million of the 5.50% senior notes due May 15, 2015. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes and to repay outstanding borrowings under the
Company’s unsecured and committed revolving credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”). On September 28, 2011, the Company repurchased an additional $11.6 million of the 11.25% senior notes due February 1, 2019. The
repurchases resulted in pre-tax losses on debt extinguishment of $69.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2011.  On
December 17, 2010, the Company entered into a $1.75 billion Credit Agreement which expires December 17, 2013, subject to a possible one-year extension if agreed to by the lending financial institutions. Borrowings under the Credit
Agreement bear interest at a rate dependent on the Company’s credit ratings at the time of borrowing that will be calculated according to a base Eurocurrency rate plus an applicable margin. The Company will pay annual commitment fees at rates
dependent on the Company’s credit ratings. The Credit Agreement replaced the Company’s previous $2.0 billion unsecured and committed revolving credit facility (the “previous Facility”). All amounts outstanding under the previous
Facility were repaid with borrowings under the 
  F-38



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 

Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement will be used for general corporate purposes, including letters of credit and as a backstop for the Company’s commercial paper program. The Credit
Agreement is subject to a number of financial covenants that, in part, may limit the use of proceeds, and the ability of the Company to create liens on assets, incur subsidiary debt, engage in mergers and consolidations, or dispose of assets. The
financial covenants require a minimum interest coverage ratio and maximum leverage ratio.  On June 21, 2010, the Company
issued $400.0 million of 7.625% senior notes due June 15, 2020. Interest on the notes is payable semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing on December 15, 2010. The net proceeds from the offering were used
to repay borrowings under the previous Facility and for general corporate purposes.  As of December 31, 2011, the Company
had $65.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement. The weighted average interest rate on borrowings under the Credit Agreement during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 was 2.08% and 1.27% per annum,
respectively.  Additionally, the Company had $151.8 million in credit facilities (the “Foreign Facilities”) at its
foreign locations, most of which are uncommitted. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, total borrowings under the Credit Agreement, the previous Facility and the Foreign Facilities (the “Combined Facilities”) were $82.2 million and
$129.1 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had $60.9 million in outstanding letters of credit. At December 31, 2011, approximately $1.8 billion was available under the Company’s Combined Facilities, of which
the Company may borrow approximately $1.4 billion, as borrowings above $1.4 billion would cause the Company to violate certain debt covenants in the Credit Agreement.  The Company was in compliance with its debt covenants as of December 31, 2011, and is expected to remain in compliance based on management’s estimates of operating and financial results for 2012
and the foreseeable future.  At December, 31, 2011, the future maturities of debt, including capitalized leases, consisted of
the following:   








 
  
Amount
 

 2012
  
$
243.7
  

 2013
  
 
0.9
  

 2014
  
 
600.9
  

 2015
  
 
404.0
  

 2016
  
 
350.6
  

 2017 and thereafter
  
 
2,047.4
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
3,647.5
  


  
  
  
 
 The following table summarizes interest expense included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations:
  
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Interest incurred
  
$
259.8
  
 
$
233.3
  
 
$
246.6
  

 Less: interest income
  
 
(13.6
) 
 
 
(9.1
) 
 
 
(9.9
) 

 Less: interest capitalized as property, plant and equipment
  
 
(2.9
) 
 
 
(1.6
) 
 
 
(2.1
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Interest expense, net
  
$
243.3
  
 
$
222.6
  
 
$
234.6
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Interest paid net of interest received from the Company’s fair value hedges was $252.2 million,
$235.2 million and $226.5 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  F-39



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
Note 14. Derivatives 
All derivatives are recorded as other current or noncurrent assets or other current or noncurrent liabilities in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets at their respective fair values. Unrealized gains and losses related to derivatives are recorded in other comprehensive income (loss), net of applicable income taxes, or in the Consolidated Statements of Operations,
depending on the purpose for which the derivative is held. For derivatives designated and that qualify as fair value hedges, the gain or loss on the derivative, as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged
risk, are recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not meet the criteria for designation as a hedge at inception, or fail to meet the criteria thereafter, are recognized currently in
the Consolidated Statements of Operations. At the inception of a hedge transaction, the Company formally documents the hedge relationship and the risk management objective for undertaking the hedge. In addition, the Company assesses both at
inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivative in the hedging transaction has been highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows of the hedged item and whether the derivative is expected to continue to be
highly effective. The impact of any ineffectiveness is recognized currently in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.  The
Company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations in certain countries in which it operates. The exposure to foreign currency movements is limited in most countries because the operating revenues and expenses of its various
subsidiaries and business units are substantially in the local currency of the country in which they operate. To the extent borrowings, sales, purchases, revenues, expenses or other transactions are not in the local currency of the operating unit,
the Company is exposed to currency risk. Periodically, the Company uses foreign exchange forward contracts and cross-currency swaps to hedge exposures resulting from foreign exchange fluctuations. Accordingly, the implied gains and losses associated
with the fair values of foreign currency exchange contracts and cross-currency swaps are generally offset by gains and losses on underlying payables, receivables and net investments in foreign subsidiaries. The Company does not use derivative
financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  The Company has entered into foreign exchange forward contracts in
order to manage the currency exposure of certain receivables and liabilities. The foreign exchange forward contracts were not designated as hedges, and accordingly, the fair value gains or losses from these foreign currency derivatives are
recognized currently in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, generally offsetting the foreign exchange gains or losses on the exposures being managed. The aggregate notional value of the forward contracts at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was
$78.3 million and $100.9 million, respectively. The fair values of foreign exchange forward contracts were determined to be Level 2 under the fair value hierarchy and are valued using market exchange rates. 
On April 9, 2010, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements to manage interest rate risk exposure. The interest rate
swap agreements effectively changed the interest rate on $600 million of its fixed-rate senior notes to floating rate LIBOR plus a basis point spread. These interest rate swaps, with a notional value of $600 million, are designated as fair value
hedges against changes in the value of the Company’s 4.95% senior notes due April 1, 2014, which are attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate. The Company evaluates the credit value adjustments of the interest rate swap
agreements, which take into account the possibility of counterparty and the Company’s own default, on at least a quarterly basis. The Company’s agreements with each of its counterparties contain a provision where the Company could be
declared in default on its derivative obligations if it either defaults or, in certain cases, is capable of being declared in default of any of its indebtedness greater than specified thresholds. These agreements also contain a provision where the
Company could be declared in default subsequent to a merger or restructuring type event if the creditworthiness of the resulting entity is materially weaker. The fair values of the interest rate swaps were determined to be Level 2 under the fair
value hierarchy and are valued using market interest rates. 
  F-40



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the total fair value of the Company’s foreign
exchange forward contracts, which were the only derivatives not designated as hedges, and fair value hedges, along with the accounts in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in which the fair value amounts are included were as follows: 
 












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Derivatives not designated as hedges
  



  




 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
$
0.3
  
  
$
0.5
  

 Accrued liabilities
  
 
0.3
  
  
 
0.3
  

 Derivatives designated as fair value hedges
  



  




 Other noncurrent assets
  
$
19.9
  
  
$
16.8
  
 The pre-tax losses related to derivatives not designated as hedges recognized in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows:   


















 
  
 Classification of Loss
Recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Derivatives not designated as hedges
  

  



 



 




 Foreign exchange forward contracts
  
Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
$
(4.7
) 
 
$
(2.5
) 
 
$
(13.7
) 


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total loss recognized in the consolidated statements of operations
  
Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
$
(4.7
) 
 
$
(2.5
) 
 
$
(13.7
) 


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 For derivatives designated as fair value hedges, the pre-tax gains (losses) related to the hedged items,
attributable to changes in the hedged benchmark interest rate and the offsetting gain on the related interest rate swaps for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: 
 


















 
  
 Classification of Gain (Loss)Recognized in the
ConsolidatedStatements of Operations
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Fair Value Hedges
  

  



 



 




 Interest rate swaps
  
Investment and other income (expense)—net
  
$
3.1
  
 
$
16.8
  
 
$
—  
  

 Hedged items
  
Investment and other income (expense)—net
  
 
(1.9
) 
 
 
(14.7
) 
 
 
—  
  


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total gain recognized as ineffectiveness in the consolidated statements of operations
  
Investment and other income (expense)—net
  
$
1.2
  
 
$
2.1
  
 
$
—  
  


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The Company also recognized a net reduction to interest expense of $9.9 million and $6.8 million for the
years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to the Company’s fair value hedges, which includes interest accruals on the derivatives and amortization of the basis in the hedged items. 
  F-41



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
The pre-tax losses related to derivatives designated as cash flow hedges for the years
ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows:   












































 
  
Gain (Loss)Recognized inOCI
(EffectivePortion)
 
 
 Classification ofLoss
Reclassified fromAOCI into Income(EffectivePortion)
  
LossReclassifiedfrom AOCIinto Income(EffectivePortion)
 
 
 Classification of
Loss Recognizedin Income(IneffectivePortion)
  
LossRecognized inIncome(IneffectivePortion)
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
 
 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Cash Flow Hedges
  



  



  



 

  



 



 



 

  



 



  




 Interest rate lock
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
 
 Interest
expense—net
  
$
(0.6
) 
 
$
(0.6
) 
 
$
(1.1
) 
 
 Loss on debt
extinguishment
  
$
(0.5
) 
 
$
—  
  
  
$
(2.7
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Terminated Derivatives  In May 2005, the Company terminated its interest rate lock agreements which were designated as cash flow hedges and used to hedge against fluctuations in interest rates. This termination resulted in a
loss of $12.9 million recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss, which was being recognized in interest expense over the term of the hedged forecasted interest payments. On June 15, 2011, the Company purchased $100 million of the 5.50%
senior notes due May 15, 2015 which were hedged as part of the interest rate lock agreements. Pre-tax losses of $0.5 million were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss to loss on debt extinguishment in the Consolidated
Statement of Operations as a result of the change in expected forecasted interest payments. In addition, during the third quarter of 2009, the Company repurchased $174.2 million of the 4.95% senior notes due May 15, 2010 which were also hedged
as part of the interest rate lock agreements. Pre-tax losses of $2.7 million were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss to loss on debt extinguishment in the Consolidated Statement of Operations as a result of the change in expected
forecasted interest payments. At December 31, 2011, a balance of $1.1 million remained in accumulated other comprehensive loss, of which $0.3 million is expected to be reclassified to the Consolidated Statement of Operations in 2012.
 Note 15. Earnings per Share   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Numerator:
  



 



  




 Net earnings (loss) attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders
  
$
(122.6
) 
 
$
221.7
  
  
$
(27.3
) 

 Denominator:
  



 



  




 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding
  
 
193.8
  
 
 
206.4
  
  
 
205.2
  

 Dilutive options and awards(a)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
3.3
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted weighted average number of common shares outstanding
  
 
193.8
  
 
 
209.7
  
  
 
205.2
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net earnings (loss) per share attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders:
  



 



  




 Basic
  
$
(0.63
) 
 
$
1.07
  
  
$
(0.13
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted
  
$
(0.63
) 
 
$
1.06
  
  
$
(0.13
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Cash dividends paid per common share
  
$
1.04
  
 
$
1.04
  
  
$
1.04
  
  


(a)
 Diluted options and awards take into consideration the dilution of certain unvested restricted stock awards, performance awards and unexercised stock
option awards. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, restricted stock units of 5.0 million, 2.7 million and 5.5 million, respectively, were excluded as

  F-42



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 


 

their effect would be anti-dilutive. For the year ended December 31, 2011, performance stock units of 0.2 million were excluded as their effect would be anti-dilutive. For the years
ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, options to purchase 4.0 million shares, 3.6 million shares and 4.2 million shares, respectively, were anti-dilutive because the option exercise price exceeded the fair value of the stock.
 On May 3, 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a program that authorizes the repurchase of
up to $1.0 billion of the Company’s common stock through December 31, 2012 and terminated its existing authorization of October 29, 2008 for the repurchase of up to 10 million shares. Share repurchases under the program may be
made from time to time through a variety of methods as determined by the Company’s management. The repurchase authorizations do not obligate the Company to acquire any particular amount of common stock or adopt any particular method of
repurchase and may be modified, suspended or terminated at any time at the Company’s discretion.  As part of the share
repurchase program, on May 5, 2011, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement (“ASR”) with an investment bank under which the Company agreed to repurchase $500.0 million of its common stock. On
May 10, 2011, the Company paid the $500.0 million purchase price and received an initial delivery of 19.9 million shares from the investment bank. The shares delivered were subject to a 20%, or $100.0 million holdback, which resulted in
the Company receiving an additional 9.3 million shares on November 17, 2011. The additional shares received were calculated based upon the $17.13 volume weighted average price of the Company’s common stock over an averaging period,
subject to a discount agreed upon with the investment bank. The averaging period ended on November 14, 2011.  The ASR was
originally accounted for as a stock purchase transaction and a forward stock purchase contract, which was classified as an equity instrument. Both the initial and final delivery of shares resulted in a reduction of the outstanding shares used
to calculate the weighted-average common shares outstanding for basic and diluted net earnings per share from the effective date of the ASR.  During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, no shares of common stock were purchased by the Company in the open market. 
Note 16. Stock and Incentive Programs for Employees 
The Company recognizes compensation expense based on estimated grant date fair values for all share-based awards issued
to employees and directors, including stock options, restricted stock units and performance stock units. The Company estimates the fair value of share-based awards on the date of grant. The Company recognizes these compensation costs for only those
awards expected to vest, on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the award, which is generally the vesting term of three to four years for restricted stock awards and stock options. The Company estimated the number of awards
expected to vest based, in part, on historical forfeiture rates and also based on management’s expectations of employee turnover within the specific employee groups receiving each type of award. Forfeitures are estimated at the time of grant
and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods, if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.  Share-Based Compensation Expense
 The total compensation expense related to all share-based compensation plans was $28.3 million, $28.6 million and
$24.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The income tax benefit related to share-based compensation expense was $11.0 million, $11.2 million and $9.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, $31.2 million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to share-based compensation plans is expected to be recognized over 
  F-43



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 

a weighted-average period of 2.2 years. The total unrecognized share-based compensation expense to be recognized in future periods as of December 31, 2011 does not consider the effect of
share-based awards that may be issued in subsequent periods.  Share-Based Compensation Plans 
The Company has one share-based compensation plan under which it may grant future awards, as described below, and five terminated or
expired share-based compensation plans under which awards remain outstanding.  The 2004 Performance Incentive Plan (the
“2004 PIP”) was approved by shareholders to provide incentives to key employees of the Company and its subsidiaries. Awards under the 2004 PIP are generally not restricted to any specific form or structure and could include, without
limitation, stock options, stock units, restricted stock awards, cash or stock bonuses and stock appreciation rights. There were 17 million shares of common stock reserved and authorized for issuance under the 2004 PIP, as amended on May 28,
2008. At December 31, 2011, there were 2.3 million shares of common stock authorized and available for grant under the 2004 PIP. 
General Terms of Awards  Under various incentive plans, the Company has granted certain employees non-qualified stock options and restricted stock units. The Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors has discretion to
establish the terms and conditions for grants, including the number of shares, vesting and required service or other performance criteria. The maximum term of any award under the 2004 PIP is ten years. 
For all of the Company’s stock options outstanding at December 31, 2011, the exercise price of the stock option equals the fair
market value of the Company’s common stock on the option grant date. Options generally vest over four years or less from the date of grant, upon retirement or upon a change in control of the Company. Options granted prior to November 2004 and
after December 2006 expire ten years from the date of grant or five years after the date of retirement, whichever is earlier, while options granted between November 2004 and December 2006 expire five years from the date of grant. 
The rights granted to the recipient of restricted stock unit awards generally accrue ratably over the restriction or vesting period,
which is generally four years or less, except the restricted stock units awarded in March 2008, that vest 100% on the fourth anniversary of the grant. Restricted stock unit awards are subject to forfeiture upon termination of employment prior to
vesting, subject in some cases to early vesting upon specified events, including death or permanent disability of the grantee, termination of the grantee’s employment under certain circumstances or a change in control of the Company. The
Company records compensation expense of restricted stock unit awards based on the fair market value of the awards at the date of grant ratably over the period during which the restrictions lapse. Dividends are not paid to restricted stock unit
holders.  The Company also issues restricted stock units as share-based compensation for members of the Board of Directors.
Director restricted stock units granted after January 2009 vest ratably over three years from the date of grant with the opportunity to defer any tranche of vesting restricted stock units until termination of service on the Board of Directors.
Awards granted between January 2008 and January 2009 vest ratably over three years from the date of grant and were amended in May 2009 to provide the opportunity to defer any tranche of vesting restricted stock units until termination of service on
the Board of Directors. For awards granted prior to January 2008, one-third of the restricted stock units vested on the third anniversary of the grant date, and the remaining two-thirds of the restricted stock units vested upon termination of the
holder’s service on the Board of Directors; the holder could also elect to defer delivery of the initial one-third of the restricted stock units until termination of service on the Board of Directors. In the event of termination of service on
the Board of Directors prior to a 
  F-44



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 

vesting date, all restricted stock units will vest. All awards granted prior to December 31, 2007 are payable in shares of common stock or cash. In 2009, the option to have awards paid in
cash was removed for awards granted in 2008 and future years. Awards that may be paid in cash are classified as liability awards due to their expected settlement in cash, and are included in accrued liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Compensation expense for these awards is measured based upon the fair market value of the awards at the end of each reporting period. Awards payable only in shares are classified as equity awards due to their expected settlement in common stock.
Compensation expense for these awards is measured based upon the fair market value of the awards at the date of grant. Dividend equivalents are accrued for shares awarded to the Board of Directors and paid in the form of cash. 
The Company has granted performance share unit awards to certain executive officers. Distributions under these awards are payable at the
end of the performance period (December 31, 2013) in common stock or cash, at the Company’s discretion. The number of share units awarded can range from zero to 100%, depending on achievement of a targeted performance metric. These awards
are subject to forfeiture upon termination by the Company under certain circumstances prior to vesting. The Company expenses the cost of the performance share unit awards based on the fair market value of the awards at the date of grant and the
estimated achievement of the performance metric, ratably over the performance period of three years.  Stock Options 
The Company granted 200,000, 540,000 and 1,520,468 stock options during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. The fair market value of each stock option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model. The fair market value of the stock options was determined using the following assumptions:
  
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Expected volatility
  
 
36.69
% 
 
 
35.61
% 
 
 
29.67
% 

 Risk-free interest rate
  
 
2.54
% 
 
 
2.75
% 
 
 
2.27
% 

 Expected life (years)
  
 
6.25
  
 
 
6.25
  
 
 
6.25
  

 Expected dividend yield
  
 
4.57
% 
 
 
4.19
% 
 
 
3.63
% 
 The grant date fair market value of options granted was $4.39, $4.81 and $1.47 for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  The following table is a summary of the Company’s 2011 stock option
activity:   




















 
  
SharesUnderOption(thousands)
 
 
WeightedAverageExercisePrice
 
  
WeightedAverageRemainingContractualTerm (years)
 
  
AggregateIntrinsic Value(millions)
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2010
  
 
4,155
  
 
$
20.80
  
  
 
6.3
  
  
$
14.4
  

 Granted
  
 
200
  
 
 
18.62
  
  
 
9.2
  
  




 Exercised
  
 
(110
) 
 
 
9.37
  
  



  




 Cancelled/forfeited/expired
  
 
(250
) 
 
 
23.91
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
  
 
3,995
  
 
 
20.75
  
  
 
5.9
  
  
 
9.5
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Vested and expected to vest at December 31, 2011
  
 
3,995
  
 
 
20.75
  
  
 
5.9
  
  
 
9.5
  

 Exercisable at December 31, 2011
  
 
645
  
 
$
7.09
  
  
 
7.2
  
  
$
4.7
  

  F-45



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total pre-tax intrinsic
value (the difference between the Company’s closing stock price on December 31, 2011 and 2010 and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money options) that would have been received by the option holders had all option
holders exercised their options on December 31, 2011 and 2010. This amount will change in future periods based on the fair market value of the Company’s stock and the number of options outstanding. Total intrinsic value of options
exercised for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $1.0 million and $3.0 million, respectively.  Compensation
expense related to stock options for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $2.7 million, $3.1 million and $2.4 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, $2.9 million of total unrecognized compensation expense related
to stock options is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.1 years.  Cash received from the option
exercises as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $1.0 million, $2.4 million and $1.5 million, respectively. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deduction from option exercises totaled $0.4 million, $1.1
million and $0.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Excess tax benefits on
stock option exercises, shown as financing cash inflows as a component of issuance of common stock in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, were $0.3 million and $0.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
There were no excess tax benefits on stock option exercises for the year ended December 31, 2009.  Restricted Stock Units
 Nonvested restricted stock unit awards as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and changes during the year ended
December 31, 2011 were as follows:   












 
  
Shares(thousands)
 
 
Weighted-AverageGrant DateFair Value
 

 Nonvested at December 31, 2010
  
 
5,430
  
 
$
12.96
  

 Granted
  
 
1,524
  
 
 
16.37
  

 Vested
  
 
(1,858
) 
 
 
12.93
  

 Forfeited
  
 
(107
) 
 
 
15.78
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Nonvested at December 31, 2011
  
 
4,989
  
 
$
13.94
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Compensation expense related to restricted stock units was $24.4 million, $25.5 million and $21.6 million
for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, there was $25.9 million of unrecognized share-based compensation expense related to approximately 4.6 million restricted stock unit awards,
with a weighted-average grant date fair value of $13.80, that are expected to vest over a weighted-average period of 1.7 years. 
Excess tax benefits on restricted stock units that vested, shown as financing cash inflows as a component of issuance of common
stock in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, were $5.7 million and $6.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. There were no excess tax benefits on restricted stock units that vested for the year ended
December 31, 2009.  Performance Share Unit Awards  During the year ended December 31, 2011, a total of 235,000 performance share unit awards were granted to certain executive officers, payable upon the achievement of certain established performance
targets for the 
  F-46



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 

three years ending December 31, 2013. Distributions under these awards are payable at the end of the performance period, which is January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2013, in
common stock or cash, at the Company’s discretion. The total potential payouts range from 117,500 shares to 235,000 shares should certain performance targets be achieved. The grant date fair market value of the awards granted was $15.54 for the
year ended December 31, 2011. These awards are subject to forfeiture upon termination of employment prior to vesting, subject in some cases to early vesting upon specified events, including death or permanent disability of the grantee or a
change in control of the Company. No performance share unit awards were granted during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009.  Compensation expense for the awards granted in 2011 is currently being recognized based on an estimated payout of 235,000 shares. Compensation expense related to performance share unit awards for the year
ended December 31, 2011 was $1.2 million. There was no compensation expense recognized related to performance share unit awards for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. As of December 31, 2011, there was $2.4 million of
unrecognized share-based compensation expense related to performance share unit awards, which is expected to be recognized over a period of 2.0 years.  Board of Directors Liability Awards  At December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009, approximately 147,263, 145,459 and 158,633, respectively, restricted stock units issued to directors were outstanding for liability awards. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the compensation expense recorded for
these awards was less than $0.1 million, $0.4 million and $0.9 million, respectively. The Board of Directors equity awards are included above in the section “Restricted Stock Units.” 
Other Information 
Authorized unissued shares or treasury shares may be used for issuance under the Company’s share-based compensation plans. The
Company intends to use treasury shares of its common stock to meet the stock requirements of its awards in the future. On May 3, 2011, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase program, authorizing the repurchase of
up to $1.0 billion of the Company’s common stock through December 31, 2012 and terminated its existing authorization of October 29, 2008 for the repurchase of up to 10 million shares. During the year ended December 31, 2011,
the Company purchased 29.2 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $500.0 million under the ASR (see Note 15) entered into on May 5, 2011. No shares were repurchased for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009.

Note 17. Preferred Stock 
The Company has two million shares of $1.00 par value preferred stock authorized for issuance. The Board of Directors
may divide the preferred stock into one or more series and fix the redemption, dividend, voting, conversion, sinking fund, liquidation and other rights. The Company has no present plans to issue any preferred stock. 
  F-47



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
Note 18. Segment Information 
The Company operates primarily in the printing industry, with related products and service offerings designed to offer
customers complete solutions for communicating their messages to target audiences. The Company’s reportable segments reflect the management reporting structure of the organization and the manner in which the chief operating decision-maker
regularly assesses information for decision-making purposes, including the allocation of resources. The Company’s segments and their products and service offerings are summarized below:  U.S. Print and Related Services  The U.S. Print and Related Services
segment includes the Company’s U.S. printing operations, managed as one integrated platform, along with logistics, premedia, print management and other print related services. This segment’s products and related service offerings include
magazines, catalogs, retail inserts, books, directories, financial printing and related services, direct mail, forms, labels, office products, statement printing, premedia and logistics services. 
The U.S. Print and Related Services segment accounted for approximately 74% of the Company’s consolidated net sales in 2011.
 International 
The International segment includes the Company’s non-U.S. printing operations in Asia, Europe, Latin America and Canada. This
segment’s products and related service offerings include magazines, catalogs, retail inserts, books, directories, financial printing and related services, direct mail, forms, labels, packaging, manuals, statement printing, premedia and
logistics services. Additionally, this segment includes the Company’s business process outsourcing and Global Turnkey Solutions operations. Business process outsourcing provides transactional print and outsourcing services, statement printing,
direct mail and print management services through its operations in Europe, Asia and North America. Global Turnkey Solutions provides outsourcing capabilities, including product configuration, customized kitting and order fulfillment for technology,
medical device and other companies around the world through its operations in Europe, North America and Asia.  The
International segment accounted for approximately 26% of the Company’s consolidated net sales in 2011.  Corporate 
Corporate consists of unallocated general and administrative activities and associated expenses including, in part, executive, legal,
finance, information technology, human resources, certain facility costs and LIFO inventory provisions. In addition, certain costs and earnings of employee benefit plans, primarily components of net pension and postretirement benefits expense other
than service cost, are included in Corporate and not allocated to operating segments. In addition, Corporate manages the Company’s cash pooling structure, which enables participating international locations to draw on the Company’s
overseas cash resources to meet local liquidity needs. 
  F-48



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
The Company has disclosed income (loss) from operations as the primary measure of
segment earnings (loss). This is the measure of profitability used by the Company’s chief operating decision-maker and is most consistent with the presentation of profitability reported within the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
































 
 
TotalSales
 
 
IntersegmentSales
 
 
NetSales
 
 
Income (loss)fromoperations
 
 
Assets ofOperations
 
 
DepreciationandAmortization
 
 
CapitalExpenditures
 

 Year ended December 31, 2011
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 U.S. Print and Related Services
 
$
7,887.2
  
 
$
(40.7
) 
 
$
7,846.5
  
 
$
232.9
  
 
$
5,692.0
  
 
$
389.2
  
 
$
104.7
  

 International
 
 
2,833.6
  
 
 
(69.1
) 
 
 
2,764.5
  
 
 
35.4
  
 
 
2,310.1
  
 
 
120.2
  
 
 
90.6
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating segments
 
 
10,720.8
  
 
 
(109.8
) 
 
 
10,611.0
  
 
 
268.3
  
 
 
8,002.1
  
 
 
509.4
  
 
 
195.3
  

 Corporate(1)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(203.1
) 
 
 
279.6
  
 
 
40.5
  
 
 
55.6
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operations
 
$
10,720.8
  
 
$
(109.8
) 
 
$
10,611.0
  
 
$
65.2
  
 
$
8,281.7
  
 
$
549.9
  
 
$
250.9
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Year ended December 31, 2010
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 U.S. Print and Related Services
 
$
7,558.7
  
 
$
(26.5
) 
 
$
7,532.2
  
 
$
638.9
  
 
$
6,495.7
  
 
$
391.8
  
 
$
99.2
  

 International
 
 
2,538.6
  
 
 
(51.9
) 
 
 
2,486.7
  
 
 
149.5
  
 
 
2,460.9
  
 
 
115.2
  
 
 
88.4
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating segments
 
 
10,097.3
  
 
 
(78.4
) 
 
 
10,018.9
  
 
 
788.4
  
 
 
8,956.6
  
 
 
507.0
  
 
 
187.6
  

 Corporate(1)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(232.9
) 
 
 
126.6
  
 
 
32.2
  
 
 
41.8
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operations
 
$
10,097.3
  
 
$
(78.4
) 
 
$
10,018.9
  
 
$
555.5
  
 
$
9,083.2
  
 
$
539.2
  
 
$
229.4
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Year ended December 31, 2009
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 U.S. Print and Related Services
 
$
7,464.5
  
 
$
(27.5
) 
 
$
7,437.0
  
 
$
489.2
  
 
$
6,317.5
  
 
$
422.2
  
 
$
101.4
  

 International
 
 
2,477.1
  
 
 
(56.7
) 
 
 
2,420.4
  
 
 
(36.0
) 
 
 
2,221.8
  
 
 
122.6
  
 
 
60.9
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating segments
 
 
9,941.6
  
 
 
(84.2
) 
 
 
9,857.4
  
 
 
453.2
  
 
 
8,539.3
  
 
 
544.8
  
 
 
162.3
  

 Corporate(1)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(108.9
) 
 
 
208.3
  
 
 
34.2
  
 
 
32.7
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operations
 
$
9,941.6
  
 
$
(84.2
) 
 
$
9,857.4
  
 
$
344.3
  
 
$
8,747.6
  
 
$
579.0
  
 
$
195.0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Corporate assets consist primarily of the following items at December 31, 2011: current and deferred income tax assets net of valuation allowances of $201.1
million, property, plant and equipment of $73.0 million and deferred compensation plan assets of $50.6 million, partially offset by LIFO reserves of $96.4 million; December 31, 2010: property, plant and equipment of $64.6 million and deferred
compensation plan assets of $46.5 million; and December 31, 2009: property, plant and equipment of $65.4 million and deferred compensation plan assets of $50.0 million. 
Restructuring and impairment charges by segment for 2011, 2010 and 2009 are described in Note 3. 
  F-49



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
Note 19. Geographic Area and Products and Services Information 
The table below presents net sales and long-lived assets by geographic region. The amounts in this table differ from
the segment data presented in Note 18 because each operating segment includes operations in multiple geographic regions, based on the Company’s management reporting structure. 
 
























 
  
U.S.
 
  
Europe
 
  
Asia
 
  
Other
 
  
Combined
 

 2011
  



  



  



  



  




 Net sales
  
$
8,073.1
  
  
$
1,067.6
  
  
$
668.0
  
  
$
802.3
  
  
$
10,611.0
  

 Long-lived assets(1)
  
 
1,902.7
  
  
 
207.3
  
  
 
164.2
  
  
 
226.5
  
  
 
2,500.7
  

 2010
  



  



  



  



  




 Net sales
  
$
7,761.6
  
  
$
970.3
  
  
$
600.1
  
  
$
686.9
  
  
$
10,018.9
  

 Long-lived assets(1)
  
 
2,014.2
  
  
 
218.5
  
  
 
172.6
  
  
 
208.8
  
  
 
2,614.1
  

 2009
  



  



  



  



  




 Net sales
  
$
7,647.1
  
  
$
1,063.9
  
  
$
470.5
  
  
$
675.9
  
  
$
9,857.4
  

 Long-lived assets(1)
  
 
2,079.9
  
  
 
282.0
  
  
 
169.0
  
  
 
175.1
  
  
 
2,706.0
  
  


(1)
Includes net property, plant and equipment, noncurrent deferred tax assets and other noncurrent assets. 
 
















 Products and services
  
2011Net Sales
 
  
2010Net Sales
 
  
2009Net Sales
 

 Magazines, catalogs and retail inserts(1)
  
$
2,468.4
  
  
$
2,394.0
  
  
$
2,486.3
  

 Books and directories(1)
  
 
1,670.3
  
  
 
1,739.3
  
  
 
1,764.7
  

 Variable printing(1)
  
 
1,611.6
  
  
 
1,550.3
  
  
 
1,395.8
  

 Forms and labels(1)
  
 
1,027.8
  
  
 
1,072.0
  
  
 
1,105.2
  

 Financial print
  
 
893.2
  
  
 
577.0
  
  
 
487.8
  

 Commercial
  
 
819.2
  
  
 
759.2
  
  
 
861.1
  

 Packaging products(1)
  
 
373.0
  
  
 
351.6
  
  
 
274.2
  

 Global Turnkey Solutions
  
 
290.9
  
  
 
300.6
  
  
 
321.6
  

 Office products
  
 
220.7
  
  
 
212.4
  
  
 
228.7
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total products
  
 
9,375.1
  
  
 
8,956.4
  
  
 
8,925.4
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Logistics services
  
 
706.8
  
  
 
616.0
  
  
 
508.7
  

 Business process outsourcing(1)
  
 
203.2
  
  
 
210.7
  
  
 
211.6
  

 Premedia and related services
  
 
164.6
  
  
 
165.2
  
  
 
160.9
  

 Financial print related services(1)
  
 
161.3
  
  
 
70.6
  
  
 
50.8
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total services
  
 
1,235.9
  
  
 
1,062.5
  
  
 
932.0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total net sales
  
$
10,611.0
  
  
$
10,018.9
  
  
$
9,857.4
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to reflect the Company’s current categorization of products and services. 
Note 20. New Accounting Pronouncements 
In December 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update
No. 2011-11 “Balance Sheet (Topic 210): Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities” (“ASU 2011-11”), which requires disclosures of gross and net information about financial and derivative instruments eligible for
offset in the statement of financial position or subject to a master netting agreement. ASU 2011-11 will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2013 and will require additional disclosures, but otherwise is not expected to have a
material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. 
  F-50



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
In September 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-09
“Compensation—Retirement Benefits—Multiemployer Plans (Subtopic 715-80): Disclosures about an Employer’s Participation in a Multiemployer Plan” (“ASU 2011-09”), which requires additional quantitative and
qualitative disclosures for employers who participate in multiemployer pension plans. ASU 2011-09 was effective and adopted by the Company in the fourth quarter of 2011. ASU 2011-09 requires additional disclosures, but otherwise did not
have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. In
September 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-08 “Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment” (“ASU 2011-08”), which provides, subject to certain conditions, the
option to perform a qualitative, rather than quantitative, assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. ASU 2011-08 was effective for the Company in the first
quarter of 2012; however, as permitted, the Company early adopted ASU 2011-08 for its October 31, 2011 annual goodwill impairment analysis. ASU 2011-08 reduced the complexity and costs of testing goodwill for impairment, but otherwise did not
have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. In
June 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05 “Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income” (“ASU 2011-05”), which prohibits the presentation of other comprehensive income in
stockholders’ equity and requires the presentation of net income, items of other comprehensive income and total comprehensive income in one continuous statement or two separate but consecutive statements. In December 2011, the FASB issued
Accounting Standards Updated No. 2011-12 “Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting
Standards Update No. 2011-05” (“ASU 2011-12”), which defers the requirement to present reclassification adjustments for each component of other comprehensive income on the face of the financial statements. ASU 2011-05 and 2011-12
will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2012 and will impact the Company’s financial statement presentation, but otherwise is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position, annual
results of operations or cash flows.  In May 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-04 “Fair
Value Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs” (“ASU 2011-04”), which amends the definition of fair value measurement principles and disclosure
requirements to eliminate differences between U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. ASU 2011-04 requires new quantitative and qualitative disclosures about the sensitivity of recurring Level 3 measurement disclosures, as well as
transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. ASU 2011-04 will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2012 and will primarily impact the Company’s disclosures, but otherwise is not expected to have a material
impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows.  In December 2010,
the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2010-29 “Business Combinations (Topic 805): Disclosures of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations” (“ASU 2010-29”), which specifies that pro forma
disclosures should be reported as if the business combination that occurred during the current year had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period and the pro forma disclosures must include a description of
material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments. ASU 2010-29 was effective and adopted by the Company in the first quarter of 2011. The adoption of ASU 2010-29 only impacted the Company’s disclosures and did not have a material impact on the
Company’s consolidated financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. 
  F-51



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In millions, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)—(Continued) 
 
In July 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2010-20
“Receivables (Topic 310): Disclosures about the Credit Quality of Financing Receivables and the Allowance for Credit Losses” (“ASU 2010-20”), which amends existing disclosure requirements and requires additional quantitative and
qualitative disclosures concerning financing receivables, credit risk exposures and the allowance for credit losses. Certain aspects of ASU 2010-20 were effective and adopted by the Company in the fourth quarter of 2010, with the remaining
requirements effective and adopted by the Company in the first quarter of 2011. The adoption of ASU 2010-20 only required additional disclosures and did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position, annual results
of operations or cash flows.  In January 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2010-06 “Fair Value
Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820): Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements” (“ASU 2010-06”), which requires additional disclosures regarding transfers between Levels 1, 2 and 3 of the fair value hierarchy, as well
as a more detailed reconciliation of recurring Level 3 measurements. Certain aspects of ASU 2010-06 were effective and adopted by the Company in the first quarter of 2010, with the remaining requirements effective and adopted by the Company in the
first quarter of 2011. The adoption of ASU 2010-06 only required additional disclosures and did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. 
  F-52



Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of  R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company  Chicago, Illinois 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company and subsidiaries (the
“Company”) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of R.R.
Donnelley & Sons Company and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 22, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. 
/s/    DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP  Chicago, Illinois  February 22, 2012 
  F-53



Table of Contents
UNAUDITED INTERIM FINANCIAL INFORMATION, DIVIDEND
 SUMMARY AND FINANCIAL SUMMARY  (In millions, except per-share data)   
























 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
FirstQuarter
 
  
SecondQuarter
 
  
ThirdQuarter
 
  
FourthQuarter
 
 
Full Year
 

 2011
  



  



  



  



 




 Net sales(1)
  
$
2,583.5
  
  
$
2,623.4
  
  
$
2,683.3
  
  
$
2,720.8
  
 
$
10,611.0
  

 Income (loss) from operations(1)
  
 
109.4
  
  
 
116.1
  
  
 
156.8
  
  
 
(317.1
) 
 
 
65.2
  

 Net earnings (loss) attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders(1)
  
 
33.9
  
  
 
12.2
  
  
 
158.0
  
  
 
(326.7
) 
 
 
(122.6
) 

 Net earnings (loss) per diluted share attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders(1)(2)
  
 
0.16
  
  
 
0.06
  
  
 
0.83
  
  
 
(1.78
) 
 
 
(0.63
) 

 Closing stock price high
  
 
19.39
  
  
 
21.34
  
  
 
20.44
  
  
 
16.65
  
 
 
21.34
  

 Closing stock price low
  
 
17.49
  
  
 
18.58
  
  
 
13.33
  
  
 
13.27
  
 
 
13.27
  

 Closing stock price at quarter-end
  
 
18.92
  
  
 
19.61
  
  
 
14.12
  
  
 
14.43
  
 
 
14.43
  

 2010
  



  



  



  



 




 Net sales(1)
  
$
2,415.1
  
  
$
2,408.6
  
  
$
2,488.1
  
  
$
2,707.1
  
 
$
10,018.9
  

 Income from operations(1)
  
 
145.8
  
  
 
175.3
  
  
 
148.7
  
  
 
85.7
  
 
 
555.5
  

 Net earnings attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders(1)
  
 
52.6
  
  
 
88.8
  
  
 
53.3
  
  
 
27.0
  
 
 
221.7
  

 Net earnings per diluted share attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders(1)(2)
  
 
0.25
  
  
 
0.42
  
  
 
0.25
  
  
 
0.13
  
 
 
1.06
  

 Closing stock price high
  
 
23.19
  
  
 
22.60
  
  
 
18.05
  
  
 
18.82
  
 
 
23.19
  

 Closing stock price low
  
 
19.02
  
  
 
16.37
  
  
 
14.96
  
  
 
15.76
  
 
 
14.96
  

 Closing stock price at quarter-end
  
 
21.35
  
  
 
16.37
  
  
 
16.96
  
  
 
17.47
  
 
 
17.47
  
 Dividend Summary   
























 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2008
 
  
2007
 

 Quarterly rate per common share
  
$
0.26
  
  
$
0.26
  
  
$
0.26
  
  
$
0.26
  
  
$
0.26
  

 Yearly rate per common share
  
 
1.04
  
  
 
1.04
  
  
 
1.04
  
  
 
1.04
  
  
 
1.04
  
  


(1)
Reflects results of acquired businesses from the relevant acquisition dates. 


(2)
Full-year amounts do not equal the sum of the quarters due to rounding and a net loss in the fourth quarter of 2011. 
Includes the following significant items:   


 
•
 
 For 2011: Restructuring and impairment charges of $667.8 million (first quarter $50.8 million, second quarter $75.7 million, third quarter $34.2
million, fourth quarter $507.1 million); $74.8 million recognition of income tax benefits; $69.9 million pre-tax loss on debt extinguishment; $38.7 million pre-tax gain on pension curtailment; $15.3 million pre-tax contingent compensation related to
the Journalism Online acquisition; $9.8 million pre-tax gain on Helium investment; $2.2 million of acquisition-related expenses.   


 
•
 
 For 2010: Restructuring and impairment charges of $157.9 million (first quarter $15.5 million, second quarter $10.7 million, third quarter $48.7
million, fourth quarter $83.0 million); $13.5 million of acquisition-related expenses; $8.9 million pre-tax loss related to the currency devaluation in Venezuela, including an increase in loss attributable to noncontrolling interest of $3.6 million;
$1.1 million write-down of affordable housing investments. 
  F-54



Table of Contents
Financial Summary   
























 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Net sales
  
$
10,611.0
  
 
$
10,018.9
  
  
$
9,857.4
  
 
$
11,581.6
  
 
$
11,587.1
  

 Net earnings (loss) from continuing operations attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders
  
 
(122.6
) 
 
 
221.7
  
  
 
(27.3
) 
 
 
(191.7
) 
 
 
(48.4
) 

 Net earnings (loss) per diluted share from continuing operations attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders
  
 
(0.63
) 
 
 
1.06
  
  
 
(0.13
) 
 
 
(0.91
) 
 
 
(0.22
) 

 Income (loss) from discontinued operations attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1.8
  
 
 
(0.5
) 

 Net earnings (loss) attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders
  
 
(122.6
) 
 
 
221.7
  
  
 
(27.3
) 
 
 
(189.9
) 
 
 
(48.9
) 

 Net earnings (loss) per diluted share attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders
  
 
(0.63
) 
 
 
1.06
  
  
 
(0.13
) 
 
 
(0.90
) 
 
 
(0.22
) 

 Total assets
  
 
8,281.7
  
 
 
9,083.2
  
  
 
8,747.6
  
 
 
9,494.3
  
 
 
12,086.7
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
3,416.8
  
 
 
3,398.6
  
  
 
2,982.5
  
 
 
3,203.3
  
 
 
3,601.9
  
  


Reflects
results of acquired businesses from the relevant acquisition dates.  Includes the following significant items:   


 
•
 
 For 2011: Pre-tax restructuring and impairment charges of $667.8 million, $74.8 million recognition of income tax benefits, $69.9 million pre-tax loss
on debt extinguishment, $38.7 million pre-tax gain on pension curtailment, $15.3 million pre-tax contingent compensation related to the Journalism Online acquisition, $9.8 million pre-tax gain on Helium investment and $2.2 million of
acquisition-related expenses;   


 
•
 
 For 2010: Pre-tax restructuring and impairment charges of $157.9 million, $13.5 million of acquisition-related expenses, $8.9 pre-tax loss on the
currency devaluation in Venezuela, including an increase in loss attributable to noncontrolling interests of $3.6 million and a pre-tax $1.1 million write-down of affordable housing investments; 
 


 
•
 
 For 2009: Pre-tax restructuring and impairment charges of $382.7 million, $15.6 million of income tax expense due to the reorganization of entities
within the International segment, a $10.3 million pre-tax loss on the repurchases of $640.6 million of senior notes, reclassification of a pre-tax loss of $2.7 million from accumulated other comprehensive income to loss on debt extinguishment due to
the change in the hedged forecasted interest payments resulting from the repurchase of senior notes, a $2.4 million write-down of affordable housing investments and $1.6 million of acquisition-related expenses; 
 


 
•
 
 For 2008: Pre-tax restructuring and impairment charges of $1,184.7 million, a $9.9 million pre-tax loss associated with the termination of
cross-currency swaps, a tax benefit of $228.8 million related to the decline in value and reorganization of certain entities within the International segment and a tax benefit of $38.0 million from the recognition of uncertain tax positions upon
settlement of certain U.S. federal income tax audits for the years 2000-2002; and   


 
•
 
 For 2007: Pre-tax restructuring and impairment charges of $839.0 million and a tax benefit of $9.3 million. 
  F-55



Table of Contents
INDEX TO EXHIBITS 
 









  3.1
  
Restated Certificate of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, filed
on August 2, 2007)




  3.2
  
By-Laws (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 16, 2012, filed on February 21, 2012)




  4.1
  
Instruments, other than those defining the rights of holders of long-term debt not registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 of the registrant and of all subsidiaries for
which consolidated or unconsolidated financial statements are required to be filed are being omitted pursuant to paragraph (4)(iii)(A) of Item 601 of Regulation S-K. Registrant agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the Commission
upon request.




  4.2
  
Indenture dated as of November 1, 1990 between the Company and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 filed with the Company’s Form SE filed on
March 26, 1992)




  4.3
  
Indenture dated as of March 10, 2004 between the Company and LaSalle National Bank Association, as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Company’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004, filed on May 10, 2004)




  4.4
  
Indenture dated as of May 23, 2005 between the Company and LaSalle Bank National Association, as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated May 23, 2005, filed on May 25, 2005)




  4.5
  
Indenture dated as of January 3, 2007 between the Company and LaSalle Bank National Association, as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s
Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed on January 3, 2007)




  4.6
  
Credit Agreement dated December 17, 2010 among the Company, the Banks named therein and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to
the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 17, 2010, filed on December 17, 2010)




10.1
  
Policy on Retirement Benefits, Phantom Stock Grants and Stock Options for Directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended June 30, 2008, filed on August 6, 2008)*




10.2
  
Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004,
filed on March 14, 2005)*




10.3
  
Amended Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007,
filed on August 2, 2007)*




10.4
  
Amended Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010,
filed on August 4, 2010)*




10.5
  
Amended Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan dated May 21, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2009, filed on August 5, 2009)*




10.6
  
Directors’ Deferred Compensation Agreement, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 1998, filed on November 12, 1998)*
  E-1



Table of Contents









10.7
  
Amended and Restated Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2007, filed on February 27, 2008)*




10.9
  
2000 Broad-based Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
2003, filed on November 12, 2003)*




10.10
  
2004 Performance Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, filed on
February 25, 2009)*




10.11
  
Amended and Restated R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company Unfunded Supplemental Benefit Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, filed on November 3, 2010)*




10.12
  
Amendment to Amended and Restated R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company Unfunded Supplemental Benefit Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the Company’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, filed on November 3, 2010)*




10.13
  
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan for Designated Executives—B (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Moore Wallace Incorporated’s (Commission file number
1-8014) Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2001, filed on November 14, 2001)*




10.17
  
Form of Option Agreement for certain executive officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2004, filed on March 14, 2005)*




10.18
  
Form of Cash Bonus Agreement for certain executive officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended March 31, 2010, filed on May 5, 2010)*




10.19
  
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for certain executive officers, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, filed on February 25, 2009)*




10.20
  
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for certain executive officers, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, filed on February 25, 2009)*




10.22
  
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2004, filed on March 14, 2005)*




10.23
  
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.25 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2007, filed on February 27, 2008)*




10.24
  
Form of Amendment to Director Restricted Stock Unit Awards dated May 21, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2009, filed on August 5, 2009)*




10.25
  
Form of Amendment to Director Restricted Stock Unit Awards (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2008, filed on February 25, 2009)*




10.26
  
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2008, filed on February 25, 2009)*
  E-2



Table of Contents









10.27
  
Form of Director Restricted Stock Unit Awards (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009,
filed on August 5, 2009)*




10.28
  
Form of Performance Share Unit Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011,
filed May 4, 2011)*




10.29
  
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of November 30, 2008 between the Company and Thomas J. Quinlan, III (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, filed on February 25, 2009)*




10.30
  
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of November 30, 2008 between the Company and John R. Paloian (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.25 to the Company’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, filed on February 25, 2009)*




10.31
  
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of November 28, 2008 between the Company and Daniel L. Knotts (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to the Company’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, filed on February 25, 2009)*




10.32
  
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of December 18, 2008 between the Company and Suzanne S. Bettman (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.27 to the Company’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, filed on February 25, 2009)*




10.33
  
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of December 18, 2008 between the Company and Miles W. McHugh (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28 to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, filed on February 25, 2009)*




10.34
  
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of May 3, 2011 between the Company and Daniel N. Leib (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.34 to the Company’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, filed May 4, 2011)*




10.35
  
Form of Indemnification Agreement for directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit. 10.32 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
2005, filed on November 8, 2005)*




10.36
  
Amended Management by Objective Plan (filed herewith)*




10.37
  
Amended Management By Objective Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.34 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, filed
on November 3, 2010)*




10.38
  
Amended 2009 Management by Objective Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009,
filed on February 24, 2010)*




10.39
  
Confirmation, dated as of May 5, 2011 between J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, as agent for JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, London Branch, and R.R. Donnelley & Sons
Company, together with a Pricing Supplement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 5, 2011, filed on May 11, 2011)**




12
  
Statements of Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges (filed herewith)




14
  
Code of Ethics (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 14 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003, filed on March 1,
2004)
  E-3



Table of Contents









21
  
Subsidiaries of the Company (filed herewith)




23.1
  
Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP (filed herewith)




24
  
Power of Attorney (filed herewith)




31.1
  
Certification by Thomas J. Quinlan, III, President and Chief Executive Officer, required by Rule 13a-14(a) and Rule 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (filed
herewith)




31.2
  
Certification by Daniel N. Leib, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, required by Rule 13a-14(a) and Rule 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(filed herewith)




32.1
  
Certification by Thomas J. Quinlan, III, President and Chief Executive Officer, required by Rule 13a-14(b) or Rule 15d-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States Code (filed herewith)




32.2
  
Certification by Daniel N. Leib, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, required by Rule 13a-14(b) or Rule 15d-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States Code (filed herewith)




101.INS
  
XBRL Instance Document




101.SCH
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document




101.CAL
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document




101.DEF
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document




101.LAB
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document




101.PRE
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document
  


*
Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 


**
The registrant has requested and received confidential treatment with respect to certain portions of this exhibit pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934. Such portions have been omitted from this exhibit and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
  E-4




