
10-K
1
d264447d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549    FORM 10-K    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)  OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934   







For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011

 
Commission file number 1-9700
   THE CHARLES SCHWAB
CORPORATION  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
 






Delaware
 
94-3025021

 (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
 
(I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)
   211 Main Street, San
Francisco, CA 94105  (Address of principal executive offices and zip code) 
  Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:
(415) 667-7000    Securities registered pursuant
to Section 12(b) of the Act:   






Title of each class
 
Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock - $.01 par value per share
 
New York Stock Exchange
   Securities registered pursuant
to Section 12(g) of the Act: None    Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes  x    No  ¨    Indicate by check
mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange
Act.     Yes  ¨    No  x    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.    Yes  x    No  ¨    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every
Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    
Yes   x    No  ¨   
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   x
   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act.   










Large accelerated filer
 
x
  
Accelerated filer
 
¨






Non-accelerated filer
 
¨  (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
  
Smaller reporting company
 
¨
   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes  ¨    No  x
   As of June 30, 2011, the aggregate market value of the
voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $16.8 billion. For purposes of this information, the outstanding shares of Common Stock owned by directors and executive officers of the registrant, and certain investment companies
managed by Charles Schwab Investment Management, Inc. were deemed to be shares of the voting stock held by affiliates.   
The number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of January 31, 2012, was 1,271,342,259.    DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
  Part III of this Form 10-K incorporates certain information contained in the
registrant’s definitive proxy statement for its annual meeting of stockholders, to be held May 17, 2012, by reference to that document.   
   


Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
  Annual Report On Form 10-K 
For Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011   
   
TABLE OF CONTENTS   










Part I 
  








Item 1.
 
Business
  
 
1
  


 
 General Corporate Overview
  
 
1
  


 
 Acquisitions and Divestiture
  
 
1
  


 
 Business Strategy and Competitive Environment
  
 
2
  


 
 Products and Services
  
 
3
  


 
 Regulation
  
 
5
  


 
 Sources of Net Revenues
  
 
6
  


 
 Available Information
  
 
6
  

Item 1A.
 
Risk Factors
  
 
7
  

Item 1B.
 
Unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Comments
  
 
12
  

Item 2.
 
Properties
  
 
13
  

Item 3.
 
Legal Proceedings
  
 
13
  





Part II 
 

  








Item 4.
 
Mine Safety Disclosures
  
 
13
  

Item 5.
 
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
  
 
13
  

Item 6.
 
Selected Financial Data
  
 
16
  

Item 7.
 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  
 
17
  


 
 Overview
  
 
17
  


 
 Current Market and Regulatory Environment
  
 
20
  


 
 Results of Operations
  
 
21
  


 
 Liquidity and Capital Resources
  
 
29
  


 
 Risk Management
  
 
35
  


 
 Fair Value of Financial Instruments
  
 
41
  


 
 Critical Accounting Estimates
  
 
41
  


 
 Forward-Looking Statements
  
 
43
  

Item 7A.
 
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
  
 
45
  

Item 8.
 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
47
  

Item 9.
 
Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
 
93
  

Item 9A.
 
Controls and Procedures
  
 
93
  

Item 9B.
 
Other Information
  
 
93
  




Part III 
  








Item 10.
 
Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance
  
 
93
  

Item 11.
 
Executive Compensation 
  
 
95
  

Item 12.
 
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
  
 
95
  

Item 13.
 
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
95
  

Item 14.
 
Principal Accountant Fees and Services
  
 
96
  




Part IV 
  








Item 15.
 
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule
  
 
96
  


 
 Exhibit Index 
  
 
96
  


 
 Signatures
  
 
102
  


 
 Index to Financial Statement Schedule
  
 
F-1
  



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 
PART I 
 


Item 1.
Business    General Corporate Overview   
The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC), headquartered in San Francisco, California, was incorporated in 1986 and engages, through its
subsidiaries (together referred to as the Company, and primarily located in San Francisco except as indicated), in securities brokerage, banking, and related financial services. At December 31, 2011, the Company had $1.68 trillion in
client assets, 8.6 million active brokerage
accounts(a), 1.5 million corporate retirement plan participants, and 780,000 banking accounts.   
Significant business subsidiaries of CSC include: 
 


 
•
 
 Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (Schwab), which was incorporated in 1971, is a securities broker-dealer with over 300 domestic branch offices in 45
states, as well as a branch in each of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and London, U.K., and serves clients in Hong Kong through one of CSC’s subsidiaries; 
 


 
•
 
 Charles Schwab Bank (Schwab Bank), which commenced operations in 2003, is a federal savings bank located in Reno, Nevada; and
  


 
•
 
 Charles Schwab Investment Management, Inc. (CSIM), which is the investment advisor for Schwab’s proprietary mutual funds, referred to as the
Schwab Funds®, and Schwab’s exchange-traded funds, referred to as the Schwab ETFs™.
   The Company provides financial services to
individuals and institutional clients through two segments – Investor Services and Institutional Services. The Investor Services segment provides retail brokerage and banking services to individual investors. The Institutional Services segment
provides custodial, trading, and support services to independent investment advisors (IAs). The Institutional Services segment also provides retirement plan services, specialty brokerage services, and mutual fund clearing services. For financial
information by segment for the three years ended December 31, 2011, see “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – 25. Segment Information.” 
  As of December 31, 2011, the Company had full-time, part-time and
temporary employees, and persons employed on a contract basis that represented the equivalent of about 14,100 full-time employees.   
Acquisitions and Divestiture   
On September 1, 2011, the Company completed its acquisition of all of the outstanding common shares of optionsXpress Holdings,
Inc. (optionsXpress), an online brokerage firm primarily focused on equity option securities and futures. The
optionsXpress® brokerage platform provides active investors and traders trading tools, analytics and education
to execute a variety of investment strategies. The combination of optionsXpress and Schwab offers active investors an additional level of service and platform capabilities. optionsXpress, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of optionsXpress, is a
securities broker-dealer.    On November 9, 2010, the Company
acquired substantially all of the assets of Windward Investment Management, Inc. (Windward), which was an investment advisory firm that managed diversified investment portfolios comprised primarily of exchange-traded fund securities. As a result of
the acquisition, Windhaven Investment Management, Inc. (Windhaven) was formed as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Schwab Holdings, Inc.   
In July 2007, the Company sold all of the outstanding stock of U.S. Trust Corporation, which was a subsidiary that provided wealth management
services.    In March 2007, the Company acquired The 401(k) Company,
which offers retirement plan services. The acquisition enhanced the Company’s ability to meet the needs of retirement plans of all sizes. The acquisition also provided the opportunity to 
   


(a) 
 Accounts with balances or
activity within the preceding eight months. 
  - 1 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 
capture rollover accounts from individuals participating in retirement plans served by The 401(k)
Company and to cross-sell the Company’s other investment and banking services to plan participants.    Business Strategy and Competitive Environment   
The Company’s strategy is to meet the financial services needs of investors, advisors, and employers through its two segments. To pursue its
strategy, the Company focuses on: building client loyalty; innovating in ways that benefit clients; operating in a disciplined manner; and leveraging its strengths through shared core processes and technology platforms. The Company provides clients
with a compelling combination of personalized relationships, superior service, and great value, delivered through a blend of people and technology. People provide the client focus and personal touch that are essential in serving investors, while
technology helps create services that are scalable and consistent. This combination helps the Company address a wide range of client needs – from tools and information for self-directed or active investors, to advice solutions, to retirement
and equity-based incentive plans, to support services for independent IAs – while enabling each client to easily utilize some or all of these capabilities according to their unique circumstances. 
  The Company’s competition in serving individual investors includes a
wide range of brokerage, wealth management, and asset management firms, as well as banks and trust companies. In serving these investors and competing for a growing percentage of the investable wealth in the U.S., the Company offers a multi-channel
service delivery model, which includes branch, telephonic, mobile, and online capabilities. Under this model, the Company can offer personalized service at competitive prices while giving clients the choice of where, when, and how they do business
with the Company. Schwab’s branches and regional telephone service centers are staffed with trained and experienced financial consultants (FCs) focused on building and sustaining client relationships. The Company offers the ability to meet
client investing needs through a single ongoing point of contact, even as those needs change over time. In particular, management believes that the Company’s ability to provide those clients seeking help, guidance, or advice with an integrated,
individually tailored solution – ranging from occasional consultations to an ongoing relationship with a Schwab FC or an IA – is a competitive strength compared to the more fragmented offerings of other firms. 
  The Company’s online, telephonic, and mobile channels provide quick and
efficient access to an extensive array of information, research, tools, trade execution, and administrative services, which clients can access according to their needs. For example, as clients trade more actively, they can use these channels to
access highly competitive pricing, expert tools, and extensive service capabilities – including experienced, knowledgeable teams of trading specialists and integrated product offerings. Individuals investing for retirement through 401(k) plans
can take advantage of the Company’s bundled offering of multiple investment choices, education, and third-party advice. Management also believes the Company is able to compete with the wide variety of financial services firms striving to
attract individual client relationships by complementing these capabilities with the extensive array of investment, banking, and lending products and services described in the following section. 
  In the IA arena, the Company competes with institutional custodians,
traditional and discount brokers, banks, and trust companies. Management believes that its Institutional Services segment can maintain its market leadership position primarily through the efforts of its expanded sales and support teams, which are
dedicated to helping IAs grow, compete, and succeed in serving their clients. In addition to focusing on superior service, Institutional Services competes by utilizing technology to provide IAs with a highly-developed, scalable platform for
administering their clients’ assets easily and efficiently. Institutional Services sponsors a variety of national, regional, and local events designed to help IAs identify and implement better ways to grow and manage their practices
efficiently.    Another important aspect of the
Company’s ability to compete is its ongoing focus on efficiency and productivity, as lower costs give the Company greater flexibility in its approach to pricing and investing for growth. Management believes that this flexibility remains
important in light of the competitive environment, in which a number of competitors offer reduced online trading commission rates and lower expense ratios on certain classes of mutual funds and exchange-traded funds. Additionally, the Company’s
nationwide marketing effort is an important competitive tool because it reinforces the attributes of the Schwab®
brand. 
  - 2 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 
Products and Services 
  The Company offers a broad range of products to address individuals’
varying investment and financial needs. Examples of these product offerings include:   


 
•
 
 Brokerage – an array of brokerage accounts including some with check-writing features, debit card, and billpay; individual retirement accounts;
retirement plans for small to large businesses; 529 college savings accounts; designated brokerage accounts; equity incentive plan accounts; and margin loans, as well as access to fixed income securities, equity and debt offerings, options, and
futures;   


 
•
 
 Banking – checking accounts linked to brokerage accounts, savings accounts, certificates of deposit, demand deposit accounts, first mortgages,
home equity lines of credit (HELOCs), and personal loans collateralized by securities;   


 
•
 
 Trust – trust custody services, personal trust reporting services, and administrative trustee services; 
 


 
•
 
 Advice solutions– separately managed accounts, customized personal advice for tailored portfolios, and specialized planning and full-time
portfolio management;   


 
•
 
 Mutual funds – third-party mutual funds through Mutual Fund Marketplace®, including no-load mutual funds through the Mutual Fund OneSource® service, proprietary mutual funds from two fund families – Schwab Funds® and Laudus Funds®, other
third-party mutual funds, and mutual fund trading and clearing services to broker-dealers; and   


 
•
 
 Exchange-traded funds (ETFs) – third-party and proprietary ETFs, as well as separately managed portfolios of ETFs. 
  These products, and the Company’s full array of investing services, are
made available through its two segments – Investor Services and Institutional Services.    Investor Services    Through the Investor Services segment, the Company provides retail brokerage and banking services to individual investors. 
  The Company offers research, analytic tools, performance reports, market
analysis, and educational material to all clients. Clients looking for more guidance have access to online portfolio planning tools, professional advice from Schwab’s portfolio consultants who can help develop an investment strategy and carry
out investment and portfolio management decisions, as well as a range of fully delegated managed solutions that provide ongoing portfolio management.   
Schwab strives to demystify investing by educating and assisting clients in the development of investment plans. Educational tools
include workshops, interactive courses, and online information about investing. Additionally, Schwab provides various internet-based research and analysis tools that are designed to help clients achieve better investment outcomes. As an example of
such tools, Schwab Equity Ratings® is a quantitative model-based stock rating system that provides all clients
with ratings on approximately 3,000 stocks, assigning each equity a single grade: A, B, C, D, or F. Stocks are rated based on specific factors relating to fundamentals, valuation, momentum, and risk and ranked so that the number of ‘buy
consideration’ ratings – As and Bs – equals the number of ‘sell consideration’ ratings – Ds and Fs. In 2011, the Company launched Schwab Equity Ratings InternationalTM, an international ranking methodology covering approximately 4,000
stocks in 28 foreign equity markets.    Clients may need specific
investment recommendations, either from time to time or on an ongoing basis. The Company provides clients seeking advice with customized solutions. The Company’s approach to advice is based on long-term investment strategies and guidance on
portfolio diversification and asset allocation. This approach is designed to be offered consistently across all of Schwab’s delivery channels.   
Schwab Private ClientTM features a personal advice relationship with a designated portfolio consultant, supported by a team of investment
professionals who provide individualized service, a customized investment strategy developed in collaboration with the client, and ongoing guidance and execution. 
  For clients seeking a relationship in which investment
decisions are fully delegated to a financial professional, the Company offers several alternatives. The Company provides investors access to professional investment management in a diversified account that is invested exclusively in either mutual
funds or ETFs through the Schwab Managed PortfolioTM and
WindhavenTM programs. The Company also refers investors
who want to utilize a specific third-party money manager to direct a portion of their investment assets to the Schwab Managed Account program. In addition, clients who want the
  - 3 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 
assistance of an independent professional in managing their financial affairs may be
referred to IAs in the Schwab Advisor Network®. These IAs provide personalized portfolio management, financial
planning, and wealth management solutions.    The Company strives to
deliver information, education, technology, service, and pricing that meet the specific needs of clients who trade actively. Schwab offers integrated Web- and software-based trading platforms, which incorporate intelligent order routing technology,
real-time market data, options trading, premium stock research, and multi-channel access, as well as sophisticated account and trade management features, risk management tools, decision support tools, and dedicated personal support. 
  The Company serves both foreign investors and non-English-speaking U.S.
clients who wish to trade or invest in U.S. dollar-based securities. In the U.S., the Company serves Chinese-, Spanish-, and Vietnamese-speaking clients through a combination of its branch offices and Web-based and telephonic services. 
  Institutional Services 
  Through the Institutional Services segment, Schwab provides custodial,
trading, technology, practice management, trust asset, and other support services to IAs. To attract and serve IAs, Institutional Services has a dedicated sales force and service teams assigned to meet their needs. 
  IAs who custody client accounts at Schwab may use proprietary software that
provides them with up-to-date client account information, as well as trading capabilities. The Institutional Services website is the core platform for IAs to conduct daily business activities online with Schwab, including submitting client account
information and retrieving news and market information. This platform provides IAs with a comprehensive suite of electronic and paper-based reporting capabilities. Institutional Services offers online cashiering services, as well as internet-based
eDocuments sites for both IAs and their clients that provide multi-year archiving of online statements, trade confirms and tax reports, along with document search capabilities. 
  To help IAs grow and manage their practices, Institutional Services offers a
variety of services, including marketing and business development, business strategy and planning, and transition support. Regulatory compliance consulting and support services are available, as well as website design and development capabilities.
Institutional Services maintains a website that provides interactive tools, educational content, and research reports to assist advisors thinking about establishing their own independent practices. 
  Institutional Services offers an array of services to help advisors establish
their own independent practices through the Business Start-up Solutions package. This includes access to dedicated service teams and outsourcing of back-office operations, as well as third-party firms who provide assistance with real estate, errors
and omissions insurance, and company benefits.   
The Company offers a variety of educational materials and events to IAs seeking to expand their knowledge of industry issues and
trends, as well as sharpen their individual expertise and practice management skills. Institutional Services updates and shares market research on an ongoing basis, and it holds a series of events and conferences every year to discuss topics of
interest to IAs, including business strategies and best practices. The Company sponsors the annual IMPACT®
conference, which provides a national forum for the Company, IAs, and other industry participants to gather and share information and insights.   
IAs and their clients have access to a broad range of the Company’s products and services, including managed accounts and cash products. 
  The Institutional Services segment also provides retirement plan
recordkeeping and related services, retirement plan trust and custody services, specialty brokerage services, and mutual fund clearing services, and supports the availability of Schwab proprietary investment funds on third-party platforms. The
Company serves a range of employer sponsored plans: equity compensation plans, defined contribution plans, defined benefit plans, nonqualified deferred compensation plans and other employee benefit plans. 
  - 4 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 
The Company’s bundled 401(k) retirement plan product offers plan sponsors a wide array of
investment options, trustee or custodial services, and participant-level recordkeeping. Plan design features, which increase plan efficiency and achieve employer goals, are also offered, such as automatic enrollment, automatic fund mapping at
conversion, and automatic contribution increases. Services also include support for Roth 401(k) accounts and profit sharing and defined benefit plans. The Company provides a robust suite of tools to plan sponsors to manage their plans, including
plan-specific reports, studies and research, access to legislative updates and benchmarking reports that provide perspective on their plan’s features compared with overall industry and segment-specific plans. Participants in bundled plans
serviced by the Company receive targeted education materials, have access to electronic tools and resources, may attend onsite and virtual seminars, and can receive third-party advice delivered by Schwab. This third-party advice service is delivered
online, by phone, or in person, including recommendations based on the core investment fund choices in their retirement plan and specific recommended savings rates. 
  Through the Retirement Business Services unit, the
Company and independent retirement plan providers work together to serve plan sponsors, combining the consulting and administrative expertise of the administrator with the Company’s investment, technology, trust, and custodial services.
Retirement Business Services also offers the Schwab Personal Choice Retirement Account®, a self-directed
brokerage offering for retirement plans.    The Company’s
Corporate Brokerage Services unit provides specialty brokerage-related services to corporate clients through its Stock Plan Services and Designated Brokerage Services businesses. Stock Plan Services offers equity compensation plan sponsors
full-service recordkeeping for stock plans: stock options, restricted stock, performance shares and stock appreciation rights. Specialized services for executive transactions and reporting, grant acceptance tracking and other services are offered to
employers to meet the needs of administering the reporting and compliance aspects of an equity compensation plan. Designated Brokerage Services provides solutions for compliance departments of regulated companies and firms with special requirements
to monitor employee personal trading, including trade surveillance technology. The Corporate Brokerage Services unit also provides mutual fund clearing services to banks, brokerage firms and trust companies and offers Schwab-generated Investment
Solutions outside the Company to institutional channels.   
 Regulation   
CSC is a savings and loan holding company and Schwab Bank, CSC’s depository institution subsidiary, is a federal savings bank. Prior to July 21,
2011, CSC and Schwab Bank were both subject to supervision and regulation by the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS). The “Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act” legislation (Dodd-Frank Act) eliminated the OTS effective
July 21, 2011. As a result, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve) became CSC’s primary regulator and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency became the primary regulator of Schwab Bank. Effective
July 21, 2011, CSC is required by the Dodd-Frank Act to serve as a source of strength for Schwab Bank. While under the OTS, CSC was required to have a “prudential level of capital” to support CSC’s risk profile. The OTS did not
historically subject savings and loan holding companies, such as CSC, to consolidated regulatory capital requirements. However, under the Dodd-Frank Act, CSC will be subject to new minimum leverage and minimum risk-based capital ratio requirements
that will be set by the Federal Reserve that are at least as stringent as the requirements generally applicable to insured depository institutions as of July 21, 2011. 
  Schwab Bank is subject to regulation and supervision and to various
requirements and restrictions under federal and state laws, including regulatory capital guidelines. Among other things, these requirements also govern transactions with CSC and its non-depository institution subsidiaries, including loans and other
extensions of credit, investments and asset purchases, dividends, and investments. The federal banking agencies have broad powers to enforce these regulations, including the power to terminate deposit insurance, impose substantial fines and other
civil and criminal penalties, and appoint a conservator or receiver. Schwab Bank is required to maintain minimum capital levels as specified in federal banking laws and regulations. Failure to meet the minimum levels could result in certain
mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary actions by the regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on Schwab Bank.   
The securities industry in the United States is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws. CSC’s principal U.S.
broker-dealers are Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. Schwab is registered as a broker-dealer with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the fifty states, and the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. optionsXpress, Inc. is
registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC, the fifty states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and 
  - 5 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 

the Virgin Islands. Schwab and CSIM are registered as investment advisors with the SEC. Additionally, Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. are regulated by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission
(CFTC) with respect to the commodity futures and commodities trading activities they conduct as an introducing broker and futures commission merchant, respectively. 
  Much of the regulation of broker-dealers has been delegated to
self-regulatory organizations (SROs). Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. are members of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (FINRA), the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB), NYSE Arca, and the Chicago Board Options Exchange
(CBOE). optionsXpress, Inc. is also a member of other exchanges. The primary regulators of Schwab are FINRA and, for municipal securities, the MSRB. The primary regulators of optionsXpress, Inc. are FINRA, CBOE, and for municipal securities, the
MSRB. The National Futures Association (NFA) is Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc.’s primary regulator for futures and commodities trading activities. The Company’s business is also subject to oversight by regulatory bodies in other countries
in which the Company operates.    The principal purpose of
regulating broker-dealers and investment advisors is the protection of clients and the securities markets. The regulations to which broker-dealers and investment advisors are subject cover all aspects of the securities business, including, among
other things, sales and trading practices, publication of research, margin lending, uses and safekeeping of clients’ funds and securities, capital adequacy, recordkeeping and reporting, fee arrangements, disclosure to clients, fiduciary duties
owed to advisory clients, and the conduct of directors, officers and employees.    Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. are both subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Uniform Net Capital Rule) and related SRO requirements. The CFTC and NFA also impose net
capital requirements. The Uniform Net Capital Rule specifies minimum capital requirements that are intended to ensure the general financial soundness and liquidity of broker-dealers. Because CSC itself is not a registered broker-dealer, it is not
subject to the Uniform Net Capital Rule. However, if Schwab or optionsXpress, Inc. fail to maintain specified levels of net capital, such failure would constitute a default by CSC under debt covenants under certain of CSC’s debt agreements.
   The Uniform Net Capital Rule limits broker-dealers’ ability
to transfer capital to parent companies and other affiliates. Compliance with the Uniform Net Capital Rule could limit Schwab’s operations and its ability to repay subordinated debt to CSC, which in turn could limit CSC’s ability to repay
debt, pay cash dividends, and purchase shares of its outstanding stock.    Sources of Net Revenues    The Company’s major sources of net revenues are asset management and administration fees, net interest revenue, and trading revenue. The Company generates asset management and administration fees
through its proprietary and third-party mutual fund offerings, as well as fee-based advisory solutions. Net interest revenue is the difference between interest earned on interest-earning assets (such as cash, short- and long-term investments, and
mortgage and margin loans) and interest paid on funding sources (including banking deposits and client cash in brokerage accounts, short-term borrowings, and long-term debt). The Company generates trading revenue through commissions earned for
executing trades for clients and principal transaction revenue from trading activity in fixed income securities.    For revenue information by source for the three years ended December 31, 2011, see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
– Results of Operations – Net Revenues.”   
 Available Information   
The Company files annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. The Company’s SEC filings are
available to the public over the Internet on the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. You may read and copy any document that the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.   
On the Company’s Internet website, http://www.aboutschwab.com, the Company posts the following recent filings as soon as reasonably
practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, the Company’s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, the Company’s current reports on Form 8-K, and any

  - 6 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 

amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All such filings are available free of charge either on the
Company’s website or by request via email (investor.relations@schwab.com), telephone (415-667-1959), or mail (Charles Schwab Investor Relations at 211 Main Street, San Francisco, CA 94105). 
 


Item 1A.
Risk Factors    The Company faces a variety of risks that may affect its operations or financial results, and many of those risks are driven by factors that the Company cannot control or predict. The following discussion
addresses those risks that management believes are the most significant, although there may be other risks that could arise, or may prove to be more significant than expected, that may affect the Company’s operations or financial results.
   For a discussion of the Company’s risk management, including
technology and operating risk, credit risk, concentration risk, market risk, fiduciary risk, and legal and regulatory risk, see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations –
Risk Management.”    Developments in the business, economic,
and geopolitical environment could negatively impact the Company’s business.    The Company’s business can be adversely affected by the general environment – economic, corporate, securities market, regulatory, and geopolitical developments all play a role in client asset
valuations, trading activity, interest rates and overall investor engagement, and are outside of the Company’s control. Deterioration in the housing and credit markets, reductions in short-term interest rates, and decreases in securities
valuations negatively impact the Company’s net interest revenue, asset management and administration fees, and capital resources.   
A significant decrease in the Company’s liquidity could negatively affect the Company’s business and financial management as well as reduce
client confidence in the Company.    Maintaining adequate
liquidity is crucial to the business operations of the Company, including margin lending, mortgage lending, and transaction settlement, among other liquidity needs. The Company meets its liquidity needs primarily through cash generated by client
activity and operating earnings, as well as cash provided by external financing. Fluctuations in client cash or deposit balances, as well as changes in market conditions, may affect the Company’s ability to meet its liquidity needs. A reduction
in the Company’s liquidity position could reduce client confidence in the Company, which could result in the loss of client accounts. In addition, if the Company’s broker-dealer or depository institution subsidiaries fail to meet
regulatory capital guidelines, regulators could limit the subsidiaries’ operations or their ability to upstream funds to CSC, which could reduce CSC’s liquidity and adversely affect its ability to repay debt and pay cash dividends. In
addition, CSC may need to provide additional funding to such subsidiaries.    Factors which may adversely affect the Company’s liquidity position include a reduction in cash held in banking or brokerage client accounts, a dramatic increase in the Company’s client lending
activities (including margin and personal lending), unanticipated outflows of company cash, increased capital requirements, other regulatory changes or a loss of market or customer confidence in the Company. Schwab may also experience temporary
liquidity demands due to timing differences between clients’ transaction settlements and the availability of segregated cash balances.   
When cash generated by client activity and operating earnings is not sufficient for the Company’s liquidity needs, the Company must seek external
financing. During periods of disruptions in the credit and capital markets, potential sources of external financing could be reduced, and borrowing costs could increase. Although CSC and Schwab maintain committed and uncommitted, unsecured bank
credit lines and CSC has a commercial paper issuance program, as well as a universal shelf registration statement filed with the SEC, financing may not be available on acceptable terms or at all due to market conditions and disruptions in the credit
markets. In addition, a significant downgrade in the Company’s credit ratings could increase its borrowing costs and limit its access to the capital markets. 
  - 7 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 
The Company may suffer significant losses from its credit exposures. 
  The Company’s businesses are subject to the risk that a client,
counterparty or issuer will fail to perform its contractual obligations, or that the value of collateral held to secure obligations will prove to be inadequate. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to manage this risk, the policies
and procedures may not be fully effective. The Company’s exposure mainly results from margin lending activities, securities lending activities, mortgage lending activities, its role as a counterparty in financial contracts and investing
activities, and indirectly from the investing activities of certain of the proprietary funds that the Company sponsors.   
The Company has exposure to credit risk associated with its securities available for sale and securities held to maturity portfolios, which include U.S.
agency and non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, consumer loan asset-backed securities, corporate debt securities, U.S. agency notes, and certificates of deposit among other investments. These instruments are also subject to price
fluctuations as a result of changes in the financial market’s assessment of issuer credit quality, increases in the unemployment rate, delinquency and default rates, housing price declines, changes in prevailing interest rates and other
economic factors.    Loss of value of securities available for sale
and securities held to maturity can result in charges if management determines that the impairments are other than temporary. The evaluation of whether other-than-temporary impairment exists is a matter of judgment, which includes the assessment of
several factors. See “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Estimates.” If management determines that a security is other-than-temporarily
impaired, the cost basis of the security may be adjusted and a corresponding loss may be recognized in current earnings. Certain securities available for sale experienced continued credit deterioration in 2011, which resulted in impairment charges.
Deterioration in the performance of securities available for sale and securities held to maturity could result in the recognition of future impairment charges.   
The Company’s loans to banking clients primarily consist of first-lien residential real estate mortgage loans and HELOCs. Increases in delinquency
and default rates, housing price declines, increases in the unemployment rate, and other economic factors can result in charges for loan loss reserves and write downs on such loans.    Heightened credit exposures to specific counterparties or instruments (concentration risk) can increase the Company’s risk
of loss. Examples of the Company’s credit concentration risk include:   


 
•
 
 large positions in financial instruments collateralized by assets with similar economic characteristics or in securities of a single issuer or
industry;   


 
•
 
 mortgage loans and HELOCs to banking clients which are secured by properties in the same geographic region; and 
 


 
•
 
 margin and securities lending activities collateralized by securities of a single issuer or industry. 
  The Company may also be subject to concentration risk when lending to a
particular counterparty, borrower or issuer.    The Company
sponsors a number of proprietary money market mutual funds and other proprietary funds. Although the Company has no obligation to do so, the Company may decide for competitive reasons to provide credit, liquidity or other support to its funds in the
event of significant declines in valuation of fund holdings or significant redemption activity that exceeds available liquidity. Such support could cause the Company to take significant charges and could reduce the Company’s liquidity. If the
Company chose not to provide credit, liquidity or other support in such a situation, the Company could suffer reputational damage and its business could be adversely affected. 
  Significant interest rate changes could affect the Company’s
profitability and financial condition.    The Company is
exposed to interest rate risk primarily from changes in the interest rates on its interest-earning assets (such as cash equivalents, short- and long-term investments, and mortgage and margin loans) relative to changes in the costs of its funding
sources (including deposits in banking and brokerage accounts, short-term borrowings, and long-term debt). Changes in interest rates generally affect the interest earned on interest-earning assets differently than the interest the Company pays on
its interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, certain funding sources do not bear interest and their cost therefore does not vary. Overall, the Company is positioned to benefit from a rising interest rate environment; the Company could be adversely
affected by a decline in interest rates if the rates that the Company earns on interest-earning assets decline more than the rates 
  - 8 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 

that the Company pays on its funding sources, or if prepayment rates increase on the mortgages and mortgage-backed securities  that the Company holds. With the low interest rate environment, the Company’s revenue from interest-earning assets has been declining more than the rates that the Company pays on its funding sources.
The Company may also be limited in the amount it can reduce interest rates on deposit accounts and still offer a competitive return.   
To the extent the overall yield on certain Schwab-sponsored money market mutual funds falls to a level at or below the management fees on those funds, the
Company may waive a portion of its fee in order to continue providing some return to clients. As a result of the low interest rate environment, the Company has been waiving and may continue to waive a portion of its management fees for certain
Schwab-sponsored money market mutual funds. Such fee waivers negatively impact the Company’s asset management and administration fees.   
The Company is subject to litigation and regulatory investigations and proceedings and may not always be successful in defending itself against such
claims or proceedings.    The financial services industry faces
substantial litigation and regulatory risks. The Company is subject to claims and lawsuits in the ordinary course of business, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, some of which include claims for substantial or unspecified
damages. The Company is also the subject of inquiries, investigations, and proceedings by regulatory and other governmental agencies. Actions brought against the Company may result in settlements, awards, injunctions, fines, penalties or other
results adverse to the Company including reputational harm. Even if the Company is successful in defending against these actions, the defense of such matters may result in the Company incurring significant expenses. Predicting the outcome of matters
is inherently difficult, particularly where claims are brought on behalf of various classes of claimants, claimants seek substantial or unspecified damages, or when investigations or legal proceedings are at an early stage. A substantial judgment,
settlement, fine, or penalty could be material to the Company’s operating results or cash flows for a particular future period, depending on the Company’s results for that period. In market downturns, the volume of legal claims and amount
of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial services companies have historically increased. See “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements –
15. Commitments and Contingencies.”    From time to time, the
Company is subject to litigation claims from third parties alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights (e.g., patents). Such litigation can require the expenditure of significant Company resources. If the Company was found to have
infringed a third-party patent, or other intellectual property rights, it could incur substantial liability, and in some circumstances could be enjoined from using certain technology, or providing certain products or services. 
  Extensive regulation of the Company’s businesses limits the
Company’s activities and may subject it to significant penalties.    As a participant in the securities, banking and financial services industries, the Company is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws by governmental agencies, supervisory
authorities, and SROs. Such regulation has become more extensive and complex in response to the recent market disruptions. The requirements imposed by the Company’s regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets, the
safety and soundness of financial institutions, and the protection of clients. These regulations often serve to limit the Company’s activities by way of capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements, and restrictions on the
businesses activities that the Company may conduct. Despite the Company’s efforts to comply with applicable regulations, there are a number of risks, particularly in areas where applicable regulations may be unclear or where regulators revise
their previous guidance. Any enforcement actions or other proceedings brought by the Company’s regulators against the Company or its affiliates, officers or employees could result in fines, penalties, cease and desist orders, enforcement
actions, suspension or expulsion, or other disciplinary sanctions, including limitations on the Company’s business activities, any of which could harm the Company’s reputation and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations
and financial condition.    Legislation or changes in rules and
regulations could negatively impact the Company’s business and financial results.    New legislation, rule changes, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing federal, state and SRO rules and regulations may directly affect the operation and profitability of the Company
or its specific business lines. The profitability of the Company could also be affected by rules and regulations which impact the business and financial communities generally, 
  - 9 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 

including changes to the laws governing taxation, electronic commerce, client privacy and security of client data. In addition, the rules and regulations could result in limitations on the lines
of business the Company conducts, modifications to the Company’s business practices, increased capital requirements, or additional costs.   
Financial reforms and related regulations may affect the Company’s business activities, financial position and profitability. 
  The “Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act”
was signed into law in July 2010. This legislation makes extensive changes to the laws regulating financial services firms and requires significant rule-making. In addition, the legislation mandates multiple studies, which could result in additional
legislative or regulatory action. Among other things, the legislation authorizes various assessments and fees and requires the establishment of minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements for insured depository institutions, and requires
the SEC to complete studies and develop rules regarding various investor protection issues. The legislation also eliminated the Office of Thrift Supervision effective July 21, 2011 and, as a result, the Federal Reserve became CSC’s primary
regulator and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency became the primary regulator of Schwab Bank. CSC is continuing to review the impact the legislation, studies and related rule-making will have on the Company’s business, financial
condition, and results of operations.    The legislation charges the
Federal Reserve with drafting enhanced regulatory requirements for “systemically important” bank holding companies and certain other non-bank financial institutions designated as “systemically important” by the Financial
Stability Oversight Council, which may include CSC. The enhanced requirements include more stringent capital, leverage and liquidity standards. The legislation permits the Federal Reserve to tailor its enhanced requirements to the perceived risk
profile of an individual financial institution. Among other things, the legislation authorizes various assessments and fees, requires the establishment of minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements for insured depository institutions, bans
proprietary trading by insured depository institutions and affiliates, and requires the SEC to complete studies and develop rules regarding various investor protection issues. 
  The legislation also established a new independent Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, which has broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority over consumer products, including mortgages, home-equity loans and credit cards. States will be permitted to adopt stricter consumer protection laws and state
attorney generals can enforce consumer protection rules issued by the Bureau.    The legislation gives the SEC discretion to adopt rules regarding standards of conduct for broker-dealers providing investment advice to retail customers. The various studies required by the legislation
could result in additional rulemaking or legislative action, which could impact the Company’s business and financial results.   
The changes resulting from the legislation may impact the profitability of the Company’s business activities, require changes to certain of its
business practices, impose upon the Company more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s business. These changes may also require the Company to invest significant management
attention and resources to evaluate and make necessary changes.   
Technology and operational failures could subject the Company to losses, litigation, and regulatory actions. 
  The Company faces technology and operating risk which is the potential for
loss due to deficiencies in control processes or technology systems of the Company, its vendors or its outsourced service providers that constrain the Company’s ability to gather, process, and communicate information and process client
transactions efficiently and securely, without interruptions. This risk also includes the risk of human error, employee misconduct, external fraud, computer viruses, distributed denial of service attacks, terrorist attacks, and natural disaster. It
could take several hours or more to restore full functionality in the event of an unforeseen event which could affect the Company’s ability to process and settle client transactions. Extraordinary trading volumes could cause the Company’s
computer systems to operate at an unacceptably slow speed or even fail. The Company’s business and operations could be negatively impacted by any significant technology and operational failures. Moreover, instances of fraud or other misconduct,
including improper use or disclosure of confidential client, employee, or company information, might also negatively impact the Company’s reputation and client confidence in the Company, in addition to any direct losses that might result from
such instances. Despite the Company’s efforts to identify areas of risk, oversee operational areas involving risk, and implement policies and procedures designed to manage risk, there can be no

  - 10 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 

assurance that the Company will not suffer unexpected losses, reputational damage or regulatory action due to technology or other operational failures, including those of its vendors. 
  The Company also faces risk related to its security guarantee which covers
client losses from unauthorized account activity, such as those caused by external fraud involving the compromise of clients’ login and password information. Losses reimbursed under the guarantee could have a negative impact on the
Company’s results of operations.    The Company relies on
outsourced service providers to perform key functions.    The
Company relies on external service providers to perform certain key technology, processing, servicing, and support functions. These service providers face technology, operating, business, and economic risks, and any significant failures by them,
including the improper use or disclosure of the Company’s confidential client, employee, or company information, could cause the Company to incur losses and could harm the Company’s reputation. An interruption in or the cessation of
service by any external service provider as a result of systems failures, capacity constraints, financial difficulties or for any other reason, and the Company’s inability to make alternative arrangements in a timely manner could disrupt the
Company’s operations, impact the Company’s ability to offer certain products and services, and result in financial losses to the Company. Switching to an alternative service provider may require a transition period and result in less
efficient operations.    Potential strategic transactions could
have a negative impact on the Company’s financial position.    The Company evaluates potential strategic transactions, including business combinations, acquisitions, and dispositions. Any such transaction could have a material impact on the Company’s financial
position, results of operations, or cash flows. The process of evaluating, negotiating, and effecting any such strategic transaction may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, and might cause the loss of key clients,
employees, and business partners. Moreover, integrating businesses and systems may result in unforeseen expenditures as well as numerous risks and uncertainties, including the need to integrate operational, financial, and management information
systems and management controls, integrate relationships with clients and business partners, and manage facilities and employees in different geographic areas. In addition, an acquisition may cause the Company to assume liabilities or become subject
to litigation. Further, the Company may not realize the anticipated benefits from an acquisition, and any future acquisition could be dilutive to the Company’s current stockholders’ percentage ownership or to earnings per share (EPS).
   The Company’s acquisitions and dispositions are typically
subject to closing conditions, including regulatory approvals and the absence of material adverse changes in the business, operations or financial condition of the entity being acquired or sold. To the extent the Company enters into an agreement to
buy or sell an entity, there can be no guarantee that the transaction will close when expected, or at all. If a material transaction does not close, the Company’s stock price could decline. 
  The Company’s industry is characterized by aggressive price
competition.    The Company continually monitors its pricing in
relation to competitors and periodically adjusts trade commission rates, interest rates on deposits and loans, fees for advisory services, and other fee structures to enhance its competitive position. Increased price competition from other financial
services firms, such as reduced commissions to attract trading volume or higher deposit rates to attract client cash balances, could impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. 
  The industry in which the Company competes has undergone a period of
consolidation.    The Company faces intense competition for the
clients that it serves and the products and services it offers. There has been significant consolidation as financial institutions with which the Company competes have been acquired by or merged into or acquired other firms. This consolidation may
continue. Competition is based on many factors, including the range of products and services offered, pricing, customer service, brand recognition, reputation, and perceived financial strength. Consolidations may enable other firms to offer a
broader range of products and services than the Company does, or offer such products at more competitive prices. 
  - 11 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 
The Company faces competition in hiring and retaining qualified employees, especially for employees
who are key to the Company’s ability to build and enhance client relationships.    The market for quality professionals and other personnel in the Company’s business is highly competitive. Competition is particularly strong for financial consultants who build and sustain the
Company’s client relationships. The Company’s ability to continue to compete effectively will depend upon its ability to attract new employees and retain existing employees while managing compensation costs. 
  The Company’s stock price has fluctuated historically, and may
continue to fluctuate.    The Company’s stock price can be
volatile. Among the factors that may affect the volatility of the Company’s stock price are the following:   


 
•
 
 speculation in the investment community or the press about, or actual changes in, the Company’s competitive position, organizational structure,
executive team, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost reduction initiatives, or strategic transactions; 
 


 
•
 
 the announcement of new products, services, acquisitions, or dispositions by the Company or its competitors; 
 


 
•
 
 increases or decreases in revenue or earnings, changes in earnings estimates by the investment community, and variations between estimated financial
results and actual financial results.    Changes
in the stock market generally or as it concerns the Company’s industry, as well as geopolitical, economic, and business factors unrelated to the Company, may also affect the Company’s stock price. 
  Future sales of CSC’s equity securities may adversely affect the
market price of CSC’s common stock and result in dilution.    CSC’s certificate of incorporation authorizes CSC’s Board of Directors to, among other things, issue additional shares of common or preferred stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into
equity securities, without stockholder approval. CSC may issue additional equity or convertible securities to raise additional capital or for other purposes. The issuance of any additional equity or convertible securities could be substantially
dilutive to holders of CSC’s common stock and may adversely affect the market price of CSC’s common stock.   


Item 1B.
Unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Comments 
  None. 
  - 12 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 


Item 2.
Properties    A summary of the Company’s significant locations at December 31, 2011, is presented in the following table. Locations are leased or owned as noted below. The square footage amounts are presented
net of space that has been subleased to third parties.   








 
  

Square Footage

(amounts in thousands)
  

    Leased    
    

    Owned    

 Location
  

    


 Corporate office space:
  

    






 San Francisco, CA (1)
  
776
    
—





 Service centers:
  

    






 Phoenix, AZ (2)
  
47
    
709





 Denver, CO
  
383
    
—





 Indianapolis, IN
  
—
    
274





 Austin, TX
  
220
    
—





 Orlando, FL
  
148
    
—





 Richfield, OH
  
—
    
117
  


(1) 
 Includes the Company’s headquarters.   


(2) 
 Includes two data centers.   
Substantially all of the Company’s branch offices are located in leased premises. The corporate headquarters, data centers, offices, and service
centers support both of the Company’s segments.   


Item 3.
Legal Proceedings   
For a discussion of legal proceedings, see “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements – 15. Commitments and Contingencies.”    PART II   


Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures   
Not applicable.   


Item 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
  CSC’s common stock is listed on The New York Stock Exchange under the
ticker symbol SCHW. The number of common stockholders of record as of January 31, 2012, was 7,983. The closing market price per share on that date was $11.65. 
  The quarterly high and low sales prices for CSC’s common stock and the
other information required to be furnished pursuant to this item are included in “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – 28. Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)
and 20. Employee Incentive, Deferred Compensation, and Retirement Plans.” 
  - 13 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 
The following graph shows a five-year comparison of cumulative total returns for CSC’s common
stock, the Dow Jones U.S. Investment Services Index, and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, each of which assumes an initial investment of $100 and reinvestment of dividends. 
  

  




























 December 31,
  
2006
 
  
2007
 
  
2008
 
  
2009
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 

 The Charles Schwab Corporation
  
$
    100
  
  
$
    140
  
  
$
    90
  
  
$
    106
  
  
$
    98
  
  
$
    65
  

 Dow Jones U.S. Investment Services Index
  
$
    100
  
  
$
    90
  
  
$
    30
  
  
$
    47
  
  
$
    49
  
  
$
32
  

 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
  
$
    100
  
  
$
    105
  
  
$
    66
  
  
$
    84
  
  
$
    97
  
  
$
99
  

  - 14 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    The following table summarizes purchases made by or on behalf of CSC of its common stock for each calendar month in the fourth
quarter of 2011:   




















 Month
  
Total Numberof
SharesPurchased   (in thousands)    
 
  
         Average        
         Price Paid            per Share     
 
  
Total Number ofShares Purchasedas Part of 
PubliclyAnnouncedProgram
(1)     (in thousands)    
 
  
ApproximateDollar Value ofShares that MayYet be 
Purchasedunder the Program (in millions)
 

 October:
  



  



  



  




 Share Repurchase Program (1)
  
 
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
$
    596
  

 Employee transactions (2)
  
 
17
  
  
$
    11.36
  
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
N/A
  

 November:
  



  



  



  




 Share Repurchase Program (1)
  
 
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
$
    596
  

 Employee transactions (2)
  
 
505
  
  
$
    12.04
  
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
N/A
  

 December:
  



  



  



  




 Share Repurchase Program (1)
  
 
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
$
    596
  

 Employee transactions (2)
  
 
6
  
  
$
    11.80
  
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
N/A
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total:
  



  



  



  




 Share Repurchase Program (1)
  
 
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
$
    596
  

 Employee transactions (2)
  
 
528
  
  
$
    12.01
  
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
N/A
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   N/A Not applicable.   


(1) 
 There were no share repurchases under the Share Repurchase Program during the fourth quarter. Repurchases under this program would occur under two
authorizations by CSC’s Board of Directors, each covering up to $500 million of common stock that were publicly announced by the Company on April 25, 2007, and March 13, 2008. The remaining authorizations do not have an
expiration date.   


(2) 
 Includes restricted shares withheld (under the terms of grants under employee stock incentive plans) to offset tax withholding obligations that occur
upon vesting and release of restricted shares. The Company may receive shares to pay the exercise price and/or to satisfy tax withholding obligations by employees who exercise stock options (granted under employee stock incentive plans), which are
commonly referred to as stock swap exercises. 
  - 15 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 


Item 6.
Selected Financial Data   
Selected Financial and Operating Data   
(In Millions, Except Per Share Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
































 
 
Growth Rates
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Compounded
 
 
Annual
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
4-Year
(1)2007-2011
 
 
1-Year2010-2011
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Results of Operations
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net revenues
 
 
(2
%) 
 
 
10
% 
 
$
    4,691
  
 
$
    4,248
  
 
$
    4,193
  
 
$
    5,150
  
 
$
    4,994
  

 Expenses excluding interest
 
 
1
% 
 
 
(5
%) 
 
$
3,299
  
 
$
3,469
  
 
$
2,917
  
 
$
3,122
  
 
$
3,141
  

 Income from continuing operations
 
 
(6
%) 
 
 
90
% 
 
$
864
  
 
$
454
  
 
$
787
  
 
$
1,230
  
 
$
1,120
  

 Net income (2)
 
 
(23
%) 
 
 
90
% 
 
$
864
  
 
$
454
  
 
$
787
  
 
$
1,212
  
 
$
2,407
  

 Income from continuing operations per share — basic
 
 
(7
%) 
 
 
84
% 
 
$
.70
  
 
$
.38
  
 
$
.68
  
 
$
1.07
  
 
$
.93
  

 Income from continuing operations per share — diluted
 
 
(7
%) 
 
 
84
% 
 
$
.70
  
 
$
.38
  
 
$
.68
  
 
$
1.06
  
 
$
.92
  

 Basic earnings per share (2, 3) 
 
 
(23
%) 
 
 
84
% 
 
$
.70
  
 
$
.38
  
 
$
.68
  
 
$
1.06
  
 
$
1.98
  

 Diluted earnings per share (2, 3)
 
 
(23
%) 
 
 
84
% 
 
$
.70
  
 
$
.38
  
 
$
.68
  
 
$
1.05
  
 
$
1.96
  

 Dividends declared per common share
 
 
5
% 
 
 
—
  
 
$
.24
  
 
$
.24
  
 
$
.24
  
 
$
.22
  
 
$
.20
  

 Special dividend declared per common share
 
 
N/M
  
 
 
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
1.00
  

 Weighted-average common shares outstanding — diluted
 
 
—
  
 
 
3
% 
 
 
1,229
  
 
 
1,194
  
 
 
1,160
  
 
 
1,157
  
 
 
1,222
  

 Asset management and administration fees as a percentage of net revenues
 



 



 
 
41
% 
 
 
43
% 
 
 
45
% 
 
 
46
% 
 
 
47
% 

 Net interest revenue as a percentage of net revenues
 



 



 
 
37
% 
 
 
36
% 
 
 
30
% 
 
 
33
% 
 
 
33
% 

 Trading revenue as a percentage of net revenues (4)
 



 



 
 
20
% 
 
 
20
% 
 
 
24
% 
 
 
21
% 
 
 
17
% 

 Effective income tax rate
 



 



 
 
37.9
% 
 
 
41.7
% 
 
 
38.3
% 
 
 
39.3
% 
 
 
39.6
% 

 Capital expenditures — purchases of equipment, office facilities, and property, net
 
 
3
% 
 
 
50
% 
 
$
190
  
 
$
127
  
 
$
139
  
 
$
194
  
 
$
168
  

 Capital expenditures, net, as a percentage of net revenues
 



 



 
 
4
% 
 
 
3
% 
 
 
3
% 
 
 
4
% 
 
 
3
% 










 Performance Measures
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net revenue growth (decline)
 



 



 
 
10
% 
 
 
1
% 
 
 
(19
%) 
 
 
3
% 
 
 
16
% 

 Pre-tax profit margin
 



 



 
 
29.7
% 
 
 
18.3
% 
 
 
30.4
% 
 
 
39.4
% 
 
 
37.1
% 

 Return on stockholders’ equity
 



 



 
 
12
% 
 
 
8
% 
 
 
17
% 
 
 
31
% 
 
 
55
% 










 Financial Condition (at year end)
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Total assets
 
 
27
% 
 
 
17
% 
 
$
108,553
  
 
$
92,568
  
 
$
75,431
  
 
$
51,675
  
 
$
42,286
  

 Long-term debt
 
 
22
% 
 
 
—
  
 
$
2,001
  
 
$
2,006
  
 
$
1,512
  
 
$
883
  
 
$
899
  

 Stockholders’ equity
 
 
20
% 
 
 
24
% 
 
$
7,714
  
 
$
6,226
  
 
$
5,073
  
 
$
4,061
  
 
$
3,732
  

 Assets to stockholders’ equity ratio
 



 



 
 
14
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
11
  

 Long-term debt to total financial capital (long-term debt plus stockholders’ equity)
 



 



 
 
21
% 
 
 
24
% 
 
 
23
% 
 
 
18
% 
 
 
19
% 










 Employee Information
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Full-time equivalent employees (at year end, in thousands)
 
 
1
% 
 
 
10
% 
 
 
14.1
  
 
 
12.8
  
 
 
12.4
  
 
 
13.4
  
 
 
13.3
  

 Net revenues per average full-time equivalent employee (in thousands)
 
 
(2
%) 
 
 
4
% 
 
$
350
  
 
$
337
  
 
$
338
  
 
$
383
  
 
$
387
  
   Note: Information is presented on a continuing operations basis unless otherwise noted.   


(1) 
 The compounded 4-year growth rate is computed using the following formula: Compound annual growth rate = (Ending Value / Beginning Value) .25 - 1 
 


(2)
 Net income in 2007
includes a gain of $1.2 billion, after tax, on the sale of U.S. Trust, which was presented as discontinued operations.   


(3) 
 Both basic and diluted earnings per share in 2008 and 2007 include discontinued operations. 
 


(4)
 Trading revenue
includes commission and principal transaction revenues.   


N/M
Not meaningful. 
  - 16 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 


Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
  OVERVIEW 
  Management of the Company focuses on several key financial and client
activity metrics in evaluating the Company’s financial position and operating performance. Results for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 are shown in the following table: 
 




















 Year Ended December 31,
  
Growth 
Rate1-Year2010-2011
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Client Activity Metrics:
  



 



 



 




 Net new client assets (1) (in billions)
  
 
N/M
  
 
$
145.9
  
 
$
26.6
  
 
$
87.3
  

 Client assets (in billions, at year end)
  
 
7
% 
 
$
    1,677.7
  
 
$
    1,574.5
  
 
$
    1,422.6
  

 Clients’ daily average trades (2) (in thousands)
  
 
13
% 
 
 
451.1
  
 
 
399.7
  
 
 
414.8
  







 Company Financial Metrics:
  



 



 



 




 Net revenues
  
 
10
% 
 
$
4,691
  
 
$
4,248
  
 
$
4,193
  

 Expenses excluding interest
  
 
(5
%) 
 
 
3,299
  
 
 
3,469
  
 
 
2,917
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before taxes on income
  
 
79
% 
 
 
1,392
  
 
 
779
  
 
 
1,276
  

 Taxes on income
  
 
62
% 
 
 
(528
) 
 
 
(325
) 
 
 
(489
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
 
90
% 
 
$
864
  
 
$
454
  
 
$
787
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings per share – diluted
  
 
84
% 
 
$
.70
  
 
$
.38
  
 
$
.68
  

 Net revenue growth (decline) from prior year
  



 
 
10
% 
 
 
1
% 
 
 
(19
%) 

 Pre-tax profit margin
  



 
 
29.7
% 
 
 
18.3
% 
 
 
30.4
% 

 Return on stockholders’ equity
  



 
 
12
% 
 
 
8
% 
 
 
17
% 

 Net revenue per average full-time equivalent employee (in thousands)
  
 
4
% 
 
$
350
  
 
$
337
  
 
$
338
  
  


(1) 
 Includes inflows of $56.1 billion and $7.5 billion in 2011 from a mutual fund clearing services client and the acquisition of optionsXpress,
respectively. Includes net outflows of $51.5 billion in 2010 related to the planned deconversion of a mutual fund clearing services client. 
 


(2) 
 Beginning in 2010, amounts include all commission-free trades, including the Company’s Mutual Fund OneSource® funds and ETFs, and other proprietary products. Prior period amounts have been recast to reflect this change.
  


N/M
Not meaningful.   


 
•
 
 Net new client assets is defined as the total inflows of client cash and securities to the firm less client outflows. Management believes that this
metric depicts how well the Company’s products and services appeal to new and existing clients in a given operating environment.   


 
•
 
 Client assets is the market value of all client assets custodied at the Company. Management considers client assets to be indicative of the
Company’s appeal in the marketplace. Additionally, fluctuations in certain components of client assets (e.g., Mutual Fund OneSource funds) directly impact asset management and administration fees. 
 


 
•
 
 Clients’ daily average trades is an indicator of client engagement with securities markets and the most prominent driver of trading revenue.
  


 
•
 
 Management believes that earnings per share, net revenue growth, pre-tax profit margin, and return on stockholders’ equity provide broad
indicators of the Company’s overall financial health, operating efficiency, and ability to generate acceptable returns within the context of a given operating environment. 
 


 
•
 
 Net revenue per average full-time equivalent employee is considered by management to be the Company’s broadest measure of productivity.
   The Company’s major sources of net
revenues are asset management and administration fees, net interest revenue, and trading revenue. The Company generates asset management and administration fees through its proprietary and third-party

  - 17 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 

mutual fund offerings, as well as fee-based advisory solutions. Net interest revenue is the difference between interest earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on funding sources.
Asset management and administration fees and net interest revenue are impacted by securities valuations, interest rates, the amount and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing funding sources, the Company’s ability to attract new
clients, and client activity levels. The Company generates trading revenue through commissions earned for executing trades for clients and principal transaction revenue from trading activity in fixed income securities. Trading revenue is impacted by
trading volumes, the volatility of prices in the equity and fixed income markets, and commission rates.    2011 Compared to 2010    Economic and market conditions were challenging throughout 2011, marked by volatility in the equity markets, lower market valuations, and further declines in interest rates. The Standard and Poor’s
500 Index, Nasdaq Composite Index, and Dow Jones Industrial Average decreased on average 6%, 5%, and 4%, respectively, between the first and second halves of the year. The federal funds target rate remained unchanged during the year at a range of
zero to 0.25% and the three-month Treasury Bill and 10-year Treasury yields declined by 11 and 141 basis points to 0.01% and 1.88%, respectively.   
The Company’s key client activity metrics in 2011 were stable in the midst of a weakened economic and market environment. Net new client assets
totaled $145.9 billion in 2011. Core net new client assets, which exclude significant one-time flows, totaled $82.3 billion in 2011 up from $78.1 billion in 2010. Total client assets ended the year at $1.68 trillion, up 7% from
2010. In addition, clients’ daily average trades were 451,100, up 13% from 2010.    Net revenues increased by 10% in 2011 from 2010 due to increases in all of the Company’s major sources of net revenues. Asset management and administration fees increased primarily due to an increase
in revenue from the Company’s advice solutions and continued asset inflows, partially offset by money market mutual fund fee waivers, which increased to $568 million in 2011 from $433 million in 2010. Net interest revenue increased
primarily due to higher average balances of interest-earning assets during the year, partially offset by the effect of lower interest rate spreads resulting from higher amortization of premiums relating to residential mortgage-backed securities
caused by higher mortgage prepayments in 2011. Trading revenue increased primarily due to higher daily average revenue trades and the addition of optionsXpress, which was acquired in September 2011. 
  While total expenses excluding interest were lower by 5%
in 2011 compared to 2010, the Company experienced increases in compensation and benefits, professional services, occupancy and equipment, and advertising and market development expenses in aggregate of $266 million in 2011 compared to 2010.
Significant charges in 2010 included class action litigation and regulatory reserves relating to the Schwab YieldPlus
Fund®, losses recognized for Schwab money market mutual funds, and a charge relating to the termination of the
Company’s Invest First® and WorldPoints(a) Visa(b) credit card program for a total of
$482 million.    As a result of the Company’s ongoing
investment in clients and sustained expense discipline, the Company achieved a pre-tax profit margin of 29.7% and return on stockholders’ equity of 12% in 2011. 
  2010 Compared to 2009 
  The equity markets improved during 2010 and remained well above their prior
year lows. The Nasdaq Composite Index, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, and the Dow Jones Industrial Average increased 17%, 13%, and 11%, respectively. The low interest rate environment continued throughout the year as the federal
funds target rate remained unchanged during the year at a range of zero to 0.25%.    The Company’s sustained investment in expanding and improving product and service capabilities for its clients was reflected in the strength of its key client activity metrics in 2010 – net new
client assets totaled $78.1 billion, excluding     


(a)
 WorldPoints is a registered trademark of FIA Card Services, N.A. 


(b)
 Visa is a registered trademark of Visa International Service Association. 
  - 18 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 
outflows related to a single mutual fund clearing client who completed a planned transfer to an internal
platform during the year, and total client assets ended 2010 at $1.57 trillion, up 11% from 2009. Client trading activity slowed during the year as clients’ daily average trades decreased 4% from 2009 to 399,700. 
  Net revenues were relatively flat in 2010 from 2009. The Company, however,
experienced a change in the mix of its revenue sources as the increase in net interest revenue was offset by decreases in trading revenue, asset management and administration fees, and other revenue. Net interest revenue increased due to higher
average balances of interest-earning assets, partially offset by a decrease in the average yield earned. Trading revenue decreased due to lower average revenue per revenue trade resulting from improved online trade pricing for clients, which was
implemented in January 2010, and slightly lower daily average revenue trades in 2010. While the low interest rate environment caused over $200 million of additional money market mutual fund fee waivers from the prior year, the decrease in asset
management and administration fees was limited to 3% due to higher average asset valuations and continued asset inflows. Other revenue was lower in comparison to 2009 primarily due to a gain of $31 million on the repurchase of a portion of the
Company’s long-term debt in 2009.   
Expenses excluding interest were higher by 19% in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to the recognition of certain significant
charges in 2010. The Company recognized class action litigation and regulatory reserves of $320 million relating to the Schwab YieldPlus Fund. Additionally, the Company decided to cover the net remaining losses recognized by Schwab money market
mutual funds as a result of their investments in a single structured investment vehicle that defaulted in 2008 and recorded a charge of $132 million in 2010. Also, as a result of challenging credit card industry economics, the Company ended its
sponsorship in its Invest First® and WorldPoints(a)
Visa(b
) credit cards and recorded a charge of
$30 million. The Company’s ongoing expense discipline helped limit the growth in all other expense categories in the aggregate to 3% over the prior year. 
  Business Acquisitions 
  On September 1, 2011, the Company completed its
acquisition of all of the outstanding common shares of optionsXpress, an online brokerage firm primarily focused on equity option securities and futures, for total consideration of $714 million. Under the terms of the merger agreement,
optionsXpress® stockholders received 1.02 shares of the Company’s common stock for each share of
optionsXpress stock. As a result, the Company issued 59 million shares of the Company’s common stock valued at $710 million, based on the closing price of the Company’s common stock on September 1, 2011. The Company also
assumed optionsXpress’ stock-based compensation awards valued at $4 million.    On November 9, 2010, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Windward for $106 million in common stock and $44 million in cash. Windward was an investment advisory firm that
managed diversified investment portfolios comprised primarily of ETFs.    For more information on the acquisitions of optionsXpress and Windward, see “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – 3.
Business Acquisitions.”    Subsequent Event 
  On January 26, 2012, the Company issued and sold 400,000 shares of
fixed-to-floating rate non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, Series A, $0.01 par value, with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (Series A Preferred Stock). The Series A Preferred Stock has a fixed dividend rate of 7% until 2022 and a
floating rate thereafter. Net proceeds received from the sale were $394 million and are being used for general corporate purposes, including, without limitation, to support the Company’s balance sheet growth and the potential migration of
certain client cash balances to deposit accounts at Schwab Bank.     


(a) 
 WorldPoints is a registered trademark of FIA Card Services, N.A.



(b)
 Visa is a registered trademark of Visa International Service Association. 
  - 19 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 
CURRENT MARKET AND REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT 
  The economic and market environment was challenging throughout 2011. Further
declines in interest rates continue to constrain growth in the Company’s net revenues.    While the federal funds target rate was unchanged at a range of zero to 0.25% in 2011, the Federal Reserve took action during the middle of the year to lower longer term interest rates. Further declines
in interest rates in 2011 have accelerated the prepayment activity in the Company’s portfolios of residential mortgage-backed securities, which resulted in higher premium amortization. To the extent rates remain at these low levels, the
Company’s net interest revenue will continue to be constrained, even as growth in average balances helps to increase such revenue. The low interest rate environment also affects asset management and administration fees. The overall yields on
certain Schwab-sponsored money market mutual funds have remained at levels at or below the management fees on those funds. The Company continues to waive a portion of its management fees, which it began in the first quarter of 2009, so that the
funds can continue providing a positive return to clients. These and other money market mutual funds may not be able to replace maturing securities with securities of equal or higher yields. As a result, the yields on such funds may remain around or
decline from their current levels, and therefore below the management fees on those funds. To the extent this occurs, the Company may continue to waive fees and such waivers could increase from the fourth quarter 2011 level, which would negatively
affect asset management and administration fees.    The Company
recorded net impairment charges of $31 million and $36 million related to certain non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities in 2011 and 2010, respectively, due to credit deterioration of the securities’ underlying loans.
Further deterioration in the performance of the underlying loans in the Company’s residential mortgage-backed securities portfolio could result in the recognition of additional impairment charges. 
  The Company is pursuing lawsuits in state court in San Francisco for
rescission and damages against issuers, underwriters, and dealers of 51 individual non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities on which the Company has experienced realized and unrealized losses. The lawsuits allege that offering documents for
the securities contained material untrue and misleading statements about the securities and the underwriting standards and credit quality of the underlying loans. On January 27, 2012, the court denied defendants’ motions to dismiss the
claims with respect to all but 4 of the 51 securities, and allowed the cases to proceed to discovery.    The “Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act” was signed into law in July 2010. Among other things, the legislation authorizes various assessments and fees and requires the
establishment of minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements for insured depository institutions. The legislation also eliminated the Office of Thrift Supervision effective July 21, 2011 and, as a result, the Federal Reserve became
CSC’s primary regulator and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency became the primary regulator of Schwab Bank. CSC is continuing to review the impact the legislation, studies and related rule-making will have on the Company’s
business, financial condition, and results of operations. 
  - 20 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  The following discussion presents an analysis of the Company’s results
of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009.    Net Revenues   
The Company’s major sources of net revenues are asset management and administration fees, net interest revenue, and trading revenue, which all
increased in 2011 as compared to 2010. Asset management and administration fees and trading revenue decreased, while net interest revenue increased in 2010 as compared to 2009.   





$4,691 



$4,691 



$4,691 



$4,691 



$4,691 



$4,691 



$4,691 


Year Ended December 31,
  
 
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
Growth Rate2010-2011
 
 
Amount
 
 
% ofTotal
NetRevenues
 
 
Amount
 
 
% ofTotal
NetRevenues
 
 
Amount
 
 
%
ofTotal NetRevenues
 

 Asset management and administration fees
  



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Schwab money market funds before fee waivers
  
 
—
  
 
$
       865
  
 



 
$
       865
  
 



 
$
1,011
  
 




 Fee waivers
  
 
31
% 
 
 
(568
) 
 



 
 
(433
) 
 



 
 
(224
) 
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Schwab money market funds after fee waivers
  
 
(31
%) 
 
 
297
  
 
 
6
% 
 
 
432
  
 
 
          10
% 
 
 
787
  
 
 
18
% 

 Equity and bond funds
  
 
4
% 
 
 
118
  
 
 
3
% 
 
 
114
  
 
 
3
% 
 
 
108
  
 
 
3
% 

 Mutual Fund OneSource®
  
 
12
% 
 
 
680
  
 
 
14
% 
 
 
608
  
 
 
14
% 
 
 
446
  
 
 
11
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total mutual funds
  
 
5
% 
 
 
1,095
  
 
 
          23
% 
 
 
1,154
  
 
 
27
% 
 
 
1,341
  
 
 
32
% 

 Advice solutions
  
 
36
% 
 
 
522
  
 
 
11
% 
 
 
384
  
 
 
9
% 
 
 
278
  
 
 
7
% 

 Other
  
 
10
% 
 
 
311
  
 
 
7
% 
 
 
284
  
 
 
7
% 
 
 
256
  
 
 
6
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Asset management and administration fees
  
 
6
% 
 
 
1,928
  
 
 
41
% 
 
 
1,822
  
 
 
43
% 
 
 
1,875
  
 
 
45
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 










 Net interest revenue
  



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Interest revenue
  
 
10
% 
 
 
1,900
  
 
 
41
% 
 
 
1,723
  
 
 
41
% 
 
 
1,428
  
 
 
34
% 

 Interest expense
  
 
(12
%) 
 
 
(175
) 
 
 
(4
%) 
 
 
(199
) 
 
 
(5
%) 
 
 
(183
) 
 
 
(4
%) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net interest revenue
  
 
13
% 
 
 
1,725
  
 
 
37
% 
 
 
1,524
  
 
 
36
% 
 
 
1,245
  
 
 
30
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 










 Trading revenue
  



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Commissions
  
 
12
% 
 
 
866
  
 
 
19
% 
 
 
770
  
 
 
18
% 
 
 
884
  
 
 
21
% 

 Principal transactions
  
 
2
% 
 
 
61
  
 
 
1
% 
 
 
60
  
 
 
2
% 
 
 
112
  
 
 
3
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Trading revenue
  
 
12
% 
 
 
927
  
 
 
20
% 
 
 
830
  
 
 
20
% 
 
 
996
  
 
 
24
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Other
  
 
19
% 
 
 
160
  
 
 
3
% 
 
 
135
  
 
 
3
% 
 
 
175
  
 
 
3
% 

 Provision for loan losses
  
 
(33
%) 
 
 
(18
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(27
) 
 
 
(1
%) 
 
 
(38
) 
 
 
(1
%) 

 Net impairment losses on securities
  
 
(14
%) 
 
 
(31
) 
 
 
(1
%) 
 
 
(36
) 
 
 
(1
%) 
 
 
(60
) 
 
 
(1
%) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net revenues
  
 
10
% 
 
$
4,691
  
 
 
100
% 
 
$
4,248
  
 
 
100
% 
 
$
4,193
  
 
 
100
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Asset Management and Administration
Fees    Asset management and administration fees include
mutual fund service fees and fees for other asset-based financial services provided to individual and institutional clients. The Company earns mutual fund service fees for shareholder services, administration, investment management, and transfer
agent services (through July 2009) provided to its proprietary funds, and recordkeeping and shareholder services provided to third-party funds. These fees are based upon the daily balances of client assets invested in these funds. The Company also
earns asset management fees for advice solutions, which include advisory and managed account services that are based on the daily balances of client assets subject to the specific fee for service. The fair values of client assets included in
proprietary and third-party mutual funds are based on quoted market prices and other observable market data. Other asset management and administration fees include various asset based fees, such as trust fees, 401k record keeping fees, and mutual
fund clearing and other service fees. Asset management and administration fees may vary with changes in the balances of client assets due to market fluctuations and client activity. For discussion of the impact of current market conditions on asset
management and administration fees, see “Current Market and Regulatory Environment.”    Asset management and administration fees increased by $106 million, or 6%, in 2011 from 2010 primarily due to an increase in advice solutions fees, partially offset by a decrease in mutual fund
service fees. Asset management and administration fees 
  - 21 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 

decreased by $53 million, or 3%, in 2010 from 2009 primarily due to the decrease in mutual fund service fees, partially offset by an increase in advice solutions fees. 
  Given the low interest rate environment in 2011, 2010, and 2009, the overall
yields on certain Schwab-sponsored money market mutual funds have remained at levels at or below the management fees on those funds. As a result, the Company waived a portion of its fees in order to provide a positive return to clients. Mutual fund
service fees decreased by $59 million, or 5%, in 2011 from 2010 and by $187 million, or 14%, in 2010 from 2009 primarily due to the increase in money market mutual fund fee waivers, offset by higher average balances of client assets
invested in the Company’s Mutual Fund OneSource funds as a result of continued asset inflows.    Advice solutions fees increased by $138 million, or 36%, in 2011 from 2010 and by $106 million, or 38%, in 2010 from 2009 primarily due to higher average balances of client assets enrolled in
retail advisory and managed account programs, including Schwab Private Client and Schwab Managed Portfolios™. The increase in 2011 was also attributed to the integration of Windhaven, which was acquired in November 2010. Additionally, the
increases in advice solutions fees were due to temporary fees rebates of $63 million and $68 million, which reduced advice solutions fees in 2010 and 2009, respectively, under a rebate program that ended in 2010. 
  Net Interest Revenue 
  Net interest revenue is the difference between interest earned on
interest-earning assets and interest paid on funding sources. Net interest revenue is affected by changes in the volume and mix of these assets and liabilities, as well as by fluctuations in interest rates and portfolio management strategies. The
Company’s investment strategy is structured to produce an increase in net interest revenue when interest rates rise and, conversely, a decrease in net interest revenue when interest rates fall (i.e., interest-earning assets generally reprice
more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities). When interest rates fall, the Company may attempt to mitigate some of this negative impact by extending the maturities of assets in investment portfolios to lock in asset yields, and by lowering rates
paid to clients on interest-bearing liabilities. Since the Company establishes the rates paid on certain brokerage client cash balances and deposits from banking clients, as well as the rates charged on receivables from brokerage clients, and also
controls the composition of its investment securities, it has some ability to manage its net interest spread. The current low interest rate environment limits the extent to which the Company can reduce interest expense paid on funding sources.
However, the spread is influenced by external factors such as the interest rate environment and competition. For discussion of the impact of current market conditions on net interest revenue, see “Current Market and Regulatory
Environment.”    In clearing its clients’ trades, Schwab
and optionsXpress, Inc. hold cash balances payable to clients. In most cases, Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. pay their clients interest on cash balances awaiting investment, and in turn invest these funds and earn interest revenue. Receivables from
brokerage clients consist primarily of margin loans to brokerage clients. Margin loans are loans made to clients on a secured basis to purchase securities. Pursuant to applicable regulations, client cash balances that are not used for margin lending
are generally segregated into investment accounts that are maintained for the exclusive benefit of clients, which are recorded in cash and investments segregated on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet. When investing segregated client cash
balances, Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. must adhere to applicable regulations that restrict investments to securities guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government, participation certificates, mortgage-backed securities guaranteed
by the Government National Mortgage Association, certificates of deposit issued by U.S. banks and thrifts, and resale agreements collateralized by qualified securities. Additionally, Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. have established policies for the
minimum credit quality and maximum maturity of these investments.   
Schwab Bank maintains investment portfolios for liquidity as well as to invest funds from deposits in excess of loans to banking clients and liquidity
limits. Schwab Bank’s securities available for sale include residential mortgage-backed securities, certificates of deposit, corporate debt securities, U.S. agency notes, and asset-backed and other securities. Schwab Bank’s securities held
to maturity include residential mortgage-backed and other securities. Schwab Bank lends funds to banking clients primarily in the form of mortgage loans and HELOCs. These loans are largely funded by interest-bearing deposits from banking clients.

  - 22 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 
The Company’s interest-earning assets are financed primarily by brokerage client cash balances and
deposits from banking clients. Noninterest-bearing funding sources include noninterest-bearing brokerage client cash balances and proceeds from stock-lending activities, as well as stockholders’equity. 
  The following table presents net interest revenue information corresponding
to interest-earning assets and funding sources on the consolidated balance sheet:   








































Year Ended December 31,
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
AverageBalance
 
  
InterestRevenue/Expense
 
  
AverageYield/Rate
 
 
AverageBalance
 
  
InterestRevenue/Expense
 
  
AverageYield/Rate
 
 
AverageBalance
 
  
InterestRevenue/Expense
 
  
AverageYield/Rate
 

 Interest-earning assets:
  



  



  



 



  



  



 



  



  




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
5,554
  
  
$
13
  
  
 
0.23
% 
 
$
7,269
  
  
$
19
  
  
 
0.26
% 
 
$
7,848
  
  
$
33
  
  
 
0.42
% 

 Cash and investments segregated
  
 
25,831
  
  
 
39
  
  
 
0.15
% 
 
 
19,543
  
  
 
57
  
  
 
0.29
% 
 
 
16,291
  
  
 
80
  
  
 
0.49
% 

 Broker-related receivables (1)
  
 
310
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
0.05
% 
 
 
317
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
0.08
% 
 
 
363
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
0.28
% 

 Receivables from brokerage clients
  
 
10,637
  
  
 
467
  
  
 
4.39
% 
 
 
8,981
  
  
 
437
  
  
 
4.87
% 
 
 
6,749
  
  
 
351
  
  
 
5.20
% 

 Other securities owned (1)
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
74
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
0.45
% 
 
 
126
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
0.79
% 

 Securities available for sale (2)
  
 
27,486
  
  
 
456
  
  
 
1.66
% 
 
 
24,209
  
  
 
486
  
  
 
2.01
% 
 
 
18,558
  
  
 
521
  
  
 
2.81
% 

 Securities held to maturity
  
 
16,050
  
  
 
492
  
  
 
3.07
% 
 
 
10,440
  
  
 
361
  
  
 
3.46
% 
 
 
1,915
  
  
 
74
  
  
 
3.86
% 

 Loans to banking clients
  
 
9,472
  
  
 
310
  
  
 
3.27
% 
 
 
7,987
  
  
 
275
  
  
 
3.44
% 
 
 
6,671
  
  
 
241
  
  
 
3.61
% 

 Loans held for sale
  
 
65
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
4.62
% 
 
 
80
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
5.00
% 
 
 
110
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
4.55
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total interest-earning assets
  
 
95,405
  
  
 
1,780
  
  
 
1.87
% 
 
 
78,900
  
  
 
1,639
  
  
 
2.08
% 
 
 
58,631
  
  
 
1,307
  
  
 
2.23
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Other interest revenue
  



  
 
120
  
  



 



  
 
84
  
  



 



  
 
121
  
  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total interest-earning assets
  
$
95,405
  
  
$
1,900
  
  
 
1.99
% 
 
$
78,900
  
  
$
1,723
  
  
 
2.18
% 
 
$
58,631
  
  
$
1,428
  
  
 
2.44
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 












 Funding sources:
  



  



  



 



  



  



 



  



  




 Deposits from banking clients
  
$
52,701
  
  
$
62
  
  
 
0.12
% 
 
$
44,858
  
  
$
105
  
  
 
0.23
% 
 
$
31,249
  
  
$
107
  
  
 
0.34
% 

 Payables to brokerage clients
  
 
29,992
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
0.01
% 
 
 
22,715
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
0.01
% 
 
 
18,002
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
0.02
% 

 Long-term debt
  
 
2,004
  
  
 
108
  
  
 
5.39
% 
 
 
1,648
  
  
 
92
  
  
 
5.58
% 
 
 
1,231
  
  
 
71
  
  
 
5.77
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total interest-bearing liabilities
  
 
84,697
  
  
 
173
  
  
 
0.20
% 
 
 
69,221
  
  
 
199
  
  
 
0.29
% 
 
 
50,482
  
  
 
181
  
  
 
0.36
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Noninterest-bearing funding sources
  
 
10,708
  
  



  



 
 
9,679
  
  



  



 
 
8,149
  
  



  




 Other interest expense
  



  
 
2
  
  



 



  
 
—
  
  



 



  
 
2
  
  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total funding sources
  
$
95,405
  
  
$
175
  
  
 
0.18
% 
 
$
78,900
  
  
$
199
  
  
 
0.25
% 
 
$
58,631
  
  
$
183
  
  
 
0.32
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net interest revenue
  



  
$
1,725
  
  
 
1.81
% 
 



  
$
1,524
  
  
 
1.93
% 
 



  
$
1,245
  
  
 
2.12
% 


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Interest revenue was less than $500,000 in the period or periods presented.   


(2) 
 Amounts have been calculated based on amortized cost. 
  Net interest revenue increased in 2011 from 2010 primarily due to higher
average balances of interest-earning assets, partially offset by the effect of lower interest rate spreads resulting from higher amortization of premiums relating to residential mortgage-backed securities. The growth in average balances of deposits
from banking clients and payables to brokerage clients funded the increases in the balances of receivables from brokerage clients, securities available for sale, and securities held to maturity. Further declines in interest rates in 2011 accelerated
the prepayment activity in the Company’s portfolio of residential mortgage-backed securities, which resulted in higher premium amortization.   
Net interest revenue increased in 2010 from 2009 due to higher average balances of interest-earning assets. This resulted from significant growth in the
average balance of deposits from banking clients, which in turn funded increases in the average balances of securities held to maturity, securities available for sale, and loans to banking clients. These interest-earning assets are invested at rates
above the cost of supporting funding sources. The increase in net interest revenue was partially offset by the decline in the yields of almost all interest-earning assets compared to 2009.    Trading Revenue   
Trading revenue includes commission and principal transaction revenues. Commission revenue is affected by the number of revenue trades executed and the
average revenue earned per revenue trade. Principal transaction revenue is primarily comprised of revenue from client fixed income securities trading activity. Factors that influence principal transaction revenue include the volume of client trades
and market price volatility.    Trading revenue increased by
$97 million, or 12%, in 2011 from 2010 primarily due to higher daily average revenue trades and the addition of optionsXpress. Trading revenue decreased by $166 million, or 17%, in 2010 from 2009 due to lower

  - 23 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 

average revenue per revenue trade resulting from improved online trade pricing for clients and lower daily average revenue trades.    As shown in the following table, daily average revenue trades increased by 12% in 2011. The increase was primarily due to a
higher volume of option, equity, and mutual fund trades. Average revenue per revenue trade remained relatively flat in 2011. Daily average revenue trades decreased 5% in 2010 from 2009 primarily due to a lower volume of equity and principal
transaction trades, partially offset by a higher volume of option trades. Average revenue per revenue trade decreased 11% in 2010 from 2009 primarily due to lower online equity trade commissions, which were implemented in January 2010. 
 




















 Year Ended December 31,
  
Growth Rate2010-2011
 
 
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Daily average revenue trades (1) (in thousands)
  
 
12
% 
 
 
303.8
  
  
 
270.7
  
  
 
285.8
  

 Number of trading days
  
 
—
  
 
 
251.5
  
  
 
251.5
  
  
 
251.0
  

 Average revenue per revenue trade
  
 
(1
%) 
 
$
      12.15
  
  
$
      12.28
  
  
$
      13.86
  
  


(1) 
 Includes all client trades that generate trading revenue (i.e., commission revenue or revenue from fixed income securities trading).
   Other Revenue 
  Other revenue includes software fee revenue relating to the Company’s
portfolio management services, exchange processing fee revenue, gains on sales of mortgage loans, and other service fee revenues. Other revenue increased by $25 million, or 19%, in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to increases in software
and exchange processing fee revenues, as well as the addition of education services revenue from the acquisition of optionsXpress. Other revenue was lower by $40 million, or 23%, in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to a gain of
$31 million on the repurchase of a portion of the Company’s long-term debt in 2009.    Provision for Loan Losses    The provision for loan losses decreased by $9 million, or 33%, in 2011 from 2010, due to a decrease in overall expected loss rates resulting primarily from a decrease in first mortgage loan
delinquencies. The provision for loan losses decreased by $11 million, or 29%, in 2010 from 2009, primarily due to stabilization in the levels of loan delinquencies and nonaccrual loans in 2010 compared to 2009. Charge-offs were
$19 million, $20 million, and $13 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. For further discussion on the Company’s credit risk and the allowance for loan losses, see “Risk Management – Credit Risk” and
“Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – 7. Loans to Banking Clients and Related Allowance for Loan Losses.” 
  Net Impairment Losses on Securities 
  Net impairment losses on securities were $31 million, $36 million,
and $60 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. These charges relate to certain non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities in the Company’s available for sale portfolio as a result of credit deterioration of the
securities’ underlying loans. For further discussion, see “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – 6. Securities Available for Sale and Securities Held to
Maturity.” 
  - 24 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 
Expenses Excluding Interest 
  As shown in the table below, expenses excluding interest were lower in 2011
compared to 2010 primarily due to certain significant charges in 2010, including class action litigation and regulatory reserves relating to the Schwab YieldPlus Fund and losses recognized for Schwab money market mutual funds. The decrease in
expenses excluding interest caused by these charges in 2010 was offset by increases in compensation and benefits, professional services, occupancy and equipment, and advertising and market development expenses in 2011. Expenses excluding interest
were higher in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to the charges previously discussed.   




















 Year Ended December 31,
  
Growth Rate2010-2011
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Compensation and benefits
  
 
10
% 
 
$
1,732
  
 
$
1,573
  
 
$
1,544
  

 Professional services
  
 
13
% 
 
 
387
  
 
 
341
  
 
 
275
  

 Occupancy and equipment
  
 
11
% 
 
 
301
  
 
 
272
  
 
 
318
  

 Advertising and market development
  
 
16
% 
 
 
228
  
 
 
196
  
 
 
191
  

 Communications
  
 
6
% 
 
 
220
  
 
 
207
  
 
 
206
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
6
% 
 
 
155
  
 
 
146
  
 
 
159
  

 Class action litigation and regulatory reserve
  
 
N/M
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
320
  
 
 
—
  

 Money market mutual fund charges
  
 
N/M
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
132
  
 
 
—
  

 Other
  
 
(5
%) 
 
 
269
  
 
 
282
  
 
 
224
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expenses excluding interest
  
 
(5
%) 
 
$
      3,299
  
 
$
      3,469
  
 
$
      2,917
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 







 Expenses as a percentage of total net revenues:
  



 



 



 




 Total expenses excluding interest
  



 
 
70
% 
 
 
82
% 
 
 
70
% 

 Advertising and market development
  



 
 
5
% 
 
 
5
% 
 
 
5
% 
   N/M Not meaningful.   
Compensation and Benefits   
Compensation and benefits expense includes salaries and wages, incentive compensation, and related employee benefits and taxes. Incentive compensation
includes variable compensation, discretionary bonus costs, and stock-based compensation. Variable compensation includes payments to certain individuals based on their sales performance. Discretionary bonus costs are based on the Company’s
overall performance as measured by earnings per share, and therefore will fluctuate with this measure. In 2009, discretionary bonus costs were based on the achievement of specified performance objectives, including revenue growth and pre-tax profit
margin. Stock-based compensation primarily includes employee and board of director stock options, restricted stock awards, and restricted stock units. 
  - 25 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 
Compensation and benefits expense increased by $159 million, or 10%, in 2011 from 2010 primarily
due to increases in salaries and wages and incentive compensation. Compensation and benefits expense increased by $29 million, or 2%, in 2010 from 2009 primarily due to an increase in incentive compensation. The following table shows a
comparison of certain compensation and benefits components and employee data:   




















 Year Ended December 31,
  
Growth Rate2010-2011
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Salaries and wages
  
 
9
% 
 
$
1,012
  
 
$
931
  
 
$
930
  

 Incentive compensation
  
 
15
% 
 
 
444
  
 
 
386
  
 
 
355
  

 Employee benefits and other
  
 
8
% 
 
 
276
  
 
 
256
  
 
 
259
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total compensation and benefits expense
  
 
10
% 
 
$
      1,732
  
 
$
      1,573
  
 
$
      1,544
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Compensation and benefits expense as a percentage of total net revenues:
  



 



 



 




 Salaries and wages
  



 
 
22
% 
 
 
22
% 
 
 
22
% 

 Incentive compensation
  



 
 
9
% 
 
 
9
% 
 
 
8
% 

 Employee benefits and other
  



 
 
6
% 
 
 
6
% 
 
 
7
% 


  



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total compensation and benefits expense
  



 
 
37 
% 
 
 
37 
% 
 
 
37 
% 


  



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Full-time equivalent employees (in thousands) (1)
  



 



 



 




 At year end
  
 
10
% 
 
 
14.1
  
 
 
12.8
  
 
 
12.4
  

 Average
  
 
6
% 
 
 
13.4
  
 
 
12.6
  
 
 
12.4
  
  


(1)
 Includes
full-time, part-time and temporary employees, and persons employed on a contract basis, and excludes employees of outsourced service providers. 
  Salaries and wages increased in 2011 from 2010 primarily due to increases in
full-time employees and persons employed on a contract basis. The increase in full-time employees was partially due to the addition of full-time employees from the optionsXpress acquisition in September 2011. Incentive compensation increased in 2011
from 2010 primarily due to an increase in discretionary bonus costs and higher variable compensation. Discretionary bonus costs increased based on the Company’s overall performance in 2011, as well as an increase in full time employees.
Variable compensation was higher primarily due to the integration of Windhaven, which was acquired in November 2010. Employee benefits and other expense increased in 2011 from 2010 primarily due to increases in payroll taxes and the Company’s
401(k) plan contribution expense as a result of increases in incentive compensation and full-time employees.    Salaries and wages were relatively flat in 2010 from 2009 primarily due to increases in persons employed on a contract basis and full-time employees, offset by severance expense of $58 million in
2009 relating to the Company’s cost reduction measures. Incentive compensation increased in 2010 from 2009 primarily due to higher variable compensation resulting from product sales performance in the Company’s branch offices and higher
stock-based compensation relating to the amortization of its stock options and restricted stock units.    Expenses Excluding Compensation and Benefits    Professional services expense increased in 2011 from 2010 primarily due to an increase in fees relating to the Company’s technology investments and client facing infrastructure, and approximately
$10 million in costs relating to the integration of optionsXpress. Professional services expense increased in 2010 from 2009 primarily due to increases in fees relating to technology services and enhancements, and investment advisor fees
relating to the Company’s managed account service programs.   
Occupancy and equipment expense increased in 2011 from 2010 primarily due to an increase in the Company’s investments in data processing equipment.
Occupancy and equipment expense decreased in 2010 from 2009 primarily due to facilities charges of $43 million in 2009 relating to the Company’s cost reduction measures. 
  Advertising and market development expense increased in 2011 from 2010
primarily due to higher spending on customer and branch promotions and electronic media. 
  - 26 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 
Communications expense increased in 2011 from 2010 primarily due to higher telephone service expense and
third-party news and information expense.    Depreciation and
amortization expense increased in 2011 from 2010 primarily due to higher amortization of intangible assets resulting from the acquisitions of optionsXpress and Windhaven. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased in 2010 from 2009 primarily
due to certain assets becoming fully depreciated.    In 2011 and
2010, the Company recorded class action litigation and regulatory reserves relating to the Schwab YieldPlus Fund. For further discussion of the Schwab YieldPlus Fund litigation and regulatory matters, see “Item 8 – Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – 15. Commitments and Contingencies.”   
In 2010, the Company decided to cover the net remaining losses of $132 million recognized by Schwab money market mutual funds as a result of their
investments in a single structured investment vehicle that defaulted in 2008.    Other expense was lower in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to a charge of $30 million in 2010, relating to the Company’s Invest First and WorldPoints Visa credit cards, as the Company ended
its sponsorship due to challenging credit card industry economics. Other expense was higher in 2010 as compared to 2009 primarily due to this charge and an increase in employee travel expenses. 
  Taxes on Income 
  The Company’s effective income tax rate on income before taxes was
37.9% in 2011, 41.7% in 2010, and 38.3% in 2009. The decrease in 2011 from 2010 was due to a lower effective state income tax rate in 2011 and the impact of non-deductible penalties relating to the Schwab YieldPlus Fund regulatory settlements
recorded in 2010. The increase in 2010 from 2009 was primarily due to the impact of non-deductible penalties in 2010.   
Segment Information   
The Company provides financial services to individuals and institutional clients through two segments – Investor Services and Institutional Services.
The Investor Services segment provides retail brokerage and banking services to individual investors. The Institutional Services segment provides custodial, trading, and support services to independent investment advisors. The Institutional Services
segment also provides retirement plan services, specialty brokerage services, and mutual fund clearing services, and supports the availability of Schwab proprietary mutual funds and collective trust funds on third-party platforms. Banking revenues
and expenses are allocated to the Company’s two segments based on which segment services the client. The Company evaluates the performance of its segments on a pre-tax basis, excluding items such as impairment charges on non-financial assets,
discontinued operations, extraordinary items, and significant restructuring and other charges. Segment assets and liabilities are not disclosed because the balances are not used for evaluating segment performance and deciding how to allocate
resources to segments. 
  - 27 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 
Financial information for the Company’s reportable segments is presented in the following tables:
  




































 
  
Investor Services
 
 
Institutional Services
 

 Year Ended December 31,
  
Growth Rate2010-2011
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
Growth Rate2010-2011
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net Revenues
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Asset management andadministration fees
  
 
8
% 
 
$
1,053
  
 
$
976
  
 
$
968
  
 
 
3
% 
 
$
875
  
 
$
846
  
 
$
907
  

 Net interest revenue
  
 
13
% 
 
 
1,468
  
 
 
1,297
  
 
 
1,058
  
 
 
13
% 
 
 
257
  
 
 
227
  
 
 
187
  

 Trading revenue
  
 
12
% 
 
 
625
  
 
 
557
  
 
 
679
  
 
 
11
% 
 
 
302
  
 
 
273
  
 
 
317
  

 Other
  
 
21
% 
 
 
85
  
 
 
70
  
 
 
93
  
 
 
15
% 
 
 
75
  
 
 
65
  
 
 
82
  

 Provision for loan losses
  
 
(35
%) 
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
(23
) 
 
 
(34
) 
 
 
(25
%) 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(4
) 

 Net impairment losses on securities
  
 
(16
%) 
 
 
(27
) 
 
 
(32
) 
 
 
(54
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(6
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net revenues
  
 
12
% 
 
 
3,189
  
 
 
2,845
  
 
 
2,710
  
 
 
7
% 
 
 
1,502
  
 
 
1,403
  
 
 
1,483
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Expenses Excluding Interest
  
 
9
% 
 
 
2,261
  
 
 
2,065
  
 
 
1,906
  
 
 
8
% 
 
 
1,039
  
 
 
960
  
 
 
929
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before taxes on income 
  
 
19
% 
 
$
928
  
 
$
780
  
 
$
804
  
 
 
5
% 
 
$
463
  
 
$
443
  
 
$
554
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 
  
Unallocated
 
 
Total
 

 Year Ended December 31,
  
Growth Rate2010-2011
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
Growth Rate2010-2011
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net Revenues
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Asset management andadministration fees
  
 
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
 
6
% 
 
$
1,928
  
 
$
1,822
  
 
$
1,875
  

 Net interest revenue
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
13
% 
 
 
1,725
  
 
 
1,524
  
 
 
1,245
  

 Trading revenue
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
12
% 
 
 
927
  
 
 
830
  
 
 
996
  

 Other
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
19
% 
 
 
160
  
 
 
135
  
 
 
175
  

 Provision for loan losses
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(33 
%) 
 
 
(18 
) 
 
 
(27 
) 
 
 
(38 
) 

 Net impairment losseson securities
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(14
%) 
 
 
(31
) 
 
 
(36
) 
 
 
(60
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net revenues
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
10
% 
 
 
4,691
  
 
 
4,248
  
 
 
4,193
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Expenses Excluding Interest
  
 
N/M
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
444
  
 
 
82
  
 
 
(5
%) 
 
 
3,299
  
 
 
3,469
  
 
 
2,917
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before taxes on income 
  
 
N/M
  
 
$
1
  
 
$
(444
) 
 
$
(82
) 
 
 
79
% 
 
$
    1,392
  
 
$
779
  
 
$
    1,276
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Taxes on income
  



 



 



 



 
 
62
% 
 
 
(528
) 
 
 
(325
) 
 
 
(489
) 


  



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Income
  



 



 



 



 
 
90
% 
 
$
864
  
 
$
454
  
 
$
787
  


  



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   N/M Not meaningful.   
Investor Services   
Net revenues increased by $344 million, or 12%, in 2011 from 2010 primarily due to increases in net interest revenue, asset management and
administration fees, and trading revenue. Net interest revenue increased primarily due to higher average balances of interest-earning assets during the year, partially offset by the effect of higher premium amortization relating to residential
mortgage-backed securities caused by higher mortgage prepayments in 2011. Asset management and administration fees increased primarily due to an increase in revenue from the Company’s advice solutions and continued asset inflows, offset by
money market mutual fund fee waivers. Trading revenue increased primarily due to higher daily average revenue trades and the addition of optionsXpress, which was acquired in September 2011. Expenses excluding interest increased by $196 million,
or 9%, in 2011 from 2010 primarily due to increases in compensation and benefits, professional services, and advertising and market development expenses, which included the integration of optionsXpress. 
  - 28 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 
Net revenues increased by $135 million, or 5%, in 2010 from 2009 primarily due to an increase in
net interest revenue and lower net impairment losses on securities, partially offset by decreases in trading revenue and other revenue. Net interest revenue increased due to higher average balances of interest-earning assets, partially offset by a
decrease in the average yield earned. Trading revenue decreased due to lower average revenue per revenue trade resulting from improved online trade pricing for clients, which was implemented in January 2010, and slightly lower daily average revenue
trades in 2010. Other revenue was lower in comparison to 2009 due to a gain on the repurchase of a portion of the Company’s long-term debt in 2009. While the low interest rate environment caused additional money market mutual fund fee waivers
from 2009, asset management and administration fees were relatively flat due to higher average asset valuations and continued asset inflows. Expenses excluding interest increased by $159 million, or 8%, in 2010 from 2009 primarily due to
increases in compensation and benefits, professional services, and other expenses. Other expense includes a charge relating to the Company’s termination of its sponsorship in its Invest First and WorldPoints Visa credit cards in 2010 as a
result of challenging credit card economics.    Institutional
Services    Net revenues increased by $99 million, or 7%,
in 2011 from 2010 primarily due to increases in net interest revenue, asset management and administration fees, and trading revenue. Net interest revenue increased primarily due to higher average balances of interest-earning assets during the year,
partially offset by the effect of higher premium amortization relating to residential mortgage-backed securities caused by higher mortgage prepayments in 2011. Asset management and administration fees increased primarily due to an increase in mutual
fund service fees relating to the Company’s Mutual Fund OneSource funds as a result of continued asset inflows, offset by money market mutual fund fee waivers. Trading revenue increased primarily due to higher daily average revenue trades.
Expenses excluding interest increased by $79 million, or 8%, in 2011 from 2010 primarily due to increases in compensation and benefits and professional services expenses. 
  Net revenues decreased by $80 million, or 5%, in 2010 from 2009 due to
decreases in asset management and administration fees, trading revenue, and other revenue, offset by an increase in net interest revenue. Asset management and administration fees decreased primarily due to money market mutual fund fee waivers,
partially offset by the effect of higher average asset valuations and continued asset inflows. Additionally, in August 2010 management transferred client assets associated with the Schwab Advisor Network to the Investor Services segment and started
recording the related asset management and administration fee revenue to that segment. Trading revenue decreased due to lower average revenue per revenue trade resulting from improved online trade pricing for clients, which was implemented in
January 2010, and slightly lower daily average revenue trades in 2010. Other revenue was lower in comparison to 2009 due to a gain on the repurchase of a portion of the Company’s long-term debt in 2009. Net interest revenue increased due to
higher average balances of interest-earning assets, partially offset by a decrease in the average yield earned. Expenses excluding interest increased by $31 million, or 3%, in 2010 from 2009 primarily due to an increase in compensation and
benefits expense.    Unallocated 
  Expenses excluding interest in 2010 include class action litigation and
regulatory reserves relating to the Schwab YieldPlus Fund and a charge relating to the Company’s decision to cover the net remaining losses recognized by Schwab money market mutual funds as a result of their investments in a single structured
investment vehicle that defaulted in 2008. Expenses excluding interest in 2009 include facilities and severance charges relating to the Company’s cost reduction measures. 
  LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
   CSC conducts substantially all of its business through
its wholly-owned subsidiaries. The Company’s capital structure is designed to provide each subsidiary with capital and liquidity to meet its operational needs and regulatory requirements.    CSC is a savings and loan holding company and Schwab Bank, CSC’s depository institution, is a federal savings bank. Prior
to July 21, 2011, CSC and Schwab Bank were both subject to supervision and regulation by the OTS. The Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the OTS effective July 21, 2011, and as a result, the Federal Reserve became CSC’s primary regulator and
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency became the primary regulator of Schwab Bank. 
  - 29 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 
Liquidity 
  CSC    While CSC is not currently subject to specific statutory capital requirements, CSC is required to serve as a source of strength
for Schwab Bank and must have the ability to provide financial assistance if Schwab Bank experiences financial distress. To manage capital adequacy, the Company currently utilizes a target Tier 1 Leverage Ratio, as defined by the Board of Governors
of the Federal Reserve System, of at least 6%. At December 31, 2011, the Company’s Tier 1 Leverage Ratio was 6.3%.   
CSC’s liquidity needs are generally met through cash generated by its subsidiaries, as well as cash provided by external financing. CSC has a
universal automatic shelf registration statement (Shelf Registration Statement) on file with the SEC which enables CSC to issue debt, equity and other securities. CSC maintains excess liquidity in the form of overnight cash deposits and short-term
investments to cover daily funding needs and to support growth in the Company’s business. Generally, CSC does not hold liquidity at its subsidiaries in excess of amounts deemed sufficient to support the subsidiaries’ operations, including
any regulatory capital requirements. Schwab, Schwab Bank, and optionsXpress, Inc. are subject to regulatory requirements that may restrict them from certain transactions with CSC, as further discussed below. Management believes that funds generated
by the operations of CSC’s subsidiaries will continue to be the primary funding source in meeting CSC’s liquidity needs, providing adequate liquidity to meet Schwab Bank’s capital guidelines, and maintaining Schwab and optionsXpress,
Inc.’s net capital.    In January 2012, the Company completed
an equity offering of 400,000 shares of its preferred stock under the Shelf Registration Statement. For further discussion of the equity offering, see “Subsequent Event”. 
  CSC has liquidity needs that arise from the funding of cash dividends,
acquisitions, and investments, as well as its Senior Notes, Senior Medium-Term Notes, Series A (Medium-Term Notes), and Junior Subordinated Notes. The following are details of CSC’s long-term debt: 
 


















 December 31, 2011
  
ParOutstanding
 
  
Maturity
  
Interest Rate
  
Moody’s
  
Standard& Poor’s
  
Fitch

 Senior Notes
  
$
    1,450
  
  
2014 – 2020
  
4.45% to 4.950% fixed
  
A2
  
A
  
A

 Medium Term Notes
  
$
250
  
  
2017
  
6.375% fixed
  
A2
  
A
  
A

 Junior Subordinated Notes (1)
  
$
202
  
  
2067
  
7.50% fixed until 2017,
  
Baa1
  
BBB+
  
BBB+


  



  

  
floating thereafter
  

  

  

  


(1)
 The Junior
Subordinated Notes themselves are not rated, however, the trust preferred securities related to these Junior Subordinated Notes are rated.   
CSC has authorization from its Board of Directors to issue unsecured commercial paper notes (Commercial Paper Notes) not to exceed $1.5 billion.
Management has set a current limit for the commercial paper program of $800 million. The maturities of the Commercial Paper Notes may vary, but are not to exceed 270 days from the date of issue. The commercial paper is not redeemable prior
to maturity and cannot be voluntarily prepaid. The proceeds of the commercial paper program are to be used for general corporate purposes. There were no borrowings of Commercial Paper Notes outstanding at December 31, 2011. CSC’s ratings
for these short-term borrowings are P1 by Moody’s, A1 by Standard & Poor’s, and F1 by Fitch.    CSC maintains an $800 million committed, unsecured credit facility with a group of 11 banks, which is scheduled to expire in June 2012. This facility replaced a similar facility that expired in June
2011 and was unused in 2011. The funds under this facility are available for general corporate purposes, including repayment of the Commercial Paper Notes discussed above. The financial covenants under this facility require Schwab to maintain a
minimum net capital ratio, as defined, Schwab Bank to be well capitalized, as defined, and CSC to maintain a minimum level of stockholders’ equity. At December 31, 2011, the minimum level of stockholders’ equity required under this
facility was $5.0 billion (CSC’s stockholders’ equity at December 31, 2011 was $7.7 billion). Management believes that these restrictions will not have a material effect on CSC’s ability to meet foreseeable dividend or
funding requirements. 
  - 30 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 
CSC also has direct access to $750 million of the $875 million uncommitted, unsecured bank
credit lines discussed below, that are primarily utilized by Schwab to manage short-term liquidity. These lines were not used by CSC during 2011.   
In addition, Schwab provides CSC with a $1.0 billion credit facility maturing in December 2014. This facility replaced a similar facility that
expired in December 2011. There were no funds drawn under this facility at December 31, 2011.    Schwab   
Schwab is subject to regulatory requirements that are intended to ensure the general financial soundness and liquidity of broker-dealers. These
regulations prohibit Schwab from repaying subordinated borrowings from CSC, paying cash dividends, or making unsecured advances or loans to its parent company or employees if such payment would result in a net capital amount of less than 5% of
aggregate debit balances or less than 120% of its minimum dollar requirement of $250,000. At December 31, 2011, Schwab’s net capital was $1.2 billion (10% of aggregate debit balances), which was $948 million in excess of its
minimum required net capital and $588 million in excess of 5% of aggregate debit balances.    Most of Schwab’s assets are readily convertible to cash, consisting primarily of short-term (i.e., less than 150 days) investment-grade, interest-earning investments (the majority of which are
segregated for the exclusive benefit of clients pursuant to regulatory requirements), receivables from brokerage clients, and receivables from brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations. Client margin loans are demand loan obligations secured by
readily marketable securities. Receivables from and payables to brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations primarily represent current open transactions, which usually settle, or can be closed out, within a few business days. 
  Liquidity needs relating to client trading and margin borrowing activities
are met primarily through cash balances in brokerage client accounts, which were $33.5 billion and $29.9 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Management believes that brokerage client cash balances and operating
earnings will continue to be the primary sources of liquidity for Schwab.    Schwab has a finance lease obligation related to an office building and land under a 20-year lease. The remaining finance lease obligation of $100 million at December 31, 2011, is being reduced
by a portion of the lease payments over the remaining lease term of 13 years.    To manage short-term liquidity, Schwab maintains uncommitted, unsecured bank credit lines with a group of six banks totaling $875 million at December 31, 2011. The need for short-term borrowings
arises primarily from timing differences between cash flow requirements, scheduled liquidation of interest-earnings investments, and movements of cash to meet regulatory brokerage client cash segregation requirements. Schwab borrowed an average of
$41 million per day for nine days in 2011 under these lines. There were no borrowings outstanding under these lines at December 31, 2011.   
To partially satisfy the margin requirement of client option transactions with the Options Clearing Corporation (OCC), Schwab has unsecured standby letter
of credit agreements (LOCs) with eight banks in favor of the OCC aggregating $350 million at December 31, 2011. In connection with its securities lending activities, Schwab is required to provide collateral to certain brokerage clients.
Schwab satisfies the collateral requirements by arranging LOCs, in favor of these brokerage clients, which are issued by multiple banks. At December 31, 2011, the aggregate face amount of these LOCs totaled $78 million. There were no funds
drawn under any of these LOCs during 2011.    To manage
Schwab’s regulatory capital requirement, CSC provides Schwab with a $1.4 billion subordinated revolving credit facility, which is scheduled to expire in March 2012. The amount outstanding under this facility at December 31, 2011, was
$245 million. Borrowings under this subordinated lending arrangement qualify as regulatory capital for Schwab.    In addition, CSC provides Schwab with a $2.5 billion credit facility, which is scheduled to expire in December 2014. This facility replaced a similar facility that expired in December 2011.
Borrowings under this facility do not qualify as regulatory capital for Schwab. There were no funds drawn under this facility at December 31, 2011. 
  - 31 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 
Schwab Bank 
  Schwab Bank is required to maintain capital levels as specified in federal
banking laws and regulations. Failure to meet the minimum levels could result in certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary actions by the regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on Schwab Bank. Based on its
regulatory capital ratios at December 31, 2011, Schwab Bank is considered well capitalized. Schwab Bank’s regulatory capital and ratios at December 31, 2011, are as follows: 
 




























 
  
Actual
 
 
Minimum CapitalRequirement
 
 
Minimum to beWell Capitalized
 

 
  
Amount
 
  
Ratio
 
 
Amount
 
  
Ratio
 
 
Amount
 
  
Ratio
 

 Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital
  
$
    4,984
  
  
 
        23.4
% 
 
$
       850
  
  
 
          4.0
% 
 
$
    1,276
  
  
 
6.0
% 

 Total Risk-Based Capital
  
$
    5,036
  
  
 
23.7
% 
 
$
    1,701
  
  
 
8.0
% 
 
$
    2,126
  
  
 
        10.0
% 

 Tier 1 Core Capital
  
$
    4,984
  
  
 
7.5
% 
 
$
    2,642
  
  
 
4.0
% 
 
$
    3,302
  
  
 
5.0
% 

 Tangible Equity
  
$
    4,984
  
  
 
7.5
% 
 
$
    1,321
  
  
 
2.0
% 
 
 
N/A
  
  



   N/A Not
applicable.    Management has established a target Tier 1 Core
Capital Ratio for Schwab Bank of at least 7.5%. Schwab Bank’s current liquidity needs are generally met through deposits from banking clients and equity capital. 
  The excess cash held in certain Schwab brokerage client accounts is swept
into deposit accounts at Schwab Bank. At December 31, 2011, these balances totaled $40.6 billion.    Schwab Bank has access to traditional funding sources such as deposits, federal funds purchased, and repurchase agreements. Additionally, Schwab Bank has access to short-term funding through the Federal
Reserve Bank (FRB) discount window. Amounts available under the FRB discount window are dependent on the fair value of certain of Schwab Bank’s securities available for sale and securities held to maturity that are pledged as collateral. Schwab
Bank maintains policies and procedures necessary to access this funding and tests discount window borrowing procedures annually. At December 31, 2011, $1.2 billion was available under this arrangement. There were no funds drawn under this
arrangement during 2011.    Schwab Bank maintains a credit facility
with the Federal Home Loan Bank System. Amounts available under this facility are dependent on the amount of Schwab Bank’s residential real estate mortgages and HELOCs that are pledged as collateral. At December 31, 2011, $5.2 billion
was available under this facility. There were no funds drawn under this facility during 2011.    CSC provides Schwab Bank with a $100 million short-term credit facility, which is scheduled to expire in December 2014. This facility replaced a similar facility that expired in December 2011.
Borrowings under this facility do not qualify as regulatory capital for Schwab Bank. There were no funds drawn under these facilities during 2011.   
optionsXpress   
optionsXpress, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of optionsXpress, is a registered broker-dealer and is subject to regulatory requirements that are intended
to ensure the general financial soundness and liquidity of broker-dealers. These regulations prohibit optionsXpress, Inc. from paying cash dividends or making unsecured advances or loans to its parent company or employees if such payment would
result in a net capital amount of less than 5% of aggregate debit balances or less than 120% of its minimum dollar requirement of $250,000. At December 31, 2011, optionsXpress Inc.’s net capital was $78 million (29% of aggregate debit
balances), which was $73 million in excess of its minimum required net capital and $65 million in excess of 5% of aggregate debit balances.   
optionsXpress, Inc. is also subject to Commodity Futures Trading Commission Regulation 1.17 (Reg. 1.17) under the Commodity Exchange Act, which also
requires the maintenance of minimum net capital. optionsXpress, Inc. as a futures commission merchant, is required to maintain minimum net capital equal to the greater of its net capital requirement under

  - 32 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 

Reg. 1.17 ($1 million), or the sum of 8% of the total risk margin requirements for all positions carried in customer accounts and 8% of the total risk margin requirements for all positions
carried in non-customer accounts (as defined in Reg. 1.17).   
Liquidity needs relating to client trading and margin borrowing activities are met primarily through cash balances in brokerage client accounts, which
were $1.2 billion at December 31, 2011. Management believes that brokerage client cash balances and operating earnings will continue to be the primary sources of liquidity for optionsXpress, Inc. 
  CSC provides optionsXpress, Inc. with a $100 million credit facility,
which is scheduled to expire in December 2014. Borrowings under this facility do not qualify as regulatory capital for optionsXpress, Inc. There were no funds drawn under this facility since the acquisition date. 
  optionsXpress has a term loan with CSC, of which $118 million was
outstanding at December 31, 2011, and matures in December 2014.    Capital Resources    The Company monitors both the relative composition and absolute level of its capital structure. Management is focused on limiting the Company’s use of capital and currently targets a long-term debt
to total financial capital ratio not to exceed 30%. The Company’s total financial capital (long-term debt plus stockholders’ equity) at December 31, 2011, was $9.7 billion, up $1.5 billion, or 18%, from December 31,
2010. At December 31, 2011, the Company had long-term debt of $2.0 billion, or 21% of total financial capital, that bears interest at a weighted-average rate of 5.24%. At December 31, 2010, the Company had long-term debt of
$2.0 billion, or 24% of total financial capital. The Company repaid $116 million of long-term debt in 2011, which included the pay off of long-term debt acquired from optionsXpress of $110 million subsequent to the acquisition date.
In 2010, the Company issued $700 million of additional Senior Notes that mature in 2020 and have a fixed interest rate of 4.45%. The Company repaid $205 million of long-term debt in 2010, which included the maturity of $200 million of
Medium-Term Notes.    The Company’s cash position (reported as
cash and cash equivalents on its consolidated balance sheet) and cash flows are affected by changes in brokerage client cash balances and the associated amounts required to be segregated under regulatory guidelines. Timing differences between cash
and investments actually segregated on a given date and the amount required to be segregated for that date may arise in the ordinary course of business and are addressed by the Company in accordance with applicable regulations. Other factors which
affect the Company’s cash position and cash flows include investment activity in securities, levels of capital expenditures, acquisition and divestiture activity, banking client deposit activity, brokerage and banking client loan activity,
financing activity in long-term debt, payments of dividends, and repurchases and issuances of CSC’s preferred and common stock. The combination of these factors can cause significant fluctuations in the cash position during specific time
periods.    Capital Expenditures 
  The Company’s capital expenditures were $190 million (4% of net
revenues) and $127 million (3% of net revenues) in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Capital expenditures in 2011 and 2010 were primarily for software and equipment relating to the Company’s information technology systems, capitalized costs for
developing internal-use software, and leasehold improvements. Capitalized costs for developing internal-use software were $57 million and $21 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively.    Management currently anticipates that 2012 capital expenditures will be approximately 30% lower than 2011 spending primarily
due to decreased spending on software and equipment relating to the Company’s information technology systems, capitalized costs for developing internal-use software, and leasehold improvements. As has been the case in recent years, the Company
may adjust its capital expenditures periodically as business conditions change. Management believes that funds generated by its operations will continue to be the primary funding source of its capital expenditures. 
  - 33 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 
Equity Offering 
  On January 26, 2010, the Company sold 29,670,300 shares of its common
stock, $.01 par value, at a public offering price of $19.00 per share. Net proceeds received from the offering were $543 million and were used to support the Company’s balance sheet growth, including expansion of its deposit base and
migration of certain client balances from money market funds into deposit accounts at Schwab Bank.    Dividends    CSC paid common stock cash dividends of $295 million ($0.24 per share) and $288 million ($0.24 per share) in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Since the initial dividend in 1989, CSC has paid 91
consecutive quarterly dividends and has increased the quarterly dividend rate 19 times, including a 20% increase in the third quarter of 2008. Since 1989, dividends have increased by a 24% compounded annual growth rate, excluding the special cash
dividend of $1.00 per common share in 2007. While the payment and amount of dividends are at the discretion of the Board of Directors, subject to certain regulatory and other restrictions, the Company currently targets its cash dividend at
approximately 20% to 30% of net income.    Under the terms of the
Series A Preferred Stock issued in January 2012, the Company’s ability to pay dividends on, make distributions with respect to, or to repurchase, redeem or acquire its common stock is subject to restrictions in the event that the Company does
not declare and either pay or set aside a sum sufficient for payment of dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for the immediately preceding dividend period.   
Share Repurchases   
There were no repurchases of CSC’s common stock in 2011 or 2010. As of December 31, 2011, CSC had remaining authority from the Board of
Directors to repurchase up to $596 million of its common stock, which does not have an expiration date.    Business Acquisitions    On September 1, 2011, the Company completed its acquisition of all of the outstanding common shares of optionsXpress, an online brokerage firm primarily focused on equity option securities and
futures, for total consideration of $714 million. Under the terms of the merger agreement, optionsXpress stockholders received 1.02 shares of the Company’s common stock for each share of optionsXpress stock. As a result, the Company issued
59 million shares of the Company’s common stock valued at $710 million, based on the closing price of the Company’s common stock on September 1, 2011. The Company also assumed optionsXpress’ stock-based compensation
awards valued at $4 million.    On November 9,
2010, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Windward for $106 million in common stock and $44 million in cash.   
For more information on the acquisitions of optionsXpress and Windward, see “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements – 3. Business Acquisitions”.    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements    The Company enters into various off-balance sheet arrangements in the ordinary course of business, primarily to meet the needs of its clients. These arrangements include firm commitments to extend credit.
Additionally, the Company enters into guarantees and other similar arrangements as part of transactions in the ordinary course of business. For information on each of these arrangements, see “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – 15. Commitments and Contingencies.” 
  - 34 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 
Contractual Obligations 
  The Company’s principal contractual obligations as of December 31,
2011, are shown in the following table. Management believes that funds generated by its continuing operations, as well as cash provided by external financing, will continue to be the primary funding sources in meeting these obligations. Excluded
from this table are liabilities recorded on the consolidated balance sheet that are generally short-term in nature (e.g., payables to brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations) or without contractual payment terms (e.g., deposits from banking
clients, payables to brokerage clients, and deferred compensation).   
























 
  
Less than1 Year
 
  
1-3    Years    
 
  
3-5    Years    
 
  
More than5 Years
 
  
Total
 

 Credit-related financial instruments (1)
  
$
757
  
  
$
725
  
  
$
1,130
  
  
$
3,186
  
  
$
5,798
  

 Long-term debt (2)
  
 
99
  
  
 
930
  
  
 
125
  
  
 
1,309
  
  
 
2,463
  

 Leases (3)
  
 
96
  
  
 
150
  
  
 
110
  
  
 
201
  
  
 
557
  

 Purchase obligations (4)
  
 
118
  
  
 
81
  
  
 
33
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
233
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
    1,070
  
  
$
    1,886
  
  
$
    1,398
  
  
$
    4,697
  
  
$
    9,051
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Represents Schwab Bank’s firm commitments to extend credit to banking clients. 
 


(2) 
 Includes estimated future interest payments through 2020 for Senior Notes and through 2017 for Medium-Term Notes and Junior Subordinated Notes. The
Junior Subordinated Notes have a fixed interest rate of 7.50% until 2017 and a floating rate from 2018 to 2067. Based on the current interest rate of 7.50% and no repayments of principal, the estimated future interest payments on the Junior
Subordinated Notes in 2018 to 2067 would be $15 million per year. Amounts exclude maturities under a finance lease obligation and unamortized discounts and premiums.   


(3) 
 Represents minimum rental commitments, net of sublease commitments, and includes facilities under the Company’s past restructuring initiatives and
rental commitments under a finance lease obligation.   


(4) 
 Consists of purchase obligations for services such as advertising and marketing, telecommunications, professional services, and hardware- and
software-related agreements. Includes purchase obligations that can be canceled by the Company without penalty.   
RISK MANAGEMENT   
Overview    The Company’s business activities expose it to a variety of risks, including technology, operations, credit, market, liquidity, legal, and reputational risk. Identification and management of these
risks are essential to the success and financial soundness of the Company.    Senior management takes an active role in the Company’s risk management process and has developed policies and procedures under which specific business and control units are responsible for
identifying, measuring, and controlling various risks. Oversight of risk management has been delegated to the Global Risk Committee, which is comprised of senior managers of major business and control functions. The Global Risk Committee is
responsible for reviewing and monitoring the Company’s risk exposures and leading the continued development of the Company’s risk management policies and practices. 
  Functional risk sub-committees focusing on specific areas of risk report into
the Global Risk Committee. These sub-committees include the:   


 
•
 
 Corporate Asset-Liability Management and Pricing Committee, which focuses on the Company’s liquidity, capital resources, interest rate risk, and
investments;   


 
•
 
 Credit and Market Risk Oversight Committee, which focuses on credit exposures resulting from client borrowing activity (e.g., margin lending activities
and loans to banking clients), investing activities of certain of the Company’s proprietary funds, corporate credit and investment activity, and market risk resulting from the Company taking positions in certain securities to facilitate client
trading activity; 
  - 35 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 


 
•
 
 Information Security and Privacy Steering Committee, which oversees information security and privacy policies, procedures and controls;
  


 
•
 
 Investment Management and ERISA Risk Committee, which oversees activities in which the Company and its principals operate in an investment advisory
capacity or as an ERISA fiduciary;   


 
•
 
 Investment Products Review Board, which provides senior level oversight of investment products and services made available to clients; and
  


 
•
 
 Operational Risk Management Committee, which focuses on risks relating to potential inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, and
from external events and relationships (e.g., vendors and business partners).    The Global Risk Committee reports regularly to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors (Audit Committee), which reviews major risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and control
such exposures.    The Company’s Disclosure Committee is
responsible for monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of the Company’s (a) disclosure controls and procedures and (b) internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal quarter. The Disclosure Committee
reports on this evaluation to the CEO and CFO prior to their certification required by Sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002.   
The Company’s compliance, finance, internal audit, legal, and corporate risk management departments assist management and the various risk committees
in evaluating, testing, and monitoring the Company’s risk management.    Risk is inherent in the Company’s business. Consequently, despite the Company’s efforts to identify areas of risk and implement risk management policies and procedures, there can be no assurance
that the Company will not suffer unexpected losses due to operating or other risks. The following discussion highlights the Company’s policies and procedures for identification, assessment, and management of the principal areas of risk in its
operations.    Technology and Operating Risk 
  Technology and operating risk is the potential for loss due to deficiencies
in control processes or technology systems that constrain the Company’s ability to gather, process, and communicate information and process client transactions efficiently and securely, without interruptions. The Company’s operations are
highly dependent on the integrity of its technology systems and the Company’s success depends, in part, on its ability to make timely enhancements and additions to its technology in anticipation of evolving client needs. To the extent the
Company experiences system interruptions, errors or downtime (which could result from a variety of causes, including changes in client use patterns, technological failure, changes to its systems, linkages with third-party systems, and power
failures), the Company’s business and operations could be significantly negatively impacted. To minimize business interruptions, Schwab has two data centers intended, in part, to further improve the recovery of business processing in the event
of an emergency. The Company is committed to an ongoing process of upgrading, enhancing, and testing its technology systems. This effort is focused on meeting client needs, meeting market and regulatory changes, and deploying standardized technology
platforms.    Technology and operating risk also includes the risk
of human error, employee misconduct, external fraud, computer viruses, distributed denial of service attacks, terrorist attacks, and natural disaster. Employee misconduct could include fraud and misappropriation of client or Company assets, improper
use or disclosure of confidential client or Company information, and unauthorized activities, such as transactions exceeding acceptable risks or authorized limits. External fraud includes misappropriation of client or Company assets by third
parties, including through unauthorized access to Company systems and data and client accounts. The frequency and sophistication of such fraud attempts continue to increase. 
  The Company has specific policies and procedures to identify and manage
operational risk, and uses periodic risk self-assessments and internal audit reviews to evaluate the effectiveness of these internal controls. The Company maintains backup and recovery functions, including facilities for backup and communications,
and conducts periodic testing of disaster recovery plans. The Company also maintains policies and procedures and technology to protect against fraud and unauthorized access to systems and data. 
  - 36 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 
Despite the Company’s risk management efforts, it is not always possible to deter or prevent
technological or operational failure, or fraud or other misconduct, and the precautions taken by the Company may not be effective in all cases. The Company may be subject to litigation, losses, and regulatory actions in such cases, and may be
required to expend significant additional resources to remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures.    The Company also faces technology and operating risk when it employs the services of various external vendors, including domestic and international outsourcing of certain technology, processing,
servicing, and support functions. The Company manages its exposure to external vendor risk through contractual provisions, control standards, and ongoing monitoring of vendor performance. The Company maintains policies and procedures regarding the
standard of care expected with Company data, whether the data is internal company information, employee information, or non-public client information. The Company clearly defines for employees, contractors, and vendors the Company’s expected
standards of care for confidential data. Regular training is provided by the Company in regard to data security.    The Company is actively engaged in the research and development of new technologies, services, and products. The Company endeavors to protect its research and development efforts, and its brands, through
the use of copyrights, patents, trade secrets, and contracts.   
Credit Risk    Credit risk is the potential for loss due to a borrower, counterparty, or issuer failing to perform its contractual obligations. The Company’s direct exposure to credit risk mainly results from
margin lending activities, securities lending activities, mortgage lending activities, its role as a counterparty in financial contracts and investing activities. To manage the risks of such losses, the Company has established policies and
procedures which include: establishing and reviewing credit limits, monitoring of credit limits and quality of counterparties, and adjusting margin requirements for certain securities. Most of the Company’s credit extensions are supported by
collateral arrangements. Collateral arrangements relating to margin loans, securities lending agreements, and resale agreements include provisions that require additional collateral in the event that market fluctuations result in declines in the
value of collateral received.    The Company’s credit risk
exposure related to loans to banking clients is actively managed through individual and portfolio reviews performed by management. Management regularly reviews asset quality including concentrations, delinquencies, nonaccrual loans, charge-offs, and
recoveries. All are factors in the determination of an appropriate allowance for loan losses, which is reviewed quarterly by senior management. The Company’s mortgage loan portfolios primarily include first lien residential real estate mortgage
loans (First Mortgage) of $5.6 billion and HELOCs of $3.5 billion at December 31, 2011.    The Company’s First Mortgage portfolio underwriting requirements are generally consistent with the underwriting requirements in the secondary market for loan portfolios. The Company’s guidelines
include maximum loan-to-value (LTV) ratios, cash out limits, and minimum Fair Issac & Company (FICO) credit scores. The specific guidelines are dependent on the individual characteristics of a loan (for example, whether the property is a
primary or secondary residence, whether the loan is for investment property, whether the loan is for an initial purchase of a home or refinance of an existing home, and whether the loan is conforming or jumbo). These credit underwriting standards
have limited the exposure to the types of loans that experienced high foreclosures and loss rates elsewhere in the industry in recent years. There have been no significant changes to the LTV ratio or FICO credit score guidelines related to the
Company’s First Mortgage or HELOC portfolios during 2011. At December 31, 2011, the weighted-average originated LTV ratios were 60% and 59% for the First Mortgage and HELOC portfolios, respectively. The computation of the origination LTV
ratio for a HELOC includes any first lien mortgage outstanding on the same property at the time of origination. At December 31, 2011, 22% of HELOCs ($755 million of the HELOC portfolio) were in a first lien position. The weighted-average
originated FICO credit scores were 766 and 768 for the First Mortgage and HELOC portfolios, respectively.    The Company does not offer loans that allow for negative amortization and does not originate or purchase subprime loans (generally defined as extensions of credit to borrowers with a FICO credit score of
less than 620 at origination), unless the borrower has compensating credit factors. At December 31, 2011, approximately 1% of both the First Mortgage and HELOC portfolios consisted of loans to borrowers with FICO credit scores of less than 620.

  - 37 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 
The following table presents certain of the Company’s loan quality metrics as a percentage of total
outstanding loans:   












 December 31,
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Loan delinquencies (1)
  
 
0.81
% 
 
 
0.96
% 

 Nonaccrual loans
  
 
0.53
% 
 
 
0.58
% 

 Allowance for loan losses
  
 
0.55
% 
 
 
0.60
% 
  


(1) 
 Loan delinquencies are defined as loans that are 30 days or more past due.    The Company has exposure to credit risk associated with its securities available for sale and securities held to maturity
portfolios, whose fair values totaled $34.0 billion and $15.5 billion at December 31, 2011, respectively. These portfolios include U.S. agency and non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, certificates of deposit, corporate
debt securities, U.S. agency notes, and asset-backed and other securities. U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities do not have explicit credit ratings, however, management considers these to be of the highest credit quality and rating
given the guarantee of principal and interest by the U.S. government-sponsored enterprises. Included in non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities are securities collateralized by loans that are considered to be “Prime” (defined by
the Company as loans to borrowers with a FICO credit score of 620 or higher at origination), and “Alt-A” (defined by the Company as Prime loans with reduced documentation at origination). 
  Residential mortgage-backed securities, particularly Alt-A securities
experienced continued credit deterioration in 2011, including increased payment delinquency rates and losses on foreclosures of underlying mortgages. For a discussion of the impact of current market conditions on residential mortgage-backed
securities, see “Current Market and Regulatory Environment.” At December 31, 2011, non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities consisted of 3%, based on amortized cost, of total residential mortgage-backed securities. These
securities were originated between 2003 and 2007. At December 31, 2011, all of the corporate debt securities and non-mortgage asset-backed securities were rated investment grade (defined as a rating equivalent to a Moody’s rating of
“Baa” or higher, or a Standard & Poor’s rating of “BBB-” or higher).    Schwab performs clearing services for all securities transactions in its client accounts. Schwab has exposure to credit risk due to its obligation to settle transactions with clearing corporations, mutual
funds, and other financial institutions even if Schwab’s client or a counterparty fails to meet its obligations to Schwab.   
The Company sponsors a number of proprietary money market mutual funds and other proprietary funds. Although the Company has no obligation to do so, the
Company may decide for competitive reasons to provide credit, liquidity or other support to its funds in the event of significant declines in valuation of fund holdings or significant redemption activity that exceeds available liquidity. Such
support could cause the Company to take significant charges and could reduce the Company’s liquidity. If the Company chose not to provide credit, liquidity or other support in such a situation, the Company could suffer reputational damage and
its business could be adversely affected.    Concentration Risk
   The Company has exposure to concentration risk when holding
large positions in financial instruments collateralized by assets with similar economic characteristics or in securities of a single issuer or industry.   
The fair value of the Company’s investments in residential mortgage-backed securities totaled $37.0 billion at December 31, 2011. Of these,
$36.1 billion were U.S. agency securities and $907 million were non-agency securities. The U.S. agency securities are included in securities available for sale and securities held to maturity and the non-agency securities are included in
securities available for sale. Included in non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities are securities collateralized by Alt-A loans. At December 31, 2011, the amortized cost and fair value of Alt-A mortgage-backed securities were
$390 million and $279 million, respectively. 
  - 38 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 
The Company’s investments in corporate debt securities and commercial paper totaled
$5.6 billion at December 31, 2011, with the majority issued by institutions in the financial services industry. These securities are included in securities available for sale, securities held to maturity, cash and investments segregated
and on deposit for regulatory purposes, cash and cash equivalents, and other securities owned in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2011, the Company held $867 million of corporate debt securities issued by
financial institutions and guaranteed under the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program.    The Company’s loans to banking clients include $5.6 billion of adjustable rate first lien residential real estate mortgage loans at December 31, 2011. The Company’s adjustable rate
mortgages have initial fixed interest rates for three to ten years and interest rates that adjust annually thereafter. Approximately 60% of these mortgages consisted of loans with interest-only payment terms. The interest rates on approximately 65%
of these interest-only loans are not scheduled to reset for three or more years. The Company’s mortgage loans do not include interest terms described as temporary introductory rates below current market rates. At December 31, 2011, 44% of
the residential real estate mortgages and 50% of the HELOC balances were secured by properties which are located in California.   
The Company also has exposure to concentration risk from its margin and securities lending activities collateralized by securities of a single issuer or
industry.    The Company has indirect exposure to U.S. Government
and agency securities held as collateral to secure its resale agreements. The Company’s primary credit exposure on these resale transactions is with its counterparty. The Company would have exposure to the U.S. Government and agency securities
only in the event of the counterparty’s default on the resale agreements. The fair value of U.S. Government and agency securities held as collateral for resale agreements totaled $18.3 billion at December 31, 2011. 
  European Holdings 
  The Company has exposure to non-sovereign financial institutions in Europe.
The following table shows the amortized cost and fair values of cash equivalents, cash segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes, securities available for sale, and securities held to maturity by each country in Europe in which the issuer or
counterparty is domiciled. The Company has no direct exposure to sovereign governments in Europe. The Company does not have unfunded commitments to counterparties in Europe, nor does it have exposure as a result of credit default protection
purchased or sold separately as of December 31, 2011.    The
determination of the domicile of exposure varies by the type of investment. For time deposits and certificates of deposit, the exposure is grouped in the country in which the financial institution is chartered under the regulatory framework of the
European country. For asset-backed commercial paper, the exposure is grouped by the country of the sponsoring bank that provides the credit and liquidity support for such instruments. For corporate debt securities, the exposure is grouped by the
country in which the issuer is domiciled. In situations in which the Company invests in a corporate debt security of a U.S. subsidiary of a European parent company, such holdings will be attributable to the European country only if significant
reliance is placed on the European parent company for credit support underlying the security. For substantially all of the holdings listed below, the issuers or counterparties were financial institutions. All of the Company’s resale agreements,
which are included in investments segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes, are collateralized by U.S. government securities. Additionally, the Company’s securities lending activities are collateralized by cash. Therefore, the
Company’s resale agreements and securities lending activities are not included in the table below even if the counterparty is a European institution. 
  - 39 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 




































 
  
Fair Value as of December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Denmark
 
  
France
 
  
Germany
 
  
Netherlands
 
  
Sweden
 
  
Switzerland
 
  
UnitedKingdom
 
  
Total
 

 Cash equivalents:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Time deposits
  
$
—
  
  
$
850
  
  
$
389
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
200
  
  
$
1,439
  

 Commercial paper
  
 
—
  
  
 
350
  
  
 
20
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
200
  
  
 
570
  











 Cash segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Trust deposits
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
400
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
400
  











 Securities available for sale:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Certificates of deposit
  
 
—
  
  
 
300
  
  
 
150
  
  
 
300
  
  
 
499
  
  
 
550
  
  
 
700
  
  
 
2,499
  

 Corporate debt securities
  
 
214
  
  
 
74
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
187
  
  
 
97
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
550
  
  
 
1,122
  











 Securities held to maturity:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Corporate debt securities
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
117
  
  
 
100
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
217
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total fair value
  
$
214
  
  
$
1,574
  
  
$
959
  
  
$
487
  
  
$
713
  
  
$
650
  
  
$
1,650
  
  
$
6,247
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total amortized cost
  
$
212
  
  
$
1,575
  
  
$
959
  
  
$
492
  
  
$
716
  
  
$
650
  
  
$
1,650
  
  
$
6,254
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 











 Maturities:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Overnight
  
$
—
  
  
$
1,200
  
  
$
789
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
200
  
  
$
2,189
  

 1 day – < 6 months
  
 
—
  
  
 
174
  
  
 
20
  
  
 
200
  
  
 
200
  
  
 
150
  
  
 
700
  
  
 
1,444
  

 6 months – < 1 year
  
 
—
  
  
 
100
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
117
  
  
 
274
  
  
 
650
  
  
 
1,141
  

 1 year – 2 years
  
 
214
  
  
 
100
  
  
 
150
  
  
 
187
  
  
 
299
  
  
 
126
  
  
 
100
  
  
 
1,176
  

 > 2 years
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
100
  
  
 
97
  
  
 
100
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
297
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total fair value
  
$
214
  
  
$
1,574
  
  
$
959
  
  
$
487
  
  
$
713
  
  
$
650
  
  
$
1,650
  
  
$
6,247
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   In addition to the direct holdings of
European companies listed above, the Company also has indirect exposure to Europe through its investments in Schwab sponsored money market funds (collectively, the Funds) resulting from clearing activities. At December 31, 2011, the Company had
$332 million in investments in these Funds. Certain of the Funds’ positions include certificates of deposits, time deposits, commercial paper and corporate debt securities issued by counterparties in Europe. 
  Management mitigates exposure to European holdings by employing a separate
team of credit analysts that evaluate each issuer, counterparty, and country. Management monitors its exposure to European issuers by 1) performing risk assessments of the foreign countries, which include evaluating the size of the country and
economy, currency trends, political landscape and the countries’ regulatory environment and developments, 2) performing ad hoc stress tests that evaluate the impact of sovereign governments’ debt write-downs on the issuers and
counterparties to our investments, 3) reviewing publicly available stress tests that are published by various regulators in the European market, 4) establishing credit and maturity limits by issuer, and 5) monitoring aggregate exposures by country.
   Market Risk 
  Market risk is the potential for changes in revenue or the value of
financial instruments held by the Company as a result of fluctuations in interest rates, equity prices or market conditions. For discussion of the Company’s market risk, see “Item 7A – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
Market Risk.”    Fiduciary Risk 
  Fiduciary risk is the potential for financial or reputational loss through
breach of fiduciary duties to a client. Fiduciary activities include, but are not limited to, individual and institutional trust, investment management, custody, and cash and securities processing. The Company attempts to manage this risk by
establishing procedures to ensure that obligations to clients are discharged faithfully and in compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Business units have the 
  - 40 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 

primary responsibility for adherence to the procedures applicable to their business. Guidance and control are provided through the creation, approval, and ongoing review of applicable policies by
business units and various risk committees.    Legal and
Regulatory Risk    The Company faces significant legal and
compliance risk in its business, and the volume of litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial services firms and the amount of damages claimed have been increasing. Among other things, these risks relate to the suitability of client
investments, conflicts of interest, disclosure obligations and performance expectations for Company products and services, supervision of employees, and the adequacy of the Company’s controls. Claims against the Company may increase due to a
variety of factors, such as if clients suffer losses during a period of deteriorating equity market conditions, as the Company increases the level of advice it provides to clients, and as the Company enhances the services it provides to IAs. In
addition, the Company and its affiliates are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and foreign regulatory authorities, and SROs, and such regulation is becoming increasingly extensive and complex. 
  The Company attempts to manage legal and compliance risk through policies and
procedures reasonably designed to avoid litigation claims and prevent or detect violations of applicable legal and regulatory requirements. These procedures address issues such as business conduct and ethics, sales and trading practices, marketing
and communications, extension of credit, client funds and securities, books and records, anti-money laundering, client privacy, employment policies, and contracts management. Despite the Company’s efforts to maintain an effective compliance
program and internal controls, legal breaches and rule violations could result in reputational harm, significant losses and disciplinary sanctions, including limitations on the Company’s business activities. 
  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
   The Company uses fair value measurements to record
certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value, and to determine fair value disclosures. Assets are measured at fair value using quoted prices or market-based information and accordingly are classified as Level 1 or Level 2 measurements in
accordance with the fair value hierarchy described in fair value measurement accounting guidance. Liabilities recorded at fair value were not material at December 31, 2011 or 2010. See “Item 8 – Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – 17. Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities” for more information on the Company’s assets and liabilities recorded at fair value. 
  When available, the Company uses quoted prices in active markets to measure
the fair value of assets and liabilities. When quoted prices do not exist, the Company uses prices obtained from independent third-party pricing services to measure the fair value of investment assets. The Company validates prices received from the
pricing services using various methods, including comparison to prices received from additional pricing services, comparison to quoted market prices, where available, comparison to internal valuation models, and review of other relevant market data.
The Company does not adjust the prices received from independent third-party pricing services unless such prices are inconsistent with the definition of fair value and result in a material difference in the recorded amounts. At December 31,
2011 and 2010, the Company did not adjust prices received from independent third-party pricing services.    CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    The consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. While the majority of the Company’s revenues, expenses,
assets and liabilities are not based on estimates, there are certain accounting principles that require management to make estimates regarding matters that are uncertain and susceptible to change where such change may result in a material adverse
impact on the Company’s financial position and reported financial results. These critical accounting estimates are described below. Management regularly reviews the estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the Company’s
financial statements for reasonableness and adequacy. 
  - 41 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 
Other-than-Temporary Impairment of Securities Available for Sale and Securities Held to Maturity:
Management evaluates whether securities available for sale and securities held to maturity are other-than-temporarily impaired (OTTI) on a quarterly basis. Debt securities with unrealized losses are considered OTTI if the Company intends to sell the
security or if it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell such security prior to any anticipated recovery. If management determines that a security is OTTI under these circumstances, the impairment recognized in earnings is
measured as the entire difference between the amortized cost and the then-current fair value.    A security is also OTTI if management does not expect to recover the amortized cost of the security. In this circumstance, management utilizes cash flow models to estimate the expected future cash flow
from the securities and to estimate the credit loss. The impairment recognized in earnings is measured by the difference between the present value of expected cash flows and the amortized cost of the security. Expected cash flows are discounted
using the security’s effective interest rate.    The evaluation
of whether the Company expects to recover the amortized cost of a security is inherently judgmental. The evaluation includes the assessment of several bond performance indicators including: the portion of the underlying loans that are delinquent (30
days, 60 days, 90+ days), in bankruptcy, in foreclosure or converted to real estate owned; the actual amount of loss incurred on the underlying loans in which the property has been foreclosed and sold; the amount of credit support provided by the
structure of the security available to absorb credit losses on the underlying loans; the current price and magnitude of the unrealized loss; and whether the Company has received all scheduled principal and interest payments. Management uses cash
flow models to further assess the likelihood of other-than-temporary impairment for the Company’s non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities. To develop the cash flow models, the Company uses forecasted loss severity, prepayment speeds
(i.e. the rate at which the principal on underlying loans are paid down), and default rates over the securities’ expected remaining maturities.   
Valuation of Goodwill: The Company tests goodwill for impairment at least annually, or whenever indications of impairment exist. An impairment
exists when the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, resulting in an impairment charge for this excess.   
The Company has elected April 1st as its annual goodwill impairment testing date. In testing for a potential impairment of goodwill on April 1,
2011, management estimated the fair value of each of the Company’s reporting units (generally defined as the Company’s businesses for which financial information is available and reviewed regularly by management) and compared this value to
the carrying value of the reporting unit. The estimated fair value of each reporting unit substantially exceeded its carrying value, and therefore management concluded that no amount of goodwill was impaired. The estimated fair value of the
reporting units was established using a discounted cash flow model that includes significant assumptions about the future operating results and cash flows of each reporting unit. Adverse changes in the Company’s planned business operations such
as unanticipated competition, a loss of key personnel, the sale of a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit, or other unforeseen developments could result in an impairment of the Company’s recorded goodwill. 
  Allowance for Loan Losses: The adequacy of the allowance is reviewed
quarterly by management, taking into consideration current economic conditions, the existing loan portfolio composition, past loss experience, and risks inherent in the portfolio. 
  The process to establish an allowance for loan losses utilizes loan-level
statistical models that estimate prepayments, defaults, and probable losses for the loan segments based on predicted behavior of individual loans within the segments. The methodology considers the effects of borrower behavior and a variety of
factors including, but not limited to, interest rates, housing price movements as measured by a housing price index, economic conditions, estimated defaults and foreclosures measured by historical and expected delinquencies, changes in prepayment
speeds, loan-to-value ratios, past loss experience, estimates of future loss severities, borrower credit risk measured by FICO scores, and the adequacy of collateral. The methodology also evaluates concentrations in the loan segments including loan
products, year of origination, geographical distribution of collateral, and the portion of borrowers who have other client relationships with the Company.   
The more significant variables considered include a measure of delinquency roll rates, loss severity, housing prices, and interest rates. Delinquency roll
rates (i.e., the rates at which loans transition through delinquency stages and ultimately result 
  - 42 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 

in a loss) are estimated from the Company’s historical loss experience adjusted for current trends and market information. Loss severity estimates are based on the Company’s historical
loss experience and market trends. Housing price trends are derived from historical home price indices and econometric forecasts of future home values. Factors affecting the home price index include: housing inventory, unemployment, interest rates,
and inflation expectations. Interest rate projections are based on the current term structure of interest rates and historical volatilities to project various possible future interest rate paths. This quarterly analysis results in a loss factor that
is applied to the outstanding balances to determine the allowance for loan loss for each loan segment.    Legal Reserve: Reserves for legal and regulatory claims and proceedings reflect an estimate of probable losses for each matter, after considering, among other factors, the progress of the case,
prior experience and the experience of others in similar cases, available defenses, insurance coverage and indemnification, and the opinions and views of legal counsel. In many cases, including most class action lawsuits, it is not possible to
determine whether a loss will be incurred, or to estimate the range of that loss, until the matter is close to resolution, in which case no accrual is made until that time. Reserves are adjusted as more information becomes available or when an event
occurs requiring a change. Significant judgment is required in making these estimates, and the actual cost of resolving a matter may ultimately differ materially from the amount reserved.    The Company’s management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit
Committee. Additionally, management has reviewed with the Audit Committee the Company’s significant estimates discussed in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
  FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
   In addition to historical information, this Annual
Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are identified by words
such as “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “will,” “may,” “estimate,” “appear,” “aim,” “target,” “could,” and
other similar expressions. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements.    These forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s beliefs, objectives, and expectations as of the date hereof,
are necessarily estimates based on the best judgment of the Company’s senior management. These statements relate to, among other things:   


 
•
 
 the Company’s ability to pursue its business strategy (see “Part I – Item 1. – Business – Business Strategy and
Competitive Environment”);   


 
•
 
 the impact of legal proceedings and regulatory matters (see “Part I – Item 3. – Legal Proceedings” and “Item 8 –
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements –15. Commitments and Contingencies – Legal Contingencies”);   


 
•
 
 the impact of current market conditions on the Company’s results of operations (see “Current Market and Regulatory Environment” and
“Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – 6. Securities Available for Sale and Securities Held to Maturity”); 
 


 
•
 
 sources of liquidity, capital, and level of dividends (see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Contractual Obligations”);
  


 
•
 
 target capital ratios (see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements – 24. Regulatory Requirements”);   


 
•
 
 capital expenditures (see “Liquidity and Capital Resources – Capital Resources”); 
 


 
•
 
 the impact of changes in management’s estimates on the Company’s results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Estimates”);
  


 
•
 
 the impact of changes in the likelihood of indemnification and guarantee payment obligations on the Company’s results of operations (see
“Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – 15. Commitments and Contingencies”); and 
  - 43 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) 
 


 
•
 
 the impact on the Company’s results of operations of recording stock option expense (see “Item 8 – Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – 20. Employee Incentive, Deferred Compensation, and Retirement Plans”). 
  Achievement of the expressed beliefs, objectives and expectations described
in these statements is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expressed beliefs, objectives, and expectations. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or, in the case of documents incorporated by reference, as of the date of those documents.    Important factors that may cause actual results to differ include, but are not limited to:
  


 
•
 
 changes in general economic and financial market conditions; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in revenues and profit margin due to changes in interest rates;   


 
•
 
 adverse developments in litigation or regulatory matters; 
 


 
•
 
 the extent of any charges associated with litigation and regulatory matters; 
 


 
•
 
 amounts recovered on insurance policies;   


 
•
 
 the Company’s ability to attract and retain clients and grow client assets and relationships; 
 


 
•
 
 the Company’s ability to develop and launch new products, services and capabilities in a timely and successful manner;
  


 
•
 
 fluctuations in client asset values due to changes in equity valuations;   


 
•
 
 the performance or valuation of securities available for sale and securities held to maturity; 
 


 
•
 
 trading activity;   


 
•
 
 the level of interest rates, including yields available on money market mutual fund eligible instruments; 
 


 
•
 
 the adverse impact of financial reform legislation and related regulations;   


 
•
 
 the amount of loans to the Company’s brokerage and banking clients;   


 
•
 
 the level of the Company’s stock repurchase activity; 
 


 
•
 
 the level of brokerage client cash balances and deposits from banking clients; 
 


 
•
 
 the availability and terms of external financing; 
 


 
•
 
 capital needs;   


 
•
 
 optionsXpress integration costs and operating expenses; 
 


 
•
 
 level of expenses;   


 
•
 
 the timing and impact of changes in the Company’s level of investments in software, equipment, and leasehold improvements; and
  


 
•
 
 potential breaches of contractual terms for which the Company has indemnification and guarantee obligations. 
  Certain of these factors, as well as general risk factors affecting the
Company, are discussed in greater detail in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Item 1A – Risk Factors.” 
  - 44 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 


Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
  Market risk is the potential for changes in revenue or the value of
financial instruments held by the Company as a result of fluctuations in interest rates, equity prices or market conditions.   
For the Company’s market risk related to interest rates, a sensitivity analysis, referred to as a net interest revenue simulation model, is shown
below. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily from changes in market interest rates on its interest-earning assets relative to changes in the costs of its funding sources that finance these assets. 
  Net interest revenue is affected by various factors, such as the distribution
and composition of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, the spread between yields earned on interest-earning assets and rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities, which may re-price at different times or by different amounts,
and the spread between short and long-term interest rates. Interest-earning assets include residential real estate loans and mortgage-backed securities. These assets are sensitive to changes in interest rates and to changes to prepayment levels,
which tend to increase in a declining rate environment.    To
mitigate the risk of loss, the Company has established policies and procedures which include setting guidelines on the amount of net interest revenue at risk, and monitoring the net interest margin and average maturity of its interest-earning assets
and funding sources. To remain within these guidelines, the Company manages the maturity, repricing, and cash flow characteristics of the investment portfolios. Because the Company establishes the rates paid on certain brokerage client cash balances
and deposits from banking clients, the rates charged on margin loans, and controls the composition of its investment securities, it has some ability to manage its net interest spread, depending on competitive factors and market conditions.
   The Company is also subject to market risk as a result of
fluctuations in equity prices. The Company’s direct holdings of equity securities and its associated exposure to equity prices are not material. The Company is indirectly exposed to equity market fluctuations in connection with securities
collateralizing margin loans to brokerage customers, and customer securities loaned out as part of the Company’s securities lending activities. Equity market valuations may also affect the level of brokerage client trading activity, margin
borrowing, and overall client engagement with the Company. Additionally, the Company earns mutual fund service fees and asset management fees based upon daily balances of certain client assets. Fluctuations in these client asset balances caused by
changes in equity valuations directly impact the amount of fee revenue earned by the Company.    Financial instruments held by the Company are also subject to liquidity risk – that is, the risk that valuations will be negatively affected by changes in demand and the underlying market for a
financial instrument. Recent conditions in the credit markets have significantly reduced market liquidity in a wide range of financial instruments, including the types of instruments held by the Company, and fair value can differ significantly from
the value implied by the credit quality and actual performance of the instrument’s underlying cash flows.    Financial instruments held by the Company are also subject to valuation risk as a result of changes in valuations of the underlying collateral, such as housing prices in the case of residential real
estate loans and mortgage-backed securities.    For discussion of
the impact of current market conditions on asset management and administration fees, net interest revenue, and securities available for sale, see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations – Current Market and Regulatory Environment”.   
The Company’s market risk related to financial instruments held for trading and forward sale and interest rate lock commitments related to its loans
held for sale portfolio is not material.    Net Interest Revenue
Simulation    The Company uses net interest revenue simulation
modeling techniques to evaluate and manage the effect of changing interest rates. The simulation model (the model) includes all interest-sensitive assets and liabilities. Key variables in the model include the repricing of financial instruments,
prepayment, reinvestment, and product pricing assumptions. The Company uses constant balances and market rates in the model assumptions in order to minimize the number of variables and to better isolate risks. The simulations involve assumptions
that are inherently uncertain and, as a result, cannot precisely estimate net interest 
  - 45 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 

revenue or predict the impact of changes in interest rates on net interest revenue. Actual results may differ from simulated results due to balance growth or decline and the timing, magnitude,
and frequency of interest rate changes, as well as changes in market conditions and management strategies, including changes in asset and liability mix.   
As represented by the simulations presented below, the Company’s investment strategy is structured to produce an increase in net interest revenue
when interest rates rise and, conversely, a decrease in net interest revenue when interest rates fall (i.e., interest-earning assets generally reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities). 
  The simulations in the following table assume that the asset and liability
structure of the consolidated balance sheet would not be changed as a result of the simulated changes in interest rates. As the Company actively manages its consolidated balance sheet and interest rate exposure, in all likelihood the Company would
take steps to manage any additional interest rate exposure that could result from changes in the interest rate environment. The following table shows the results of a gradual 100 basis point increase or decrease in market interest rates
relative to the Company’s current market rates forecast on simulated net interest revenue over the next 12 months beginning December 31, 2011 and 2010.   












 December 31,
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Increase of 100 basis points
  
 
19.1
% 
 
 
13.5
% 

 Decrease of 100 basis points
  
 
(8.1
%) 
 
 
(4.8
%) 
   The sensitivities shown in the simulation
reflect the fact that short-term interest rates in 2011 remained at historically low levels, including the federal funds target rate, which was unchanged at a range of zero to 0.25%. The current low interest rate environment limits the extent to
which the Company can reduce interest expense paid on funding sources in a declining interest rate scenario. A decline in interest rates could therefore negatively impact the yield on the Company’s investment portfolio to a greater degree than
any offsetting reduction in interest expense, further compressing net interest margin. Any increases in short-term interest rates result in a greater impact as yields on interest-earning assets are expected to rise faster than the cost of funding
sources. 
  - 46 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 


Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
TABLE OF CONTENTS   












Consolidated Statements of Income
  
 
48
  

 Consolidated Balance Sheets
  
 
49
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
  
 
50
  

 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity
  
 
51
  

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
52
  


 
 Note 1.
  
Introduction and Basis of Presentation
  
 
52
  


 
 Note 2.
  
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
  
 
52
  


 
 Note 3.
  
Business Acquisitions
  
 
56
  


 
 Note 4.
  
Receivables from Brokerage Clients
  
 
58
  


 
 Note 5.
  
Other Securities Owned
  
 
59
  


 
 Note 6.
  
Securities Available for Sale and Securities Held to Maturity
  
 
59
  


 
 Note 7.
  
Loans to Banking Clients and Related Allowance for Loan Losses
  
 
63
  


 
 Note 8.
  
Equipment, Office Facilities, and Property
  
 
66
  


 
 Note 9.
  
Intangible Assets and Goodwill
  
 
67
  


 
 Note 10.
  
Other Assets
  
 
67
  


 
 Note 11.
  
Deposits from Banking Clients
  
 
68
  


 
 Note 12.
  
Payables to Brokers, Dealers, and Clearing Organizations
  
 
68
  


 
 Note 13.
  
Payables to Brokerage Clients
  
 
68
  


 
 Note 14.
  
Borrowings
  
 
68
  


 
 Note 15.
  
Commitments and Contingencies
  
 
70
  


 
 Note 16.
  
Financial Instruments Subject to Off-Balance Sheet Risk, Credit Risk, or Market Risk
  
 
72
  


 
 Note 17.
  
Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities
  
 
75
  


 
 Note 18.
  
Equity Offering
  
 
78
  


 
 Note 19.
  
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
  
 
79
  


 
 Note 20.
  
Employee Incentive, Deferred Compensation, and Retirement Plans
  
 
80
  


 
 Note 21.
  
Money Market Mutual Fund Charges
  
 
82
  


 
 Note 22.
  
Taxes on Income
  
 
82
  


 
 Note 23.
  
Earnings Per Share
  
 
84
  


 
 Note 24.
  
Regulatory Requirements
  
 
84
  


 
 Note 25.
  
Segment Information
  
 
86
  


 
 Note 26.
  
Subsequent Event
  
 
87
  


 
 Note 27.
  
The Charles Schwab Corporation – Parent Company Only Financial Statements
  
 
88
  


 
 Note 28.
  
Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)
  
 
90
  

 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
91
  

 Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
  
 
92
  
  
  - 47 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 
Consolidated Statements of Income 
  (In Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)
  
















 Year Ended December 31,
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net Revenues
  



 



 




 Asset management and administration fees
  
$
    1,928
  
 
$
    1,822
  
 
$
    1,875
  






 Interest revenue
  
 
1,900
  
 
 
1,723
  
 
 
1,428
  

 Interest expense
  
 
(175
) 
 
 
(199
) 
 
 
(183
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net interest revenue
  
 
1,725
  
 
 
1,524
  
 
 
1,245
  






 Trading revenue
  
 
927
  
 
 
830
  
 
 
996
  

 Other
  
 
160
  
 
 
135
  
 
 
175
  

 Provision for loan losses
  
 
(18
) 
 
 
(27
) 
 
 
(38
) 

 Net impairment losses on securities (1) 
  
 
(31
) 
 
 
(36
) 
 
 
(60
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net revenues
  
 
4,691
  
 
 
4,248
  
 
 
4,193
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Expenses Excluding Interest
  



 



 




 Compensation and benefits
  
 
1,732
  
 
 
1,573
  
 
 
1,544
  

 Professional services
  
 
387
  
 
 
341
  
 
 
275
  

 Occupancy and equipment
  
 
301
  
 
 
272
  
 
 
318
  

 Advertising and market development
  
 
228
  
 
 
196
  
 
 
191
  

 Communications
  
 
220
  
 
 
207
  
 
 
206
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
155
  
 
 
146
  
 
 
159
  

 Class action litigation and regulatory reserve
  
 
7
  
 
 
320
  
 
 
—
  

 Money market mutual fund charges
  
 
—
  
 
 
132
  
 
 
—
  

 Other
  
 
269
  
 
 
282
  
 
 
224
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expenses excluding interest
  
 
3,299
  
 
 
3,469
  
 
 
2,917
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before taxes on income
  
 
1,392
  
 
 
779
  
 
 
1,276
  

 Taxes on income
  
 
(528
) 
 
 
(325
) 
 
 
(489
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Income
  
$
864
  
 
$
454
  
 
$
787
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Weighted-Average Common Shares Outstanding — Diluted
  
 
1,229
  
 
 
1,194
  
 
 
1,160
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Earnings Per Share — Basic
  
$
.70
  
 
$
.38
  
 
$
.68
  

 Earnings Per Share — Diluted
  
$
.70
  
 
$
.38
  
 
$
.68
  
   
 


(1) 
 Net impairment losses on securities include total other-than-temporary impairment losses of $18 million, $41 million, and $278 million, net of $(13)
million, $5 million, and $218 million recognized in other comprehensive income in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.   
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  - 48 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets 
  (In Millions, Except Share and Per Share Amounts)
  












 December 31,
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Assets
  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
8,679
  
 
$
4,931
  

 Cash and investments segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes (including resale agreements of $17,899 and $12,697 at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively)
  
 
26,034
  
 
 
22,749
  

 Receivables from brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations
  
 
230
  
 
 
415
  

 Receivables from brokerage clients — net
  
 
11,072
  
 
 
11,235
  

 Other securities owned — at fair value
  
 
593
  
 
 
337
  

 Securities available for sale
  
 
33,965
  
 
 
23,993
  

 Securities held to maturity (fair value — $15,539 and $17,848 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively)
  
 
15,108
  
 
 
17,762
  

 Loans to banking clients — net
  
 
9,812
  
 
 
8,725
  

 Loans held for sale
  
 
70
  
 
 
185
  

 Equipment, office facilities, and property — net
  
 
685
  
 
 
624
  

 Goodwill
  
 
1,161
  
 
 
631
  

 Intangible assets — net
  
 
326
  
 
 
54
  

 Other assets
  
 
818
  
 
 
927
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
    108,553
  
 
$
    92,568
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity
  



 




 Deposits from banking clients
  
$
60,854
  
 
$
50,590
  

 Payables to brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations
  
 
1,098
  
 
 
1,389
  

 Payables to brokerage clients
  
 
35,489
  
 
 
30,861
  

 Accrued expenses and other liabilities
  
 
1,397
  
 
 
1,496
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
2,001
  
 
 
2,006
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
100,839
  
 
 
86,342
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Stockholders’ equity:
  



 




 Preferred stock — 9,940,000 shares authorized; $.01 par value per share; none issued
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Common stock — 3 billion shares authorized; $.01 par value per share; 1,487,543,446 shares and 1,428,604,522 shares issued
at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively
  
 
15
  
 
 
14
  

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
3,826
  
 
 
3,034
  

 Retained earnings
  
 
7,978
  
 
 
7,409
  

 Treasury stock, at cost — 216,378,623 shares and 226,222,313 shares at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively
  
 
(4,113
) 
 
 
(4,247
) 

 Accumulated other comprehensive income
  
 
8
  
 
 
16
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total stockholders’ equity
  
 
7,714
  
 
 
6,226
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity
  
$
108,553
  
 
$
92,568
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

  - 49 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
  (In Millions) 
 
















 Year Ended December 31,
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Cash Flows from Operating Activities
  



 



 




 Net income
  
$
864
  
 
$
454
  
 
$
787
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by (used for) operating activities:
  



 



 




 Provision for loan losses
  
 
18
  
 
 
27
  
 
 
38
  

 Net impairment losses on securities
  
 
31
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
60
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
99
  
 
 
87
  
 
 
75
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
155
  
 
 
146
  
 
 
159
  

 Provision (benefit) for deferred income taxes
  
 
52
  
 
 
(51
) 
 
 
16
  

 Premium (discount) amortization, net, on securities available for sale and securities held to maturity
  
 
136
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
(18
) 

 Other
  
 
9
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(32
) 

 Originations of loans held for sale
  
 
(1,574
) 
 
 
(2,015
) 
 
 
(2,746
) 

 Proceeds from sales of loans held for sale
  
 
1,703
  
 
 
1,943
  
 
 
2,695
  

 Net change in:
  



 



 




 Cash and investments segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes
  
 
(2,211
) 
 
 
(4,376
) 
 
 
(3,688
) 

 Receivables from brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations
  
 
220
  
 
 
148
  
 
 
202
  

 Receivables from brokerage clients
  
 
341
  
 
 
(2,612
) 
 
 
(1,503
) 

 Other securities owned
  
 
(231
) 
 
 
581
  
 
 
(290
) 

 Other assets
  
 
(15
) 
 
 
133
  
 
 
(253
) 

 Payables to brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations
  
 
(357
) 
 
 
283
  
 
 
56
  

 Payables to brokerage clients
  
 
3,407
  
 
 
4,886
  
 
 
5,990
  

 Accrued expenses and other liabilities
  
 
(183
) 
 
 
289
  
 
 
(111
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities
  
 
2,464
  
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
1,437
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash Flows from Investing Activities
  



 



 




 Purchases of securities available for sale
  
 
(18,434
) 
 
 
(15,697
) 
 
 
(14,342
) 

 Proceeds from sales of securities available for sale
  
 
500
  
 
 
871
  
 
 
107
  

 Principal payments on securities available for sale
  
 
7,978
  
 
 
13,261
  
 
 
7,063
  

 Purchases of securities held to maturity
  
 
(2,253
) 
 
 
(14,906
) 
 
 
(5,470
) 

 Principal payments on securities held to maturity
  
 
4,786
  
 
 
2,672
  
 
 
139
  

 Net increase in loans to banking clients
  
 
(1,125
) 
 
 
(1,443
) 
 
 
(1,411
) 

 Purchase of equipment, office facilities, and property
  
 
(180
) 
 
 
(129
) 
 
 
(140
) 

 Cash acquired in business acquisition, net of cash paid
  
 
54
  
 
 
(44
) 
 
 
—
  

 Other investing activities
  
 
7
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
(3
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used for investing activities
  
 
(8,667
) 
 
 
(15,410
) 
 
 
(14,057
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash Flows from Financing Activities
  



 



 




 Net change in deposits from banking clients
  
 
10,264
  
 
 
11,328
  
 
 
14,979
  

 Issuance of long-term debt
  
 
—
  
 
 
701
  
 
 
747
  

 Repayment of long-term debt
  
 
(116
) 
 
 
(205
) 
 
 
(80
) 

 Net proceeds from common stock offering
  
 
—
  
 
 
543
  
 
 
—
  

 Dividends paid
  
 
(295
) 
 
 
(288
) 
 
 
(279
) 

 Proceeds from stock options exercised and other
  
 
96
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
53
  

 Other financing activities
  
 
2
  
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
(1
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by financing activities
  
 
9,951
  
 
 
12,109
  
 
 
15,419
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents
  
 
3,748
  
 
 
(3,310
) 
 
 
2,799
  

 Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Year
  
 
4,931
  
 
 
8,241
  
 
 
5,442
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year
  
$
8,679
  
 
$
4,931
  
 
$
8,241
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Supplemental Cash Flow Information
  



 



 




 Cash paid during the year for:
  



 



 




 Interest
  
$
168
  
 
$
178
  
 
$
173
  

 Income taxes
  
$
517
  
 
$
327
  
 
$
446
  

 Non-cash investing activities:
  



 



 




 Common stock issued and equity awards assumed for business acquisitions (See note “3 - Business
Acquisitions”)
  
$
714
  
 
$
106
  
 
$
—
  

 Securities purchased during the year but settled after year end
  
$
58
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
1,267
  

 Non-cash financing activity:
  



 



 




 Transfer of trust related balances to deposits from banking clients
  
$
—
  
 
$
442
  
 
$
—
  

  See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

  - 50 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity 
  (In Millions) 
 
































 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accumulated
 
 
 
 

  
Common Stock
 
  
 Additional Paid-In
 
 
Retained
 
 
Treasury Stock,
 
 
 Other Comprehensive Income
 
 
 
 

  
Shares
 
  
Amount
 
  
Capital
 
 
Earnings
 
 
at cost
 
 
(Loss)
 
 
Total
 

 Balance at December 31, 2008
  
 
1,392
  
  
$
    14
  
  
$
    2,214
  
 
$
    6,735
  
 
$
    (4,349
) 
 
$
(553
) 
 
$
    4,061
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income:
  



  



  



 



 



 



 




 Net income
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
787
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
787
  

 Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
  



  



  



 



 



 



 




 Net unrealized gain on securities available for sale
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
362
  
 
 
362
  


  



  



  



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive income
  



  



  



 



 



 



 
 
1,149
  

 Dividends declared on common stock
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
(279
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(279
) 

 Stock option exercises and other
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
52
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
52
  

 Stock-based compensation and related tax effects
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
80
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
80
  

 Other
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
4
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
10
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
 
1,392
  
  
 
14
  
  
 
2,298
  
 
 
7,243
  
 
 
(4,291
) 
 
 
(191
) 
 
 
5,073
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income:
  



  



  



 



 



 



 




 Net income
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
454
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
454
  

 Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
  



  



  



 



 



 



 




 Net unrealized gain on securities available for sale
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
208
  
 
 
208
  

 Net unrealized loss on cash flow hedging instruments
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
(1
) 


  



  



  



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive income
  



  



  



 



 



 



 
 
661
  

 Issuance of common stock
  
 
30
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
543
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
543
  

 Issuance of common stock for business acquisition
  
 
7
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
106
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
106
  

 Dividends declared on common stock
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
(288
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(288
) 

 Stock option exercises and other
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
(4
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
39
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
35
  

 Stock-based compensation and related tax effects
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
87
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
87
  

 Other
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
4
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
9
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
1,429
  
  
 
14
  
  
 
3,034
  
 
 
7,409
  
 
 
(4,247
) 
 
 
16
  
 
 
6,226
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income:
  



  



  



 



 



 



 




 Net income
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
864
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
864
  

 Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
  



  



  



 



 



 



 




 Net unrealized loss on securities available for sale
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
(7
) 

 Foreign currency translation adjustment
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
(1
) 


  



  



  



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive income
  



  



  



 



 



 



 
 
856
  

 Issuance of common stock for business acquisition
  
 
59
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
713
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
714
  

 Dividends declared on common stock
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
(295
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(295
) 

 Stock option exercises and other
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
(24
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
122
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
98
  

 Stock-based compensation and related tax effects
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
99
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
99
  

 Other
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
4
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
16
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
 
1,488
  
  
$
15
  
  
$
3,826
  
 
$
7,978
  
 
$
(4,113
) 
 
$
8
  
 
$
7,714
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

  - 51 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted) 
 
1.     Introduction and Basis of Presentation 
  The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC)
is a savings and loan holding company engaged, through its subsidiaries, in securities brokerage, banking, and related financial services. Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (Schwab) is a securities broker-dealer with over 300 domestic branch
offices in 45 states, as well as a branch in each of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and London, U.K. In addition, Schwab serves clients in Hong Kong through one of CSC’s subsidiaries. Other subsidiaries include Charles Schwab Bank (Schwab
Bank), a federal savings bank, and Charles Schwab Investment Management, Inc. (CSIM), the investment advisor for Schwab’s proprietary mutual funds, which are referred to as the Schwab Funds®, and for Schwab’s exchange-traded funds, which are referred to as the Schwab ETFsTM.   
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include CSC and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company). Intercompany
balances and transactions have been eliminated. These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which require management to make certain estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts in the accompanying financial statements. Certain estimates relate to other-than-temporary impairment of securities available for sale and securities held to maturity, valuation of goodwill, allowance for
loan losses, and legal reserves. Actual results may differ from those estimates. Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. 
 
2.     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
  Asset management and administration fees, which
include mutual fund service fees and fees for other asset-based financial services provided to individual and institutional clients, are recognized as revenue over the period that the related service is provided, based upon average asset balances.
The Company earns mutual fund service fees for shareholder services, administration, investment management services, and transfer agent services (through July 2009) provided to its proprietary funds, and recordkeeping and shareholder services
provided to third-party funds. These fees are based upon the daily balances of client assets invested in these funds. The Company also earns asset management fees for advice solutions, which include advisory and managed account services that are
based on the daily balances of client assets subject to the specific fee for service. The fair values of client assets included in proprietary and third-party mutual funds are based on quoted market prices and other observable market data. Other
asset management and administration fees include various asset based fees, such as trust fees, 401k record keeping fees, and mutual fund clearing and other fees. 
  In 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company waived a portion of its asset management
fees earned from certain Schwab-sponsored money market mutual funds in order to provide a positive return to clients. Under agreements with these funds, the Company may recover such fee waivers depending on the future performance of the funds and
approval by the boards of the respective funds until the third anniversary of the end of the fiscal year in which such fee waiver occurs, subject to certain limitations. Recoveries of previously-waived asset management fees are recognized as revenue
when substantially all uncertainties about timing and amount of realization are resolved. Amounts recognized in revenue for recoveries of previously-waived asset management fees were not material in 2011, 2010 or 2009. 
  Interest revenue represents interest earned on certain assets, which
include cash and cash equivalents, cash and investments segregated, receivables from brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations, receivables from brokerage clients, other securities owned, securities available for sale, securities held to
maturity, loans to banking clients, and loans held for sale. Interest revenue is recognized in the period earned based upon average or daily asset balances and respective interest rates.    Securities transactions: Trading revenue includes commission and principal transaction revenues. Clients’
securities transactions are recorded on the date that they settle, while the related commission revenues and expenses are recorded on the date that the trade occurs. Principal transaction revenues are primarily comprised of revenues from client
fixed income securities trading activity, which are recorded on a trade date basis.    Cash and cash equivalents: The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less that are not segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes to be
cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents include 
  - 52 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   

money market funds, deposits with banks, certificates of deposit, federal funds sold, commercial paper, and treasury securities. Cash and cash equivalents also include balances that Schwab Bank
maintains at the Federal Reserve Bank.    Cash and investments
segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes include securities purchased under agreements to resell (resale agreements), which are collateralized by United States (U.S.) Government and agency securities. Resale agreements are accounted for
as collateralized investing transactions that are recorded at their contractual amounts plus accrued interest. The Company obtains control of collateral with a market value equal to or in excess of the principal amount loaned and accrued interest
under resale agreements. Collateral is valued daily by the Company, with additional collateral obtained to ensure full collateralization. Cash and investments segregated also include certificates of deposit and U.S. Government securities, as
well as corporate debt securities guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. Certificates of deposit, U.S. Government securities, and corporate debt securities are recorded at fair
value.    Receivables from brokerage clients include margin
loans to clients and are recorded net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. Receivables from brokerage clients that remain unsecured or partially secured for more than 30 days are fully reserved. 
  Other securities owned include Schwab Funds® money market funds, certificates of deposit, equity and bond mutual funds, state and municipal debt obligations,
equity securities, U.S. Government and corporate debt, and other securities recorded at fair value based on quoted market prices. Unrealized gains and losses are included in trading revenue. 
  Securities available for sale and securities held to maturity:
Securities available for sale include U.S. agency and non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, certificates of deposit, corporate debt securities, U.S. agency notes, and asset-backed and other securities. Securities available for sale are
recorded at fair value and unrealized gains and losses are reported, net of taxes, in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) included in stockholders’ equity. Securities held to maturity include U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed
securities and other securities. Securities held to maturity are recorded at amortized cost based on the Company’s positive intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity. Realized gains and losses from sales of securities available
for sale are determined on a specific identification basis and are included in other revenue.    Management evaluates whether securities available for sale and securities held to maturity are other-than-temporarily impaired (OTTI) on a quarterly basis. Debt securities with unrealized losses are
considered OTTI if the Company intends to sell the security or if it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell such security prior to any anticipated recovery. If management determines that a security is OTTI under these
circumstances, the impairment recognized in earnings is measured as the entire difference between the amortized cost and the then-current fair value.   
A security is also OTTI if management does not expect to recover the amortized cost of the security. In this circumstance, management utilizes cash flow
models to estimate the expected future cash flow from the securities and to estimate the credit loss. The impairment recognized in earnings is measured by the difference between the present value of expected cash flows and the amortized cost of the
security. Expected cash flows are discounted using the security’s effective interest rate.    The evaluation of whether the Company expects to recover the amortized cost of a security is inherently judgmental. The evaluation includes the assessment of several bond performance indicators including:
the portion of the underlying loans that are delinquent (30 days, 60 days, 90+ days), in bankruptcy, in foreclosure or converted to real estate owned; the actual amount of loss incurred on the underlying loans in which the property
has been foreclosed and sold; the amount of credit support provided by the structure of the security available to absorb credit losses on the underlying loans; the current price and magnitude of the unrealized loss; and whether the Company has
received all scheduled principal and interest payments. Management uses cash flow models to further assess the likelihood of other-than-temporary impairment for the Company’s non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities. To develop the
cash flow models, the Company uses forecasted loss severity, prepayment speeds (i.e. the rate at which the principal on underlying loans are paid down), and default rates over the securities’ expected remaining maturities. 
  - 53 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
Securities borrowed and securities loaned: Securities borrowed require the Company to deliver
cash to the lender in exchange for securities and are included in receivables from brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations. For securities loaned, the Company receives collateral in the form of cash in an amount equal to or greater than the
market value of securities loaned. Securities loaned are included in payables to brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations. The Company monitors the market value of securities borrowed and loaned, with additional collateral obtained or refunded
to ensure full collateralization. Fees received or paid are recorded in interest revenue or interest expense.    Loans to banking clients are recorded at their contractual principal amounts and include unamortized direct origination costs. Additionally, loans are recorded net of an allowance for loan losses.
The Company’s loan portfolio includes four loan segments: residential real estate mortgages, home equity lines of credit (HELOC), personal loans secured by securities and other loans. Residential real estate mortgages include two loan classes:
originated first mortgages and purchased first mortgages. Loan segments are defined as the level to which the Company disaggregates its loan portfolio when developing and documenting a methodology for determining the allowance for loan losses. A
loan class is defined as a group of loans within a loan segment that has homogeneous risk characteristics.    The Company records an allowance for loan losses through a charge to earnings based on management’s evaluation of the existing portfolio. The adequacy of the allowance is reviewed quarterly by
management, taking into consideration current economic conditions, the existing loan portfolio composition, past loss experience, and risks inherent in the portfolio. 
  The process to establish an allowance for loan losses utilizes loan-level
statistical models that estimate prepayments, defaults, and probable losses for the loan segments based on predicted behavior of individual loans within the segments. The methodology considers the effects of borrower behavior and a variety of
factors including, but not limited to, interest rates, housing price movements as measured by a housing price index, economic conditions, estimated defaults and foreclosures measured by historical and expected delinquencies, changes in prepayment
speeds, loan-to-value ratios, past loss experience, estimates of future loss severities, borrower credit risk measured by Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) scores, and the adequacy of collateral. The methodology also evaluates concentrations in the loan
segments including loan products, year of origination, geographical distribution of collateral, and the portion of borrowers who have other client relationships with the Company. 
  The more significant variables considered include a measure of delinquency
roll rates, loss severity, housing prices, and interest rates. Delinquency roll rates (i.e., the rates at which loans transition through delinquency stages and ultimately result in a loss) are estimated from the Company’s historical loss
experience adjusted for current trends and market information. Loss severity estimates are based on the Company’s historical loss experience and market trends. Housing price trends are derived from historical home price indices and econometric
forecasts of future home values. Factors affecting the home price index include: housing inventory, unemployment, interest rates, and inflation expectations. Interest rate projections are based on the current term structure of interest rates and
historical volatilities to project various possible future interest rate paths. This quarterly analysis results in a loss factor that is applied to the outstanding balances to determine the allowance for loan loss for each loan segment. 
  Nonaccrual loans: Residential real estate mortgages, HELOC, personal,
and other loans are placed on nonaccrual status upon becoming 90 days past due as to interest or principal (unless the loans are well-secured and in the process of collection), or when the full timely collection of interest or principal becomes
uncertain. When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, the accrued and unpaid interest receivable is reversed and the loan is accounted for on the cash or cost recovery method thereafter, until qualifying for return to accrual status. Generally, a
loan may be returned to accrual status when all delinquent interest and principal is repaid and the loan is performing in accordance with the terms of the loan agreement, or when the loan is both well-secured and in the process of collection and
collectability is no longer doubtful.    Loans held for sale
include fixed-rate and adjustable-rate residential first-mortgage loans intended for sale. Loans held for sale are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. The fair value of loans held for sale is estimated using quoted market prices for
securities backed by similar types of loans. 
  - 54 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
Equipment, office facilities, and property are recorded at cost net of accumulated depreciation
and amortization, except for land, which is recorded at cost. Equipment and office facilities are depreciated on a straight-line basis over an estimated useful life of three to ten years. Buildings are depreciated on a straight-line basis over 20 to
40 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the term of the lease. Software and certain costs incurred for purchasing or developing software for internal use
are amortized on a straight-line basis over an estimated useful life of three or five years. Equipment, office facilities, and property are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such
assets may not be recoverable.   
Goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of the fair value of the individually identified net assets
acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment annually or whenever indications of impairment exist. In testing for a potential impairment of goodwill, management estimates the fair value of each of the Company’s reporting
units (defined as the Company’s businesses for which financial information is available and reviewed regularly by management), and compares it to their carrying value. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying
value, management is required to estimate the fair value of all assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, including goodwill. If the carrying value of the reporting unit’s goodwill is greater than the estimated fair value, an impairment
charge is recognized for the excess. The Company’s annual impairment testing date is April 1st. The Company did not recognize any goodwill impairment in 2011, 2010, or 2009.   
Intangible assets include customer relationships, technology, tradenames, and other intangible assets and are recorded at fair value. The Company
utilizes independent third-party valuation specialists to determine the fair value of intangible assets acquired in a business combination, and does not have any internally generated intangible assets. Subsequently, intangible assets are amortized
over their useful lives in a manner that best reflects their economic benefit. Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. The
Company does not have any indefinite-lived intangible assets.   
Guarantees and indemnifications: The Company recognizes, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability equal to the estimated fair value of the
obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee. The fair values of the obligations relating to standby letter of credit agreements (LOCs) are estimated based on fees charged to enter into similar agreements, considering the creditworthiness of the
counterparties. The fair values of the obligations relating to other guarantees are estimated based on transactions for similar guarantees or expected present value measures. 
  Income taxes: The Company provides for income taxes on all
transactions that have been recognized in the consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, deferred tax assets are adjusted to reflect the tax rates at which future taxable amounts will likely be settled or realized. The effects of tax rate
changes on future deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, as well as other changes in income tax laws, are recorded in earnings in the period during which such changes are enacted. The Company’s unrecognized tax benefits, which are
included in accrued expenses and other liabilities, represent the difference between positions taken on tax return filings and estimated potential tax settlement outcomes. 
  Stock-based compensation includes employee and board of director stock
options, restricted stock awards, and restricted stock units. The Company measures compensation expense for these share-based payment arrangements based on their estimated fair values as of the awards’ grant date. The fair value of the
share-based award is recognized over the vesting period as stock-based compensation.    Stock-based compensation expense is based on awards expected to vest and therefore is reduced for estimated forfeitures. Forfeitures are estimated at the time of grant based on the Company’s
historical forfeiture experience and revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.   
Adoption of New Accounting Standards   
Goodwill Impairment Test: In December 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new guidance on when to perform the second step
in the two-step goodwill impairment test, which is effective for all goodwill impairment tests 
  - 55 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   

performed after January 1, 2011. Specifically, if the carrying value of a reporting unit, as computed in step one of the goodwill impairment test, is zero or negative, step two must be
performed when it is “more likely than not” that goodwill is impaired; under these circumstances, entities can no longer assume that no impairment exists because fair value, as computed in step two, would generally be greater than zero.
The adoption of this new guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, earnings per share (EPS), or cash flows. 
  A Creditor’s Determination of Whether a Restructuring Is a Troubled
Debt Restructuring: In April 2011, the FASB issued new guidance clarifying when a debt restructuring by a creditor constitutes a troubled debt restructuring, which is effective July 1, 2011 for all restructurings that occur on or after
January 1, 2011. This guidance clarifies that a troubled debt restructuring only exists when a creditor makes a concession in interest rates or payment terms to a debtor experiencing financial difficulties. It provides additional guidance on
determining what constitutes a concession, and on the use of probability in determining if a debtor could be experiencing financial difficulty prior to defaulting on payments. The adoption of this new guidance did not have a material impact on the
Company’s financial position, results of operations, EPS, or cash flows.    New Accounting Standard Not Yet Adopted    Testing Goodwill for Impairment: In September 2011, the FASB issued new guidance allowing companies to consider qualitative factors before performing a quantitative assessment when determining
whether goodwill is impaired, which is effective for goodwill impairment tests performed after January 1, 2012. Specifically, there is no longer a requirement to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test unless the entity determines that
based on qualitative factors, it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. The adoption of this new guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial position,
results of operations, EPS, or cash flows.   
3.     Business Acquisitions 
  optionsXpress Holdings, Inc. 
  On September 1, 2011, the Company completed its
acquisition of all of the outstanding common shares of optionsXpress Holdings, Inc. (optionsXpress) for total consideration of $714 million. optionsXpress is an online brokerage firm primarily focused on equity option securities and futures.
The optionsXpress® brokerage platform provides active investors and traders trading tools, analytics and
education to execute a variety of investment strategies. The combination of optionsXpress and Schwab offers active investors an additional level of service and platform capabilities.    Under the terms of the merger agreement, optionsXpress stockholders received 1.02 shares of the Company’s common stock for
each share of optionsXpress stock. As a result, the Company issued 59 million shares of the Company’s common stock valued at $710 million, based on the closing price of the Company’s common stock on September 1, 2011. The
Company also assumed optionsXpress’ stock-based compensation awards valued at $4 million.    The results of optionsXpress’ operations have been included in the Company’s consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2011, from the date of acquisition.
optionsXpress’ net revenues were $68 million and their net loss was not material for the period September 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011. 
  - 56 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
The following table summarizes the preliminary allocation of the purchase price to the net assets of
optionsXpress as of September 1, 2011:   








 Fair value of common stock issued
  
$
710
  

 Fair value of equity awards assumed
  
 
4
  


  
  
  
 

 Total consideration paid (1)
  
$
714
  


  
  
  
 

 Fair value of net assets acquired
  
$
207
  


  
  
  
 

 Preliminary goodwill
  
$
    507
  


  
  
  
 
  


(1) 

 Represents a non-cash investing activity.   
The following table summarizes the preliminary fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date. The allocation of
the purchase price is preliminary and subject to further adjustment as information relative to closing date fair values and related tax balances are finalized.   








 
  
September 1,2011
 

 Assets
  




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
84
  

 Cash and investments segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes
  
 
1,074
  

 Receivables from brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations
  
 
40
  

 Receivables from brokerage clients
  
 
185
  

 Other securities owned - at fair value
  
 
32
  

 Intangible assets
  
 
285
  

 Other assets
  
 
24
  


  
  
  
 

 Total assets acquired (1)
  
$
1,724
  


  
  
  
 

 Liabilities
  




 Payables to brokerage clients
  
$
1,221
  

 Deferred tax liability
  
 
95
  

 Long-term debt (2)
  
 
110
  

 Accrued expenses and other liabilities
  
 
91
  


  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities assumed (1)
  
$
    1,517
  


  
  
  
 

 Net assets acquired
  
$
207
  


  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 All assets and
liabilities, except for cash and cash equivalents, represent non-cash investing activities. 


(2)
 The Company paid
off long-term debt acquired from optionsXpress subsequent to the date of acquisition in September 2011.   
Preliminary goodwill of $507 million was assigned to the Investor Services segment and will not be deductible for tax purposes. 
  The Company recorded preliminary intangible assets of $285 million,
which are subject to amortization and will be amortized over their estimated useful lives. The following table summarizes the preliminary estimated fair value and useful lives of the intangible assets. 
 












 September 1, 2011
  
EstimatedFair Value
 
  
EstimatedUseful Life(In Years)
 

 Customer relationships
  
$
    200
  
  
 
11
  

 Technology
  
 
70
  
  
 
9
  

 Trade name
  
 
15
  
  
 
9
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total intangible assets
  
$
285
  
  





  
  
  
 
  




  - 57 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
Pro Forma Financial Information (Unaudited) 
  The following table presents unaudited pro forma financial information as if
optionsXpress had been acquired on January 1, 2009. Pro forma net income for the year ended December 31, 2011, was adjusted to exclude $16 million, after tax, of acquisition related costs incurred by the Company in 2011. Pro forma net
income for the year ended December 31, 2009, was adjusted to include these costs. Additionally, pro forma net income below excludes $15 million, before tax, of acquisition related costs because these costs were incurred by optionsXpress
prior to the acquisition date. Pro forma net income also reflects the impact of amortizing purchase accounting adjustments relating to intangible assets, net of tax, of $20 million, $22 million, and $24 million, for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.   
















 Year Ended December 31,
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Net revenues
  
$
    4,857
  
  
$
    4,479
  
  
$
    4,426
  

 Net income
  
$
896
  
  
$
481
  
  
$
804
  

 Basic EPS
  
$
.71
  
  
$
.39
  
  
$
.66
  

 Diluted EPS
  
$
.71
  
  
$
.38
  
  
$
.66
  
   The unaudited pro forma financial information
above is presented for illustrative purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the results that actually would have occurred had the acquisition been completed at the beginning of 2009, nor is it indicative of the results of operations for
future periods.    Windward Investment Management, Inc.
   On November 9, 2010, the Company completed its
acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Windward Investment Management, Inc. (Windward) for $106 million in common stock and $44 million in cash. Windward was an investment advisory firm that managed diversified investment
portfolios comprised primarily of exchange-traded fund securities. As a result of the acquisition, Windhaven Investment Management, Inc. was formed as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Schwab Holdings, Inc. 
  The Company’s consolidated financial statements include the net assets
and results of operations associated with this acquisition from November 9, 2010. Pro forma financial information for the business acquired from Windward is not presented as it is not material to the Company’s consolidated financial
statements. As a result of a fair value allocation, the Company recorded goodwill of $103 million and intangible assets of $47 million, both of which are deductible for tax purposes over a period of 15 years. The intangible assets,
which primarily relate to customer relationships and technology, are being amortized on a straight-line basis over 11 years and 9 years, respectively. The goodwill was allocated to the Investor Services and Institutional Services segments
in the amounts of $30 million and $73 million, respectively.    In connection with the acquisition, the Company established employee retention and incentive programs that provide for cash payments up to an aggregate $100 million. These payments are contingent
upon the employees’ continued employment and achievement of certain assets under management thresholds prior to specified time periods concluding 102 months (the Service Period) following the acquisition, with payments due at intervals
throughout the period if earned. These payments will be recorded as compensation expense if such payments are deemed probable, and will be recognized over the Service Period. The estimated liability under this program was not material at
December 31, 2011 or 2010.   
4.     Receivables from Brokerage Clients 
  Receivables from brokerage clients are recorded net of an
allowance for doubtful accounts. The allowance for doubtful accounts was not material at December 31, 2011 or 2010. Receivables from brokerage clients consist primarily of margin loans to brokerage clients of $10.2 billion and
$10.3 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Securities owned by brokerage clients are held as collateral for margin loans. Such collateral is not reflected in the consolidated financial statements. The average yield earned
on margin loans was 4.39% and 4.87% in 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
  - 58 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
5.     Other Securities Owned 
  A summary of other
securities owned is as follows:   












 December 31,
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Schwab Funds® money market funds
  
$
    332
  
  
$
    172
  

 Equity and bond mutual funds
  
 
183
  
  
 
99
  

 State and municipal debt obligations
  
 
46
  
  
 
47
  

 Equity, U.S. Government and corporate debt, and other securities
  
 
32
  
  
 
19
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total other securities owned (1)
  
$
593
  
  
$
337
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Securities pledged were not material at December 31, 2011 or 2010.    The Company’s positions in Schwab Funds® money market funds arise from certain overnight funding of clients’ redemption, check-writing, and debit card activities. Equity and bond mutual funds include
mutual fund investments held at CSC, investments made by the Company relating to its deferred compensation plan, and inventory maintained to facilitate certain Schwab Funds and third-party mutual fund clients’ transactions. State and municipal
debt obligations, equity, U.S. Government and corporate debt, and other securities include securities held to meet clients’ trading activities.   
Securities sold, but not yet purchased were not material at December 31, 2011 or 2010, and are recorded at fair value in accrued expenses and other
liabilities.   
6.     Securities Available for Sale and Securities Held to Maturity 
  The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses,
and fair value of securities available for sale and securities held to maturity are as follows:   




















 December 31, 2011
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
Fair Value
 

 Securities available for sale:
  



  



  



  




 U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
$
20,666
  
  
$
269
  
  
$
 14
  
  
$
20,921
  

 Non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
1,130
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
223
  
  
 
907
  

 Certificates of deposit
  
 
3,623
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
3,622
  

 Corporate debt securities
  
 
3,592
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
26
  
  
 
3,571
  

 U.S. agency notes
  
 
1,795
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,800
  

 Asset-backed and other securities
  
 
3,144
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
3,144
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total securities available for sale
  
$
    33,950
  
  
$
      288
  
  
$
      273
  
  
$
    33,965
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Securities held to maturity:
  



  



  



  




 U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
$
14,770
  
  
$
430
  
  
$
2
  
  
$
15,198
  

 Other securities
  
 
338
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
341
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total securities held to maturity
  
$
15,108
  
  
$
433
  
  
$
2
  
  
$
15,539
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  - 59 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   




















 December 31, 2010
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
FairValue
 

 Securities available for sale:
  



  



  



  




 U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
$
    12,879
  
  
$
    222
  
  
$
3
  
  
$
13,098
  

 Non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
1,701
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
234
  
  
 
1,470
  

 Certificates of deposit
  
 
1,874
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,875
  

 Corporate debt securities
  
 
2,261
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
2,268
  

 U.S. agency notes
  
 
2,757
  
  
 
23
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,780
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
2,495
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
2,502
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total securities available for sale
  
$
23,967
  
  
$
266
  
  
$
    240
  
  
$
    23,993
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Securities held to maturity:
  



  



  



  




 U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
$
16,722
  
  
$
209
  
  
$
137
  
  
$
16,794
  

 Other securities
  
 
1,040
  
  
 
14
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,054
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total securities held to maturity
  
$
17,762
  
  
$
223
  
  
$
137
  
  
$
17,848
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   A summary of securities with unrealized
losses, aggregated by category and period of continuous unrealized loss, is as follows:   




























 
  
Less than
 
  
12 months
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
12 months
 
  
or longer
 
  
Total
 

 December 31, 2011
  
FairValue
 
  
UnrealizedLosses
 
  
FairValue
 
  
UnrealizedLosses
 
  
FairValue
 
  
UnrealizedLosses
 

 Securities available for sale:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
$
5,551
  
  
$
14
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
5,551
  
  
$
14
  

 Non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
121
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
746
  
  
 
215
  
  
 
867
  
  
 
223
  

 Certificates of deposit
  
 
2,158
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,158
  
  
 
3
  

 Corporate debt securities
  
 
1,888
  
  
 
26
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,888
  
  
 
26
  

 Asset-backed and other securities
  
 
1,376
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
152
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
1,528
  
  
 
7
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
11,094
  
  
$
57
  
  
$
898
  
  
$
216
  
  
$
11,992
  
  
$
273
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Securities held to maturity:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
$
384
  
  
$
2
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
384
  
  
$
2
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
384
  
  
$
2
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
384
  
  
$
2
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total securities with unrealized losses (1)
  
$
    11,478
  
  
$
    59
  
  
$
    898
  
  
$
    216
  
  
$
    12,376
  
  
$
    275
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 The number of investment positions with unrealized losses totaled 296 for securities available for sale and 3 for securities held to maturity.

  - 60 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   




























 
  
Less than
 
  
12 months
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
12 months
 
  
or longer
 
  
Total
 

 December 31, 2010
  
Fair Value
 
  
UnrealizedLosses
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
UnrealizedLosses
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
UnrealizedLosses
 

 Securities available for sale:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
$
707
  
  
$
3
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
707
  
  
$
3
  

 Non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,207
  
  
 
234
  
  
 
1,207
  
  
 
234
  

 Corporate debt securities
  
 
549
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
549
  
  
 
1
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
873
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
873
  
  
 
2
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
2,129
  
  
$
6
  
  
$
1,207
  
  
$
234
  
  
$
3,336
  
  
$
240
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Securities held to maturity:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
$
6,880
  
  
$
137
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
6,880
  
  
$
137
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
6,880
  
  
$
137
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
6,880
  
  
$
137
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total securities with unrealized losses (1)
  
$
    9,009
  
  
$
    143
  
  
$
    1,207
  
  
$
    234
  
  
$
    10,216
  
  
$
    377
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 The number of investment positions with unrealized losses totaled 178 for securities available for sale and 37 for securities held to maturity.
   Unrealized losses in securities available for
sale of $273 million as of December 31, 2011, were concentrated in non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities. Included in non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities are securities collateralized by loans that are considered
to be “Prime” (defined as loans to borrowers with a Fair Isaac & Company credit score of 620 or higher at origination), and “Alt-A” (defined as Prime loans with reduced documentation at origination). At December 31,
2011, the amortized cost and fair value of Alt-A residential mortgage-backed securities were $390 million and $279 million, respectively.   
Management evaluates whether securities available for sale and securities held to maturity are other-than-temporarily impaired (OTTI) on a quarterly basis
as described in note “2 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.”    Certain Alt-A and Prime residential mortgage-backed securities experienced continued credit deterioration in 2011, including increased payment delinquency rates and losses on foreclosures of
underlying mortgages. Based on the Company’s cash flow projections, management determined that it does not expect to recover all of the amortized cost of these securities and therefore determined that these securities were OTTI. The Company
employs a buy and hold strategy relative to its mortgage-related securities, and does not intend to sell these securities and it will not be required to sell these securities before anticipated recovery of the unrealized losses on these securities.
Further, the Company has an adequate liquidity position at December 31, 2011, with cash and cash equivalents totaling $8.7 billion, a loan-to-deposit ratio of 16%, adequate access to short-term borrowing facilities and regulatory capital
ratios in excess of “well capitalized” levels. Because the Company does not intend to sell these securities and it is not “more likely than not” that the Company will be required to sell these securities, the Company recognized
an impairment charge equal to the securities’ expected credit losses of $31 million in 2011. The expected credit losses were measured as the difference between the present value of expected cash flows and the amortized cost of the
securities. Further deterioration in the performance of the underlying loans in the Company’s residential mortgage-backed securities portfolio could result in the recognition of additional impairment charges. 
  Actual credit losses on the Company’s residential mortgage-backed
securities were not material in 2011 or 2010. There were no actual credit losses on the Company’s residential mortgage-backed securities in 2009. 
  - 61 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
The following table is a rollforward of the amount of credit losses recognized in earnings for OTTI
securities held by the Company during the period for which a portion of the impairment was recognized in other comprehensive income:   
















 Year Ended December 31,
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
  2009  
 

 Balance at beginning of year
  
$
96
  
  
$
60
  
  
$
—
  

 Credit losses recognized into current year earnings on debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment was not
previously recognized
  
 
6
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
60
  

 Credit losses recognized into current year earnings on debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment was
previously recognized
  
 
25
  
  
 
29
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance at the end of year
  
$
    127
  
  
$
    96
  
  
$
60
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The
maturities of securities available for sale and securities held to maturity at December 31, 2011, are as follows:   
























 
  
Within 1year
 
  
After 1 yearthrough5 years
 
  
After 5 yearsthrough10 years
 
  
After10 years
 
  
Total
 

 Securities available for sale:
  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities (1)
  
$
 —
  
  
$
 2
  
  
$
2,950
  
  
$
17,969
  
  
$
20,921
  

 Non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities (1)
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
894
  
  
 
907
  

 Certificates of deposit
  
 
1,897
  
  
 
1,725
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,622
  

 Corporate debt securities
  
 
954
  
  
 
2,517
  
  
 
100
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,571
  

 U.S. agency notes
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,800
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,800
  

 Asset-backed and other securities
  
 
225
  
  
 
812
  
  
 
534
  
  
 
1,573
  
  
 
3,144
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total fair value
  
$
3,076
  
  
$
6,856
  
  
$
3,597
  
  
$
20,436
  
  
$
33,965
  

 Total amortized cost
  
$
    3,076
  
  
$
    6,871
  
  
$
    3,512
  
  
$
    20,491
  
  
$
    33,950
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Securities held to maturity:
  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities (1)
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
2,581
  
  
$
12,617
  
  
$
15,198
  

 Other securities
  
 
117
  
  
 
224
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
341
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total fair value
  
$
117
  
  
$
224
  
  
$
2,581
  
  
$
12,617
  
  
$
15,539
  

 Total amortized cost
  
$
116
  
  
$
222
  
  
$
2,507
  
  
$
12,263
  
  
$
15,108
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Residential mortgage-backed securities have been allocated to maturity groupings based on final contractual maturities. Actual maturities will differ
from final contractual maturities because borrowers on a certain portion of loans underlying these securities have the right to prepay their obligations. 
  Proceeds and gross realized gains (losses)
from sales of securities available for sale are as follows:   
















 Year Ended December 31,
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Proceeds
  
$
    500
  
  
$
    871
  
  
$
    107
  

 Gross realized gains
  
$
1
  
  
$
1
  
  
$
1
  

 Gross realized losses
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
(4
) 

  - 62 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
7.     Loans to Banking Clients and Related Allowance for Loan Losses 
  The composition of loans
to banking clients by loan segment is as follows:   












 December 31,
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Residential real estate mortgages
  
$
    5,596
  
 
$
    4,695
  

 Home equity lines of credit
  
 
3,509
  
 
 
3,500
  

 Personal loans secured by securities
  
 
742
  
 
 
562
  

 Other
  
 
19
  
 
 
21
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total loans to banking clients (1)
  
 
9,866
  
 
 
8,778
  

 Allowance for loan losses
  
 
(54 
) 
 
 
(53 
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total loans to banking clients – net
  
$
9,812
  
 
$
8,725
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Loans are evaluated for impairment by loan segment. 
  The allowance for loan losses is established through charges to earnings
based on management’s evaluation of the existing portfolio. The adequacy of the allowance is reviewed quarterly by management, taking into consideration current economic conditions, the existing loan portfolio composition, past loss experience,
and risks inherent in the portfolio, as described in note “2 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.”   
In addition to the allowance for loan losses, the Company maintains a separate reserve for the losses inherent in unused commitments on its HELOC loans.
This reserve is included in accrued expenses and other liabilities and was not material at December 31, 2011 or 2010.   
Changes in the allowance for loan losses were as follows:   
























 Year Ended
  
December 31, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
Residentialreal estatemortgages
 
 
Homeequity linesof
credit
 
 
Total
 
 
December 31,2010
 
 
December 31,2009
 

 Balance at beginning of year
  
$
            38
  
 
$
            15
  
 
$
            53
  
 
$
      45
  
 
$
      20
  

 Charge-offs
  
 
(11
) 
 
 
(8
) 
 
 
(19
) 
 
 
(20
) 
 
 
(13
) 

 Recoveries
  
 
1
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—
  

 Provision for loan losses
  
 
12
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
18
  
 
 
27
  
 
 
38
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at end of year
  
$
40
  
 
$
14
  
 
$
54
  
 
$
53
  
 
$
45
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Included in the loan portfolio are nonaccrual
loans totaling $52 million and $51 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. There were no loans accruing interest that were contractually 90 days or more past due at December 31, 2011 or 2010. The amount of interest
revenue that would have been earned on nonaccrual loans, versus actual interest revenue recognized on these loans, was not material to the Company’s results of operations in 2011 or 2010. Nonperforming assets, which include nonaccrual loans and
other real estate owned, totaled $56 million and $54 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company considers loan modifications in which it makes an economic concession to a borrower experiencing financial
difficulty to be a troubled debt restructuring. Troubled debt restructurings were not material at December 31, 2011 or 2010. 
  - 63 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
The delinquency aging analysis by loan class is as follows: 
 




























 
  
 
 
  
30-59 days
 
  
60-89 days
 
  
Greater than
 
  
Total
 
  
Total
 

 December 31, 2011
  
Current
 
  
past due
 
  
past due
 
  
90 days
 
  
past due
 
  
loans
 

 Residential real estate mortgages:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Originated first mortgages
  
$
5,380
  
  
$
16
  
  
$
2
  
  
$
39
  
  
$
57
  
  
$
5,437
  

 Purchased first mortgages
  
 
152
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
159
  

 Home equity lines of credit
  
 
3,494
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
15
  
  
 
3,509
  

 Personal loans secured by securities
  
 
741
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
742
  

 Other
  
 
19
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
19
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total loans to banking clients
  
$
9,786
  
  
$
24
  
  
$
4
  
  
$
52
  
  
$
80
  
  
$
9,866
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 December 31, 2010
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 Residential real estate mortgages:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Originated first mortgages
  
$
4,527
  
  
$
18
  
  
$
5
  
  
$
38
  
  
$
61
  
  
$
4,588
  

 Purchased first mortgages
  
 
100
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
107
  

 Home equity lines of credit
  
 
3,489
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
3,500
  

 Personal loans secured by securities
  
 
557
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
562
  

 Other
  
 
21
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
21
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total loans to banking clients
  
$
8,694
  
  
$
25
  
  
$
8
  
  
$
51
  
  
$
84
  
  
$
8,778
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   In addition to monitoring the delinquency
characteristics as presented in the aging analysis above, the Company monitors the credit quality of residential real estate mortgages and HELOCs by stratifying the portfolios by the year of origination, borrower FICO scores at origination, updated
FICO scores, and loan-to-value ratios at origination (Origination LTV), as presented in the following tables. Borrowers’ FICO scores are provided by an independent third party credit reporting service and were last updated in December 2011. The
Company monitors the credit quality of personal loans secured by securities by reviewing the fair value of collateral to ensure adequate collateralization of at least 100% of the principal amount of the loans. All of these personal loans were fully
collateralized by securities with fair values in excess of borrowing amounts at December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
  - 64 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   




















 
  
Residential real estate mortgages
 
  
 
 

  
  
Originated 
firstmortgages
 
  
Purchased 
firstmortgages
 
  
Total
 
  
Home
equitylines of credit
 

 December 31, 2011
  
  
  
  

Year of origination
  



  



  



  




 Pre-2007
  
$
291
  
  
$
52
  
  
$
343
  
  
$
1,074
  

 2007
  
 
278
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
286
  
  
 
232
  

 2008
  
 
538
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
546
  
  
 
1,262
  

 2009
  
 
553
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
563
  
  
 
412
  

 2010
  
 
1,757
  
  
 
17
  
  
 
1,774
  
  
 
311
  

 2011
  
 
2,020
  
  
 
64
  
  
 
2,084
  
  
 
218
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
5,437
  
  
$
159
  
  
$
            5,596
  
  
$
3,509
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Origination FICO
  



  



  



  




 < 620
  
$
9
  
  
$
2
  
  
$
11
  
  
$
—  
  

 620 - 679
  
 
108
  
  
 
19
  
  
 
127
  
  
 
24
  

 680 - 739
  
 
1,030
  
  
 
43
  
  
 
1,073
  
  
 
667
  

 > 740
  
 
4,290
  
  
 
95
  
  
 
4,385
  
  
 
2,818
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
5,437
  
  
$
159
  
  
$
5,596
  
  
$
3,509
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

Updated FICO
  



  



  



  




 < 620
  
$
55
  
  
$
7
  
  
$
62
  
  
$
49
  

 620 - 679
  
 
162
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
173
  
  
 
112
  

 680 - 739
  
 
831
  
  
 
44
  
  
 
875
  
  
 
520
  

 > 740
  
 
4,389
  
  
 
97
  
  
 
4,486
  
  
 
2,828
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
5,437
  
  
$
159
  
  
$
5,596
  
  
$
3,509
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

Origination LTV (1)
  



  



  



  




 < 70%
  
$
3,507
  
  
$
91
  
  
$
3,598
  
  
$
2,378
  

 71% - 89%
  
 
1,904
  
  
 
60
  
  
 
1,964
  
  
 
1,091
  

 > 90%
  
 
26
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
34
  
  
 
40
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
5,437
  
  
$
159
  
  
$
5,596
  
  
$
3,509
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 The computation of the Origination LTV ratio for a HELOC includes any first lien mortgage outstanding on the same property at the time of origination.
At December 31, 2011, $755 million of $3.5 billion in HELOCs were in a first lien position. 
  - 65 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   




















 
  
Residential real estate mortgages
 
  
 
 

 
  
Originated first
 
  
Purchased first
 
  
 
 
  
Home equity
 

 December 31, 2010
  
mortgages
 
  
mortgages
 
  
Total
 
  
lines of credit
 

 Year of origination
  



  



  



  




 Pre-2007
  
$
352
  
  
$
58
  
  
$
410
  
  
$
1,132
  

 2007
  
 
384
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
393
  
  
 
245
  

 2008
  
 
728
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
736
  
  
 
1,345
  

 2009
  
 
884
  
  
 
12
  
  
 
896
  
  
 
466
  

 2010
  
 
2,240
  
  
 
20
  
  
 
2,260
  
  
 
312
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
4,588
  
  
$
107
  
  
$
4,695
  
  
$
3,500
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Origination FICO
  



  



  



  




 < 620
  
$
9
  
  
$
2
  
  
$
11
  
  
$
—
  

 620 - 679
  
 
115
  
  
 
15
  
  
 
130
  
  
 
26
  

 680 - 739
  
 
907
  
  
 
33
  
  
 
940
  
  
 
677
  

 > 740
  
 
3,557
  
  
 
57
  
  
 
3,614
  
  
 
2,797
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
4,588
  
  
$
107
  
  
$
4,695
  
  
$
3,500
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Updated FICO
  



  



  



  




 < 620
  
$
63
  
  
$
9
  
  
$
72
  
  
$
49
  

 620 - 679
  
 
147
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
155
  
  
 
99
  

 680 - 739
  
 
730
  
  
 
29
  
  
 
759
  
  
 
499
  

 > 740
  
 
3,648
  
  
 
61
  
  
 
3,709
  
  
 
2,853
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
4,588
  
  
$
107
  
  
$
4,695
  
  
$
3,500
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Origination LTV (1)
  



  



  



  




 < 70%
  
$
2,911
  
  
$
55
  
  
$
2,966
  
  
$
2,375
  

 71% - 89%
  
 
1,659
  
  
 
51
  
  
 
1,710
  
  
 
1,092
  

 > 90%
  
 
18
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
19
  
  
 
33
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
4,588
  
  
$
107
  
  
$
        4,695
  
  
$
3,500
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 The computation of the Origination LTV ratio for a HELOC includes any first lien mortgage outstanding on the same property at the time of origination.
At December 31, 2010, $742 million of $3.5 billion in HELOCs were in a first lien position.   
8.     Equipment, Office Facilities, and Property 
  Equipment, office facilities, and property are detailed
below:   












 December 31,
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Software
  
$
        993
  
 
$
        902
  

 Buildings
  
 
446
  
 
 
438
  

 Information technology equipment
  
 
430
  
 
 
405
  

 Leasehold improvements
  
 
307
  
 
 
282
  

 Furniture and equipment
  
 
131
  
 
 
118
  

 Telecommunications equipment
  
 
104
  
 
 
91
  

 Land
  
 
59
  
 
 
57
  

 Construction in progress
  
 
17
  
 
 
15
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total equipment, office facilities, and property
  
 
2,487
  
 
 
2,308
  

 Accumulated depreciation and amortization
  
 
(1,802
) 
 
 
(1,684
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total equipment, office facilities, and property – net
  
$
685
  
 
$
624
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  - 66 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
9.     Intangible Assets and Goodwill 
  The gross carrying value
of intangible assets and accumulated amortization was:   




























 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
GrossCarryingValue
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
  
NetCarryingValue
 
  
GrossCarryingValue
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
  
NetCarryingValue
 

 Customer relationships
  
$
        245
  
  
$
17
  
  
$
        228
  
  
$
          42
  
  
$
2
  
  
$
          40
  

 Technology
  
 
88
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
82
  
  
 
14
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
12
  

 Trade name
  
 
15
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
14
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Other
  
 
2
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total intangible assets
  
$
350
  
  
$
24
  
  
$
326
  
  
$
58
  
  
$
4
  
  
$
54
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Amortization
expense for intangible assets was $20 million in 2011 and not material in 2010 or 2009.   
Estimated future annual amortization expense for intangible assets as of December 31, 2011 is as follows:
  








 2012
  
$
47
  

 2013
  
$
42
  

 2014
  
$
39
  

 2015
  
$
36
  

 2016
  
$
34
  

 Thereafter
  
$
        128
  
   The changes in the carrying amount of
goodwill, as allocated to the Company’s reportable segments for purposes of testing goodwill for impairment going forward, are presented in the following table:   
















 
  
Investor
 
  
Institutional
 
  
 
 

 
  
Services
 
  
Services
 
  
Total
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
$
        446
  
  
$
        185
  
  
$
631
  

 Goodwill acquired during the period
  
 
507
  
  
 
23
  
  
 
530
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
953
  
  
$
208
  
  
$
      1,161
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
10.     Other Assets 
  The components of other
assets are as follows:   












 December 31,
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Accounts receivable (1)
  
$
        330
  
  
$
        320
  

 Prepaid expenses
  
 
153
  
  
 
172
  

 Interest and dividends receivable
  
 
142
  
  
 
134
  

 Other investments
  
 
57
  
  
 
56
  

 Deferred tax asset – net
  
 
27
  
  
 
170
  

 Other
  
 
109
  
  
 
75
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total other assets
  
$
818
  
  
$
927
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Accounts receivable includes accrued service fee income and a receivable from the Company’s loan servicer. 
  - 67 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
11.     Deposits from Banking Clients 
  Deposits from banking
clients consist of interest-bearing and noninterest-bearing deposits as follows:   












 December 31,
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Interest-bearing deposits:
  



  




 Deposits swept from brokerage accounts
  
$
    40,617
  
  
$
    30,980
  

 Checking
  
 
10,765
  
  
 
9,890
  

 Savings and other
  
 
8,997
  
  
 
9,241
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total interest-bearing deposits
  
 
60,379
  
  
 
50,111
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Noninterest-bearing deposits
  
 
475
  
  
 
479
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total deposits from banking clients
  
$
60,854
  
  
$
50,590
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Demand deposit overdrafts included as other
loans within loans to banking clients were not material at December 31, 2011 or 2010.    In 2010, the Company entered into deposit account agreements with existing trust clients and accordingly transferred balances totaling $442 million from payables to brokerage clients and accrued
expenses and other liabilities to noninterest-bearing deposits from banking clients.   
12.     Payables to Brokers, Dealers, and Clearing Organizations 
  Payables to brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations
include securities loaned of $852 million and $1.3 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The cash collateral received from counterparties under securities lending transactions was equal to or greater than the market
value of the securities loaned at December 31, 2011 and 2010.   
13.     Payables to Brokerage Clients 
  The principal source of funding for Schwab’s margin
lending is cash balances in brokerage client accounts, which are included in payables to brokerage clients. Cash balances in interest-bearing brokerage client accounts were $30.6 billion and $26.2 billion at December 31, 2011 and
2010, respectively. The average rate paid on cash balances in interest-bearing brokerage client accounts was 0.01% in 2011 and 2010.   
14.     Borrowings 
  Long-term debt including
unamortized debt discounts and premiums, where applicable, consists of the following:   












 December 31,
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Senior Notes
  
$
    1,450
  
  
$
    1,449
  

 Senior Medium-Term Notes, Series A
  
 
249
  
  
 
249
  

 Junior Subordinated Notes
  
 
202
  
  
 
202
  

 Finance lease obligation
  
 
100
  
  
 
106
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total long-term debt
  
$
2,001
  
  
$
2,006
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   CSC has a universal automatic shelf
registration statement (Shelf Registration Statement) on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which enables CSC to issue debt, equity and other securities. This Shelf Registration Statement was filed in December 2011 to replace
the prior Shelf Registration Statement, which expired in the same month. 
  - 68 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
The Senior Notes outstanding at December 31, 2011 have maturities ranging from 2014 to 2020 and
fixed interest rates ranging from 4.45% to 4.950% with interest payable semi-annually. The Company issued $700 million of these Senior Notes in 2010 under the prior Shelf Registration Statement. These Senior Notes mature in 2020 and have a
fixed interest rate of 4.45%.    The Senior Medium-Term Notes,
Series A (Medium-Term Notes) outstanding at December 31, 2011, mature in 2017 and have a fixed interest rate of 6.375% with interest payable semi-annually. In 2010, $200 million of Medium-Term Notes matured. 
  CSC and Schwab Capital Trust I, a statutory trust formed under the laws of
the State of Delaware (Trust), previously closed a public offering of $300 million of the Trust’s fixed to floating-rate trust preferred securities. The proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred securities were invested by the Trust in
fixed to floating rate Junior Subordinated Notes issued by CSC. The Junior Subordinated Notes, which mature in 2067, have a fixed interest rate of 7.50% until 2017, and a floating rate thereafter. The Junior Subordinated Notes may be redeemed
at a redemption price of principal plus accrued but unpaid interest on November 15, 2017, on or after November 15, 2037, or following the occurrence of certain events, and at a make-whole redemption price at any other time. In 2010, the
Company terminated the replacement capital covenant related to the trust preferred securities, upon receiving the requisite consents, in order to have more flexibility to manage its capital structure. The replacement capital covenant had restricted
the Company from redeeming, repaying or purchasing the Junior Subordinated Notes or the trust preferred securities unless it received proceeds of the issuance of certain replacement capital securities, among other conditions. 
  Schwab has a finance lease obligation related to an office building and land
under a 20-year lease. The remaining finance lease obligation of $100 million at December 31, 2011, is being reduced by a portion of the lease payments over the remaining lease term of 13 years. 
  Annual maturities on long-term debt
outstanding at December 31, 2011, are as follows:   








 2012
  
$
6
  

 2013
  
 
6
  

 2014
  
 
756
  

 2015
  
 
7
  

 2016
  
 
7
  

 Thereafter
  
 
1,220
  


  
  
  
 

 Total maturities
  
 
2,002
  

 Unamortized discount, net
  
 
(1
) 


  
  
  
 

 Total long-term debt
  
$
    2,001
  


  
  
  
 
   CSC has authorization from its Board of
Directors to issue unsecured commercial paper notes (Commercial Paper Notes) not to exceed $1.5 billion. Management has set a current limit for the commercial paper program of $800 million. The maturities of the Commercial Paper Notes may
vary, but are not to exceed 270 days from the date of issue. The commercial paper is not redeemable prior to maturity and cannot be voluntarily prepaid. The proceeds of the commercial paper program are to be used for general corporate purposes.
There were no borrowings of Commercial Paper Notes outstanding at December 31, 2011 or 2010.    CSC maintains an $800 million committed, unsecured credit facility with a group of 11 banks, which is scheduled to expire in June 2012. This facility replaced a similar facility that expired in June
2011. The funds under this facility are available for general corporate purposes, including repayment of the Commercial Paper Notes discussed above. The financial covenants under this facility require Schwab to maintain a minimum net capital ratio,
as defined, Schwab Bank to be well capitalized, as defined, and CSC to maintain a minimum level of stockholders’ equity. At December 31, 2011, the minimum level of stockholders’ equity required under this facility was
$5.0 billion (CSC’s stockholders’ equity at December 31, 2011 was $7.7 billion). There were no borrowings outstanding under this facility at December 31, 2011 or 2010. 
  - 69 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
To manage short-term liquidity, Schwab maintains uncommitted, unsecured bank credit lines with a group
of six banks totaling $875 million at December 31, 2011. CSC has direct access to $750 million of these credit lines. There were no borrowings outstanding under these lines at December 31, 2011 or 2010. 
  To partially satisfy the margin requirement of client option transactions
with the Options Clearing Corporation (OCC), Schwab has unsecured standby LOCs with eight banks in favor of the OCC aggregating $350 million at December 31, 2011. In connection with its securities lending activities, Schwab is required to
provide collateral to certain brokerage clients. Schwab satisfies the collateral requirements by arranging LOCs, in favor of these brokerage clients, which are issued by multiple banks. At December 31, 2011, the aggregate face amount of these
LOCs totaled $78 million. There were no funds drawn under any of these LOCs at December 31, 2011 or 2010.   
15.     Commitments and Contingencies 
  Operating leases and other commitments: The
Company has non-cancelable operating leases for office space and equipment. Future annual minimum rental commitments under these leases, net of contractual subleases, at December 31, 2011, are as follows: 
 
















 
  
Operating
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
Leases
 
  
Subleases
 
  
Net
 

 2012
  
$
116
  
  
$
30
  
  
$
86
  

 2013
  
 
96
  
  
 
26
  
  
 
70
  

 2014
  
 
83
  
  
 
24
  
  
 
59
  

 2015
  
 
72
  
  
 
24
  
  
 
48
  

 2016
  
 
64
  
  
 
24
  
  
 
40
  

 Thereafter
  
 
139
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
121
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
570
  
  
$
146
  
  
$
    424
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Certain leases contain provisions for renewal
options, purchase options, and rent escalations based on increases in certain costs incurred by the lessor. Rent expense was $187 million, $168 million, and $213 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Rent expense in 2009
included charges of $37 million relating to the Company’s cost reduction measures.    Purchase obligations: The Company has purchase obligations for services such as advertising and marketing, telecommunications, professional services, and hardware- and software-related agreements.
At December 31, 2011, the Company has purchase obligations as follows:   








 2012
  
$
118
  

 2013
  
 
48
  

 2014
  
 
33
  

 2015
  
 
27
  

 2016
  
 
6
  

 Thereafter
  
 
1
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
    233
  


  
  
  
 
   Guarantees and indemnifications: In
the normal course of business, the Company provides certain indemnifications (i.e., protection against damage or loss) to counterparties in connection with the disposition of certain of its assets. Such indemnifications are generally standard
contractual terms with various expiration dates and typically relate to title to the assets transferred, ownership of intellectual property rights (e.g., patents), accuracy of financial statements, compliance with laws and regulations, failure to
pay, satisfy or discharge any liability, or to defend claims, as well as errors, omissions, and misrepresentations. The maximum potential future liability under these indemnifications cannot be estimated. The Company has not recorded a liability for
these indemnifications and believes that the occurrence of events that would trigger payments under these agreements is remote. 
  - 70 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
The Company has clients that sell (i.e., write) listed option contracts that are cleared by various
clearing houses. The clearing houses establish margin requirements on these transactions. The Company partially satisfies the margin requirements by arranging unsecured standby LOCs, in favor of the clearing houses, which are issued by multiple
banks. At December 31, 2011, the aggregate face amount of these LOCs totaled $350 million. In connection with its securities lending activities, Schwab is required to provide collateral to certain brokerage clients. Schwab satisfies the
collateral requirements by arranging LOCs in favor of these brokerage clients, which are issued by multiple banks. At December 31, 2011, the aggregate face amount of these LOCs totaled $78 million. There were no funds drawn under any of
these LOCs at December 31, 2011.    The Company also provides
guarantees to securities clearing houses and exchanges under standard membership agreements, which require members to guarantee the performance of other members. Under the agreements, if another member becomes unable to satisfy its obligations to
the clearing houses and exchanges, other members would be required to meet shortfalls. The Company’s liability under these arrangements is not quantifiable and may exceed the cash and securities it has posted as collateral. However, the
potential requirement for the Company to make payments under these arrangements is remote. Accordingly, no liability has been recognized for these guarantees.   
Legal contingencies: The Company is subject to claims and lawsuits in the ordinary course of business, including arbitrations, class actions and
other litigation, some of which include claims for substantial or unspecified damages. The Company is also the subject of inquiries, investigations, and proceedings by regulatory and other governmental agencies. In addition, the Company is
responding to certain litigation claims brought against former subsidiaries pursuant to indemnities it has provided to purchasers of those entities.   
The Company believes it has strong defenses in all significant matters currently pending and is contesting liability and any damages claimed.
Nevertheless, some of these matters may result in adverse judgments or awards, including penalties, injunctions or other relief, and the Company may also determine to settle a matter because of the uncertainty and risks of litigation. Described
below are certain matters in which there is a reasonable possibility that a material loss could be incurred or where the matter may otherwise be of significant interest to stockholders. With respect to all other pending matters, based on current
information and consultation with counsel, it does not appear that the outcome of any such matter could be material to the financial condition, operating results or cash flows of the Company. However, predicting the outcome of a litigation or
regulatory matter is inherently difficult, requiring significant judgment and evaluation of various factors, including the procedural status of the matter and any recent developments; prior experience and the experience of others in similar cases;
available defenses, including potential opportunities to dispose of a case on the merits or procedural grounds before trial (e.g., motions to dismiss or for summary judgment); the progress of fact discovery; the opinions of counsel and experts
regarding potential damages; potential opportunities for settlement and the status of any settlement discussions; and potential insurance coverage and indemnification. Often, as in the case of the Auction Rate Securities Regulatory Inquiries and
Total Bond Market Fund Litigation matters described below, it is not possible to reasonably estimate potential liability, if any, or a range of potential liability until the matter is closer to resolution, or pending the outcome of key motions or
appeals. Numerous issues may have to be developed, such as discovery of important factual matters and determination of threshold legal issues, which may include novel or unsettled questions of law. Reserves are established or adjusted or further
disclosure and estimates of potential loss are provided as the matter progresses and more information becomes available.   
Auction Rate Securities Regulatory Inquiries: Schwab has been responding to industry wide inquiries from federal and state regulators regarding
sales of auction rate securities to clients who were unable to sell their holdings when the normal auction process for those securities froze unexpectedly in February 2008. On August 17, 2009, a civil complaint was filed against Schwab in New
York state court by the Attorney General of the State of New York (NYAG) alleging material misrepresentations and omissions by Schwab regarding the risks of auction rate securities, and seeking restitution, disgorgement, penalties and other relief,
including repurchase of securities held in client accounts. As reflected in a statement issued August 17, 2009, Schwab has responded that the allegations are without merit, and has been contesting all charges. By order dated October 24,
2011, the court granted Schwab’s motion to dismiss the complaint. On November 30, 2011, the NYAG filed notice of its intention to appeal the ruling.   
Total Bond Market Fund Litigation: On August 28, 2008, a class action lawsuit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District
of California on behalf of investors in the Schwab Total Bond Market Fund™ (Northstar lawsuit). The 
  - 71 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   

lawsuit, which alleges violations of state law and federal securities law in connection with the fund’s investment policy, names Schwab Investments (registrant and issuer of the fund’s
shares) and CSIM as defendants. Allegations include that the fund improperly deviated from its stated investment objectives by investing in collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs) and investing more than 25% of fund assets in CMOs and
mortgage-backed securities without obtaining a shareholder vote. Plaintiffs seek unspecified compensatory and rescission damages, unspecified equitable and injunctive relief, and costs and attorneys’ fees. Plaintiffs’ federal securities
law claim and certain of plaintiffs’ state law claims were dismissed in proceedings before the court and following a successful petition by defendants to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. On August 8, 2011, the court dismissed
plaintiffs’ remaining claims with prejudice. Plaintiffs have appealed to the Ninth Circuit, where the case is currently pending.   
A second class action lawsuit filed on September 3, 2010, in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, which raised similar
allegations on behalf of investors in the fund (Smit lawsuit), was dismissed with prejudice on April 19, 2011.    optionsXpress Merger Litigation: Between March 21, 2011 and April 6, 2011, ten purported class action lawsuits were filed by optionsXpress stockholders challenging the terms of the
Company’s merger agreement to acquire optionsXpress. Named defendants included the Company, optionsXpress and members of its board of directors. Seven lawsuits were filed in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois and consolidated in a
single amended complaint on May 9, 2011 (Consolidated Illinois Action); and three lawsuits were filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware and consolidated in a single amended complaint on April 25, 2011 (Consolidated Delaware
Action). On April 28, 2011, the Delaware court stayed the Consolidated Delaware Action in favor of the Consolidated Illinois Action.   
On June 16, 2011, the Illinois court dismissed all claims against the Company with prejudice. On July 29, 2011, the parties entered into a
settlement agreement under which the remaining defendants agreed to provide certain supplemental merger disclosures in exchange for full releases of all claims related to the merger, including all claims in the Consolidated Illinois Action and the
Consolidated Delaware Action. Defendants also agreed not to oppose any fee application by plaintiffs’ counsel that did not exceed $650,000. The settlement received final approval from the Illinois court on December 7, 2011. 
  optionsXpress Regulatory Matters: The Company is in discussions with
the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Chicago Board Options Exchange and FINRA to resolve several optionsXpress regulatory matters which predate the Company’s acquisition of optionsXpress. optionsXpress entities and individual
employees have received Wells notices concerning potential violations of SEC Regulation SHO (short sale delivery rules) in connection with certain customer trading activities, and potential violations of the broker-dealer registration requirements
in connection with an unregistered optionsXpress entity. The Company has recorded a contingent liability associated with these matters, which was not material at December 31, 2011.    YieldPlus Fund Litigation: As disclosed previously, the Company recorded total charges in 2010 of
$199 million, net of insurance proceeds of $39 million under applicable policies, for settlements to resolve consolidated class action litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California relating to the Schwab
YieldPlus Fund®. On April 19, 2011, the court granted final approval of the settlement agreements and
entered final judgment in the litigation.   
16.     Financial Instruments Subject to Off-Balance Sheet Risk, Credit Risk, or Market
Risk 
  Securities lending: The Company loans client
securities temporarily to other brokers in connection with its securities lending activities and receives cash as collateral for the securities loaned. Increases in security prices may cause the fair value of the securities loaned to exceed the
amount of cash received as collateral. In the event the counterparty to these transactions does not return the loaned securities or provide additional cash collateral, the Company may be exposed to the risk of acquiring the securities at prevailing
market prices in order to satisfy its client obligations. The Company mitigates this risk by requiring credit approvals for counterparties, by monitoring the fair value of securities loaned, and requiring additional cash as collateral when
necessary. The fair value of client securities pledged in securities lending transactions to other broker-dealers was $783 million and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Additionally, the Company borrows

  - 72 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   

securities from other broker-dealers to fulfill short sales by clients. The fair value of these borrowed securities was $44 million and $113 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively.    Client trade settlement: The Company is
obligated to settle transactions with brokers and other financial institutions even if the Company’s clients fail to meet their obligations to the Company. Clients are required to complete their transactions on settlement date, generally three
business days after the trade date. If clients do not fulfill their contractual obligations, the Company may incur losses. The Company has established procedures to reduce this risk by requiring deposits from clients in excess of amounts prescribed
by regulatory requirements for certain types of trades, and therefore the potential for Schwab to make payments under these client transactions is remote. Accordingly, no liability has been recognized for these transactions. 
  Margin lending: The Company provides margin loans to its clients which
are collateralized by securities in their brokerage accounts and may be liable for the margin requirement of its client margin securities transactions. As clients write options or sell securities short, the Company may incur losses if the clients do
not fulfill their obligations and the collateral in client accounts is not sufficient to fully cover losses which clients may incur from these strategies. To mitigate this risk, the Company monitors required margin levels and clients are required to
deposit additional collateral, or reduce positions to meet minimum collateral requirements. Clients with margin loans have agreed to allow the Company to pledge collateralized securities in their brokerage accounts in accordance with federal
regulations and was allowed, under such regulations, to pledge securities with a fair value of $14.7 billion and $15.0 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The fair value of client securities pledged to fulfill the
short sales of its clients was $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The fair value of client securities pledged to fulfill the Company’s proprietary short sales, which resulted from
facilitating clients’ dividend reinvestment elections, was $101 million and $99 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company has also pledged a portion of its securities owned in order to fulfill the short
sales of clients and in connection with securities lending transactions to other broker-dealers. The fair value of these pledged securities was not material at December 31, 2011 or 2010. The Company may also pledge client securities to fulfill
client margin requirements for open option contracts established with the OCC. The fair value of these pledged securities to the OCC was $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
  Financial instruments held for trading purposes: The Company maintains
inventories in securities on a long and short basis relating to its fixed income operations. The Company could incur losses or gains as a result of changes in the fair value of these securities. To mitigate the risk of losses, long and short
positions are marked to fair value and are monitored by management to assure compliance with limits established by the Company.   
Resale and repurchase agreements: Schwab enters into collateralized resale agreements principally with other broker-dealers, which could result in
losses in the event the counterparty fails to purchase the securities held as collateral for the cash advanced and the fair value of the securities declines. To mitigate this risk, Schwab requires that the counterparty deliver securities to a
custodian, to be held as collateral, with a fair value in excess of the resale price. Schwab also sets standards for the credit quality of the counterparty, monitors the fair value of the underlying securities as compared to the related receivable,
including accrued interest, and requires additional collateral where deemed appropriate. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the fair value of collateral received in connection with resale agreements that are available to be repledged or sold was
$18.3 billion and $13.0 billion, respectively. Schwab utilizes the collateral provided under repurchase agreements to meet obligations under broker-dealer client protection rules, which place limitations on its ability to access such
segregated securities. For Schwab to repledge or sell this collateral, it would be required to deposit cash and/or securities of an equal amount into its segregated reserve bank accounts in order to meet its segregated cash and investment
requirement.    Concentration risk: The Company has exposure
to concentration risk when holding large positions of financial instruments collateralized by assets with similar economic characteristics or in securities of a single issuer or industry. For discussion on the Company’s exposure to
concentration risk relating to residential mortgage-backed securities, see note “6 – Securities Available for Sale and Securities Held to Maturity.” 
  The Company’s investments in corporate debt securities and commercial
paper totaled $5.6 billion and $4.6 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, with the majority issued by institutions in the financial services industry. These securities are included in securities available for sale,
securities held to maturity, cash and investments segregated and on 
  - 73 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   

deposit for regulatory purposes, cash and cash equivalents, and other securities owned. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company held $867 million and $1.9 billion, respectively,
of corporate debt securities issued by financial institutions and guaranteed under the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program.   
The Company’s loans to banking clients include $5.6 billion and $4.7 billion of adjustable rate first lien residential real estate mortgage
loans at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company’s adjustable rate mortgages have initial fixed interest rates for three to ten years and interest rates that adjust annually thereafter. At December 31, 2011,
approximately 60% of these mortgages consisted of loans with interest-only payment terms. At December 31, 2011, the interest rates on approximately 65% of these interest-only loans are not scheduled to reset for three or more years. The
Company’s mortgage loans do not include interest terms described as temporary introductory rates below current market rates. At December 31, 2011, 44% of the residential real estate mortgages and 50% of the HELOC balances were secured by
properties which are located in California. At December 31, 2010, 42% of the residential real estate mortgages and 49% of the HELOC balances were secured by properties which are located in California. 
  The Company also has exposure to concentration risk from its margin and
securities lending activities collateralized by securities of a single issuer or industry.    The Company has indirect exposure to U.S. Government and agency securities held as collateral to secure its resale agreements. The Company’s primary credit exposure on these resale transactions is
with its counterparty. The Company would have exposure to the U.S. Government and agency securities only in the event of the counterparty’s default on the resale agreements. The fair value of U.S. Government and agency securities held as
collateral for resale agreements totaled $18.3 billion and $13.0 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
Commitments to extend credit: Schwab Bank enters into commitments to extend credit to banking clients primarily relating to mortgage lending. The
credit risk associated with these commitments varies depending on the creditworthiness of the client and the value of any collateral expected to be held. Collateral requirements vary by type of loan. These commitments are legally binding agreements
to lend to a client that generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses, may require payment of a fee and are not secured by collateral until funds are advanced. Schwab Bank also has commitments to extend credit related to its
clients’ unused HELOC. Total amounts outstanding for these commitments to extend credit were $5.8 billion and $6.1 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.    Forward sale and interest rate lock commitments: Schwab Bank’s loans held for sale portfolio consists of fixed-rate
and adjustable-rate residential mortgage loans, which are subject to a loss in value when market interest rates rise. Schwab Bank uses forward sale commitments to manage this risk. These forward sale commitments have been designated as cash flow
hedging instruments, and are recorded on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recorded in other comprehensive income (loss). Amounts included in other comprehensive income (loss) are reclassified into
earnings when the related loan is sold. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the derivative asset and liability for these forward sale commitments were not material. 
  Additionally, Schwab Bank uses forward sale commitments to hedge interest
rate lock commitments issued on mortgage loans that will be held for sale. Schwab Bank considers the fair value of these commitments to be zero at the commitment date, with subsequent changes in fair value determined solely based on changes in
market interest rates. Any changes in fair value of the interest rate lock commitments are completely offset by changes in fair value of the related forward sale commitments. Schwab Bank had interest rate lock commitments on mortgage loans to be
held for sale with principal balances totaling approximately $347 million and $628 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the derivative asset and liability for these interest rate
lock commitments and the related forward sale commitments were not material. 
  - 74 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
17.     Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
  Fair value is defined as the price that would be received
to sell an asset or the price paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Fair value measurement accounting guidance describes the fair value hierarchy for disclosing assets and
liabilities measured at fair value based on the inputs used to value them. The fair value hierarchy maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs. Observable inputs are based on market pricing data obtained from
sources independent of the Company. A quoted price in an active market provides the most reliable evidence of fair value and is generally used to measure fair value whenever available. Unobservable inputs reflect management’s judgment about the
assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Where inputs used to measure fair value of an asset or liability are from different levels of the hierarchy, the asset or liability is categorized based on the lowest level
input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. Assessing the significance of a particular input requires judgment. The fair value hierarchy includes three levels based on the objectivity of the inputs as follows:
  


 
•
 
 Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active markets as of the measurement date for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability
to access. This category includes active exchange-traded money market funds, mutual funds, options, and equity securities. The Company did not transfer any assets or liabilities between Level 1 and Level 2 during 2011 or 2010.
  


 
•
 
 Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or
indirectly. Level 2 inputs include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, such as interest rates, benchmark yields, issuer spreads,
new issue data, and collateral performance. This category includes residential mortgage-backed securities, corporate debt securities, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, U.S. agency and municipal debt securities, U.S. Treasury securities, and
asset-backed and other securities.   


 
•
 
 Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability, and include situations where there is little, if any, market activity for the
asset or liability. The Company did not have any financial assets or liabilities utilizing Level 3 inputs as of December 31, 2011 or 2010. 
  - 75 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value 
  The Company’s assets recorded at fair value include certain cash
equivalents, investments segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes, other securities owned, and securities available for sale. When available, the Company uses quoted prices in active markets to measure the fair value of assets. When quoted
prices do not exist, the Company uses prices obtained from independent third-party pricing services to measure the fair value of investment assets. The Company validates prices received from the pricing services using various methods, including
comparison to prices received from additional pricing services, comparison to quoted market prices, where available, comparison to internal valuation models, and review of other relevant market data. The Company does not adjust the prices received
from independent third-party pricing services unless such prices are inconsistent with the definition of fair value and result in a material difference in the recorded amounts. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company did not adjust prices
received from independent third-party pricing services. Liabilities recorded at fair value were not material, and therefore are not included in the following tables. 
  The following tables present the fair value hierarchy for assets measured at
fair value:   




















 December 31, 2011
  
Quoted Pricesin Active Marketsfor IdenticalAssets(Level 1)
 
  
SignificantOther ObservableInputs(Level 2)
 
  
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level 3)
 
  
Balance atFair 
Value
 

 Cash equivalents:
  



  



  



  




 Money market funds
  
$
8
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
8
  

 Commercial paper
  
 
—
  
  
 
814
  
  
 
                  —
  
  
 
814
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total cash equivalents
  
 
8
  
  
 
814
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
822
  

 Investments segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes:
  



  



  



  




 Certificates of deposit
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,374
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,374
  

 Corporate debt securities
  
 
—
  
  
 
767
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
767
  

 U.S. Government securities
  
 
—
  
  
 
650
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
650
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total investments segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,791
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,791
  

 Other securities owned:
  



  



  



  




 Schwab Funds® money market funds
  
 
332
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
332
  

 Equity and bond mutual funds
  
 
183
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
183
  

 State and municipal debt obligations
  
 
—
  
  
 
46
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
46
  

 Equity, U.S. Government and corporate debt, and other securities
  
 
12
  
  
 
20
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
32
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total other securities owned
  
 
527
  
  
 
66
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
593
  

 Securities available for sale:
  



  



  



  




 U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
—
  
  
 
20,921
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
20,921
  

 Non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
—
  
  
 
907
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
907
  

 Certificates of deposit
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,622
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,622
  

 Corporate debt securities
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,571
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,571
  

 U.S. agency notes
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,800
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,800
  

 Asset-backed and other securities
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,144
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,144
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total securities available for sale
  
 
—
  
  
 
33,965
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
33,965
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
          535
  
  
$
    38,636
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
          39,171
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  - 76 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   




















 
  
Quoted Prices
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
in Active Markets
 
  
Significant
 
  
Significant
 
  
 
 

 
  
for Identical
 
  
Other Observable
 
  
Unobservable
 
  
 
 

 
  
Assets
 
  
Inputs
 
  
Inputs
 
  
Balance at
 

 December 31, 2010
  
(Level 1)
 
  
(Level 2)
 
  
(Level 3)
 
  
Fair Value
 

 Cash equivalents:
  



  



  



  




 Money market funds
  
$
988
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
988
  

 Commercial paper
  
 
—
  
  
 
242
  
  
 
                  —
  
  
 
242
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total cash equivalents
  
 
988
  
  
 
242
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,230
  

 Investments segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes:
  



  



  



  




 Certificates of deposit
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,201
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,201
  

 Corporate debt securities
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,704
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,704
  

 U.S. Government securities
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,190
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,190
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total investments segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes
  
 
—
  
  
 
7,095
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
7,095
  

 Other securities owned:
  



  



  



  




 Schwab Funds® money market funds
  
 
172
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
172
  

 Equity and bond mutual funds
  
 
99
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
99
  

 State and municipal debt obligations
  
 
—
  
  
 
47
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
47
  

 Equity, U.S. Government and corporate debt, and other securities
  
 
1
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
19
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total other securities owned
  
 
272
  
  
 
65
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
337
  

 Securities available for sale:
  



  



  



  




 U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
—
  
  
 
13,098
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
13,098
  

 Non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,470
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,470
  

 Certificates of deposit
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,875
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,875
  

 Corporate debt securities
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,268
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,268
  

 U.S. agency notes
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,780
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,780
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,502
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,502
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total securities available for sale
  
 
—
  
  
 
23,993
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
23,993
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
          1,260
  
  
$
    31,395
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
          32,655
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities Not
Recorded at Fair Value    Descriptions of the valuation
methodologies and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of assets and liabilities not recorded at fair value are described below. There were no significant changes in these methodologies or assumptions during 2011. 
  Other cash equivalents, receivables, payables, and accrued expenses and
other liabilities include cash and highly liquid investments, receivables and payables from/ to brokers, dealers and clearing organizations, receivables and payables from/ to brokerage clients, and drafts, accounts, taxes, interest, and
compensation payable. Assets and liabilities in these categories are short-term in nature and accordingly are recorded at amounts that approximate fair value.   
Cash and investments segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes include securities purchased under resale agreements. Securities purchased
under resale agreements are recorded at par value plus accrued interest. Securities purchased under resale agreements are short-term in nature and are backed by collateral that both exceeds the carrying value of the resale agreement and is highly
liquid in nature. Accordingly, the carrying value approximates fair value.    Securities held to maturity include U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed and other securities. Securities held to maturity are recorded at amortized cost. The fair value of these securities is
obtained using an independent third-party pricing service, as discussed above. 
  - 77 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
Loans to banking clients primarily include adjustable rate residential first-mortgage and HELOC
loans. Loans to banking clients are recorded at carrying value net of an allowance for loan losses. The fair value of the Company’s loans to banking clients is estimated based on market prices for mortgage-backed securities collateralized by
similar types of loans.    Loans held for sale include
fixed-rate and adjustable-rate residential first-mortgage loans intended for sale. Loans held for sale are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. The fair value of the Company’s loans held for sale is estimated using quoted market prices
for securities backed by similar types of loans.    Other
assets include cost method investments whose carrying values approximate their fair values. Other assets also include Federal Home Loan Bank stock recorded at par, which approximates fair value. 
  Deposits from banking clients: The Company considers the fair value of
deposits with no stated maturity, such as deposits from banking clients, to be equal to the amount payable on demand as of the balance sheet date.   
Long-term debt includes Senior Notes, Senior Medium-Term Notes, Series A, Junior Subordinated Notes, and a finance lease obligation. The fair value
of the Senior Notes, Senior Medium-Term Notes, Series A, and Junior Subordinated Notes are estimated using indicative, non-binding quotes from independent brokers. The finance lease obligation is recorded at carrying value, which approximates fair
value.    Firm commitments to extend credit: The Company
extends credit to banking clients through HELOC and personal loans secured by securities. The Company considers the fair value of these unused commitments to be not material because the interest rate earned on these balances are based on the market
interest rate indices and reset monthly. Future utilization of HELOC and personal loan commitments will earn a then-current market interest rate. The Company does not charge a fee to maintain a HELOC or personal loan. 
  The table below presents the Company’s fair value estimates for
financial instruments, excluding short-term financial assets and liabilities, for which carrying amounts approximate fair value, and excluding financial instruments recorded at fair value. 
 




















 December 31,
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
CarryingAmount
 
  
FairValue
 
  
CarryingAmount
 
  
FairValue
 

 Financial Assets:
  



  



  



  




 Securities held to maturity
  
$
    15,108
  
  
$
    15,539
  
  
$
    17,762
  
  
$
    17,848
  

 Loans to banking clients – net
  
$
9,812
  
  
$
9,671
  
  
$
8,725
  
  
$
8,469
  

 Loans held for sale
  
$
70
  
  
$
73
  
  
$
185
  
  
$
194
  

 Financial Liabilities:
  



  



  



  




 Long-term debt
  
$
 2,001
  
  
$
 2,159
  
  
$
 2,006
  
  
$
 2,116
  
  
18.     Equity Offering 
  On January 26, 2010, the Company sold 29,670,300
shares of its common stock, $.01 par value, at a public offering price of $19.00 per share. Net proceeds received from the offering were $543 million and were used to support the Company’s balance sheet growth, including expansion of its
deposit base and migration of certain client balances from money market funds into deposit accounts at Schwab Bank. 
  - 78 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
19.     Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 
  Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) represents
cumulative gains and losses that are not reflected in earnings. The components of other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows:   








































 Year Ended December 31,
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
Before
 
 
Tax
 
 
Net of
 
 
Before
 
 
Tax
 
 
Net of
 
 
Before
 
  
Tax
 
 
Net of
 

 
  
tax
 
 
effect
 
 
tax
 
 
tax
 
 
effect
 
 
tax
 
 
tax
 
  
effect
 
 
tax
 

 Securities available for sale:
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



  



 




 Net unrealized (loss) gain arising during the year
  
$
      (43
) 
 
$
        16
  
 
$
      (27
) 
 
$
      300
  
 
$
    (115
) 
 
$
      185
  
 
$
      536
  
  
$
    (212
) 
 
$
      324
  

 Reclassification of impairment charges included in earnings
  
 
31
  
 
 
(12
) 
 
 
19
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
(14
) 
 
 
22
  
 
 
60
  
  
 
(24
) 
 
 
36
  

 Other reclassifications of net losses in earnings
  
 
1
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
3
  
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
2
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net unrealized (loss) gain on securities available for sale
  
 
(11
) 
 
 
4
  
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
337
  
 
 
(129
) 
 
 
208
  
 
 
599
  
  
 
(237
) 
 
 
362
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Foreign currency translation adjustment
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net unrealized loss on cash flow hedging instruments
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Other comprehensive (loss) income
  
$
(12
) 
 
$
4
  
 
$
(8
) 
 
$
336
  
 
$
(129
) 
 
$
207
  
 
$
599
  
  
$
(237
) 
 
$
362
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
balances were as follows:   
























 
  
Net unrealized gain (loss)on securities
available for sale
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
Portion
ofunrealized gain(loss) on Non-OTTIsecurities
 
 
Portion
ofunrealized losson
OTTIsecurities
 
 
Foreigncurrencytranslationadjustment
 
 
Net unrealizedloss on
cashflow hedginginstruments
 
 
Total 
accumulatedothercomprehensiveincome
(loss)
 

 Balance at December 31, 2008
  
$
(553
) 
 
$
                  —
  
 
$
                    —
  
 
$
                    —
  
 
$
    (553
) 

 Transfer to OTTI securities
  
 
149
  
 
 
(149
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Other net changes
  
 
327
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
362
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
 
(77
) 
 
 
(114
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(191
) 

 Transfer to OTTI securities
  
 
21
  
 
 
(21
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Other net changes
  
 
144
  
 
 
64
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
207
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
88
  
 
 
(71
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
16
  

 Transfer to OTTI securities
  
 
8
  
 
 
(8
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Other net changes
  
 
—
  
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(8
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
96
  
 
$
    (86
) 
 
$
    (1
) 
 
$
    (1
) 
 
$
              8
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  - 79 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
20.     Employee Incentive, Deferred Compensation, and Retirement Plans 
  A summary of the Company’s stock-based compensation
and related income tax benefit is as follows:   
















 Year Ended December 31,
  
     2011     
 
 
     2010     
 
 
     2009     
 

 Stock option expense
  
$
61
  
 
$
53
  
 
$
44
  

 Restricted stock award expense
  
 
12
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
27
  

 Restricted stock unit expense
  
 
23
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
1
  

 Employee stock purchase plan expense
  
 
3
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
3
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total stock-based compensation expense
  
$
99
  
 
$
87
  
 
$
75
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income tax benefit on stock-based compensation
  
$
(37
) 
 
$
(33
) 
 
$
(29
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   The Company issues shares for stock options
and restricted stock awards from treasury stock. At December 31, 2011, the Company was authorized to grant up to 52 million common shares under its existing stock incentive plans.    As of December 31, 2011, there was $192 million of total unrecognized compensation cost, net of forfeitures, related
to outstanding stock options, restricted stock awards, and restricted stock units, which is expected to be recognized through 2016 with a remaining weighted-average service period of 2.8 years. 
  Stock Option Plans 
  The Company’s stock incentive plans provide for granting options to
employees, officers, and directors. Options are granted for the purchase of shares of common stock at an exercise price not less than market value on the date of grant, and expire within seven or ten years from the date of grant. Options generally
vest annually over a three- to five-year period from the date of grant. Certain options were granted at an exercise price above the market value of common stock on the date of grant (i.e., premium-priced options). 
  The Company’s stock option activity is summarized below: 
 




















 
  
Numberof Options
 
 
Weighted-AverageExercise Priceper Share
 
  
Weighted-AverageRemainingContractualLife(in years)
 
  
AggregateIntrinsicValue
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2010
  
 
60
  
 
$
    16.41
  
  



  




 Granted
  
 
13
  
 
$
13.07
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
(8
) 
 
$
12.03
  
  



  




 Forfeited
  
 
              (2
) 
 
$
16.32
  
  



  




 Expired
  
 
(5
) 
 
$
17.21
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
  
 
58
  
 
$
16.20
  
  
 
            6.30
  
  
$
            4
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Vested and expected to vest at December 31, 2011
  
 
54
  
 
$
16.31
  
  
 
6.15
  
  
$
4
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Vested and exercisable at December 31, 2011
  
 
31
  
 
$
17.53
  
  
 
4.24
  
  
$
3
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The aggregate intrinsic value in the table
above represents the difference between CSC’s closing stock price and the exercise price of each in-the-money option on the last trading day of the period presented. 
  - 80 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
Information on stock options granted and exercised is presented below: 
 
















 Year Ended December 31,
  
     2011     
 
  
     2010     
 
  
     2009     
 

 Weighted-average fair value of options granted per share
  
$
4.16
  
  
$
5.36
  
  
$
6.42
  

 Cash received from options exercised
  
$
96
  
  
$
35
  
  
$
53
  

 Tax benefit realized on options exercised
  
$
7
  
  
$
5
  
  
$
8
  

 Aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised
  
$
38
  
  
$
17
  
  
$
25
  
   Management uses a binomial option pricing
model to estimate the fair value of options granted. The binomial model takes into account the contractual term of the stock option, expected volatility, dividend yield, and risk-free interest rate. Expected volatility is based on the implied
volatility of publicly-traded options on CSC’s stock. Dividend yield is based on the average historical CSC dividend yield. The risk-free interest rate is based on the yield of a U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issue with a remaining term equal to
the contractual term of the option. Management uses historical option exercise data, which includes employee termination data to estimate the probability of future option exercises. Management uses the Black-Scholes model to solve for the expected
life of options valued with the binomial model presented below. The assumptions used to value the Company’s options granted during the years presented and their expected lives were as follows: 
 
















 Year Ended December 31,
  
     2011     
 
 
     2010     
 
 
     2009     
 

 Weighted-average expected dividend yield
  
 
.85
% 
 
 
.71
% 
 
 
.58
% 

 Weighted-average expected volatility
  
 
36
% 
 
 
35
% 
 
 
52
% 

 Weighted-average risk-free interest rate
  
 
2.1
% 
 
 
2.8
% 
 
 
3.0
% 

 Expected life (in years)
  
 
0.0 – 6.3
  
 
 
3.0 – 5.9
  
 
 
1.4 – 5.3
  
   Restricted Stock Plans 
  The Company’s stock incentive plans provide for granting restricted
stock awards and restricted stock units to employees, officers, and directors. Restricted stock units are awards that entitle the holder to receive shares of CSC’s common stock following a vesting period. 
  Restricted stock awards and units are restricted from transfer or sale and
generally vest annually over a three- to five-year period, but some vest based upon the Company achieving certain financial or other measures. The fair value of restricted stock awards and units is based on the market price of the Company’s
stock on the date of grant. The grant date fair value is amortized to compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The total fair value of the restricted stock awards and units that vested during each of the years
2011, 2010, and 2009 was $24 million, $27 million, and $28 million, respectively.    The Company’s restricted stock awards and units activity is summarized below:   




















 
  
Restricted Stock Awards
 
  
Restricted Stock Units
 

 
  
Numberof Shares
 
 
Weighted-Average 
GrantDate Fair Valueper Share
 
  
Numberof Units
 
 
Weighted-Average 
GrantDate Fair Valueper Unit
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2010
  
 
1
  
 
$
20.49
  
  
 
4
  
 
$
16.04
  

 Granted
  
 
—
  
 
$
—
  
  
 
5
  
 
$
11.94
  

 Vested
  
 
                  (1
) 
 
$
20.69
  
  
 
                  (1
) 
 
$
16.28
  

 Forfeited
  
 
—
  
 
$
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
$
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
  
 
—
  
 
$
—
  
  
 
8
  
 
$
13.23
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  - 81 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
Employee Stock Purchase Plan    Under the Company’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP), eligible employees can purchase shares of
CSC’s common stock using amounts withheld through payroll deductions, subject to limitations. Payroll deductions are accumulated during six-month offering periods that start each year on February 1st and August 1st. Share purchases are made on the last trading day of each
three-month purchase period within the offering period. The three-month purchase periods end on
January 31st, April 30th,
July 31st, and October 31st of each year. The purchase price for each share of common stock is
85% of the fair market value of the shares on the last trading day of the purchase period. At December 31, 2011, the Company had 45 million shares reserved for future issuance under the ESPP. 
  Other Deferred Compensation Plans 
  The Company sponsors deferred compensation plans for eligible officers and
non-employee directors. The Company’s deferred compensation plan for officers permits participants to defer the receipt of certain cash compensation. The deferred compensation liability was $128 million and $139 million at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company’s deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors permits participants to defer receipt of all or a portion of their director fees and to receive either a grant of stock options,
or upon ceasing to serve as a director, the number of shares of CSC’s common stock that would have resulted from investing the deferred fee amount into CSC’s common stock.    Retirement Plan   
Upon completing three months of consecutive service, employees of the Company can participate in the Company’s qualified
retirement plan, the SchwabPlan® Retirement Savings and Investment Plan. The Company may match certain employee
contributions or make additional contributions to this plan at its discretion. The Company’s total contribution expense was $53 million, $50 million, and $49 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 
 
21.    Money Market Mutual Fund Charges 
  In 2010, the Company decided to cover the net remaining
losses recognized by Schwab money market mutual funds as a result of their investments in a single structured investment vehicle that defaulted in 2008 and recorded a charge of $132 million. 
 
22.    Taxes on Income 
  The components of income tax expense are as follows:
  
















 Year Ended December 31,
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Current:
  



  



 




 Federal
  
$
    424
  
  
$
    326
  
 
$
    400
  

 State
  
 
52
  
  
 
50
  
 
 
73
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current
  
 
476
  
  
 
376
  
 
 
473
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred:
  



  



 




 Federal
  
 
44
  
  
 
(43
) 
 
 
12
  

 State
  
 
8
  
  
 
(8
) 
 
 
4
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred
  
 
52
  
  
 
(51
) 
 
 
16
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Taxes on income
  
$
528
  
  
$
325
  
 
$
489
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  - 82 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
The temporary differences that created deferred tax assets and liabilities are detailed below:
  












 December 31,
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  



 




 Employee compensation, severance, and benefits
  
$
    173
  
 
$
    124
  

 Facilities lease commitments
  
 
37
  
 
 
44
  

 State and local taxes
  
 
8
  
 
 
8
  

 Reserves and allowances
  
 
40
  
 
 
104
  

 Other
  
 
9
  
 
 
10
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax assets
  
 
267
  
 
 
290
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



 




 Capitalized internal-use software development costs
  
 
(42
) 
 
 
(34
) 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
(162
) 
 
 
(45
) 

 Deferred cancellation of debt income
  
 
(11
) 
 
 
(11
) 

 Deferred loan costs
  
 
(20
) 
 
 
(20
) 

 Unrealized gain on securities available for sale – net
  
 
(5
) 
 
 
(10
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax liabilities
  
 
(240
) 
 
 
(120
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax asset – net
  
$
    27
  
 
$
    170
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   The Company determined that no material
valuation allowance against deferred tax assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was necessary.    A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the effective income tax rate is as follows:   
















 Year Ended December 31,
  
   2011   
 
 
   2010   
 
 
   2009   
 

 Federal statutory income tax rate
  
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 

 State income taxes, net of federal tax benefit
  
 
2.5
  
 
 
3.3
  
 
 
3.7
  

 Non-deductible penalties (1)
  
 
—
  
 
 
2.7
  
 
 
—
  

 Other
  
 
0.4
  
 
 
0.7
  
 
 
(0.4
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effective income tax rate
  
 
37.9
% 
 
 
41.7
% 
 
 
38.3
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Amount reflects the impact of regulatory settlements relating to the Schwab YieldPlus Fund in 2010. 
  The Company’s unrecognized tax benefits, which are included in accrued
expenses and other liabilities, represent the difference between positions taken on tax return filings and estimated potential tax settlement outcomes. Resolving these uncertain tax matters as of December 31, 2011, in the Company’s favor
would reduce taxes on income by $9 million, net of the federal tax benefit.    A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:   












 December 31,
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Balance at beginning of year
  
$
    11
  
 
$
    10
  

 Additions for tax positions related to the current year
  
 
1
  
 
 
4
  

 Additions for tax positions related to prior years
  
 
2
  
 
 
3
  

 Reductions for tax positions related to prior years
  
 
—
  
 
 
(2 
) 

 Reductions due to lapse of statute of limitations
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
(3
) 

 Reductions for settlements with tax authorities
  
 
—
  
 
 
(1
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at end of year
  
$
    13
  
 
$
11
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   The Company classifies interest and penalties
related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense, which were not material in 2011, 2010, or 2009. The Company’s liability for estimated interest on unrecognized tax benefits was not material at December 31, 2011 or
2010. 
  - 83 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
Federal tax examinations for all years ending through December 31, 2007, have been completed. The
years open to examination by state and local governments vary by jurisdiction.   
23.    Earnings Per Share 
  Basic EPS is computed by dividing net income available to
common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. The computation of diluted EPS is similar to the computation of basic EPS except that the denominator is increased to include the number of additional
common shares that would have been outstanding if dilutive potential common shares had been issued. Dilutive potential common shares include the effect of outstanding stock options and unvested restricted stock awards and units. EPS under the basic
and diluted computations is as follows:   
















 Year Ended December 31,
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Net income available to common stockholders (1)
  
$
      864
  
  
$
      454
  
  
$
      787
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Weighted-average common shares outstanding — basic
  
 
1,227
  
  
 
1,191
  
  
 
1,156
  

 Common stock equivalent shares related to stock incentive plans
  
 
2
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
4
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Weighted-average common shares outstanding — diluted (2)
  
 
1,229
  
  
 
1,194
  
  
 
1,160
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Basic EPS
  
$
.70
  
  
$
.38
  
  
$
.68
  

 Diluted EPS
  
$
.70
  
  
$
.38
  
  
$
.68
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Net income available to participating securities (unvested restricted shares) was not material in 2011, 2010, or 2009. 
 


(2) 
 Antidilutive stock options and restricted stock awards excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS were 63 million, 52 million, and
53 million shares in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.   
24.    Regulatory Requirements 
  CSC is a savings and loan holding company and Schwab
Bank, CSC’s depository institution subsidiary, is a federal savings bank. Prior to July 21, 2011, CSC and Schwab Bank were both subject to supervision and regulation by the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS). The “Dodd-Frank Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act” legislation (Dodd-Frank Act) eliminated the OTS effective July 21, 2011. As a result, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve) became CSC’s primary regulator and
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency became the primary regulator of Schwab Bank. Effective July 21, 2011, CSC is required by the Dodd-Frank Act to serve as a source of strength for Schwab Bank. While under the OTS, CSC was required to
have a “prudential level of capital” to support CSC’s risk profile. The OTS did not historically subject savings and loan holding companies, such as CSC, to consolidated regulatory capital requirements. However, under the Dodd-Frank
Act, CSC will be subject to new minimum leverage and minimum risk-based capital ratio requirements that will be set by the Federal Reserve that are at least as stringent as the requirements generally applicable to insured depository institutions as
of July 21, 2011.    Schwab Bank is subject to regulation and
supervision and to various requirements and restrictions under federal and state laws, including regulatory capital guidelines. Among other things, these requirements also govern transactions with CSC and its non-depository institution subsidiaries,
including loans and other extensions of credit, investments and asset purchases, dividends and investments. The federal banking agencies have broad powers to enforce these regulations, including the power to terminate deposit insurance, impose
substantial fines and other civil and criminal penalties, and appoint a conservator or receiver. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, Schwab Bank could be subject to restrictive actions if it were to fall within one of the lowest three of five
capital categories. Schwab Bank is required to maintain minimum capital levels as specified in federal banking laws and regulations. Failure to meet the minimum levels could result in certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary actions
by the regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on Schwab Bank. At December 31, 2011, CSC and Schwab Bank met the capital level requirements. 
  - 84 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
The regulatory capital and ratios for Schwab Bank are as follows: 
 




























 
  
Actual
 
 
Minimum CapitalRequirement
 
 
Minimum to beWell Capitalized
 

December 31, 2011
  
Amount
 
  
     Ratio     
 
 
Amount
 
  
     Ratio     
 
 
Amount
 
  
     Ratio     
 

 Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital
  
$
    4,984
  
  
 
23.4
% 
 
$
850
  
  
 
4.0
% 
 
$
1,276
  
  
 
6.0
% 

 Total Risk-Based Capital
  
$
5,036
  
  
 
23.7
% 
 
$
    1,701
  
  
 
8.0
% 
 
$
    2,126
  
  
 
10.0
% 

 Tier 1 Core Capital
  
$
4,984
  
  
 
7.5
% 
 
$
2,642
  
  
 
4.0
% 
 
$
    3,302
  
  
 
5.0
% 

 Tangible Equity
  
$
4,984
  
  
 
7.5
% 
 
$
1,321
  
  
 
2.0
% 
 
 
N/A
  
  












December 31, 2010
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

 Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital
  
$
4,157
  
  
 
23.7
% 
 
$
702
  
  
 
4.0
% 
 
$
1,053
  
  
 
6.0
% 

 Total Risk-Based Capital
  
$
4,209
  
  
 
24.0
% 
 
$
1,404
  
  
 
8.0
% 
 
$
1,755
  
  
 
10.0
% 

 Tier 1 Core Capital
  
$
4,157
  
  
 
7.6
% 
 
$
2,195
  
  
 
4.0
% 
 
$
2,744
  
  
 
5.0
% 

 Tangible Equity
  
$
4,157
  
  
 
7.6
% 
 
$
1,098
  
  
 
2.0
% 
 
 
N/A
  
  



   N/A Not
applicable.    Based on its regulatory capital ratios at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, Schwab Bank is considered well capitalized (the highest category) pursuant to banking regulatory guidelines. There are no conditions or events since December 31, 2011, that management believes have changed
Schwab Bank’s capital category.    The Federal Reserve requires
Schwab Bank to maintain reserve balances at the Federal Reserve Bank based on certain deposit levels. Schwab Bank’s average reserve requirement was $1.1 billion and $918 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
  CSC’s principal U.S. broker-dealers are Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc.
optionsXpress, Inc. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of optionsXpress. Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. are both subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Uniform Net Capital Rule). Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. compute net
capital under the alternative method permitted by the Uniform Net Capital Rule. This method requires the maintenance of minimum net capital, as defined, of the greater of 2% of aggregate debit balances arising from client transactions or a minimum
dollar requirement ($250,000 for Schwab), which is based on the type of business conducted by the broker-dealer. Under the alternative method, a broker-dealer may not repay subordinated borrowings, pay cash dividends, or make any unsecured advances
or loans to its parent company or employees if such payment would result in a net capital amount of less than 5% of aggregate debit balances or less than 120% of its minimum dollar requirement. 
  optionsXpress, Inc. is also subject to Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Regulation 1.17 (Reg. 1.17) under the Commodity Exchange Act, which also requires the maintenance of minimum net capital. optionsXpress, Inc., as a futures commission merchant, is required to maintain minimum net capital equal to the greater of its
net capital requirement under Reg. 1.17 ($1 million), or the sum of 8% of the total risk margin requirements for all positions carried in client accounts and 8% of the total risk margin requirements for all positions carried in non-client
accounts (as defined in Reg. 1.17).    Net capital and net capital requirements for Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. at December 31, 2011, are as follows:   




























 
  
Net Capital
 
  
% ofAggregateDebit Balances
 
 
MinimumNet CapitalRequired
 
  
2% ofAggregateDebit Balances
 
  
Net Capitalin Excess ofRequiredNet Capital
 
  
Net Capitalin Excess of5% ofAggregateDebit Balances
 

 Schwab
  
$
    1,188
  
  
 
10
% 
 
$
    0.250
  
  
$
    240
  
  
$
    948
  
  
$
    588
  

 optionsXpress, Inc.
  
$
78
  
  
 
29
% 
 
$
1
  
  
$
5
  
  
$
73
  
  
$
65
  
   Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. are also
subject to Rule 15c3-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and/or other applicable regulations, which require them to maintain cash or qualified securities in a segregated reserve account for the

  - 85 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   

exclusive benefit of clients. In accordance with Rule 15c3-3, Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. had portions of their cash and investments segregated for the exclusive benefit of clients at
December 31, 2011. Amounts included in cash and investments segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes represent actual balances on deposit, whereas cash and investments required to be segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes at
December 31, 2011 for Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. totaled $26.3 billion. On January 4, 2012, Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. deposited a net amount of $1.1 billion of excess segregated cash into their segregated reserve bank
accounts. Cash and investments required to be segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes at December 31, 2010 for Schwab was $22.0 billion. On January 4, 2011, Schwab withdrew a net amount of $194 million of excess
segregated cash from its segregated reserve bank accounts.   
25.    Segment Information 
  Operating segments are defined as components of a company
in which separate financial information is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, or decision-making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. The Company structures its operating segments
according to its various types of clients and the services provided to those clients. The Company’s two reportable segments are Investor Services and Institutional Services. 
  The Investor Services segment provides retail brokerage and banking services
to individual investors. The Institutional Services segment provides custodial, trading, and support services to independent investment advisors. The Institutional Services segment also provides retirement plan services, specialty brokerage
services, and mutual fund clearing services, and supports the availability of Schwab proprietary mutual funds and collective trust funds on third-party platforms. Banking revenues and expenses are allocated to the Company’s two segments based
on which segment services the client.    The accounting policies of
the segments are the same as those described in note “2 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.” Financial information for the Company’s reportable segments is presented in the following table. For the computation of
its segment information, the Company utilizes an activity-based costing model to allocate traditional income statement line item expenses (e.g., compensation and benefits, depreciation and amortization, and professional services) to the business
activities driving segment expenses (e.g., client service, opening new accounts, or business development) and a funds transfer pricing methodology to allocate certain revenues. 
  The Company evaluates the performance of its segments on a pre-tax basis,
excluding items such as impairment charges on non-financial assets, discontinued operations, extraordinary items, and significant restructuring and other charges. Segment assets and liabilities are not disclosed because the balances are not used for
evaluating segment performance and deciding how to allocate resources to segments. However, capital expenditures are used in resource allocation and are therefore disclosed. There are no revenues from transactions with other segments within the
Company. Capital expenditures are reported gross, and are not net of proceeds from the sale of fixed assets. 
  - 86 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
Financial information for the Company’s reportable segments is
presented in the following table:   




















































 
  
Investor Services
 
 
Institutional Services
 
 
Unallocated
 
 
Total
 

 Year Ended December 31,
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net Revenues
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Asset management and administration fees
  
$
    1,053
  
 
$
    976
  
 
$
    968
  
 
$
    875
  
 
$
    846
  
 
$
    907
  
 
$
       —
  
 
$
       —
  
 
$
       —
  
 
$
1,928
  
 
$
1,822
  
 
$
1,875
  

 Net interest revenue
  
 
1,468
  
 
 
1,297
  
 
 
1,058
  
 
 
257
  
 
 
227
  
 
 
187
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,725
  
 
 
1,524
  
 
 
1,245
  

 Trading revenue
  
 
625
  
 
 
557
  
 
 
679
  
 
 
302
  
 
 
273
  
 
 
317
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
927
  
 
 
830
  
 
 
996
  

 Other
  
 
85
  
 
 
70
  
 
 
93
  
 
 
75
  
 
 
65
  
 
 
82
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
160
  
 
 
135
  
 
 
175
  

 Provision for loan losses
  
 
(15
) 
 
 
(23
) 
 
 
(34
) 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(18
) 
 
 
(27
) 
 
 
(38
) 

 Net impairment losses on securities
  
 
(27
) 
 
 
(32
) 
 
 
(54
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(31
) 
 
 
(36
) 
 
 
(60
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net revenues
  
 
3,189
  
 
 
2,845
  
 
 
2,710
  
 
 
1,502
  
 
 
1,403
  
 
 
1,483
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,691
  
 
 
4,248
  
 
 
4,193
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Expenses Excluding Interest (1)
  
 
2,261
  
 
 
2,065
  
 
 
1,906
  
 
 
1,039
  
 
 
960
  
 
 
929
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
444
  
 
 
82
  
 
 
3,299
  
 
 
3,469
  
 
 
2,917
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before taxes on income
  
$
928
  
 
$
780
  
 
$
804
  
 
$
463
  
 
$
443
  
 
$
554
  
 
$
1
  
 
$
(444
) 
 
$
(82
) 
 
$
1,392
  
 
$
779
  
 
$
1,276
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Taxes on income
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
(528
) 
 
 
(325
) 
 
 
(489
) 


  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Income
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
$
864
  
 
$
454
  
 
$
787
  


  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Capital expenditures
  
$
120
  
 
$
91
  
 
$
95
  
 
$
70
  
 
$
36
  
 
$
44
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
190
  
 
$
127
  
 
$
139
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
$
108
  
 
$
93
  
 
$
100
  
 
$
47
  
 
$
52
  
 
$
59
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
1
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
155
  
 
$
146
  
 
$
159
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Unallocated amount primarily includes class action litigation and regulatory reserves of $320 million and money market mutual fund charges of $132 million in
2010, and facilities and severance charges relating to the Company’s cost reduction measures in 2009.   
Fees received from Schwab’s proprietary mutual funds represented approximately 10%, 14%, and 23% of the Company’s net revenues in 2011, 2010,
and 2009, respectively. Except for Schwab’s proprietary mutual funds, which are considered a single client for purposes of this computation, no single client accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net revenues in 2011, 2010, or 2009.
Substantially all of the Company’s revenues and assets are generated or located in the U.S. The percentage of Schwab’s total client accounts located in California was approximately 23% at December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009. 
 
26.    Subsequent Event 
  On January 26, 2012, the Company issued and sold
400,000 shares of fixed-to-floating rate non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, Series A, $0.01 par value, with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (Series A Preferred Stock). The Series A Preferred Stock has a fixed dividend rate of 7%
until 2022 and a floating rate thereafter. Net proceeds received from the sale were $394 million and are being used for general corporate purposes, including, without limitation, to support the Company’s balance sheet growth and the
potential migration of certain client cash balances to deposit accounts at Schwab Bank.    Under the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock issued in January 2012, the Company’s ability to pay dividends on, make distributions with respect to, or to repurchase, redeem or acquire its common
stock is subject to restrictions in the event that the Company does not declare and either pay or set aside a sum sufficient for payment of dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for the immediately preceding dividend period. 
  - 87 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
27.    The Charles Schwab Corporation – Parent Company Only Financial Statements

  Condensed Statements of Income 
 
















 Year Ended December 31,
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Interest revenue
  
$
4
  
 
$
3
  
 
$
8
  

 Interest expense
  
 
(103
) 
 
 
(86
) 
 
 
(66
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Net interest revenue
  
 
(99
) 
 
 
(83
) 
 
 
(58
) 

 Other revenues
  
 
8
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
33
  

 Expenses excluding interest
  
 
(30
) 
 
 
(18
) 
 
 
(15
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loss before income tax benefit and equity in net income of subsidiaries
  
 
(121
) 
 
 
(95
) 
 
 
(40
) 

 Income tax benefit
  
 
43
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
16
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loss before equity in net income of subsidiaries
  
 
(78
) 
 
 
(59
) 
 
 
(24
) 

 Equity in net income of subsidiaries:
  



 



 




 Equity in undistributed net income of subsidiaries
  
 
600
  
 
 
478
  
 
 
228
  

 Dividends from bank subsidiary
  
 
150
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Dividends from non-bank subsidiaries
  
 
192
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
583
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Income
  
$
       864
  
 
$
       454
  
 
$
       787
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Condensed Balance Sheets 
 












 December 31,
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Assets
  



  




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
852
  
  
$
1,149
  

 Receivables from subsidiaries
  
 
57
  
  
 
92
  

 Other securities owned – at fair value
  
 
77
  
  
 
91
  

 Loans to non-bank subsidiaries
  
 
363
  
  
 
265
  

 Investment in non-bank subsidiaries
  
 
3,363
  
  
 
2,509
  

 Investment in bank subsidiary
  
 
5,009
  
  
 
4,189
  

 Equipment, office facilities, and property – net
  
 
4
  
  
 
5
  

 Other assets
  
 
64
  
  
 
91
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
    9,789
  
  
$
    8,391
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity
  



  




 Accrued expenses and other liabilities
  
$
158
  
  
$
232
  

 Payables to subsidiaries
  
 
16
  
  
 
33
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
1,901
  
  
 
1,900
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
2,075
  
  
 
2,165
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Stockholders’ equity
  
 
7,714
  
  
 
6,226
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity
  
$
    9,789
  
  
$
    8,391
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  - 88 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
Condensed Statements of Cash Flows 
 
















 Year Ended December 31,
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Cash Flows from Operating Activities
  



 



 




 Net income
  
$
864
  
 
$
454
  
 
$
787
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
  



 



 




 Equity in undistributed earnings of subsidiaries
  
 
(591
) 
 
 
(478
) 
 
 
(253
) 

 Provision for deferred income taxes
  
 
3
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
20
  

 Other
  
 
1
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(35
) 

 Net change in:
  



 



 




 Receivables from brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations
  
 
—
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
23
  

 Other securities owned
  
 
6
  
 
 
422
  
 
 
(404
) 

 Other assets
  
 
26
  
 
 
40
  
 
 
(16
) 

 Accrued expenses and other liabilities
  
 
(76
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(1
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
 
233
  
 
 
447
  
 
 
121
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Cash Flows from Investing Activities
  



 



 




 Due from subsidiaries – net
  
 
24
  
 
 
63
  
 
 
279
  

 Increase in investments in subsidiaries
  
 
(366
) 
 
 
(1,025
) 
 
 
(725
) 

 Cash payments for business combinations and investments, net of cash acquired
  
 
8
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used for investing activities
  
 
(334
) 
 
 
(958
) 
 
 
(446
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Cash Flows from Financing Activities
  



 



 




 Issuance of long-term debt
  
 
—
  
 
 
701
  
 
 
747
  

 Repayment of long-term debt
  
 
—
  
 
 
(200
) 
 
 
(76
) 

 Net proceeds from common stock offering
  
 
—
  
 
 
543
  
 
 
—
  

 Dividends paid
  
 
(295
) 
 
 
(288
) 
 
 
(279
) 

 Proceeds from stock options exercised and other
  
 
96
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
53
  

 Other financing activities
  
 
3
  
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash (used for) provided by financing activities
  
 
(196
) 
 
 
785
  
 
 
445
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 (Decrease) Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents
  
 
(297
) 
 
 
274
  
 
 
120
  

 Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Year
  
 
1,149
  
 
 
875
  
 
 
755
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year
  
$
      852
  
 
$
    1,149
  
 
$
      875
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  - 89 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data, Option Price Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)   
28.    Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) 
 




















 
  
FourthQuarter
 
  
ThirdQuarter
 
  
SecondQuarter
 
  
FirstQuarter
 

 Year Ended December 31, 2011:
  



  



  



  




 Net Revenues
  
$
    1,113
  
  
$
    1,181
  
  
$
    1,190
  
  
$
    1,207
  

 Expenses Excluding Interest
  
$
861
  
  
$
821
  
  
$
804
  
  
$
813
  

 Net Income
  
$
163
  
  
$
220
  
  
$
238
  
  
$
243
  

 Weighted Average Common Shares Outstanding – Diluted
  
 
1,271
  
  
 
1,229
  
  
 
1,210
  
  
 
1,207
  

 Basic Earnings Per Share
  
$
.13
  
  
$
.18
  
  
$
.20
  
  
$
.20
  

 Diluted Earnings Per Share
  
$
.13
  
  
$
.18
  
  
$
.20
  
  
$
.20
  

 Dividends Declared Per Common Share
  
$
.06
  
  
$
.06
  
  
$
.06
  
  
$
.06
  

 Range of Common Stock Price Per Share:
  



  



  



  




 High
  
$
13.41
  
  
$
16.72
  
  
$
18.72
  
  
$
19.45
  

 Low
  
$
10.75
  
  
$
11.03
  
  
$
15.78
  
  
$
17.16
  

 Range of Price/Earnings Ratio (1):
  



  



  



  




 High
  
 
19
  
  
 
25
  
  
 
31
  
  
 
34
  

 Low
  
 
15
  
  
 
16
  
  
 
26
  
  
 
30
  







 Year Ended December 31, 2010:
  



  



  



  




 Net Revenues
  
$
1,127
  
  
$
1,063
  
  
$
1,080
  
  
$
978
  

 Expenses Excluding Interest
  
$
898
  
  
$
864
  
  
$
742
  
  
$
965
  

 Net Income
  
$
119
  
  
$
124
  
  
$
205
  
  
$
6
  

 Weighted Average Common Shares Outstanding – Diluted
  
 
1,200
  
  
 
1,194
  
  
 
1,195
  
  
 
1,188
  

 Basic Earnings Per Share
  
$
.10
  
  
$
.10
  
  
$
.17
  
  
$
—
  

 Diluted Earnings Per Share
  
$
.10
  
  
$
.10
  
  
$
.17
  
  
$
—
  

 Dividends Declared Per Common Share
  
$
.06
  
  
$
.06
  
  
$
.06
  
  
$
.06
  

 Range of Common Stock Price Per Share:
  



  



  



  




 High
  
$
17.42
  
  
$
15.43
  
  
$
19.88
  
  
$
19.78
  

 Low
  
$
13.98
  
  
$
12.76
  
  
$
14.18
  
  
$
17.50
  

 Range of Price/Earnings Ratio (1):
  



  



  



  




 High
  
 
47
  
  
 
38
  
  
 
41
  
  
 
40
  

 Low
  
 
38
  
  
 
31
  
  
 
30
  
  
 
36
  
  


(1) 
 Price/earnings ratio is computed by dividing the high and low market prices by diluted earnings per share for the preceding 12-month period ending on
the last day of the quarter presented. 
  - 90 -



Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  To the Board of Directors and
Stockholders of The Charles Schwab Corporation:    We have audited
the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Charles Schwab Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of the Company on page F-2. We also have audited the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company’s management is responsible for these
financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management’s
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement schedule and an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on
our audits.    We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and
whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
  A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed by, or under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company’s board of directors, management, and other personnel to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could
have a material effect on the financial statements.    Because of
the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely
basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.    In
our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to
the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
  /s/ Deloitte & Touche
LLP                                     
  San Francisco, California 
  February 23, 2012 
  - 91 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
   Management of The Charles Schwab Corporation, together with
its subsidiaries (the Company), is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of and
effected by the Company’s chief executive officer and chief financial officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of published financial statements in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.   As
of December 31, 2011, management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on the framework established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this assessment, management has determined that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011. 
  The Company’s internal control over financial reporting includes
policies and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and the directors
of the Company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the Company’s financial statements.
   The Company’s internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2011, has been audited by Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report appearing on the previous page. 
  - 92 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 


Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    None.   


Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures   
Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures: The management of the Company, with the participation of the Company’s Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) as of December 31, 2011. Based on this
evaluation, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2011. 
  Changes in internal control over financial reporting: No change in the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) was identified during the quarter ended December 31, 2011, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely
to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.    Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm are included in “Item 8 – Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.”   


Item 9B.
Other Information   
None.   
PART III   


Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance   
The information relating to directors of CSC required to be furnished pursuant to this item is incorporated by reference from portions of the
Company’s definitive proxy statement for its annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A by April 30, 2012 (the Proxy Statement) under “Members of the Board of Directors,”
“Corporate Governance Information,” “Director Nominations,” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.” The Company’s Code of Conduct and Business Ethics, applicable to directors and all
employees, including senior financial officers, is available on the Company’s website at http://www.aboutschwab.com/governance. If the Company makes any amendments to or grants any waivers from its Code of Conduct and Business Ethics,
which are required to be disclosed pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company will make such disclosures on this website. 
  - 93 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 
Executive Officers of the Registrant    The following table provides certain information about each of the Company’s executive officers as of December 31,
2011.    Executive Officers of the Registrant
  










 Name
  
Age
 
  
 Title





 Charles R. Schwab
  
 
74
  
  
Chairman of the Board





 Walter W. Bettinger II
  
 
51
  
  
President and Chief Executive Officer





 Jay L. Allen
  
 
55
  
  
Executive Vice President – Human Resources and Employee Services





 Benjamin L. Brigeman
  
 
49
  
  
Executive Vice President – Investor Services





 John S. Clendening
  
 
49
  
  
Executive Vice President – Shared Strategic Services





 Carrie E. Dwyer
  
 
61
  
  
Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary





 Joseph R. Martinetto
  
 
49
  
  
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer





 James D. McCool
  
 
53
  
  
Executive Vice President – Institutional Services
   Mr. Schwab has been Chairman of
the Board and a director of CSC since its incorporation in 1986. He also served as Chief Executive Officer of CSC from 1986 to 1997, and as Co-Chief Executive Officer from 1998 until 2003. He was re-appointed Chief Executive Officer in 2004 and
served in that role until 2008. Mr. Schwab is also Chairman of Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and Charles Schwab Bank, and a trustee of The Charles Schwab Family of Funds, Schwab Investments, Schwab Capital Trust, Schwab Annuity
Portfolios, Laudus Trust, and Laudus Institutional Trust, all registered investment companies.    Mr. Bettinger has been President and Chief Executive Officer of CSC since 2008. In 2010, he took on responsibility as Chief Executive Officer of Charles Schwab Bank. He also serves on the
Board of Directors of CSC, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and Charles Schwab Bank, and as a trustee of The Charles Schwab Family of Funds, Schwab Investments, Schwab Capital Trust, Schwab Annuity Portfolios, Laudus Trust, Laudus Institutional
Trust, and Schwab Strategic Trust, all registered investment companies. Prior to assuming his current role, Mr. Bettinger served as President and Chief Operating Officer of CSC from 2007 until 2008 and as Executive Vice President and President
– Schwab Investor Services of CSC and Schwab from 2005 to 2007. He served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer – Individual Investor Enterprise of CSC and Schwab from 2004 until 2005, and Executive Vice President –
Corporate Services of Schwab from 2002 until 2004. Mr. Bettinger joined Schwab in 1995.    Mr. Allen has been Executive Vice President – Human Resources and Employee Services of CSC and Schwab since 2007. He served as Senior Vice President – Human Resources of Schwab
Investor Services from 2004 to 2007. Mr. Allen joined Schwab in 2003 as Vice President – Human Resources of Schwab Investor Services.   
Mr. Brigeman served as Executive Vice President – Investor Services of CSC and Schwab from 2007 to February 2012. Mr. Brigeman was
Senior Vice President – Schwab Investor Services of Schwab from 2005 to 2007 and Senior Vice President – Schwab Retirement Plan Services of Schwab from 2000 to 2005. Mr. Brigeman joined Schwab in 1996. Mr. Brigeman stepped down
as Executive Vice President – Investor Services of CSC and Schwab, effective February 15, 2012. 
  - 94 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 
Mr. Clendening has been Executive Vice President – Shared Strategic Services of CSC and
Schwab since 2009. He served as Executive Vice President – Solution Services of CSC and Schwab from 2008 to 2009 and as Executive Vice President – Client Experience, Schwab Investor Services of CSC in 2007 and of Schwab from 2006 to 2008.
Mr. Clendening served as Executive Vice President and President – Individual Investor Enterprise Marketing of Schwab from 2005 to 2007. He joined Schwab in 2004 as Senior Vice President – Individual Investor Enterprise Marketing.
   Ms. Dwyer has been Executive Vice President, General
Counsel and Corporate Secretary of CSC and Executive Vice President – Corporate Oversight of Schwab since 1996. Ms. Dwyer joined Schwab in 1996.   
Mr. Martinetto has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of CSC and Schwab since 2007. Mr. Martinetto served as
Senior Vice President and Treasurer of CSC and Schwab from 2003 to 2007 and Senior Vice President – Individual Investor Finance of Schwab from 2002 to 2003. Mr. Martinetto joined Schwab in 1997. 
  Mr. McCool has been Executive Vice President – Institutional
Services of CSC and Schwab since 2008. Mr. McCool served as Executive Vice President – Schwab Corporate and Retirement Services of CSC from 2007 until 2008 and of Schwab from 2006 until 2008. Mr. McCool served as Senior Vice President
– Corporate Services of Schwab from 2004 until 2006. Mr. McCool also served as President and Chief Executive Officer of The Charles Schwab Trust Company (CSTC) from 2005 until 2007. Mr. McCool served as Senior Vice President –
Plan Administrative Services of CSTC from 2004 until 2005, Chief Operating Officer of CSTC from 2003 until 2004, and Vice President – Development and Business Technology of CSTC from 2002 until 2003. Mr. McCool joined Schwab in 1995.
  


Item 11.
Executive Compensation   
The information required to be furnished pursuant to this item is incorporated by reference from portions of the Proxy Statement under “Compensation
Discussion and Analysis,” “Executive Compensation Tables – 2011 Summary Compensation Table,” “Executive Compensation Tables – 2011 Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table,” “Executive Compensation Tables –
Narrative to Summary Compensation and Grants of Plan-Based Awards Tables,” “Executive Compensation Tables – 2011 Termination and Change in Control Benefits Table,” “Executive Compensation Tables – Outstanding Equity
Awards as of December 31, 2011,” “Executive Compensation Tables – 2011 Option Exercises and Stock Vested Table,” “Executive Compensation Tables – 2011 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Table,” “Director
Compensation,” and “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation.” In addition, the information from a portion of the Proxy Statement under “Compensation Committee Report,” is incorporated by reference from
the Proxy Statement and furnished on this Form 10-K, and shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the
Securities Act of 1933.   


Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
  The information required to be furnished pursuant to this item is
incorporated by reference from portions of the Proxy Statement under “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management,” and “Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans.” 
 


Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 
  The information required to be furnished pursuant to this item is
incorporated by reference from portions of the Proxy Statement under “Transactions with Related Persons” and “Director Independence.” 
  - 95 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 
  The information required to be furnished pursuant to this item is
incorporated by reference from a portion of the Proxy Statement under “Auditor Fees.”     
PART IV   


Item 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule   


(a)
Documents filed as part of this Report   
1. Financial Statements   
The financial statements and independent auditors’ report are included in “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” and
are listed below:    Consolidated Statements of Income 
  Consolidated Balance Sheets 
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
  Consolidated Statements of
Stockholders’ Equity    Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    2. Financial Statement Schedule    The financial statement schedule required to be furnished pursuant to this item is listed in the accompanying index appearing on page F-1.   


(b)
Exhibits   


The
exhibits listed below are filed as part of this annual report on Form 10-K.   










 Exhibit
Number
 
  
 Exhibit
  
 





 
2.1  
  
  
Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated March 18, 2011, by and among The Charles Schwab Corporation, Neon Acquisition Corp. and optionsXpress Holdings, Inc., filed as Exhibit 2.1
to the Registrant’s Form 8-K dated March 18, 2011 and incorporated herein by reference.
  






 
  3.11
  
  
Fifth Restated Certificate of Incorporation, effective May 7, 2001, of the Registrant, filed as Exhibit 3.11 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2011 and incorporated herein by reference.
  






 
  3.14
  
  
Fourth Restated Bylaws, as amended on January 27, 2010, of the Registrant, filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K dated January 27, 2010 and
incorporated herein by reference.
  






 
  3.15
  
  
Certificate of Designations of Fixed to Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A of The Charles Schwab Corporation filed as Exhibit 3.15 to the
Registrant’s Form 8-K dated January 24, 2012 and incorporated herein by reference.
  

  - 96 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 










 Exhibit
Number
 
  
 Exhibit
  
 





 
  4.2    
  
  
Neither the Registrant nor its subsidiaries are parties to any instrument with respect to long-term debt for which securities authorized thereunder exceed 10% of the total assets of
the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Copies of instruments with respect to long-term debt of lesser amounts will be provided to the SEC upon request.
  






 
10.1    
  
  
Voting Agreement, dated as of March 18, 2011, by and among The Charles Schwab Corporation, G-Bar Limited Partnership, JG 2002 delta Trust and optionsXpress Holdings, Inc.,
filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K dated March 18, 2011 and incorporated herein by reference.
  






 
10.4    
  
  
Form of Release Agreement dated as of March 31, 1987 among BAC, Registrant, Schwab Holdings, Inc., Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and former shareholders of Schwab Holdings,
Inc., filed as the identically-numbered exhibit to Registrant’s Registration Statement No. 33-16192 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference.
  






 
10.57  
  
  
Registration Rights and Stock Restriction Agreement, dated as of March 31, 1987, between the Registrant and the holders of the Common Stock, filed as Exhibit 4.23 to
Registrant’s Registration Statement No. 33-16192 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference.
  






 
10.72  
  
  
Restatement of Assignment and License, as amended January 25, 1988, among Charles Schwab & Co., Inc., Charles R. Schwab and the Registrant, filed as Exhibit 10.72 to
the Registrant’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 and incorporated herein by reference.
  






 
10.271
  
  
The Charles Schwab Corporation Directors’ Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended through December 8, 2004, filed as Exhibit 10.271 to the Registrant’s
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.272
  
  
The Charles Schwab Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended through December 8, 2004, filed as Exhibit 10.272 to the Registrant’s Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2009 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.288
  
  
Stock Purchase Agreement by and between the Registrant and Bank of America Corporation, dated as of November 19, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference.
  






 
10.289
  
  
Form of Notice and Restricted Stock Agreement for Walter W. Bettinger under The Charles Schwab Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan dated February 20, 2007, filed as
Exhibit 10.289 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.290
  
  
Summary of Non-Employee Director Compensation, filed as Exhibit 10.290 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 and incorporated herein
by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.294
  
  
Form of Notice and Restricted Stock Agreement for Joseph R. Martinetto under The Charles Schwab Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan dated May 18, 2007, filed as
Exhibit 10.294 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.295
  
  
Form of Notice and Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement for Joseph R. Martinetto under The Charles Schwab Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan dated May 18, 2007, filed as
Exhibit 10.295 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.296
  
  
Stock Purchase Agreement dated July 2, 2007, by and among Charles R. Schwab, Helen O. Schwab, The Charles & Helen Schwab Living Trust, HOS Family Partners, LLC, 188
Partners, LP, and the Charles & Helen Schwab Foundation, and The Charles Schwab Corporation, filed as Exhibit 10.296 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and incorporated herein by
reference.
  
(2)
  - 97 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 










 Exhibit
Number
 
  
 Exhibit
  
 





 
10.298
  
  
Directed Employee Benefit Trust Agreement under the SchwabPlan Retirement Savings and Investment Plan dated August 17, 2007, filed as Exhibit 10.298 to the
Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.300
  
  
The Charles Schwab Corporation Employee Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated as of December 12, 2007, filed as Exhibit 10.300 to the Registrant’s
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.301
  
  
The Charles Schwab Corporation 1992 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated as of December 12, 2007, filed as Exhibit 10.301 to the Registrant’s Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.302
  
  
The Charles Schwab Corporation 2001 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated as of December 12, 2007, filed as Exhibit 10.302 to the Registrant’s Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.306
  
  
Form of Notice and Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement under The Charles Schwab Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.306 to the Registrant’s
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.307
  
  
Form of Notice and Restricted Stock Agreement under The Charles Schwab Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.307 to the Registrant’s Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.309
  
  
Form of Notice and Premium-Priced Stock Option Agreement under The Charles Schwab Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.309 to the Registrant’s
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.311
  
  
Form of Notice and Restricted Stock Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under The Charles Schwab Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.311 to the
Registrant’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.312
  
  
Form of Notice and Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under The Charles Schwab Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.312 to the Registrant’s
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.314
  
  
Employment Agreement dated as of March 13, 2008, between the Registrant and Charles R. Schwab, filed as Exhibit 10.314 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.316
  
  
Form of Notice and Restricted Stock Agreement for Walter W. Bettinger under the Charles Schwab Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan dated October 1, 2008, filed as
Exhibit 10.316 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.317
  
  
Form of Notice and Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement for Walter W. Bettinger under The Charles Schwab Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan dated October 1, 2008, filed as
Exhibit 10.317 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.318
  
  
Form of Notice and Performance-Based Restricted Stock Agreement under the Charles Schwab Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.318 to the Registrant’s
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)
  - 98 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 










 Exhibit
Number
 
  
 Exhibit
  
 





 
10.319
  
  
Form of Notice and Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the Charles Schwab Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.319 to the
Registrant’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.321
  
  
The Charles Schwab Corporation Long Term Incentive Plan, as amended and restated as of October 23, 2008, filed as Exhibit 10.321 to the Registrant’s Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.322
  
  
The Charles Schwab Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan II, as amended and restated as of October 23, 2008, filed as Exhibit 10.322 to the Registrant’s
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.323
  
  
The Charles Schwab Corporation Directors’ Deferred Compensation Plan II, as amended and restated as of October 23, 2008, filed as Exhibit 10.323 to the
Registrant’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.327
  
  
The Charles Schwab Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated as of December 10, 2009, filed as Exhibit 10.327 to the Registrant’s Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2009 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.331
  
  
The Charles Schwab Corporation Corporate Executive Bonus Plan, restated to include amendments approved at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 13, 2010, filed as
Exhibit 10.331 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.332
  
  
Credit Agreement (364-Day Commitment) dated as of June 11, 2010, between the Registrant and the financial institutions listed therein, filed as Exhibit 10.332 to the
Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference.
  






 
10.333
  
  
Form of Notice and Retainer Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under The Charles Schwab Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.333
to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.335
  
  
Form of Notice and Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under The Charles Schwab Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.335 to the Registrant’s
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.336
  
  
Form of Notice and Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under The Charles Schwab Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.336 to the
Registrant’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.337
  
  
The Charles Schwab Severance Pay Plan, as amended and restated effective July 1, 2011, filed as Exhibit 10.337 to the Registrant’s Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.338
  
  
The Charles Schwab Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as approved at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 17, 2011 (supersedes Exhibit 10.327), filed as Exhibit 10.338
to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011 and incorporated herein by reference.
  
(2)





 
10.339
  
  
Credit Agreement (364 – Day Commitment) dated as of June 10, 2011, between the Registrant and financial institutions listed therein (supersedes Exhibit 10.332), filed as
Exhibit 10.339 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011 and incorporated herein by reference.
  

  - 99 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 








 Exhibit
Number
  
 Exhibit
  
 





  10.340
  
The Charles Schwab Severance Pay Plan, as Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2012 (supersedes Exhibit 10.337).
  
(2)





  10.341
  
Form of Notice and Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under The Charles Schwab Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (supersedes Exhibit 10.319).
  
(2)





  10.342
  
Form of Notice and Retainer Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under The Charles Schwab Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (supersedes exhibit
10.312).
  
(2)





  10.343
  
Form of Notice and Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under The Charles Schwab Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (supersedes Exhibit 10.336).
  
(2)





  10.344
  
Form of Notice and Retainer Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under The Charles Schwab Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (supersedes Exhibit
10.333).
  
(2)





  10.345
  
Form of Notice and Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement under The Charles Schwab Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (supersedes Exhibit 10.306).
  
(2)





  10.346
  
Form of Notice and Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under The Charles Schwab Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (supersedes Exhibit 10.335).
  
(2)





  10.347
  
Form of Notice and Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under The Charles Schwab Corporation Directors’ Deferred Compensation Plan II.
  
(2)





  12.1
  
Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
  






  21.1
  
Subsidiaries of the Registrant.
  






  23.1
  
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm’s Consent.
  






  31.1
  
Certification Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a), As Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
  






  31.2
  
Certification Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a), As Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
  






  32.1
  
Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
  
(1)





  32.2
  
Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
  
(1)





  101.INS
  
XBRL Instance Document
  
(3)





  101.SCH
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema
  
(3)





  101.CAL
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation
  
(3)





  101.DEF
  
XBRL Extension Definition
  
(3)





  101.LAB
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label
  
(3)
  - 100 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 








 Exhibit
Number
  
 Exhibit
  
 





  101.PRE
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation
  
(3)
  


(1)
Furnished as an exhibit to this annual report on Form 10-K. 
 


(2)
Management contract or compensatory plan.   


(3)
Attached as Exhibit 101 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the annual period ended December 31, 2011, are the following materials formatted in XBRL
(Extensible Business Reporting Language) (i) the Consolidated Statements of Income, (ii) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of
Stockholders’ Equity, and (v) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  - 101 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
 
SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on February 23, 2012. 
 






 THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION (Registrant)




BY:
 
/s/ Walter W. Bettinger II


 
Walter W. Bettinger II


 
President and Chief Executive Officer
   Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated, on February 23, 2012.   








 Signature / Title
 
  
 
 Signature / Title





 /s/ Walter W. Bettinger II
 

 
 /s/ Joseph R. Martinetto

 Walter W. Bettinger II,
 

 
 Joseph R. Martinetto,

 President and Chief Executive Officer
 

 
 Executive Vice President


 

 
     and Chief Financial Officer


 

 
 (principal financial and accounting officer)





 /s/ Charles R. Schwab
 

 
 /s/ Nancy H. Bechtle

 Charles R. Schwab, Chairman of the Board
 

 
 Nancy H. Bechtle, Director





 /s/ C. Preston Butcher
 

 
 /s/ Frank C. Herringer

 C. Preston Butcher, Director
 

 
 Frank C. Herringer, Director





 /s/ Stephen T. McLin
 

 
 /s/ Arun Sarin

 Stephen T. McLin, Director
 

 
 Arun Sarin, Director





 /s/ Paula A. Sneed
 

 
 /s/ Roger O. Walther

 Paula A. Sneed, Director
 

 
 Roger O. Walther, Director





 /s/ Robert N. Wilson
 

 


 Robert N. Wilson, Director
 

 


  - 102 -



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
  Index to Financial Statement
Schedule   






 
  
Page

 Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
  
F-2




 Supplemental Financial Data for Charles Schwab Bank (Unaudited)
  
F-3 – F-8
      
      Schedules not listed are omitted because of the absence of the conditions under which they are required or because the information is included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements
and notes in “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 
  F-1



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
  SCHEDULE II 
  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
 (In millions)   
























  
  
   Balance at  
 
  
Additions
 
  
 
 
  
   Balance at   
 

 Description
  
Beginning ofYear
 
  
     Charged    to Expense
 
  
    Other 
 (1)    
 
  
  Written off  
 
  
Endof Year
 

 For the year ended December 31, 2011:
  



  



  



  



  




 Allowance for doubtful accounts of brokerage clients (2)
  
$
1
  
  
$
6
  
  
$
3
  
  
$
(8)
  
  
$
2
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 For the year ended December 31, 2010:
  



  



  



  



  




 Allowance for doubtful accounts of brokerage clients (2)
  
$
2
  
  
$
3
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
(4)
  
  
$
1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 For the year ended December 31, 2009:
  



  



  



  



  




 Allowance for doubtful accounts of brokerage clients (2)
  
$
    4
  
  
$
    3
  
  
$
2
  
  
$
    (7)
  
  
$
    2
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Includes collections of previously written-off accounts.   


(2)
Excludes banking-related valuation and qualifying accounts. See “Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - 


    
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - 7. Loans to Banking Clients and Related Allowance for Loan Losses.” 
  F-2



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Supplemental Financial Data for Charles Schwab Bank (Unaudited) 
(Dollars in Millions)   
The following supplemental financial data is consistent with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Industry Guide 3 – Statistical Disclosure by Bank
Holding Companies. The accompanying unaudited financial information represents Charles Schwab Bank (Schwab Bank), which is a subsidiary of The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC). CSC is a savings and loan holding company and Schwab Bank is a federal
savings bank. The following information excludes intercompany balances and transactions with CSC and its affiliates.   


1.
Three-year Net Interest Revenue and Average Balances   








































 For the Year Ended December 31,
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
AverageBalance
 
 
   Interest   
 
 
   Average   Rate
 
 
   Average   Balance
 
 
   Interest   
 
 
   Average   Rate
 
 
   Average   Balance
 
 
   Interest   
 
 
   Average   Rate
 

 Assets:
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Cash and cash equivalents (1)
  
$
4,142
  
 
$
11
  
 
 
0.27
% 
 
$
5,890
  
 
$
16
  
 
 
0.27
% 
 
$
6,352
  
 
$
26
  
 
 
0.40
% 

 Securities available for sale (2)
  
 
27,477
  
 
 
456
  
 
 
1.66
% 
 
 
24,209
  
 
 
486
  
 
 
2.01
% 
 
 
18,558
  
 
 
521
  
 
 
2.81
% 

 Securities held to maturity
  
 
16,050
  
 
 
492
  
 
 
3.07
% 
 
 
10,440
  
 
 
361
  
 
 
3.46
% 
 
 
1,915
  
 
 
74
  
 
 
3.86
% 

 Loans to banking clients (3)
  
 
9,468
  
 
 
310
  
 
 
3.27
% 
 
 
7,983
  
 
 
275
  
 
 
3.44
% 
 
 
6,668
  
 
 
241
  
 
 
3.61
% 

 Loans held for sale
  
 
65
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
4.62
% 
 
 
80
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
5.00
% 
 
 
110
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
4.55
% 

 Other interest-earning assets
  
 
50
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
2.00
% 
 
 
51
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
1.96
% 
 
 
30
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.49
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total interest-earning assets
  
 
57,252
  
 
 
1,273
  
 
 
2.22
% 
 
 
48,653
  
 
 
1,143
  
 
 
2.35
% 
 
 
33,633
  
 
 
867
  
 
 
2.58
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net unrealized gain (loss) on securities available for sale
  
 
64
  
 



 



 
 
(109
) 
 



 



 
 
(614
) 
 



 




 Noninterest-earning assets
  
 
212
  
 



 



 
 
297
  
 



 



 
 
331
  
 



 





  
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 




 Total Assets
  
$
    57,528
  
 



 



 
$
    48,841
  
 



 



 
$
    33,350
  
 



 





  
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 




 Liabilities and Stockholder’s Equity:
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Interest-bearing banking deposits
  
$
52,701
  
 
 
62
  
 
 
0.12
% 
 
$
44,858
  
 
 
105
  
 
 
0.23
% 
 
$
31,249
  
 
 
107
  
 
 
0.34
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total sources on which interest is paid
  
 
52,701
  
 
 
62
  
 
 
0.12
% 
 
 
44,858
  
 
 
105
  
 
 
0.23
% 
 
 
31,249
  
 
 
107
  
 
 
0.34
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Noninterest-bearing liabilities
  
 
345
  
 



 



 
 
299
  
 



 



 
 
513
  
 



 




 Stockholder’s equity
  
 
4,482
  
 



 



 
 
3,684
  
 



 



 
 
1,588
  
 



 





  
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 




 Total Liabilities and Stockholder’s Equity
  
$
57,528
  
 



 



 
$
48,841
  
 



 



 
$
33,350
  
 



 





  
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 




 Net interest revenue
  



 
$
1,211
  
 



 



 
$
1,038
  
 



 



 
$
760
  
 





  



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 




 Net yield on interest-earning assets
  



 



 
 
2.12
% 
 



 



 
 
2.13
% 
 



 



 
 
2.26
% 


  



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 Includes deposits with banks, short-term investments, and federal funds
sold.   


(2)
 Amounts have been calculated based on amortized cost.
  


(3)
 Includes average principal balances of nonaccrual loans.

  F-3



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Supplemental Financial Data for Charles Schwab Bank (Unaudited) 
(Dollars in Millions)   


2.
Analysis of Change in Net Interest Revenue   
An analysis of the year-to-year changes in the categories of interest revenue and interest expense resulting from changes in volume and rate is as
follows:   




























 
  
2011 Compared to 2010Increase
(Decrease) Due toChange in:
 
 
2010 Compared to 2009Increase
(Decrease) Due toChange in:
 

 
  
 Average Volume
 
 
AverageRate
 
 
Total
 
 
 Average Volume
 
 
  Average  Rate
 
 
    Total    
 

 Interest-earning assets:
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Cash and cash equivalents (1)
  
$
(4
) 
 
$
(1
) 
 
$
(5
) 
 
$
(2
) 
 
$
(8
) 
 
$
(10
) 

 Securities available for sale (2)
  
 
65
  
 
 
(95
) 
 
 
(30
) 
 
 
159
  
 
 
(194
) 
 
 
(35
) 

 Securities held to maturity
  
 
194
  
 
 
(63
) 
 
 
131
  
 
 
329
  
 
 
(42
) 
 
 
287
  

 Loans to banking clients (3) 
  
 
51
  
 
 
(16
) 
 
 
35
  
 
 
47
  
 
 
(13
) 
 
 
34
  

 Loans held for sale
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1
) 

 Other interest-earning assets
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
1
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total interest-earning assets
  
$
305
  
 
$
(175
) 
 
$
130
  
 
$
532
  
 
$
(256
) 
 
$
276
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Interest-bearing sources of funds:
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Interest-bearing banking deposits
  
$
18
  
 
$
(61
) 
 
$
(43
) 
 
$
46
  
 
$
(48
) 
 
$
(2
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total sources on which interest is paid
  
$
18
  
 
$
(61
) 
 
$
(43
) 
 
$
46
  
 
$
(48
) 
 
$
(2
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Change in net interest revenue
  
$
    287
  
 
$
(114
) 
 
$
    173
  
 
$
    486
  
 
$
(208
) 
 
$
    278
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Changes
that are not due solely to volume or rate have been allocated to rate.   


(1)
 Includes deposits
with banks and short-term investments.   


(2)
 Amounts have been
calculated based on amortized cost.   


(3)
 Includes average
principal balances of nonaccrual loans. 
  F-4



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Supplemental Financial Data for Charles Schwab Bank (Unaudited) 
(Dollars in Millions)   
 


3.
Securities Available for Sale and Securities Held to Maturity 
  The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, and fair value of
securities available for sale and securities held to maturity are as follows:   




















 December 31, 2011
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
Gross   Unrealized   Gains
 
  
Gross   Unrealized   Losses
 
  
   Fair   Value
 

 Securities available for sale:
  



  



  



  




 U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
$
20,666
  
  
$
269
  
  
$
14
  
  
$
20,921
  

 Non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
1,130
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
223
  
  
 
907
  

 Certificates of deposit
  
 
3,623
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
3,622
  

 Corporate debt securities
  
 
3,592
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
26
  
  
 
3,571
  

 U.S. agency notes
  
 
1,795
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,800
  

 Asset-backed and other securities
  
 
3,136
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
3,136
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total securities available for sale
  
$
33,942
  
  
$
288
  
  
$
273
  
  
$
33,957
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Securities held to maturity:
  



  



  



  




 U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
$
14,770
  
  
$
430
  
  
$
2
  
  
$
15,198
  

 Other securities
  
 
338
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
341
  

 Total securities held to maturity
  
$
    15,108
  
  
$
    433
  
  
$
    2
  
  
$
    15,539
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 







 December 31, 2010
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
FairValue
 

 Securities available for sale:
  



  



  



  




 U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
$
12,879
  
  
$
222
  
  
$
3
  
  
$
13,098
  

 Non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
1,701
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
234
  
  
 
1,470
  

 Certificates of deposit
  
 
1,874
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,875
  

 Corporate debt securities
  
 
2,261
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
2,268
  

 U.S. agency notes
  
 
2,757
  
  
 
23
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,780
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
2,495
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
2,502
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total securities available for sale
  
$
23,967
  
  
$
266
  
  
$
240
  
  
$
23,993
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Securities held to maturity:
  



  



  



  




 U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
$
16,722
  
  
$
209
  
  
$
137
  
  
$
16,794
  

 Other securities
  
 
1,040
  
  
 
14
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,054
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total securities held to maturity
  
$
17,762
  
  
$
223
  
  
$
137
  
  
$
17,848
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  F-5



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Supplemental Financial Data for Charles Schwab Bank (Unaudited) 
(Dollars in Millions)   




















 December 31, 2009
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
Gross   Unrealized   Gains
 
  
Gross   Unrealized   Losses
 
  
   Fair   Value
 

 Securities available for sale:
  



  



  



  




 U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
$
11,601
  
  
$
199
  
  
$
21
  
  
$
11,779
  

 Non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
2,460
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
519
  
  
 
1,941
  

 Certificates of deposit
  
 
1,950
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,953
  

 Corporate debt securities
  
 
2,368
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
2,380
  

 U.S. agency notes
  
 
2,975
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
2,978
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
1,077
  
  
 
12
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,089
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total securities available for sale
  
$
22,431
  
  
$
231
  
  
$
542
  
  
$
22,120
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Securities held to maturity:
  



  



  



  




 U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
$
5,105
  
  
$
36
  
  
$
27
  
  
$
5,114
  

 Other securities
  
 
1,734
  
  
 
32
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,766
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total securities held to maturity
  
$
    6,839
  
  
$
    68
  
  
$
    27
  
  
$
    6,880
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The maturities and related weighted-average
yields of securities available for sale and securities held to maturity at December 31, 2011, are as follows:   
























 
  
 
 
 
After 1 year
 
 
After 5 years
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
Within 1year
 
 
through5 years
 
 
through10 years
 
 
After10 years
 
 
Total
 

 Securities available for sale:
  



 



 



 



 




 U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities (1)
  
$
—
  
 
$
2
  
 
$
2,950
  
 
$
17,969
  
 
$
20,921
  

 Non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities (1)
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
894
  
 
 
907
  

 Certificates of deposit
  
 
1,897
  
 
 
1,725
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3,622
  

 Corporate debt securities
  
 
954
  
 
 
2,517
  
 
 
100
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3,571
  

 U.S. agency notes
  
 
—
  
 
 
1,800
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,800
  

 Asset-backed and other securities
  
 
225
  
 
 
812
  
 
 
534
  
 
 
1,565
  
 
 
3,136
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fair value
  
$
    3,076
  
 
$
    6,856
  
 
$
    3,597
  
 
$
    20,428
  
 
$
    33,957
  

 Total amortized cost
  
$
3,076
  
 
$
6,871
  
 
$
3,512
  
 
$
20,483
  
 
$
33,942
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted-average yield (2)
  
 
1.29
% 
 
 
1.11
% 
 
 
1.83
% 
 
 
1.70
% 
 
 
1.56
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Securities held to maturity:
  



 



 



 



 




 U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities (1)
  
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
2,581
  
 
$
12,617
  
 
$
15,198
  

 Other securities
  
 
117
  
 
 
224
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
341
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fair value
  
$
117
  
 
$
224
  
 
$
2,581
  
 
$
12,617
  
 
$
15,539
  

 Total amortized cost
  
$
116
  
 
$
222
  
 
$
2,507
  
 
$
12,263
  
 
$
15,108
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted-average yield (2)
  
 
2.67
% 
 
 
3.00
% 
 
 
2.57
% 
 
 
2.59
% 
 
 
2.60
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Residential mortgage-backed securities have been allocated over maturity groupings based on final contractual maturities. Actual maturities will differ
from final contractual maturities because borrowers on a certain portion of loans underlying these have the right to prepay their obligations. 
 


(2) 
 The weighted-average yield is computed using the amortized cost at December 31, 2011. 
  F-6



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Supplemental Financial Data for Charles Schwab Bank (Unaudited) 
(Dollars in Millions)   


4.
Cross-border Holdings   
The table below sets forth the amount of Schwab Bank’s cross-border holdings, based on carrying value, as of December 31, 2011. Such holdings,
by country, that exceed 1% of total assets are disclosed separately, and such holdings, by country, that are between 0.75% and 1% of total assets are listed in the aggregate. Cross-border holdings are comprised of cash equivalents, securities
available for sale, and securities held to maturity.   












 
  
Banks and other
 
  
Exposure as a %
 

 Country
  
financial institutions
 
  
of total assets
 

 United Kingdom
  
$
1,450
  
  
 
2.2
% 

 Canada
  
 
1,098
  
  
 
1.7
% 

 Sweden
  
 
712
  
  
 
1.1
% 

 Switzerland, France and Australia
  
 
1,849
  
  
 
2.8
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
5,109
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



   As of December 31, 2010, cross-border
holdings in the United Kingdom were $1.5 billion (2.7% of total assets). As of December 31, 2009, cross-border holdings in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom were $351 million (0.8% of total assets) and $983 million (2.3% of total
assets), respectively.   


5.
Loans to Banking Clients and Related Allowance for Loan Losses 
  The composition of the loan portfolio is as follows: 
 
























 December 31,
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Residential real estate mortgages
  
$
    5,596
  
 
$
    4,695
  
 
$
    3,710
  
 
$
    3,195
  
 
$
    2,101
  

 Home equity lines of credit
  
 
3,509
  
 
 
3,500
  
 
 
3,304
  
 
 
2,662
  
 
 
1,234
  

 Personal loans secured by securities
  
 
742
  
 
 
562
  
 
 
366
  
 
 
187
  
 
 
102
  

 Other
  
 
16
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
18
  
 
 
13
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total loans to banking clients
  
$
9,863
  
 
$
8,773
  
 
$
7,391
  
 
$
6,062
  
 
$
3,450
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 








 An analysis of nonaccrual loans is as follows:
  



 



 



 



 











 December 31,
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 
 
    2008    
 
 
    2007    
 

 Nonaccrual loans
  
$
    52
  
 
$
    51
  
 
$
    34
  
 
$
    8
  
 
$
    4
  

 Average nonaccrual loans
  
$
51
  
 
$
40
  
 
$
17
  
 
$
6
  
 
$
1
  








 Changes in the allowance for loan losses were as follows:
  



 



 



 



 











 December 31,
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 
 
    2008    
 
 
    2007    
 

 Balance at beginning of year
  
$
    53
  
 
$
    45
  
 
$
    20
  
 
$
    7
  
 
$
    4
  

 Charge-offs
  
 
(19
) 
 
 
(20
) 
 
 
(13
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
—
  

 Recoveries
  
 
2
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Provision for loan losses
  
 
18
  
 
 
27
  
 
 
38
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
3
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at end of year
  
$
54
  
 
$
53
  
 
$
45
  
 
$
20
  
 
$
7
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-7



Table of Contents
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 
Supplemental Financial Data for Charles Schwab Bank (Unaudited) 
(Dollars in Millions)   
The maturities of the loan portfolio at December 31, 2011, are as follows: 
 




















 
 
 
 
  
After 1 year
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
 
    Within    1 year
 
  
    through    5 years
 
  
    After    5 years
 
  
    Total    
 

 Residential real estate mortgages (1)
 
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
 5,596
  
  
$
 5,596
  

 Home equity lines of credit (2)
 
 
—
  
  
 
1,074
  
  
 
2,435
  
  
 
3,509
  

 Personal loans secured by securities
 
 
52
  
  
 
690
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
742
  

 Other
 
 
5
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
16
  


 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
 
$
    57
  
  
$
    1,764
  
  
$
    8,042
  
  
$
    9,863
  


 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Maturities are based upon the contractual terms of the loans. 


(2) 
 Maturities are based on an initial draw period of 10 years. 
  The interest sensitivity of loans with contractual maturities in excess of
one year at December 31, 2011, is as follows:   








 
  
After 1year
 

 Loans with predetermined interest rates
  
$
473
  

 Loans with floating or adjustable interest rates
  
 
9,333
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
    9,806
  


  
  
  
 
  


6.
Summary of Credit Loss on Banking Loans Experience   
























 December 31,
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Average loans
  
$
    9,468
  
 
$
    7,983
  
 
$
    6,668
  
 
$
    4,831
  
 
$
    2,786
  

 Allowance to year end loans
  
 
.55
% 
 
 
.60
% 
 
 
.61
% 
 
 
.33
% 
 
 
.20
% 

 Allowance to nonperforming loans
  
 
104
% 
 
 
104
% 
 
 
132
% 
 
 
235
% 
 
 
173
% 

 Nonperforming assets to average loans and real estate owned
  
 
.59
% 
 
 
.68
% 
 
 
.51
% 
 
 
.18
% 
 
 
.14
% 
  


7.
Deposits from Banking Clients   




























 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
Amount
 
  
      Rate      
 
 
Amount
 
  
      Rate      
 
 
Amount
 
  
      Rate      
 

 Analysis of average daily deposits:
  



  



 



  



 



  




 Certificates of deposit of $100,000 or more
  
$
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
$
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
$
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Money market and other savings deposits
  
 
42,342
  
  
 
        0.09
% 
 
 
35,794
  
  
 
        0.18
% 
 
 
24,879
  
  
 
        0.14
% 

 Interest-bearing demand deposits
  
 
10,359
  
  
 
0.22
% 
 
 
9,064
  
  
 
0.45
% 
 
 
6,370
  
  
 
0.60
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total deposits
  
$
    52,701
  
  



 
$
    44,858
  
  



 
$
    31,249
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



   At December 31, 2011, the Company had
one certificate of deposit of $100,000 or more, in the amount of $501,784, with a contractual maturity of over twelve months.   


8.
Ratios   
















 December 31,
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Return on average stockholder’s equity
  
 
13.99
% 
 
 
14.22
% 
 
 
21.95
% 

 Return on average total assets
  
 
1.10
% 
 
 
1.07
% 
 
 
1.05
% 

 Average stockholder’s equity as a percentage of average total assets
  
 
7.83
% 
 
 
7.54
% 
 
 
4.76
% 

  F-8




