
10-K
1
d245246d10k.htm
10-K


10-K


Table of Contents
UNITED STATES  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549 
  FORM 10-K 
  x ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 
  OR 
  ¨ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934    For the transition period from                              to
                             
  Commission file number: 001-08052 
  TORCHMARK CORPORATION 
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   






Delaware
 
63-0780404

(State or other jurisdiction ofincorporation or organization)
 
(I.R.S. EmployerIdentification No.)




3700 South Stonebridge Drive, McKinney, TX
 
75070

(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(Zip Code)
   972-569-4000 
(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)   
None  (Former name, former address and
former fiscal year, if changed since last report)    Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   








 Title of each class
 
 CUSIP
 
 Name of each exchange onwhich registered

Common Stock, $1.00 par value per share
 
891027104
 
New York Stock Exchange

Common Stock, $1.00 par value per share
 
891027104
 
The International Stock Exchange, London, England

7.10% Trust Originated Preferred Securities
 
89102W208
 
New York Stock Exchange
   Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:     None   
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes  x      No  
¨     
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required
to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
Yes  ¨      No  x     
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes  x      No  ¨     
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. ¨ 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).
Yes  x      No  ¨     
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated
filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act. (Check one):   








 Large accelerated filer       x
  
Accelerated filer
 
¨

 Non-accelerated filer         ¨
  
Smaller reporting company
 
¨

 (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
 

   Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
Yes  ¨      No  x   
As of June 30, 2011, the aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was
$4,506,812,451 based on the closing sale price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.    Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer’s classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.   






 Class
  
 Outstanding at February 14, 2012

Common Stock, $1.00 par value per share
  
100,186,568 shares  
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE   






 Document
  
 Parts Into Which Incorporated

Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to beheld April 26, 2012 (Proxy Statement)
  
Part III


Table of Contents
TORCHMARK CORPORATION 
INDEX   












  
  
 
  
 
  
Page
 






 PART I.
  

  

  










  
 Item 1.
  
 Business
  
 
  1
  







  
 Item 1A.
  
 Risk Factors 
  
 
  6
  







  
 Item 1B.
  
 Unresolved Staff Comments 
  
 
12
  







  
 Item 2.
  
 Properties
  
 
13
  







  
 Item 3.
  
 Legal Proceedings
  
 
13
  







  
 Item 4.
  
 Mine Safety Disclosures
  
 
14
  






 PART II.
  

  

  










  
 Item 5.
  
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
  
 
15
  







  
 Item 6.
  
 Selected Financial Data
  
 
17
  







  
 Item 7.
  
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  
 
18
  







  
 Item 7A.
  
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
  
 
54
  







  
 Item 8.
  
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
55
  







  
 Item 9.
  
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
 
110
  







  
 Item 9A.
  
 Controls and Procedures
  
 
110
  







  
 Item 9B.
  
 Other Information 
  
 
110
  






 PART III.
  

  

  










  
 Item 10.
  
 Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance
  
 
113
  







  
 Item 11.
  
 Executive Compensation
  
 
113
  







  
 Item 12.
  
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
  
 
113
  







  
 Item 13.
  
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 
  
 
113
  







  
 Item 14.
  
 Principal Accountant Fees and Services
  
 
113
  






 PART IV.
  

  

  










  
 Item 15.
  
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
  
 
114
 



Table of Contents
PART I    Item 1.    Business 
  Torchmark Corporation (Torchmark) is an insurance holding company
incorporated in Delaware in 1979. Its primary subsidiaries are American Income Life Insurance Company (American Income), Liberty National Life Insurance Company (Liberty), Globe Life And Accident Insurance Company (Globe), and United American
Insurance Company (United American).    Torchmark’s
website is: www.torchmarkcorp.com. Torchmark makes available free of charge through its website, its annual report on Form 10-K, its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as
reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   
The following table presents Torchmark’s business by primary marketing distribution method. 
 










PrimaryDistribution Method
 
Company
 
Products and Target Markets
 
Distribution

   

American Income Exclusive Agency
 
 American Income Life Insurance Company
Waco, Texas
 
Individual life and supplemental health insurance marketed to union and credit union members.
 
4,381 producing agents in the U.S., Canada, and New Zealand.



  

Direct Response
 
 Globe Life And Accident Insurance Company
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
 
Individual life and supplemental health insurance including juvenile and senior life coverage, Medicare Supplement, and Medicare Part D marketed to middle-income Americans.
 
Direct mail, internet, television, magazine; nationwide.

  

Liberty National Exclusive Agency
 
 Liberty National Life Insurance Company
McKinney, Texas
 
Individual life and supplemental health insurance marketed to middle-income families.
 
1,345 producing agents; 64 branch offices.



  

United American Independent Agency
 
 United AmericanInsurance Company
McKinney, Texas
 
Supplemental limited-benefit health coverage to people under age 65, Medicare Supplement and Medicare Part D coverage to Medicare beneficiaries and, to a lesser extent, life
insurance.
 
1,447 independent producing agents in the U.S. and Canada.
   Additional information concerning
industry segments may be found in Management’s Discussion and Analysis and in Note 14—Business Segments in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  1 


Table of Contents
Insurance 
  Life Insurance    Torchmark’s insurance subsidiaries write a variety of nonparticipating ordinary life insurance products. These
include traditional and interest sensitive whole-life insurance, term life insurance, and other life insurance. The following table presents selected information about Torchmark’s life products. 
 
















 
  
Annualized Premium in Force(Amounts in
thousands)
 

 
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 
  
    2009    
 

 Whole life:
  



  



  




 Traditional
  
$
1,153,621
  
  
$
1,115,777
  
  
$
1,077,347
  

 Interest-sensitive
  
 
68,832
  
  
 
76,248
  
  
 
80,229
  

 Term
  
 
524,784
  
  
 
499,814
  
  
 
483,064
  

 Other
  
 
66,468
  
  
 
61,207
  
  
 
53,762
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
1,813,705
  
  
$
1,753,046
  
  
$
1,694,402
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The distribution methods for life
insurance products include sales by direct response, exclusive agents and independent agents. These methods are described in more depth in the Distribution Method chart earlier in this report. The following table presents life annualized premium in
force by distribution method.   
















 
  
Annualized Premium in Force(Amounts in
thousands)
 

 
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 
  
    2009    
 

 Direct response
  
$
630,044
  
  
$
602,593
  
  
$
578,223
  

 Exclusive agents:
  



  



  




 American Income
  
 
642,803
  
  
 
596,583
  
  
 
549,540
  

 Liberty National
  
 
302,489
  
  
 
310,475
  
  
 
317,413
  

 Independent agents:
  



  



  




 United American
  
 
22,203
  
  
 
24,726
  
  
 
27,740
  

 Other
  
 
216,166
  
  
 
218,669
  
  
 
221,486
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
1,813,705
  
  
$
1,753,046
  
  
$
1,694,402
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Health Insurance 
  Torchmark offers supplemental limited-benefit health insurance
products that include primarily cancer and accident plans. These policies are designed to supplement health coverage that applicants already own. Medicare Supplements are also offered to enrollees in the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program.
Medicare Supplement plans are standardized by federal regulation and are designed to pay deductibles and co-payments not paid by Medicare. We also offer Medicare Part D prescription drug insurance. 
  2 


Table of Contents
The following table presents supplemental health annualized premium in force information for the three
years ended December 31, 2011 by product category.   




























 
  
Annualized Premium in Force (Amounts in thousands)
 

 
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 
  
2009
 

 
  
  Amount  
 
  
% ofTotal
 
  
  Amount  
 
  
% ofTotal
 
  
  Amount  
 
  
% ofTotal
 

 Medicare Supplement
  
$
451,773
  
  
 
44
  
  
$
461,386
  
  
 
47
  
  
$
474,987
  
  
 
46
  

 Limited-benefit plans
  
 
281,633
  
  
 
28
  
  
 
308,899
  
  
 
32
  
  
 
354,254
  
  
 
35
  

 Medicare Part D
  
 
282,987
  
  
 
28
  
  
 
203,340
  
  
 
21
  
  
 
197,319
  
  
 
19
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Health
  
$
1,016,393
  
  
 
100
  
  
$
973,625
  
  
 
100
  
  
$
1,026,560
  
  
 
100
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The following table presents
supplemental health annualized premium in force for the three years ended December 31, 2011 by marketing (distribution) method.   
















 
  
Annualized Premium in Force(Amounts in
thousands)
 

 
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 
  
    2009    
 

 Direct response
  
$
58,512
  
  
$
57,014
  
  
$
55,108
  

 Exclusive agents:
  



  



  




 Liberty National
  
 
284,204
  
  
 
316,839
  
  
 
365,027
  

 American Income
  
 
72,991
  
  
 
74,049
  
  
 
71,836
  

 Independent agents:
  



  



  




 United American
  
 
317,699
  
  
 
322,383
  
  
 
337,270
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
733,406
  
  
 
770,285
  
  
 
829,241
  

 Medicare Part D
  
 
282,987
  
  
 
203,340
  
  
 
197,319
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
1,016,393
  
  
$
973,625
  
  
$
1,026,560
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Annuities 
  Annuity products offered include single-premium and flexible-premium
deferred annuities. Annuities in each of the three years ending December 31, 2011 comprised less than 1% of premium.   
Pricing   
Premium rates for life and health insurance products are established using assumptions as to future mortality, morbidity, persistency, and expenses,
all of which are generally based on Company experience and on projected investment earnings. Revenues for individual life and health insurance products are primarily derived from premium income, and, to a lesser extent, through policy charges to the
policyholder account values on certain individual life products. Profitability is affected to the extent actual experience deviates from the assumptions made in pricing and to the extent investment income varies from that which is required for
policy reserves.    Collections for annuity products and
certain life products are not recognized as revenues but are added to policyholder account values. Revenues from these products are derived from charges to the account balances for insurance risk and administrative costs. Profits are earned to the
extent these revenues exceed actual costs. Profits are also earned from investment income on the deposits invested in excess of the amounts credited to policyholder accounts. 
  3 


Table of Contents
Underwriting   
The underwriting standards of each Torchmark insurance subsidiary are established by management. Each subsidiary uses information from the
application and, in some cases, telephone interviews with applicants, inspection reports, doctors’ statements and/or medical examinations to determine whether a policy should be issued in accordance with the application, with a different
rating, with a rider, with reduced coverage or rejected.    Reserves
   The life insurance policy reserves reflected in
Torchmark’s financial statements as future policy benefits are calculated based on generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). These reserves, with premiums to be received in the future and the interest thereon compounded annually at
assumed rates, must be sufficient to cover policy and contract obligations as they mature. Generally, the mortality and persistency assumptions used in the calculations of reserves are based on Company experience. Similar reserves are held on most
of the health policies written by Torchmark’s insurance subsidiaries, since these policies generally are issued on a guaranteed-renewable basis. A list of the assumptions used in the calculation of Torchmark’s reserves are reported in the
financial statements (See Note 6—Future Policy Benefit Reserves in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Reserves for annuity products and certain life products consist of the
policyholders’ account values and are increased by policyholder deposits and interest credited and are decreased by policy charges and benefit payments.   
Investments   
The nature, quality, and percentage mix of insurance company investments are regulated by state laws. The investments of Torchmark insurance
subsidiaries consist predominantly of high-quality, investment-grade securities. Fixed maturities represented 96% of total investments at fair value at December 31, 2011. (See Note 4—Investments in the Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements and Management’s Discussion and Analysis.)   
Competition   
Torchmark competes with other insurance carriers through policyholder service, price, product design, and sales efforts. While there are insurance
companies competing with Torchmark, no individual company dominates any of Torchmark’s life or health markets.   
Torchmark’s health insurance products compete with, in addition to the products of other health insurance carriers, health maintenance
organizations, preferred provider organizations, and other health care-related institutions which provide medical benefits based on contractual agreements.   
Management believes Torchmark companies operate at lower policy acquisition and administrative expense levels than peer companies. This allows
Torchmark to have competitive rates while maintaining higher underwriting margins.    Regulation   
Insurance.    Insurance companies are subject to regulation and supervision in the states in which they do business. The
laws of the various states establish agencies with broad administrative and supervisory powers which include, among other things, granting and revoking licenses to transact business, regulating trade practices, licensing agents, approving policy
forms, approving certain premium rates, setting minimum reserve and loss ratio requirements, determining the form and content of required financial statements, and prescribing the type and amount of investments permitted. They are also required to
file detailed annual reports with supervisory agencies, and records of their business are subject to examination at any time. Under the rules of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), insurance companies are examined
periodically by one or more of the supervisory agencies. 
  4 


Table of Contents
Risk Based Capital.    The NAIC requires a risk based capital formula be
applied to all life and health insurers. The risk based capital formula is a threshold formula rather than a target capital formula. It is designed only to identify companies that require regulatory attention and is not to be used to rate or rank
companies that are adequately capitalized. All Torchmark insurance subsidiaries are more than adequately capitalized under the risk based capital formula.   
Guaranty Assessments.    State guaranty laws provide for assessments from insurance companies to be placed into a fund
which is used, in the event of failure or insolvency of an insurance company, to fulfill the obligations of that company to its policyholders. The amount which a company is assessed is determined according to the extent of these unsatisfied
obligations in each state. Assessments are recoverable to a great extent as offsets against state premium taxes.   
Holding Company.    States have enacted legislation requiring registration and periodic reporting by insurance companies
domiciled within their respective jurisdictions that control or are controlled by other corporations so as to constitute a holding company system. Torchmark and its subsidiaries have registered as a holding company system pursuant to such
legislation in Indiana, Nebraska, and New York.    Insurance
holding company system statutes and regulations impose various limitations on investments in subsidiaries, and may require prior regulatory approval for material transactions between insurers and affiliates and for the payment of certain dividends
and other distributions.    Personnel 
  At the end of 2011, Torchmark had 2,249 employees and 938 licensed
employees under sales contracts. 
  5 


Table of Contents
Item 1A.    Risk Factors 
  Risks Related to Our Business 
  Product Marketplace and Operational Risks: 
  The insurance industry is a mature, regulated industry, populated by
many firms. We operate in the life and health insurance sections of the insurance industry, each with its own set of risks.   
The development and maintenance of our various distribution systems are critical to growth in product sales and
profits.    Because our life and health insurance sales are primarily made to individuals, rather than groups, and the face amounts sold are lower than that of policies sold in the higher income market, the development,
maintenance, and retention of adequate numbers of producing agents and direct response systems to support growth of sales in this market are critical. We compete for producing agents with other insurers primarily on the basis of our products and
compensation. Adequate compensation that is competitive with other employment opportunities and that also motivates producing agents to increase sales is critical, as our competitors seek to hire away our agents from time to time. Increased
competition has led to a reduction in agents in our United American Branch Office Agency and United American Independent Agency, which have historically been our major health distribution channels. In direct response, continuous development of new
offerings and cost efficiency are key. Less than optimum execution of these strategies may result in reduced sales and profits.   
Economic conditions may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We serve primarily the middle-income market for
individual protection life and health insurance and, as a result, we compete directly with alternative uses of a customer’s disposable income. If disposable income within this demographic group declines or the use of disposable income becomes
more limited, as a result of an economic downturn or otherwise, then new sales of our insurance products could become more challenging, and our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether.
   Variations in expected to actual rates of mortality,
morbidity, and persistency could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.    We establish a liability for our policy reserves to pay future policyholder benefits and claims. These reserves do not
represent an exact calculation of liability, but rather are actuarial estimates based on models that include many assumptions and projections which are inherently uncertain. The reserve computations involve the exercise of significant judgment with
respect to levels of mortality, morbidity, and persistency as well as the timing of premium and benefit payments. Even though our actuaries continually test expected-to-actual results, actual levels that occur may differ significantly from the
levels assumed when premium rates were first set. Accordingly, we cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts of claims or benefits that we will pay or the timing of such payments. Significant variations from the levels assumed when policy
reserves are first set could negatively affect our profit margins and income.    A ratings downgrade or other negative action by a rating agency could materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.    Various rating
agencies review the financial performance and condition of insurers, including our insurance subsidiaries, and publish their financial strength ratings as indicators of an insurer’s ability to meet policyholder and contract holder obligations.
These ratings are important to maintaining public confidence in our insurance products, our ability to market these products and our competitive position. A downgrade or other negative action by a rating agency with respect to the financial strength
ratings of our insurance subsidiaries could negatively affect us in many ways, including the following: limiting or restricting the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us and adversely affecting our ability to sell insurance
products through our independent agencies.    Rating agencies
also publish credit ratings for us. Credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuer’s ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner. These ratings are important to our overall ability to access certain types of liquidity.
Actual or anticipated downgrades in our credit ratings, or an announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, could have a material adverse effect on our operations, including limiting our access to capital markets,
increasing the cost of debt, 
  6 


Table of Contents

impairing our ability to raise capital to refinance maturing debt obligations, limiting our capacity to support growth at our insurance subsidiaries, and making it more difficult to maintain or
improve the current financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries.    Ratings reflect only the rating agency’s views and are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities. Rating agencies assign ratings based upon several factors. While most of the factors relate to
the rated company, some of the factors relate to the views of the rating agency, general economic conditions and circumstances outside the rated company’s control. In addition, rating agencies use various models and formulas to assess the
strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating agencies have, in their discretion, altered the models. Changes to the models could impact the rating agencies’ judgment of the rating to be assigned to the rated company. There can be
no assurance that current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies, if in each rating agency’s judgment, circumstances so
warrant. We cannot predict what actions the rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of the rating agencies, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
   Life Insurance Marketplace Risk: 
  Our life products are sold in selected niche markets. We are at
risk should any of these markets diminish.    We have two life distribution channels that focus on distinct market niches: labor union members and sales via direct response distribution. The contraction of the size of either
market could adversely affect sales. In recent years, labor union membership has experienced minimal growth and has declined as a percentage of employed workers. Most of our direct response business is solicited either through direct mail or by
insertion into other mail media for distribution. Significant adverse changes in postage cost or the acceptance of unsolicited marketing mail by consumers could negatively affect this business. 
  Health Insurance Marketplace Risks: 
  Congress could make changes to the Medicare program which could
impact our Medicare Supplement and Medicare Part D prescription drug insurance business. Medicare Supplement insurance constitutes a significant portion of our in-force health insurance business.    Because of increasing
medical cost inflation and concerns about the solvency of the Medicare program, it is possible that changes will be made to the Medicare program by Congress in the future. The nature and timing of these changes cannot be predicted and could have a
material adverse effect on that business.    Our Medicare
Supplement business could be negatively affected by alternative healthcare providers.    Our Medicare Supplement business is impacted by market trends in the senior-aged health care industry that provide alternatives to
traditional Medicare, such as health maintenance organizations (HMOs) and other managed care or private plans. The success of these alternative businesses could negatively affect the sales and premium growth of traditional Medicare Supplement
insurance.    Our Medicare Supplement and other health
insurance business is subject to intense competition primarily on the basis of price which could restrict future sales.    In recent years, price competition in the traditional Medicare Supplement market, as well as the
market for other health products, has been significant, characterized by some insurers who have been willing to earn very small profit margins or to underprice new sales in order to gain market share. We have elected not to compete on those terms,
which has negatively affected sales. Should these industry practices continue, it is likely that our sales of health insurance products will remain depressed.   
An inability to obtain timely and appropriate premium rate increases for the health insurance policies we sell due to regulatory delay could
adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.    A significant percentage of the health insurance premiums that our insurance subsidiaries earn is from Medicare Supplement insurance. Medicare Supplement
insurance and the terms under which the premiums for such policies may be increased are highly regulated at both the state and federal level. As a result, it is characterized by lower profit margins than life insurance and requires strict
administrative discipline and economies of scale for success. Because Medicare Supplement policies are 
  7 


Table of Contents

coordinated with the federal Medicare program, which experiences health care inflation every year, annual premium rate increases for the Medicare Supplement policies are necessary. Obtaining
timely rate increases is of critical importance to our success in this market. Accordingly, the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to obtain approval of premium rate increases in a timely manner from state insurance regulatory authorities in
the future could adversely impact their profitability.    Investment Risks:
   Our investments are subject to market and credit
risks.    Our invested assets are subject to the customary risks of defaults, downgrades, and changes in market values. Substantially all of our investment portfolio consists of fixed-maturity and short-term investments. A
significant portion of our fixed-maturity investments is comprised of corporate bonds, exposing us to the risk that individual corporate issuers will not have the ability to make required interest or principal payments on the investment. Factors
that may affect both market and credit risks include interest rate levels, financial market performance, disruptions in credit markets, and general economic conditions, as well as particular circumstances affecting the businesses or industries of
each issuer. Additionally, because the majority of our investments are longer-term fixed maturities that we typically hold until maturity, significant increases in interest rates, widening of credit spreads, or inactive markets associated with
market downturns could cause a material temporary decline in the fair value of our fixed investment portfolio, even with regard to performing assets. These declines could cause a material increase in unrealized losses in our investment portfolio.
Significant unrealized losses can substantially reduce our capital position and shareholders’ equity. It is possible that our investment in certain of these securities with unrealized losses may experience a default event and that a portion or
all of that unrealized loss may not be recoverable. In that case, the unrealized loss will be realized, at which point we would take an impairment charge, reducing our net income. 
  Difficulties in the business of particular issuers or in industries
in which we hold investments could cause significant downgrades, delinquencies and defaults in our investment portfolio, potentially resulting in lower net investment income and increased realized and unrealized investment
losses.    Difficult conditions in U.S. capital markets in recent periods caused a notable increase in the troubled status of businesses in which we hold investments. If difficulties within these businesses and industries
increase, there could be deferrals and defaults on amounts owed to us. If conditions in the capital markets worsen, we could experience credit downgrades or default events within our investment portfolio. 
  A default by an issuer could result in a significant
other-than-temporary impairment of that investment, causing us to write the investment down and take a charge against net income. The risk of default is higher for bonds with longer-term maturities, which we acquire in order to match our long-term
insurance obligations. We attempt to reduce this risk by purchasing only investment grade securities and by carefully evaluating an issuer before entering into an investment. Also, while we have invested in a broad array of industries and issuers in
order to attempt to maintain a highly diversified portfolio, a significant amount of our investments is in banks, insurance companies, and other financial institutions, which have experienced an increased level of downgrades in recent years.
Moreover, we cannot be assured that any particular issuer, regardless of industry, will be able to make required interest and principal payments, on a timely basis or at all. Material other-than-temporary impairments could reduce our statutory
surplus, leading to lower risk-based capital ratios, potential downgrades of our ratings by rating agencies and a potential reduction of future dividend capacity from our insurance subsidiaries. While we intend to hold our investments until
maturity, a severe increase in defaults could cause us to suffer a significant decrease in investment income or principal repayments, resulting in substantial realized losses from the writedowns of impaired investments. Current net income would be
negatively impacted by the writedowns, and prospective net income would be adversely impacted by the loss of future interest income.   
A decline in interest rates could negatively affect income.    Declines in interest rates expose insurance companies to
the risk of not earning anticipated spreads between the interest rate earned on investments and the discount rates used to calculate the net policy liabilities. While we attempt to manage our investments to preserve the excess investment income
spread, we provide no assurance that a significant and persistent decline in interest rates will not materially affect such spreads. Significant 
  8 


Table of Contents

decreases in interest rates could result in calls by issuers of investments, where such features are available to issuers. These calls could result in a decline in our investment income, as
reinvestment of the proceeds would likely be at lower rates.    Liquidity
Risks:    Our liquidity to fund operations is
substantially dependent on funds available, primarily dividends, from our insurance subsidiaries.    As a holding company with no direct operations, our principal asset is the capital stock of our insurance subsidiaries,
which periodically declare and distribute dividends on their capital stock. Moreover, our liquidity, including our ability to pay our operating expenses and to make principal and interest payments on debt securities or other indebtedness owed by us,
as well as our ability to pay dividends on our common stock or any preferred stock, depends significantly upon the surplus and earnings of our insurance subsidiaries and the ability of these subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds
to us. Other sources of liquidity for us also include a variety of short- and long-term instruments, including our credit facility, commercial paper and medium- and long-term debt. 
  The principal sources of our insurance subsidiaries’ liquidity are
insurance premiums, as well as investment income, maturities, repayments, and other cash flow from our investment portfolio. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to various state statutory and regulatory restrictions applicable to insurance
companies that limit the amount of cash dividends, loans, and advances that those subsidiaries may pay to us, including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds. For example, in the states where our companies are domiciled, an
insurance company generally may pay dividends only out of its unassigned surplus as reflected in its statutory financial statements filed in that state. Additionally, dividends paid by insurance subsidiaries are generally limited to the greater of
prior year statutory net income, excluding capital gains, on an annual noncumulative basis or 10% of prior year statutory surplus without regulatory approval. Accordingly, a disruption in our insurance subsidiaries’ operations could reduce
their capital or cash flow and, as a result, limit or disallow payment of dividends to us, a principal source of our cash flow.   
We can give no assurance that more stringent restrictions will not be adopted from time to time by states in which our insurance subsidiaries are
domiciled, which could, under certain circumstances, significantly reduce dividends or other amounts paid to us by our subsidiaries. Although we do not anticipate changes, changes in these laws could constrain the ability of our subsidiaries to pay
dividends or to advance or repay funds to us in sufficient amounts and at times necessary to meet our debt obligations and corporate expenses. Additionally, the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to obtain approval of premium rate increases in
a timely manner from state insurance regulatory authorities could adversely impact their profitability, and thus their ability to declare and distribute dividends to us. Limitations on the flow of dividends from our subsidiaries could limit our
ability to service and repay debt or to pay dividends on our capital stock.    Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs or access capital, as well as affect our cost of capital.    The capital and
credit markets have recently experienced extreme instability and disruption for an extended period of time. In some cases, the markets exerted downward pressure on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain industries and issuers.
Additionally, should credit spreads widen again in the future, the interest rate we must pay on any new debt obligation we may issue could increase, and our net income could be reduced. If the credit and capital markets were to experience
significant disruption, uncertainty, and instability, these conditions could adversely affect our access to capital. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace maturing liabilities (in a timely manner or at all) and/or access the
capital necessary to grow our business.    In the unlikely
event that current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing or raise capital. The availability of additional financing or capital will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general
availability of credit or capital, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the insurance industry, and our credit ratings and credit capacity. Additionally, customers, lenders, or investors could develop a negative
perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. Our access to funds may also be impaired if regulatory authorities

  9 


Table of Contents

or rating agencies take negative actions against us. Our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional
financing on favorable terms, or at all. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter term securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our
financial flexibility. Therefore, as a result, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially negatively affected by disruptions in the financial markets.    Regulatory Risks:   
Our businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and growth.    Insurance
companies, including our insurance subsidiaries, are subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the states in which we do business. The primary purpose of this supervision and regulation is the protection of our policyholders, not our
investors. State agencies have broad administrative power over numerous aspects of our business, including premium rates and other terms and conditions that we can include in the insurance policies offered by our insurance subsidiaries, marketing
practices, advertising, licensing agents, policy forms, capital adequacy, solvency, reserves, and permitted investments. Also, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew, or initiate procedures to revoke licenses or
approvals. The insurance laws, regulations and policies currently affecting Torchmark and its insurance subsidiaries may change at any time, possibly having an adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to maintain all required licenses and
approvals, and our business may not fully comply with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations or the relevant authority’s interpretation of the laws and regulations, which may change from time to time. If we do not have the
requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or impose substantial fines.
   We cannot predict the timing or substance of any future
regulatory initiatives. In recent years, there has been increased scrutiny of insurance companies, including our insurance subsidiaries, by insurance regulatory authorities, which has included more extensive examinations and more detailed review of
disclosure documents. These regulatory authorities may bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices, or those of our agents or employees, are improper. These actions can result in substantial fines, penalties,
or prohibitions or restrictions on our business activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Additionally, changes in the overall legal or regulatory environment may, even absent
any particular regulatory authority’s interpretation of an issue changing, cause us to change our views regarding the actions that we need to take from a legal or regulatory risk management perspective, thus necessitating changes to our
practices that may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow or otherwise negatively impact the profitability of our business.   
Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance. However, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Record and Consumer
Protection Act of 2010 establishes a Federal Insurance Office (FIO) within the Department of the Treasury, and the Patient Protection Affordable Care Act created the Center for Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight (CCIIO), originally
established under the Department of Health and Human Services and subsequently transferred to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). The creation of these insurance regulatory offices may indicate that the federal government intends
to play a larger role in the regulation of the insurance industry. We cannot predict what impact, if any, the FIO and CCIIO, as well as any other proposals for federal regulation of insurance could have on our business, results of operations, or
financial condition.    Changes in U.S. federal income tax
law could increase our tax costs.    Changes to the Internal Revenue Code, administrative rulings or court decisions affecting the insurance industry could increase our effective tax rate and lower our net income. 
  Changes in accounting standards issued by accounting
standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements and reduce our profitability.    Our financial statements are subject to the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America (GAAP), which principles are periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time, we are 
  10 


Table of Contents

required to adopt new or revised accounting standards or guidance issued by recognized authoritative bodies. It is possible that future accounting standards that we are required to adopt could
change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, standard setters have a full
agenda of unissued topics under review at any given time, any of which have the potential to negatively impact our profitability.   
If we fail to comply with restrictions on patient privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure that our business associates
who obtain access to sensitive patient information maintain its confidentiality, our reputation and business operations could be materially adversely affected.    The collection, maintenance, use, disclosure and disposal of
individually identifiable data by our insurance subsidiaries are regulated at the international, federal and state levels. These laws and rules are subject to change by legislation or administrative or judicial interpretation. Various state laws
address the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health data to the extent they are more restrictive than those contained in the privacy and security provisions in the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (GLBA) and in the Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). HIPAA also requires that we impose privacy and security requirements on our business associates (as that term is defined in the HIPAA regulations). Noncompliance with any privacy laws or
any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential information, whether by us or by one of our business associates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation
and results of operations and could include material fines and penalties, various forms of damages, consent orders regarding our privacy and security practices, adverse actions against our licenses to do business and injunctive relief. 
  Litigation Risk:    Litigation could result in substantial judgments against us or our subsidiaries.    We are,
and in the future may be, subject to litigation in the ordinary course of business. Some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants, and, in certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large
and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages. Members of our management and legal teams review litigation on a quarterly and annual basis. However, the outcome of any such litigation cannot be predicted with certainty. A
number of civil jury verdicts have been returned against insurers in the jurisdictions in which Torchmark and its insurance subsidiaries do business involving the insurers’ sales practices, alleged agent misconduct, failure to properly
supervise agents, and other matters. These lawsuits have resulted in the award of substantial judgments against insurers that are disproportionate to the actual damages, including material amounts of punitive damages. In some states in which we
operate, juries have substantial discretion in awarding punitive damages. This discretion creates the potential for unpredictable material adverse judgments in any given punitive damages suit.    Our pending and future litigation could adversely affect us because of the costs of defending these cases, the costs of
settlement or judgments against us, or changes in our operations that could result from litigation. Substantial legal liability in these or future legal actions could also have a material financial effect or cause significant harm to our reputation,
which, in turn, could materially harm our business and our business prospects.    Catastrophic Event Risk:    Our business is subject to the risk of the occurrence of catastrophic events.    Our insurance policies are issued to and held by a large number of policyholders throughout the United
States in relatively low-face amounts. Accordingly, it is unlikely that a large portion of our policyholder base would be affected by a single natural disaster. However, our insurance operations could be exposed to the risk of catastrophic
mortality, caused by events such as a pandemic, an act of terrorism, or another event that causes a large number of deaths or injuries across a wide geographic area. These events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in
any period and, depending on their severity and geographic scope, could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition.   
The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total number of policyholders in the area affected by the event and the severity
of the event. Pandemics, hurricanes, earthquakes, and man-
  11 


Table of Contents

made catastrophes, including terrorism and war, may produce significant claims in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. Claims resulting from natural or man-made catastrophic
events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. 
  Information Technology Risk: 
  The occurrence of computer viruses, network security breaches,
disasters, or other unanticipated events could affect the data processing systems of Torchmark or its subsidiaries and could damage our business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.    A
computer virus could affect the data processing systems of Torchmark or its subsidiaries, destroying valuable data or making it difficult to conduct business. In addition, despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers could be
subject to physical and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems.   
We retain confidential information in our computer systems and rely on sophisticated commercial technologies to maintain the security of those
systems. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures and penetrate our computer systems could access, view, misappropriate, alter, or delete information in the systems, including personally identifiable customer information and
proprietary business information. In addition, an increasing number of states require that customers be notified of unauthorized access, use, or disclosure of their information. Any compromise of the security of our computer systems that results in
inappropriate access, use, or disclosure of personally identifiable customer information could damage our reputation in the marketplace, deter people from purchasing our products, subject us to significant civil and criminal liability, and require
us to incur significant technical, legal, and other expenses.   
In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a blackout, or a terrorist attack or war, our computer systems may
be inaccessible to our employees or customers for a period of time. Even if our employees are able to report to work, they may be unable to perform their duties for an extended period of time if our data or systems are disabled or destroyed.
  
Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments 
  As of December 31, 2011, Torchmark had no unresolved staff comments.

  12 


Table of Contents
Item 2.    Properties 
  Torchmark, through its subsidiaries, owns or leases buildings that are
used in the normal course of business. Torchmark owns and occupies a 290,000 square foot facility located in McKinney, Texas (a north Dallas suburb). This facility is Torchmark’s corporate headquarters and also houses the operations of United
American.    Liberty owns a 487,000 square foot building in
Birmingham, Alabama which until 2010 served as Liberty’s home office. During 2010, Liberty vacated this building and currently operates its home office activities out of a 34,000 square foot facility leased in a Birmingham suburb. Approximately
15,000 square feet of storage space has also been leased near the new home office facility. Liberty also operates a company-owned district office used for agency sales personnel. Liberty is currently in the process of selling its former home office
building, opting instead to operate from leased facilities.   
A subsidiary of Globe owns a 112,000 square foot facility located in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma which houses the Globe direct response operation. This
subsidiary has also leased an additional 25,000 square feet on a temporary basis while a 21,000 square foot addition to its facility is constructed. The addition is scheduled to be completed in late 2012, at which time the leased space will be
vacated. Globe also currently leases 37,000 square feet of space for its home office activities in downtown Oklahoma City.   
American Income owns and is the sole occupant of an office building located in Waco, Texas. The building is a two-story structure containing
approximately 72,000 square feet of usable floor space. American Income also owns a 43,000 square foot facility located in Waco which houses the American Income direct response operation.    Liberty and United American also lease district office space for their agency sales personnel. 
  Item 3.    Legal
Proceedings    Torchmark and its subsidiaries, in common with the insurance
industry in general, are subject to litigation, including claims involving tax matters, alleged breaches of contract, torts, including bad faith and fraud claims based on alleged wrongful or fraudulent acts of agents of Torchmark’s
subsidiaries, employment discrimination, and miscellaneous other causes of action. Based upon information presently available, and in light of legal and other factual defenses available to Torchmark and its subsidiaries, management does not believe
that such litigation will have a material adverse effect on Torchmark’s financial condition, future operating results or liquidity; however, assessing the eventual outcome of litigation necessarily involves forward-looking speculation as to
judgments to be made by judges, juries and appellate courts in the future. This bespeaks caution, particularly in states with reputations for high punitive damage verdicts such as Alabama and Mississippi. Torchmark’s management recognizes that
large punitive damage awards bearing little or no relation to actual damages continue to be awarded by juries in jurisdictions in which Torchmark and its subsidiaries have substantial business, particularly Alabama and Mississippi, creating the
potential for unpredictable material adverse judgments in any given punitive damage suit.    As previously disclosed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), United American was named as a defendant in purported class action litigation originally filed on September 16, 2004, in
the Circuit Court of Saline County, Arkansas on behalf of the Arkansas purchasers of association group health insurance policies or certificates issued by United American through Heartland Alliance of America Association and Farm & Ranch
Healthcare, Inc. (Smith and Ivie v. Collingsworth, et al., CV2004-742-2). The plaintiffs asserted claims for fraudulent concealment, breach of contract, common law liability for non-disclosure, breach of fiduciary duties, civil conspiracy,
unjust enrichment, violation of the Arkansas Deceptive Trade Practices Act, and violation of Arkansas law and the rules and regulations of the Arkansas Insurance Department. Declaratory, injunctive and equitable relief, as well as actual and
punitive damages were sought by the plaintiffs. On September 7, 2005, the plaintiffs amended their complaint to assert a nation-wide class, defined as all United American insureds who simultaneously purchased both an individual Hospital and
Surgical Expense health insurance policy (Form HSXC) and an individual supplemental term life insurance policy (Form RT85) from Farm & Ranch through Heartland. 
  13 


Table of Contents

Defendants removed this litigation to the United States District Court for the Western District of Arkansas (No. 4:05-cv-1382) but that Court remanded the litigation back to the state court on
plaintiffs’ motion. On July 22, 2008, the plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint, asserting a class defined as “all persons who, between January 1998 and the present, were residents of Arkansas, California, Georgia, Louisiana or
Texas, and purchased through Farm & Ranch: (1) a health insurance policy issued by United American known as Flexguard Plan, CS-1 Common Sense Plan, GSP Good Sense Plan, SHXC Surgical & Hospital Expense Policy, HSXC 7500
Hospital/Surgical Plan, MMXC Hospital/Surgical Plan, SMXC Surgical/Medical Expense Plan and/or SSXC Surgical Safeguard Expense Plan, and (ii) a membership in Heartland.” Plaintiffs assert claims for breach of contract, violation of
Arkansas Deceptive Trade Practices Act and/or applicable consumer protection laws in other states, unjust enrichment, and common law fraud. Plaintiffs seek actual, compensatory, statutory and punitive damages, equitable and declaratory relief. On
September 8, 2009, the Saline County Circuit Court granted the plaintiff’s motion certifying the class. On October 7, 2009, United American filed its notice of appeal of the class certification and subsequently filed its appellate
brief on April 8, 2010. On December 2, 2010, the Arkansas Supreme Court affirmed the lower court’s decision to certify the class. On January 6, 2012, the parties agreed in principal to settle the case. On January 11, 2012,
the Court ordered the continuation of the trial, previously set to commence on January 17, 2012, pending notice to the class and the Court’s consideration of the agreed-upon settlement. 
  On March 15, 2011, purported class action litigation was filed
against American Income and Torchmark in the District Court for the Northern District of Ohio (Fitzhugh v. American Income Life Insurance Company and Torchmark Corporation, Case No. 1:11-cv-00533). The plaintiff, a formerly independently
contracted American Income agent, alleges that American Income intentionally misclassified its agents as independent contractors rather than as employees in order to escape minimum wage and overtime requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act, as
well as to avoid payroll taxes, workers compensation premiums and other benefits required to be provided by employers. Monetary damages in the amount of unpaid compensation plus liquidated damages and/or prejudgment interest as well as injunctive
and/or declaratory relief is sought by the plaintiff on behalf of the purported class. On November 3, 2011, the Court granted American Income’s motion to compel arbitration and dismissed the case. Plaintiffs have appealed this decision.
   Torchmark subsidiary, United American was named as
defendant in purported class action litigation filed on May 31, 2011 in Cross County Arkansas Circuit Court (Kennedy v. United American Insurance Company (Case # CV-2011-84-5). In the litigation, filed on behalf of a proposed
nationwide class of owners of certain limited hospital and surgical expense benefit policies from United American, the plaintiff alleged that United American breached the policy by failing and/or refusing to pay benefits for the total number of days
an insured is confined to a hospital and by limiting payment to the number of days for which there are incurred hospital room charges rather than also including benefits for services and supplies. Claims for unjust enrichment, breach of contract,
bad faith refusal to pay first party benefits, breach of the implied duty of good faith and fair dealing, bad faith, and violation of the Arkansas Deceptive Trade Practices Act were initially asserted. The plaintiff sought declaratory relief,
restitution and/or monetary damages, punitive damages, costs and attorneys fees. In September 2011, the plaintiff dismissed all causes of action, except for the breach of contract claim.    On November 14, 2011, plaintiff filed an amended complaint based upon the same facts asserting only breach of
contract claims on behalf of a purported nationwide restitution/monetary relief class or, in the first alternative, a purported multiple-state restitution/monetary relief class or, in the second alternative, a purported Arkansas statewide
restitution/monetary relief class. Restitution and/or monetary relief for United American’s alleged breaches of contract, costs, attorney’s fees and expenses, expert fees, prejudgment interest and other relief are sought on behalf of the
plaintiff and members of the class. On December 7, 2011, United American filed a Motion to Dismiss the plaintiff’s amended complaint and on January 11, 2012, plaintiff filed a response thereto. Discovery has commenced and is ongoing.
   Item
4.    Mine Safety Disclosures.    Not
Applicable. 
  14 


Table of Contents
PART II    Item 5.    Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, 
Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
 


(a)
 
Market Price of and Dividends on the Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters    The principal market in which Torchmark’s common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. There were
3,528 shareholders of record on December 31, 2011, excluding shareholder accounts held in nominee form. On July 1, 2012, Torchmark paid a three-for-two stock split to its common shareholders in the form of a 50% stock dividend. All prices and
dividends shown below have been adjusted to reflect its payment. The market prices and cash dividends paid by calendar quarter for the past two years are as follows:   

























 
 
 
 
  
2011Market Price
 
  
DividendsPer Share
 

 Quarter
 
 
 
  
High
 
  
Low
 
  


1                
 



  
$
44.32
  
  
$
40.45
  
  
$
.107
  


2                
 



  
 
45.23
  
  
 
41.00
  
  
 
.107
  


3                
 



  
 
43.68
  
  
 
33.18
  
  
 
.11  
  


4                
 



  
 
43.74
  
  
 
33.72
  
  
 
.12  
  

 Year-end closing price
 
$
43.39
  
  



  



  









 
 
 
 
  
2010Market Price
 
  
DividendsPer Share
 

 Quarter
 
 
 
  
High
 
  
Low
 
  


1                
 



  
$
35.82
  
  
$
29.36
  
  
$
.10  
  


2                
 



  
 
37.48
  
  
 
32.49
  
  
 
.10  
  


3                
 



  
 
36.77
  
  
 
32.22
  
  
 
.10  
  


4                
 



  
 
41.33
  
  
 
35.25
  
  
 
.107
  

 Year-end closing price
 
$
39.83
  
  



  



  



  


(c)
 
Purchases of Certain Equity Securities by the Issuer and Others for the Fourth Quarter 2011   


















 Period
  
(a) Total Numberof SharesPurchased
 
  
(b) AveragePrice PaidPer Share
 
  
(c) Total Number ofShares Purchasedas Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor
Programs
 
  
(d) Maximum Numberof Shares (orApproximate DollarAmount) that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plans
orPrograms

 October 1-31, 2011
  
 
1,106,282
  
  
$
39.23
  
  
 
1,106,282
  
  


 November 1-30, 2011
  
 
2,075,000
  
  
 
41.37
  
  
 
2,075,000
  
  


 December 1-31, 2011
  
 
1,231,000
  
  
 
42.90
  
  
 
1,231,000
  
  

   At its February 25, 2010 meeting, the
Board of Directors reactivated the Company’s previously suspended share repurchase program in amounts and with timing that management, in consultation with the Board, determines to be in the best interest of the Company. It was reaffirmed April
28, 2011 by the Board. The program has no defined expiration date or maximum shares to be repurchased. 
  15 


Table of Contents


(e)
 
Performance Graph   


    


 
    *
 
$100 invested on 12/31/06 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31. 
  Copyright© 2012 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.   
The line graph shown above compares Torchmark’s cumulative total return on its common stock with the cumulative total returns of the Standard
and Poor’s 500 Stock Index (S&P 500) and the Standard and Poor’s Life & Health Insurance Index (S&P Life & Health Insurance). Torchmark is one of the companies whose stock is included within both the S&P 500 and the
S&P Life & Health Insurance Index. 
  16 


Table of Contents
Item 6.    Selected Financial Data 
  The following information should be read in conjunction with
Torchmark’s Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes reported elsewhere in this Form 10-K:   
(Amounts in thousands except per share and percentage data)   
























Year ended December 31,
 
2011
 
 
      2010      
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
      2007      
 

 Premium revenue:
 



 



 



 



 




 Life
 
$
 1,726,244
  
 
$
1,663,699
  
 
$
1,591,853
  
 
$
1,544,219
  
 
$
1,495,363
  

 Health
 
 
929,466
  
 
 
987,421
  
 
 
1,017,711
  
 
 
1,127,059
  
 
 
1,236,797
  

 Other
 
 
608
  
 
 
638
  
 
 
541
  
 
 
622
  
 
 
602
  

 Total
 
 
2,656,318
  
 
 
2,651,758
  
 
 
2,610,105
  
 
 
2,671,900
  
 
 
2,732,762
  

 Net investment income
 
 
693,028
  
 
 
676,364
  
 
 
632,540
  
 
 
627,206
  
 
 
601,975
  

 Realized investment gains (losses)
 
 
25,904
  
 
 
37,340
  
 
 
(129,492
) 
 
 
(107,541
) 
 
 
2,281
  

 Total revenue
 
 
3,377,401
  
 
 
3,367,632
  
 
 
3,115,073
  
 
 
3,196,236
  
 
 
3,344,517
  

 Income from continuing operations
 
 
518,340
  
 
 
522,293
  
 
 
386,052
  
 
 
429,700
  
 
 
489,237
  

 Income from discontinued operations
 
 
0
  
 
 
29,784
  
 
 
18,901
  
 
 
22,559
  
 
 
38,298
  

 Loss on disposal, net of tax
 
 
(455
) 
 
 
(35,013
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Net income
 
 
517,885
  
 
 
517,064
  
 
 
404,953
  
 
 
452,259
  
 
 
527,535
  

 Per common share:
 



 



 



 



 




 Basic earnings:
 



 



 



 



 




 Income from continuing operations
 
 
4.79
  
 
 
4.28
  
 
 
3.10
  
 
 
3.24
  
 
 
3.46
  

 Income (loss) from discontinued operations
 
 
(0.01
) 
 
 
(0.04
) 
 
 
0.15
  
 
 
0.17
  
 
 
0.27
  

 Net income
 
 
4.78
  
 
 
4.24
  
 
 
3.25
  
 
 
3.41
  
 
 
3.73
  

 Diluted earnings:
 



 



 



 



 




 Income from continuing operations
 
 
4.72
  
 
 
4.24
  
 
 
3.10
  
 
 
3.25
  
 
 
3.40
  

 Income (loss) from discontinued operations
 
 
0.00
  
 
 
(0.04
) 
 
 
0.15
  
 
 
0.17
  
 
 
0.27
  

 Net income
 
 
4.72
  
 
 
4.20
  
 
 
3.25
  
 
 
3.41
  
 
 
3.67
  

 Cash dividends declared
 
 
0.46
  
 
 
0.41
  
 
 
0.38
  
 
 
0.37
  
 
 
0.35
  

 Cash dividends paid
 
 
0.45
  
 
 
0.41
  
 
 
0.37
  
 
 
0.37
  
 
 
0.35
  

 Basic average shares outstanding
 
 
108,278
  
 
 
122,009
  
 
 
124,550
  
 
 
132,079
  
 
 
141,476
  

 Diluted average shares outstanding
 
 
109,815
  
 
 
123,123
  
 
 
124,550
  
 
 
132,774
  
 
 
143,769
  

As of December 31,
 
2011
 
 
      2010      
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Cash and invested assets
 
$
 12,437,699
  
 
$
11,563,656
  
 
$
10,054,764
  
 
$
7,812,992
  
 
$
9,084,312
  

 Total assets
 
 
17,156,391
  
 
 
16,159,762
  
 
 
16,023,759
  
 
 
13,529,050
  
 
 
15,241,428
  

 Short-term debt
 
 
224,842
  
 
 
198,875
  
 
 
233,307
  
 
 
403,707
  
 
 
202,058
  

 Long-term
debt(1)
 
 
914,282
  
 
 
913,354
  
 
 
919,761
  
 
 
622,760
  
 
 
721,723
  

 Shareholders’ equity
 
 
4,228,908
  
 
 
4,016,241
  
 
 
3,398,891
  
 
 
2,222,907
  
 
 
3,324,627
  

 Per diluted share
 
 
41.54
  
 
 
33.24
  
 
 
27.25
  
 
 
17.49
  
 
 
23.73
  

 Effect of fixed maturity revaluation on diluted equity per share(2)
 
 
5.95
  
 
 
0.55
  
 
 
(2.23
) 
 
 
(8.63
) 
 
 
(0.44
) 

 Annualized premium in force:
 



 



 



 



 




 Life
 
 
1,813,705
  
 
 
1,753,046
  
 
 
1,694,402
  
 
 
1,625,549
  
 
 
1,585,005
  

 Health
 
 
1,016,393
  
 
 
973,625
  
 
 
1,026,560
  
 
 
1,098,349
  
 
 
1,233,884
  

 Total
 
 
2,830,098
  
 
 
2,726,671
  
 
 
2,720,962
  
 
 
2,723,898
  
 
 
2,818,889
  

 Basic shares outstanding
 
 
100,579
  
 
 
118,865
  
 
 
124,261
  
 
 
127,061
  
 
 
138,263
  

 Diluted shares outstanding
 
 
101,808
  
 
 
120,815
  
 
 
124,739
  
 
 
127,061
  
 
 
140,074
  



(1)
Includes Torchmark’s 7.1% Junior Subordinated Debentures reported as “Due to affiliates” on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at year ends 2007 through 2011
in the amount of $123.7 million. 


(2)
There is an accounting rule requiring available-for-sale fixed maturities to be revalued at fair value each period. The effect of this rule on diluted equity per share reflects
the amount added or (deducted) under this rule to produce GAAP Shareholders’ equity per share. Please see the explanation and discussion under the caption Capital Resources in Management’s Discussion and Analysis in this
report concerning the effect this rule has on Torchmark’s equity. 
  17 


Table of Contents
Item 7.    Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    The
following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Selected Financial Data and Torchmark’s Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. 
  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  Discontinued Operations:    As described in
Note 3—Discontinued Operations in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we sold our subsidiary United Investors Life Insurance Company (United Investors) as of December 31, 2010. Because of the sale, United
Investors’ financial results are excluded from this discussion since those operations are discontinued.   
How Torchmark Views Its Operations:    Torchmark is the holding company for a group of insurance companies which market
primarily individual life and supplemental health insurance, and to a limited extent annuities, to middle income households throughout the United States. We view our operations by segments, which are the major insurance product lines of life,
health, and annuities, and the investment segment that supports the product lines. Segments are aligned based on their common characteristics, comparability of the profit margins, and management techniques used to operate each segment. 
  Insurance Product Line Segments.    As fully
described in Note 14—Business Segments in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the product line segments involve the marketing, underwriting, and benefit administration of policies. Each product line is
further segmented by the various distribution units that market the insurance policies. Each distribution unit operates in a niche market offering insurance products designed for that particular market. Whether analyzing profitability of a segment
as a whole, or the individual distribution units within the segment, the measure of profitability used by management is the underwriting margin, which is:   
Premium revenue  Less:      Policy obligations 
    Policy acquisition costs and commissions    Investment Segment.    The investment segment involves the management of our capital
resources, including investments and the management of corporate debt and liquidity. Our measure of profitability for the investment segment is excess investment income, which is: 
  Net investment income 
Less:      Interest credited to net policy liabilities 
    Financing costs   
The tables in Note 14—Business Segments reconcile Torchmark’s revenues and expenses by segment to its major income statement
line items for each of the years in the three-year period ending December 31, 2011. Additionally, this Note provides a summary of the profitability measures that demonstrates year-to-year comparability and which reconciles to net income. That
summary is reproduced below from the Consolidated Financial Statements to present our overall operations in the manner that we use to manage the business. 
  18 


Table of Contents
Analysis of Profitability by Segment 
(Dollar amounts in thousands)   
































 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011Change
 
 
%
 
 
2010Change
 
 
%
 

 Life insurance underwriting margin
 
$
486,235
  
 
$
455,266
  
 
$
427,412
  
 
$
30,969
  
 
 
7
  
 
$
27,854
  
 
 
7
  

 Health insurance underwriting margin
 
 
161,991
  
 
 
170,059
  
 
 
170,410
  
 
 
(8,068
) 
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
(351
) 
 
 
0
  

 Annuity underwriting margin
 
 
2,345
  
 
 
1,348
  
 
 
312
  
 
 
997
  
 



 
 
1,036
  
 




 Other insurance:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Other income
 
 
2,507
  
 
 
2,834
  
 
 
2,914
  
 
 
(327
) 
 
 
(12
) 
 
 
(80
) 
 
 
(3
) 

 Administrative expense
 
 
(159,109
) 
 
 
(155,615
) 
 
 
(150,325
) 
 
 
(3,494
) 
 
 
2
  
 
 
(5,290
) 
 
 
4
  

 Excess investment income
 
 
292,597
  
 
 
297,145
  
 
 
275,650
  
 
 
(4,548
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
21,495
  
 
 
8
  

 Corporate and adjustments
 
 
(22,647
) 
 
 
(20,657
) 
 
 
(19,450
) 
 
 
(1,990
) 
 
 
10
  
 
 
(1,207
) 
 
 
6
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Pre-tax total
 
 
763,919
  
 
 
750,380
  
 
 
706,923
  
 
 
13,539
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
43,457
  
 
 
6
  

 Applicable taxes
 
 
(249,495
) 
 
 
(252,357
) 
 
 
(238,153
) 
 
 
2,862
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
(14,204
) 
 
 
6
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 After-tax total, before discontinued operations
 
 
514,424
  
 
 
498,023
  
 
 
468,770
  
 
 
16,401
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
29,253
  
 
 
6
  

 Discontinued operations (after tax)
 
 
0
  
 
 
27,932
  
 
 
26,810
  
 
 
(27,932
) 
 



 
 
1,122
  
 
 
4
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Total
 
 
514,424
  
 
 
525,955
  
 
 
495,580
  
 
 
(11,531
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
30,375
  
 
 
6
  

 Realized gains (losses)—investments (after tax)*
 
 
16,838
  
 
 
24,270
  
 
 
(85,345
) 
 
 
(7,432
) 
 



 
 
109,615
  
 




 Realized gains (losses)—discontinued operations (after tax)
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,852
  
 
 
(7,909
) 
 
 
(1,852
) 
 



 
 
9,761
  
 




 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations (after tax)
 
 
(455
) 
 
 
(35,013
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
34,558
  
 



 
 
(35,013
) 
 




 Tax settlements (after tax)
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
2,858
  
 
 
0
  
 



 
 
(2,858
) 
 




 Cost of legal settlements (after tax)
 
 
(7,800
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(7,800
) 
 



 
 
0
  
 




 State administrative settlement (after tax)
 
 
(4,486
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(4,486
) 
 



 
 
0
  
 




 Loss on Company-occupied property (after tax)
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(231
) 
 
 
0
  
 



 
 
231
  
 




 Loss on sale of equipment (after tax)
 
 
(636
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(636
) 
 



 
 
0
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Net income
 
$
517,885
  
 
$
517,064
  
 
$
404,953
  
 
$
821
  
 
 
0
  
 
$
112,111
  
 
 
28
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


*
See the discussion of Realized Gains and Losses in this report.   
Torchmark’s operations on a segment-by-segment basis are discussed in depth under the appropriate captions following in this report.
   Summary of Operations:    Net
income increased slightly from $517 million to $518 million in 2011. It rose 28% or $112 million in 2010, largely as a result of after-tax realized investment gains of $24 million in 2010, compared with losses of $85 million after tax in 2009.
The 2009 losses included $94 million of write downs of fixed maturities which were determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired. Realized investment gains were $17 million in 2011. On a diluted per share basis, 2011 net income increased 12% to
$4.72, after an increase in 2010 of 29% to $4.20.The above-mentioned after-tax realized investment gains added $.15 to 2011 net income per diluted share and $.20 per share in 2010, while the 2009 loss reduced net income $.69 per share of which the
impairment writedowns accounted for $.76 of the loss. More information concerning realized investment gains and losses can be found under the caption Realized Gains and Losses in this report where there is a more complete discussion. Also, as
explained in Note 14—Business Segments in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we do not consider realized gains and losses to be a component of our core insurance operations or operating segments. Also included in
2010 results is a $35 million after tax loss on the disposal of United Investors, representing $.28 per diluted share.   
As shown in the above chart, after tax segment operations, before discontinued operations, rose each year over the prior year
from $469 million in 2009 to $498 million in 2010 to $514 million in 2011. The primary contributor to the growth in both 2011 and 2010 was the underwriting margin in our life insurance segment, which margins rose $31 million in 2011 and $28 million
in 2010. The life insurance segment is our strongest segment and is the largest contributor to earnings in each year presented. Growth in 2010 was also affected positively by the $21 million increased contribution of excess investment income, the
measure of profitability of the investment segment. Excess investment income in 2010 increased over 2009 investment segment income largely because of the unusually large holdings in low-yielding cash and short-term investments held in 2009 due to
the uncertain economic climate at that time. These short-term holdings were invested in 2010 as financial conditions improved. Excess investment income was also negatively affected in 2009 because of our issuance of a $300 million 9 1/4% 
  19 


Table of Contents

debt security in June, 2009 (net proceeds of $296 million) and repayment of a $99 million 8 1/4% security which matured in August, 2009. These transactions resulted in a net increase in our financing costs in 2009 and reduced excess investment income. Growth in
2011 earnings was negatively affected by a decline in the health insurance segment underwriting margin of $8 million, and a $5 million decline in excess investment income from the investment segment. The 2011 decline in health contribution was
largely a result of the discontinuance of sales of certain limited-benefit health insurance products because of healthcare reform. The decline in excess investment income was due to the continuing low-interest rate environment which has pressured
investment yields and spreads over policy benefit requirements, discussed more fully under the captain Investments in this report.   
Total revenues were flat in 2011 at $3.38 billion compared with $3.37 billion in 2010. Revenues increased 8% in 2010 over revenues of $3.12 billion
in 2009. Life premium rose 4% or $63 million in 2011 and $72 million in 2010. Net investment income rose 2% or $17 million in 2011, compared with $44 million in 2010. However, growth in revenues in 2011 and 2010 were negatively affected by the
declines in health premium described further under this caption.    While life insurance premium has grown steadily in each of the three years ending December 31, 2011, margins as a percentage of premium rose in 2011 to 28% from 27% in 2010 and 2009. Segment profits for life
insurance were not only positively affected by the premium growth, but also by improvements in mortality and persistency in both periods. Life net sales declined 1% in 2011 to $325 million but rose 1% in 2010 to $330 million. Life insurance segment
results are discussed further in this report under the caption Life Insurance.    We primarily market two health insurance products: Medicare Supplement insurance and the Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit. We also market limited-benefit cancer and accident health products and prior
to September, 2010, an under-age-65 limited-benefit hospital-surgical product. Health premium declined 6% in 2011 to $929 million from $987 million in 2010. Health premium declined 3% in 2010. The decreases in both years were caused primarily
by the de-emphasis and discontinuance of sales in 2010 of our limited-benefit hospital-surgical health product. Declines in agent counts in the distribution units that market our health products were another negative factor. These factors have
caused reductions in net sales of health products which have in turn pressured premium growth. Medicare Supplement remains our largest contributor to total health premium, but increased competition has also dampened sales of this product in recent
years, resulting in premium declines in each successive year. Our Medicare Part D premium declined 6% in 2011, after having increased 14% in 2010. However, enrollees into our Medicare Part D program for the plan year 2012 were 225 thousand, an
increase of 56% over the 2011 enrollees. Therefore, we expect premium growth in 2012 at approximately the same rate. See the discussion under Health Insurance for a more detailed discussion of health insurance results. 
  We offer fixed annuities, but we do not emphasize sales of annuity
products, favoring life insurance instead. With the sale of United Investors in 2010, we disposed of 37% of our annuity deposit balance. See the caption Annuities for further discussion of the Annuity segment. 
  As previously mentioned, the investment segment’s pretax
profitability, or excess investment income, increased $21 million in 2010 but declined $5 million in 2011. Profitability in this segment is based on three major components: net investment income, required interest on net policy liabilities (interest
applicable to insurance products), and financing costs. In recent years, growth in net investment income has been restricted in relation to the growth in the size of our portfolio. One reason that investment income has grown at a lower rate than
mean invested assets has grown in recent years is that new investments have been made at yield rates lower than the yield rates earned on securities that matured or were otherwise disposed of. Also, there is sometimes a lag between the time when
proceeds from maturities and dispositions are received and when the proceeds are reinvested, in which the funds are held in cash. Growth in total investment income has also been somewhat negatively affected by Torchmark’s share repurchase
program (described later under this caption), which has diverted cash that could have otherwise been used to acquire investments. In 2011, net investment rose 3% while the portfolio (at amortized cost) grew 4%, in accordance with the general pattern
in recent periods. However, in 2010, the growth in net investment income slightly exceeded the growth in the average portfolio for the first time in many years, primarily as a result of the special constraints on the growth in 2009 net investment
income. During 2009, due primarily to uncertainty 
  20 


Table of Contents

about liquidity in the financial markets, we held significantly more cash and short term investments than we normally would. Additionally, in 2009, we sold a significant portion of
higher-yielding but lower-rated fixed maturities and reinvested the proceeds in lower-yielding but higher-rated bonds in 2009 and early 2010 to improve our risk-adjusted return. These factors contributed to reduced 2009 net investment income.
   The interest required on net policy
liabilities is deducted from net investment income, and generally grows in conjunction with the net policy liabilities that are supported by the invested assets. The lower new-money yields resulting from the low-interest-rate environment noted above
have had the effect of compressing excess investment income as required interest has grown. We have implemented certain strategies to offset this effect, including lowering the discount rate going forward and increasing premium rates on sales of new
products. Financing costs, which consist of the interest required for debt service on our long and short-term debt, are also deducted from net investment income. Financing costs in 2011 were $78 million, an increase of 3% over $75 million in 2010.
This increase was primarily a result of increased charges related to our letters of credit facility. In 2010, financing costs increased 8% as interest expense on our long-term debt rose $9 million or 13%. As noted earlier, in 2009 we issued our $300
million 9 1/4% Senior Notes but repaid our $99 million 8 1/4% Senior Debentures, resulting in a higher balance of debt
outstanding at a higher interest rate in 2010.   
Torchmark’s current investment policy limits new investment acquisitions to investment-grade fixed maturities generally with longer maturities
(often exceeding twenty years) that meet our quality and yield objectives. Approximately 96% of our invested assets at fair value consist of fixed maturities of which 95% were investment grade at December 31, 2011. The average quality rating of
the portfolio was A-. The portfolio contains no securities backed by sub prime or Alt-A mortgages, no direct investment in residential mortgages, no direct investment in European Sovereign debt, no counterparty risks, no credit default swaps, or
derivative contracts. See the analysis of excess investment income and investment activities under the caption Investments in this report and Note 4—Investments in the Notes to Consolidated Statements of
Operations for a more detailed discussion of this segment.    As mentioned earlier, we used a portion of the $296 million proceeds from the offering of our
9 1/4% Senior Notes ($300 million par amount) in 2009 to repay
our $99 million 8 1/4% Senior Debentures which also matured in
2009. More information on these transactions can be found in Note 11—Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in our discussion of Capital Resources in this report. 
  In each of the years 2011 and 2009, income from continuing operations
was affected by certain significant, unusual, and nonrecurring nonoperating items. We do not view these items as components of core operating results because they are not indicative of past performance or future prospects of the insurance
operations. As reported in Note 1—Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the caption Settlements, we have been involved in certain issues in 2011 or 2009 in which we either
received settlements or incurred settlement losses and expenses. In 2011, we settled a state administrative matter in the pretax amount of $6.9 million ($4.5 million after tax) and accrued an estimated liability for a litigation settlement expected
to settle in early 2012 in the pretax amount of $12.0 million ($7.8 million after tax). Both of these issues involved matters arising many years ago. Additionally, as described under the same caption of Note 1, we received a tax settlement in the
amount of $2.9 million in 2009. The tax settlement primarily involved the results of prior year examinations. The state administrative settlement and the litigation accrual are included in “Other operating expense” and the tax
settlement is an adjustment to “Income taxes” in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. However, as described in Note 1, we remove items such as these that are concerned with prior periods when evaluating the results of
current operations, and therefore exclude such matters from our segment analysis for current periods.   
Torchmark has in place an ongoing share repurchase program which began in 1986. With no specified authorization amount, we determine the amount of
repurchases based on the amount of the Company’s excess cash flow, general market conditions, and other alternative uses. The majority of these 
  21 


Table of Contents

purchases are made from excess operating cash flow when market prices are favorable. Additionally, when stock options are exercised, proceeds from these exercises and the tax benefit are used to
repurchase additional shares on the open market to minimize dilution as a result of the option exercises. Due to poor economic conditions, we temporarily suspended our share repurchase program in the first quarter of 2009. However, in the first
quarter of 2010, the Board of Directors reactivated the Company’s share repurchase program in amounts and with timing that management, in consultation with the Board, determines to be in the best interest of the Company. The following chart
summarizes share purchase activity for each of the three years ended December 31, 2011, retroactively restated for the three-for-two stock split described in Note 1—Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.    Analysis of Share Purchases
 (Amounts in thousands)   




























  
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Purchases
  
Shares
 
  
Amount
 
  
Shares
 
  
Amount
 
  
Shares
 
  
Amount
 

 Excess cash flow and borrowings
  
 
18,901
  
  
$
787,697
  
  
 
5,707
  
  
 
$203,566
  
  
 
3,075
  
  
$
46,695
  

 Option proceeds
  
 
4,380
  
  
 
184,859
  
  
 
1,074
  
  
 
42,440
  
  
 
30
  
  
 
869
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
23,281
  
  
$
972,556
  
  
 
6,781
  
  
 
$246,006
  
  
 
3,105
  
  
$
47,564
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Option proceeds increased significantly
in 2011 due to optionholders exercising several years of option grants that are due to expire in 2012.   
Throughout the remainder of this discussion, share purchases refer only to those made from excess cash flow and borrowings. 
  A discussion of each of Torchmark’s segments follows. The
following discussions are presented in the manner we view our operations, as described in Note 14—Business Segments.   
Life Insurance.    Life insurance is our largest insurance segment, with 2011 life premium representing 65% of total
premium. Life underwriting income before other income and administrative expense represented 75% of the total in 2011. Additionally, investments supporting the reserves for life products result in the majority of excess investment income
attributable to the investment segment.    We completed the
process of combining selected United American (UA) Exclusive Agency Branch Offices with the Liberty National Exclusive Agency during 2011. For this reason, all data will be reported on a combined basis in this report. 
  Life insurance premium rose 4% to $1.73 billion in 2011 after having
increased 5% in 2010 to $1.66 billion. Life insurance products are marketed through several distribution channels. Premium income by channel for each of the last three years is as follows:    LIFE INSURANCE  Premium by Distribution Method  (Dollar amounts in thousands) 
 




























 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 
 
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 
 
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 

 American Income Exclusive Agency
  
$
607,914
  
  
 
35
% 
 
$
560,649
  
  
 
34
% 
 
$
507,899
  
  
 
32
% 

 Direct Response
  
 
593,650
  
  
 
34
  
 
 
566,604
  
  
 
34
  
 
 
536,878
  
  
 
34
  

 Liberty National Exclusive Agency
  
 
288,308
  
  
 
17
  
 
 
294,587
  
  
 
18
  
 
 
298,485
  
  
 
19
  

 Other Agencies
  
 
236,372
  
  
 
14
  
 
 
241,859
  
  
 
14
  
 
 
248,591
  
  
 
15
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
1,726,244
  
  
 
100
% 
 
$
1,663,699
  
  
 
100
% 
 
$
1,591,853
  
  
 
100
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  22 


Table of Contents
We use three statistical measures as indicators of premium growth and sales over the near term:
“annualized premium in force,” “net sales,” and “first-year collected premium.” Annualized premium in force is defined as the premium income that would be received over the following twelve months at any given date on
all active policies if those policies remain in force throughout the twelve-month period. Annualized premium in force is an indicator of potential growth in premium revenue. Net sales is annualized premium issued, net of cancellations in the first
thirty days after issue, except in the case of Direct Response where net sales is annualized premium issued at the time the first full premium is paid after any introductory offer period has expired. We believe that net sales is a superior indicator
of the rate of premium growth relative to annualized premium issued. First-year collected premium is defined as the premium collected during the reporting period for all policies in their first policy year. First-year collected premium takes lapses
into account in the first year when lapses are more likely to occur, and thus is a useful indicator of how much new premium is expected to be added to premium income in the future. 
  Annualized life premium in force was $1.81 billion at December 31,
2011, an increase of 3% over $1.75 billion a year earlier. Annualized life premium in force was $1.69 billion at December 31, 2009.   
The following table shows net sales information for each of the last three years by distribution method. 
  LIFE INSURANCE 
Net Sales by Distribution Method 
(Dollar amounts in thousands)   




























 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 
 
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 
 
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 

 American Income Exclusive Agency
  
$
141,793
  
  
 
44
% 
 
$
137,554
  
  
 
42
% 
 
$
127,688
  
  
 
39
% 

 Direct Response
  
 
136,663
  
  
 
42
  
 
 
136,653
  
  
 
41
  
 
$
131,566
  
  
 
40
  

 Liberty National Exclusive Agency
  
 
36,338
  
  
 
11
  
 
 
44,763
  
  
 
14
  
 
 
55,146
  
  
 
17
  

 Other Agencies
  
 
10,404
  
  
 
3
  
 
 
10,561
  
  
 
3
  
 
 
11,518
  
  
 
4
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
325,198
  
  
 
100
% 
 
$
329,531
  
  
 
100
% 
 
$
325,918
  
  
 
100
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The table below discloses first-year
collected life premium by distribution channel.    LIFE
INSURANCE  First-Year Collected Premium by Distribution Method 
(Dollar amounts in thousands)   




























 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 
 
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 
 
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 

 American Income Exclusive Agency
  
$
113,151
  
  
 
46
% 
 
$
110,751
  
  
 
45
% 
 
$
95,693
  
  
 
42
% 

 Direct Response
  
 
88,962
  
  
 
37
  
 
 
89,542
  
  
 
37
  
 
 
84,775
  
  
 
37
  

 Liberty National Exclusive Agency
  
 
31,296
  
  
 
13
  
 
 
34,845
  
  
 
14
  
 
 
35,137
  
  
 
16
  

 Other Agencies
  
 
9,413
  
  
 
4
  
 
 
10,364
  
  
 
4
  
 
 
10,313
  
  
 
5
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
242,822
  
  
 
100
% 
 
$
245,502
  
  
 
100
% 
 
$
225,918
  
  
 
100
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The American Income Exclusive Agency
focuses primarily on members of labor unions, but also on credit unions and other associations as well as referrals from new customers for its life insurance sales. It is Torchmark’s highest profit margin business. The American Income
Agency was also the largest contributor to life premium and net sales of any Torchmark distribution method in 2011. Life premium for this agency rose 8% to $608 million in 2011, after having increased 10% in 2010. Net sales increased 3% in 2011 to
$142 million, after having risen 8% in 2010. Net sales rose 18% in 2009. First-year collected premium rose 2% in 2011 to $113 million, after having increased 16% in 2010. The average face amount of policies issued in 2011 was approximately $34
thousand. As in the case of all of Torchmark’s agency distribution systems, continued increases in product sales are largely 
  23 


Table of Contents

dependent on increases in agent count. The American Income agent count was 4,381 at December 31, 2011 compared with 3,912 a year earlier, an increase of 12%. However, the agent count had declined
6% in 2010 from 4,154 a year earlier. This agency continues to recruit new agents focusing on an incentive program to reward growth in both the recruiting of new agents and in the production of new business. Additionally, the systematic, centralized
internet recruiting program has enhanced the recruitment of new agents.    Direct Response consists of two primary components: insert media and direct mail. Insert media targets primarily the adult market. It involves placing insurance solicitations as advertising inserts into a
variety of media, such as coupon packets, newspapers, bank statements, and billings. Direct mail focuses primarily on young middle-income households with children. The juvenile life insurance policy is a key product for this group. Not only is the
juvenile market an important source of sales, but it also is a vehicle to reach the parents and grandparents of the juvenile policyholders. Parents and grandparents of these juvenile policyholders are more likely to respond favorably to a Direct
Response solicitation for life coverage on themselves than is the general adult population. Also, both the juvenile policyholders and their parents are low acquisition-cost targets for sales of additional coverage over time. At this time, we believe
that the Direct Response unit is the largest U.S. writer of juvenile direct mail life insurance. We expect that sales to this demographic group will continue as one of Direct Response’s premier markets. 
  The Direct Response operation accounted for 34% of our life insurance
premium during 2011, increasing 5% over 2010 premium. Life premium for this channel rose 6% in 2010 and 5% in 2009. Net sales were flat in 2011 after a 4% increase in 2010 to $137 million. First-year collected premium declined 1% to $89 million in
2011 after a 6% gain in 2010. The average face amount of policies issued in 2011 was approximately $20 thousand.   
The Liberty National Exclusive Agency markets primarily life insurance and supplemental health insurance, focusing primarily on middle-income
customers. Life premium income for this agency was $288 million in 2011, a 2% decrease compared with $295 million in 2010. Life premium for this agency declined 1% in 2010 from 2009. First-year collected premium declined 10% to $31 million in
2011, after having also declined 1% in 2010. The average face amount of policies issued in 2011 was approximately $25 thousand.   
The Liberty Agency’s net sales declined 19% to $36 million in 2011, after also having declined 19% a year earlier. As noted above, in the case
of all of our agencies, the size of the agency drives product sales. This agency had 1,345 producing agents at December 31, 2011, compared with 2,001 a year earlier, a decline of 33%. The agent count at Liberty had also declined 19% in 2010
from 2,471. The decrease in agent count has been due in part to the closing of several offices which had low production. In addition, agent compensation issues that arose in 2009 have negatively impacted agent counts. The bonus thresholds proved
more difficult for producing agents to meet than anticipated. Management reduced the bonus threshold later in 2009. Also, due to deteriorating first-year persistency, management modified compensation incentives in 2009 to place more emphasis on the
persistency of newly issued policies. These changes resulted in the departure of a number of the less productive agents in 2010 and 2011. While these modifications caused a loss of agents, they resulted in improved persistency and margins, and
contributed to Torchmark’s overall improvement in life insurance margins.    The Liberty Exclusive Agency agent counts have also decreased due to issues related to its health insurance business. This agency’s health insurance marketing efforts had historically been focused on
limited-benefit hospital-surgical plans. These plans were subject to intense competition from other companies which offered lower-margin products providing agents with products that were easier to sell, thus discouraging sales of our products and
ultimately resulting in decreases in agent counts. In addition, these limited-benefit hospital-surgical plans became less marketable due to healthcare reform developments. Sales of these limited-benefit hospital/surgical plans were discontinued
after September, 2010. These developments caused further increases in agent turnover. In response, the agency has shifted its marketing focus to a product mix more weighted towards life insurance and supplemental health insurance products (not
affected by healthcare reform) that have higher margins and persistency. Additionally, we are in the process of changing the cost structure of this agency to a more commission-driven model. Going forward, branch office operating expenses will be the
responsibility of the branch managers and all new agent recruits will be independent contractors rather than employees. We are also implementing new agent recruiting and training programs similar to those used at American Income. We believe these
changes will increase the Agency’s profitability and stability in the long run. 
  24 


Table of Contents
We also offer life insurance through Other Agencies consisting of the Military Agency, the
United American Independent Agency, and other small miscellaneous sales agencies. The Military Agency consists of a nationwide independent agency whose sales force is comprised primarily of former military officers who have historically sold
primarily to commissioned and noncommissioned military officers and their families. This business consists of whole-life products with term insurance riders. Military premium represented 11% of life premium at December 31, 2011. The United American
Independent Agency represented approximately 1% of Torchmark’s total life premium at that date. This agency is focused on health insurance, with life sales being incidental. 
  LIFE INSURANCE 
Summary of Results  (Dollar
amounts in thousands)   




























 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
Amount
 
 
% ofPremium
 
 
Amount
 
 
% ofPremium
 
 
Amount
 
 
% ofPremium
 

 Premium and policy charges
  
$
1,726,244
  
 
 
100
% 
 
$
1,663,699
  
 
 
100
% 
 
$
1,591,853
  
 
 
100
% 









 Policy obligations
  
 
1,118,909
  
 
 
65
  
 
 
1,082,423
  
 
 
65
  
 
 
1,040,249
  
 
 
65
  

 Required interest on reserves
  
 
(458,029
) 
 
 
(27
) 
 
 
(434,319
) 
 
 
(26
) 
 
 
(410,917
) 
 
 
(26
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net policy obligations
  
 
660,880
  
 
 
38
  
 
 
648,104
  
 
 
39
  
 
 
629,332
  
 
 
39
  

 Commissions and premium taxes
  
 
75,480
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
72,559
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
72,272
  
 
 
5
  

 Amortization of acquisition costs
  
 
503,649
  
 
 
29
  
 
 
487,770
  
 
 
29
  
 
 
462,837
  
 
 
29
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expense
  
 
1,240,009
  
 
 
72
  
 
 
1,208,433
  
 
 
73
  
 
 
1,164,441
  
 
 
73
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Insurance underwriting margin before other income and administrative expenses
  
$
486,235
  
 
 
28
% 
 
$
455,266
  
 
 
27
% 
 
$
427,412
  
 
 
27
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Gross margins, as indicated by
insurance underwriting margin before other income and administrative expense, rose 7% in both 2011 and 2010. The margin increased to $486 million in 2011 after rising to $455 million in 2010. As a percentage of life insurance premium, the 2011
margin rose to 28%. In the two prior years, margins were stable at 27%. Margin growth in all periods was primarily the result of premium growth. Improved mortality was also a factor in 2011. 
    Health
Insurance.    Health insurance sold by Torchmark includes primarily Medicare Supplement and Part D prescription drug coverage to enrollees in the federal Medicare program, cancer coverage, and accident coverage. All health
coverage plans other than Medicare Supplement and Part D are classified here as limited-benefit plans. For several years, our primary health insurance product had been limited-benefit hospital/surgical plans. However, as previously discussed under
the caption Life Insurance, these plans became subject to intense competition which resulted in decreasing agent counts, most notably in the Liberty National Exclusive Agency but also in the UA Independent Agency. In addition, these plans
became less marketable due to healthcare reform developments. These factors contributed to the Company’s decisions to discontinue the marketing of these limited-benefit hospital/surgical products after September, 2010. We do continue to market
the limited-benefit cancer and accident products. Since 2009, Medicare Supplement sales have exceeded those of the limited-benefit products, and represented 59% of health net sales exclusive of Medicare Part D in 2011. Medicare Supplement sales have
been stronger than limited-benefit sales due in part to changes in agent counts in our health distribution groups discussed below. 
  25 


Table of Contents
Total health premium represented 35% of Torchmark’s total premium income in 2011. Excluding Part
D premium, health premium represented 28% of total premium income in 2011, compared with 29% in 2010 and 32% in 2009. Health underwriting margin, excluding Part D, accounted for 21% of the total in 2011, compared with 23% in 2010 and 25% in 2009.
These declines in the health percentages are indicative of the growth in the premium and profitability of our life segment in relation to our health segment. Health results have also been affected by the discontinuance of sales of the
previously-mentioned health products. The following table indicates health insurance premium income by distribution channel for each of the last three years.   
HEALTH INSURANCE  Premium by
Distribution Method  (Dollar amounts in thousands)   




























 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 
 
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 
 
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 

 United American Independent Agency
  



  



 



  



 



  




 Limited-benefit plans
  
$
36,461
  
  



 
$
47,244
  
  



 
$
60,292
  
  




 Medicare Supplement
  
 
270,029
  
  



 
 
267,280
  
  



 
 
266,150
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  





  
 
306,490
  
  
 
42
% 
 
 
314,524
  
  
 
40
% 
 
 
326,442
  
  
 
39
% 

 Liberty National Exclusive Agency
  



  



 



  



 



  




 Limited-benefit plans
  
 
175,133
  
  



 
 
201,037
  
  



 
 
243,568
  
  




 Medicare Supplement
  
 
114,974
  
  



 
 
130,019
  
  



 
 
144,954
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  





  
 
290,107
  
  
 
39
  
 
 
331,056
  
  
 
43
  
 
 
388,522
  
  
 
46
  

 American Income Exclusive Agency
  



  



 



  



 



  




 Limited-benefit plans
  
 
79,302
  
  



 
 
78,141
  
  



 
 
74,015
  
  




 Medicare Supplement
  
 
817
  
  



 
 
918
  
  



 
 
1,082
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  





  
 
80,119
  
  
 
11
  
 
 
79,059
  
  
 
10
  
 
 
75,097
  
  
 
9
  

 Direct Response
  



  



 



  



 



  




 Limited-benefit plans
  
 
372
  
  



 
 
398
  
  



 
 
438
  
  




 Medicare Supplement
  
 
56,695
  
  



 
 
53,930
  
  



 
 
46,117
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  





  
 
57,067
  
  
 
8
  
 
 
54,328
  
  
 
7
  
 
 
46,555
  
  
 
6
  

 Total Premium (Before Part D)
  



  



 



  



 



  




 Limited-benefit plans
  
 
291,268
  
  
 
40
  
 
 
326,820
  
  
 
42
  
 
 
378,313
  
  
 
45
  

 Medicare Supplement
  
 
442,515
  
  
 
60
  
 
 
452,147
  
  
 
58
  
 
 
458,303
  
  
 
55
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Premium (Before Part D)
  
 
733,783
  
  
 
100
% 
 
 
778,967
  
  
 
100
% 
 
 
836,616
  
  
 
100
% 


  



  
  
  
 
 



  
  
  
 
 



  
  
  
 

 Medicare Part D*
  
 
196,710
  
  



 
 
208,970
  
  



 
 
183,586
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  




 Total Health Premium*
  
$
930,493
  
  



 
$
987,937
  
  



 
$
1,020,202
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



  


*
 
Total Medicare Part D premium and health premium exclude $1.0 million in 2011, $516 thousand in 2010, and $2.5 million in 2009 of risk-sharing premium paid to the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services consistent with the Medicare Part D contract. This risk-sharing amount is a portion of the excess or deficiency of actual over expected claims, and therefore we view this payment as a component of policyholder benefits
in our segment analysis. 
  26 


Table of Contents
We market supplemental health insurance products through a number of distribution channels with the
United American Independent Agency being our market leader. The following table presents net sales by distribution method for the last three years.   
HEALTH INSURANCE  Net Sales
by Distribution Method  (Dollar amounts in thousands) 
 




























 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 
 
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 
 
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 

 United American Independent Agency
  



  



 



  



 



  




 Limited-benefit plans
  
$
1,065
  
  



 
$
4,596
  
  



 
$
12,256
  
  




 Medicare Supplement
  
 
31,584
  
  



 
 
27,444
  
  



 
 
30,431
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  





  
 
32,649
  
  
 
51
% 
 
 
32,040
  
  
 
50
% 
 
 
42,687
  
  
 
44
% 

 Liberty National Exclusive Agency
  



  



 



  



 



  




 Limited-benefit plans
  
 
15,033
  
  



 
 
10,385
  
  



 
 
25,306
  
  




 Medicare Supplement
  
 
1,814
  
  



 
 
3,804
  
  



 
 
4,461
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  





  
 
16,847
  
  
 
26
  
 
 
14,189
  
  
 
22
  
 
 
29,767
  
  
 
31
  

 American Income Exclusive Agency
  



  



 



  



 



  




 Limited-benefit plans
  
 
9,572
  
  



 
 
13,081
  
  



 
 
13,393
  
  




 Medicare Supplement
  
 
0
  
  



 
 
0
  
  



 
 
0
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  





  
 
9,572
  
  
 
15
  
 
 
13,081
  
  
 
20
  
 
 
13,393
  
  
 
14
  

 Direct Response
  



  



 



  



 



  




 Limited-benefit plans
  
 
868
  
  



 
 
549
  
  



 
 
665
  
  




 Medicare Supplement
  
 
4,123
  
  



 
 
4,548
  
  



 
 
10,233
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  





  
 
4,991
  
  
 
8
  
 
 
5,097
  
  
 
8
  
 
 
10,898
  
  
 
11
  

 Total Net Sales (Before Part D)
  



  



 



  



 



  




 Limited-benefit plans
  
 
26,538
  
  
 
41
  
 
 
28,611
  
  
 
44
  
 
 
51,620
  
  
 
53
  

 Medicare Supplement
  
 
37,521
  
  
 
59
  
 
 
35,796
  
  
 
56
  
 
 
45,125
  
  
 
47
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Net Sales (Before Part D)
  
 
64,059
  
  
 
100
% 
 
 
64,407
  
  
 
100
% 
 
 
96,745
  
  
 
100
% 


  



  
  
  
 
 



  
  
  
 
 



  
  
  
 

 Medicare Part D*
  
 
115,122
  
  



 
 
38,799
  
  



 
 
43,004
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  




 Total Health Net Sales
  
$
179,181
  
  



 
$
103,206
  
  



 
$
139,749
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



  


*
 
Net sales for Medicare Part D represents only new first-time enrollees. 
  27 


Table of Contents
The following table discloses first-year collected health premium by distribution method. 
  HEALTH INSURANCE 
First-Year Collected Premium by Distribution Method  (Dollar amounts in thousands)   




























 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 
 
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 
 
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 

 United American Independent Agency
  



  



 



  



 



  




 Limited-benefit plans
  
$
1,531
  
  



 
$
5,638
  
  



 
$
11,459
  
  




 Medicare Supplement
  
 
28,044
  
  



 
 
29,999
  
  



 
 
16,066
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  





  
 
29,575
  
  
 
51
% 
 
 
35,637
  
  
 
47
% 
 
 
27,525
  
  
 
35
% 

 Liberty National Exclusive Agency
  



  



 



  



 



  




 Limited-benefit plans
  
 
10,432
  
  



 
 
12,435
  
  



 
 
28,003
  
  




 Medicare Supplement
  
 
2,144
  
  



 
 
3,324
  
  



 
 
4,973
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  





  
 
12,576
  
  
 
21
  
 
 
15,759
  
  
 
21
  
 
 
32,976
  
  
 
42
  

 American Income Exclusive Agency
  



  



 



  



 



  




 Limited-benefit plans
  
 
11,652
  
  



 
 
13,965
  
  



 
 
12,996
  
  




 Medicare Supplement
  
 
0
  
  



 
 
0
  
  



 
 
0
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  





  
 
11,652
  
  
 
20
  
 
 
13,965
  
  
 
19
  
 
 
12,996
  
  
 
17
  

 Direct Response
  



  



 



  



 



  




 Limited-benefit plans
  
 
572
  
  



 
 
488
  
  



 
 
384
  
  




 Medicare Supplement
  
 
4,209
  
  



 
 
9,162
  
  



 
 
4,251
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  





  
 
4,781
  
  
 
8
  
 
 
9,650
  
  
 
13
  
 
 
4,635
  
  
 
6
  

 Total First-Year Collected Premium (Before Part D)
  



  



 



  



 



  




 Limited-benefit plans
  
 
24,187
  
  
 
41
  
 
 
32,526
  
  
 
43
  
 
 
52,842
  
  
 
68
  

 Medicare Supplement
  
 
34,397
  
  
 
59
  
 
 
42,485
  
  
 
57
  
 
 
25,290
  
  
 
32
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total (Before Part D)
  
 
58,584
  
  
 
100
% 
 
 
75,011
  
  
 
100
% 
 
 
78,132
  
  
 
100
% 


  



  
  
  
 
 



  
  
  
 
 



  
  
  
 

 Medicare Part D*
  
 
26,823
  
  



 
 
48,945
  
  



 
 
26,708
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  




 Total First-Year Collected Premium
  
$
85,407
  
  



 
$
123,956
  
  



 
$
104,840
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



  


*
 
First-year collected premium for Medicare Part D represents only premium collected from new first-time enrollees in their first policy year. 
  The Medicare Part D Health product will be presented and discussed
separately in this report.    Health insurance, excluding
Medicare Part D. Health premium other than Part D has declined in each successive year presented, falling 6% in 2011 to $734 million and 7% in 2010. Net sales decreased 1% in 2011 to $64 million after a decline of 33% in 2010. First-year
collected premium has also declined in each period considered. These declines in sales and premium resulted from several factors: (1) our previously-mentioned emphasis on life sales, due to life’s superior margins and its greater
contribution to investment income; (2) the discontinuance of sales of various limited-benefit health products; and (3) the decline in agent counts in certain distribution units that market health products. 
 
  28 


Table of Contents
Medicare Supplement provides the greatest amount of health premium, partially because Medicare
Supplement products are generally more persistent than the limited-benefit products, but also because of more stable sales in recent periods. Medicare Supplement premium also continues to grow in relation to our limited-benefit health premium.
Medicare Supplement premium represented 60% of non-Part D health premium in 2011, compared with 58% in 2010 and 55% in 2009.   
The Liberty National Exclusive Agency represented 39% of all Torchmark non-Part D health premium income at $290 million in 2011. The Liberty
Agency markets Medicare Supplements and limited-benefit health products consisting primarily of cancer insurance. In 2011, health premium income in this Agency declined 12% from prior year premium of $331 million. Premium also fell 15% in 2010 from
$389 million. First-year collected premium declined 20% to $13 million in 2011, after declining 52% a year earlier. As noted earlier, the discontinuance of sales of certain health products and the earlier increased competition in the health
insurance market had caused steep declines in the agent count in this Agency. As of December 31, 2011, this Agency had 1,345 agents, a decline of 33% from the 2010 year end count of 2,001. In 2010, the number of agents fell 19% from 2,471 at
year end 2009. The decline in agent counts has resulted in decreased new sales, translating into declines in premium. Net sales for 2011 rose 19% from $14 million in 2010 to $17 million due to the introduction of new products. In 2010,
this Agency’s net sales fell 52%. Also discussed under the Life Insurance caption are efforts designed to strengthen this Agency.   
The UA Independent Agency is Torchmark’s largest in terms of health premium income. This Agency is composed of independent agencies
appointed with Torchmark whose size range from very large, multi-state organizations down to one-person offices. All of these agents generally sell for a number of insurance companies. Torchmark had 1,447 active producing agents at December 31, 2011
compared with 1,406 a year earlier. This agency is our largest distributor of non-Part D health insurance in terms of health net sales, representing 51% in 2011. This Agency is also our largest producer of Medicare Supplement insurance, with $270
million or 61% of our Medicare Supplement premium income in 2011. Net sales for this Agency increased 2% to $33 million in 2011, after having declined 25% in 2010 from $43 million in 2009. The greater amount of net sales in 2009 were due to
increases in group Medicare Supplement sales. Group Medicare Supplement sales fluctuate greatly from period to period and do not indicate a trend. Total health premium income for the UA Independent Agency was $306 million in 2011, a 3% decline from
2010 premium of $315 million. Premium income also declined 4% in 2010. These declines in premium have resulted as new sales have not compensated for lapses.   
The American Income Exclusive Agency, predominantly a life insurance distribution channel, is our third largest health insurance distributor
based on premium income. Its health plans are comprised of various limited-benefit plans. Approximately 69% of the agency’s 2011 health premium was from accident policies. Sales of the plans by this Agency are generally made in conjunction with
a life policy being sold to the same customer.    Health
premium at this agency rose 1% in 2011 to $80 million, after having increased 5% to $79 million in 2010. However, net health sales declined 27% to $10 million in 2011. Net sales were $13 million in both 2010 and 2009. Net health sales comprised only
6% of the American Income Agency’s total net sales in 2011.    Direct Response, primarily a life operation, also offers health insurance, which is predominantly Medicare Supplements sold directly to employer or union sponsored groups. In both 2011 and 2010, net health
sales were $5 million. In 2011, net health sales for this group represented approximately 4% of Direct Response’s total life and health net sales. Direct Response health premium income has risen each year over the prior year. Health premium
rose 5% in 2011 to $57 million and 17% in 2010.    Medicare
Part D.      Torchmark, through its subsidiary United American, offers coverage under the government’s Medicare Part D plan. The Medicare Part D plan is a stand-alone prescription drug plan for Medicare
beneficiaries. Part D is regulated and partially funded by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) for participating private insurers like United American. Under Part D, private carriers are the primary insurers, while CMS provides
significant premium subsidies and reinsurance. Total Medicare Part D premium was $197 million in 2011, compared with $209 million in 2010, a decline of 6%. Part D premium rose 14% in 2010. Changes in Part D premium generally result from changes in
the number of 
  29 


Table of Contents

enrollees. At December 31, 2011, United American had approximately 225 thousand enrollees for the 2012 Part D plan, compared with 144 thousand for the 2011 plan year and 158 thousand for the 2010
plan year. Growth for the plan year 2012 was largely a result of a new lower cost Part D plan which allowed us to pick up a large number of low-income automatic enrollees and to grow our own individual sales. The new product is priced to achieve the
same underwriting margin as our existing product. Our Medicare Part D product is sold through the Direct Response operation and to groups through the UA Independent Agency. Part D net sales were $115 million in 2011, compared with $39 million in
2010 and $43 million in 2009. We count only sales to new first-time enrollees in net sales, and the majority of premium income was from previous enrollees.   
We believe that the Medicare Part D program is a meaningful component of our health product offerings because of our experience with the senior-age
market and with Medicare Supplements, the government assurances with regard to the risk-sharing agreements for participating insurers, limited-risk due to the incremental income added to our health insurance margins, and the renewal of the business
every year. Due to our experience with service to the senior-age market and the use of our existing Direct Response marketing system, entry to this business required little new investment. However, as with any government-sponsored program, the
possibility of regulatory changes could change the outlook for this market. 
  30 


Table of Contents
As presented in the following table, Torchmark’s health insurance underwriting margin before
other income and administrative expense declined 5% in 2011 to $162 million but remained flat at $170 million in 2010. As a percentage of premium income, margins were stable in all periods at approximately 17%. 
  HEALTH INSURANCE 
Summary of Results  (Dollar
amounts in thousands)   































 
 
2011
 

 
 
Health*
 
 
% ofPremium
 
 
MedicarePart D
 
 
% ofPremium
 
 
TotalHealth
 
 
% ofPremium
 

 Premium**
 
$
733,783
  
 
 
100
% 
 
$
196,710
  
 
 
100
% 
 
$
930,493
  
 
 
100
% 









 Policy obligations
 
 
470,901
  
 
 
64
  
 
 
161,946
  
 
 
82
  
 
 
632,847
  
 
 
68
  

 Required interest on reserves
 
 
(36,729
) 
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(36,729
) 
 
 
(4
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net policy obligations
 
 
434,172
  
 
 
59
  
 
 
161,946
  
 
 
82
  
 
 
596,118
  
 
 
64
  









 Commissions and premium taxes
 
 
41,144
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
7,798
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
48,942
  
 
 
5
  

 Amortization of acquisition costs
 
 
120,028
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
3,414
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
123,442
  
 
 
14
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expense
 
 
595,344
  
 
 
81
  
 
 
173,158
  
 
 
88
  
 
 
768,502
  
 
 
83
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Insurance underwriting income before other income and administrative expenses
 
$
138,439
  
 
 
19
% 
 
$
23,552
  
 
 
12
% 
 
$
161,991
  
 
 
17
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 




 
 
2010
 

 
 
Health*
 
 
% ofPremium
 
 
MedicarePart D
 
 
% ofPremium
 
 
TotalHealth
 
 
% ofPremium
 

 Premium**
 
$
778,967
  
 
 
100
% 
 
$
208,970
  
 
 
100
% 
 
$
987,937
  
 
 
100
% 









 Policy obligations
 
 
497,576
  
 
 
64
  
 
 
172,131
  
 
 
82
  
 
 
669,707
  
 
 
68
  

 Required interest on reserves
 
 
(35,368
) 
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(35,368
) 
 
 
(4
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net policy obligations
 
 
462,208
  
 
 
59
  
 
 
172,131
  
 
 
82
  
 
 
634,339
  
 
 
64
  









 Commissions and premium taxes
 
 
44,960
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
8,341
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
53,301
  
 
 
6
  

 Amortization of acquisition costs
 
 
126,052
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
4,186
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
130,238
  
 
 
13
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expense
 
 
633,220
  
 
 
81
  
 
 
184,658
  
 
 
88
  
 
 
817,878
  
 
 
83
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Insurance underwriting income before other income and administrative expenses
 
$
145,747
  
 
 
19
% 
 
$
24,312
  
 
 
12
% 
 
$
170,059
  
 
 
17
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 




 
 
2009
 

 
 
Health*
 
 
% ofPremium
 
 
MedicarePart D
 
 
% ofPremium
 
 
TotalHealth
 
 
% ofPremium
 

 Premium**
 
$
836,616
  
 
 
100
% 
 
$
183,586
  
 
 
100
% 
 
$
1,020,202
  
 
 
100
% 









 Policy obligations
 
 
528,189
  
 
 
63
  
 
 
151,621
  
 
 
82
  
 
 
679,810
  
 
 
67
  

 Required interest on reserves
 
 
(34,243
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(34,243
) 
 
 
(3
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net policy obligations
 
 
493,946
  
 
 
59
  
 
 
151,621
  
 
 
82
  
 
 
645,567
  
 
 
64
  









 Commissions and premium taxes
 
 
50,114
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
6,960
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
57,074
  
 
 
5
  

 Amortization of acquisition costs
 
 
143,299
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
3,852
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
147,151
  
 
 
14
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expense
 
 
687,359
  
 
 
82
  
 
 
162,433
  
 
 
88
  
 
 
849,792
  
 
 
83
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Insurance underwriting income before other income and administrative expenses
 
$
149,257
  
 
 
18
% 
 
$
21,153
  
 
 
12
% 
 
$
170,410
  
 
 
17
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


*
 
Health other than Medicare Part D. 


**
 
Total Medicare Part D premium and health premium excludes $1.0 million in 2011, $516 thousand in 2010, and $2.5 million in 2009 of risk-sharing premium paid to the CMS
consistent with the Medicare Part D contract. This risk-sharing amount is a portion of the excess or deficiency of actual over expected claims, and therefore we view this payment as a component of policyholder benefits in our segment analysis.

  31 


Table of Contents
Annuities.    As described in Note 3—Discontinued Operations,
we sold our subsidiary United Investors. United Investors was our carrier of variable annuities and a primary carrier of fixed annuities. As a result of the sale, we disposed of approximately 37% of our annuity deposit balance as of
December 31, 2010, including all of our variable annuities. Accordingly, we do not expect that annuities will be a significant portion of our business or marketing strategy going forward.    Our fixed annuity balances at the end of 2011, 2010, and 2009, were $1.29 billion, $1.24 billion, and $959 million,
respectively. Underwriting income was $2.3 million, $1.3 million, and $3.2 thousand in each of the years 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.   
While the fixed annuity account balance has increased each year over the prior year, policy charges and underwriting income have fluctuated only
modestly. The stability in fixed annuity policy charges has resulted as the charges consist primarily of surrender charges and are not based on account size. These charges have remained somewhat level in recent periods. A considerable portion of
fixed annuity profitability is derived from the spread of investment income exceeding contractual interest requirements, which can result in negative net policy obligations. In each of the years presented, the spreads for fixed annuities increased
over the prior year as a result of credited rate reductions on the inforce annuities. Furthermore, spreads were increased by the introduction of a new annuity form on Liberty National paper in mid-2009. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs
also rose as these costs are amortized in relation to gross profits. 
  32 


Table of Contents
Administrative expenses.    Operating expenses are included in the Other
and Corporate Segments and are classified into two categories: insurance administrative expenses and expenses of the parent company. The following table is an analysis of operating expenses for the three years ended December 31, 2011.
   Operating Expenses Selected Information 
(Dollar amounts in thousands)   




























 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
Amount
 
 
% ofPrem.
 
 
Amount
 
 
% ofPrem.
 
 
Amount
 
 
% ofPrem.
 

 Insurance administrative expenses:
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Salaries
  
$
76,206
  
 
 
2.9
% 
 
$
73,034
  
 
 
2.8
% 
 
$
74,317
  
 
 
2.9
% 

 Other employee costs
  
 
30,294
  
 
 
1.1
  
 
 
34,109
  
 
 
1.3
  
 
 
27,356
  
 
 
1.1
  

 Other administrative expense
  
 
43,085
  
 
 
1.6
  
 
 
41,736
  
 
 
1.6
  
 
 
40,294
  
 
 
1.5
  

 Legal expense—insurance
  
 
9,524
  
 
 
.4
  
 
 
6,736
  
 
 
.2
  
 
 
8,358
  
 
 
.3
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total insurance administrative expenses
  
 
159,109
  
 
 
6.0
% 
 
 
155,615
  
 
 
5.9
% 
 
 
150,325
  
 
 
5.8
% 


  



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 









 Parent company expense
  
 
7,693
  
 



 
 
8,809
  
 



 
 
9,590
  
 




 Stock compensation expense
  
 
14,954
  
 



 
 
11,848
  
 



 
 
9,860
  
 




 State administrative settlement
  
 
6,901
  
 



 
 
0
  
 



 
 
0
  
 




 Settlement of prior period litigation
  
 
12,000
  
 



 
 
0
  
 



 
 
0
  
 




 Loss on sale of property and equipment
  
 
979
  
 



 
 
0
  
 



 
 
355
  
 





  
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Total operating expenses, per Consolidated Statements of Operations
  
$
201,636
  
 



 
$
176,272
  
 



 
$
170,130
  
 





  
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 












 Insurance administrative expenses:
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Increase (decrease) over prior year
  
 
2.2
% 
 



 
 
3.5
% 
 



 
 
(3.7
)% 
 












 Total operating expenses:
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Increase (decrease) over prior year
  
 
14.4
% 
 



 
 
3.6
% 
 



 
 
(6.6
)% 
 



   Insurance administrative expenses have
trended upwards and rose 2% in 2011, after having increased 4% in 2010. As a percentage of premium, they increased .1% in each successive year to 6.0% in 2011. Employee costs increased 25% in 2010, primarily as a result of unusually high employee
health insurance costs in that year. Partially offsetting the increase in 2010 employee costs was a decline in legal costs, as we favorably settled certain previously reserved litigation during 2010. In 2011, however, legal expenses returned to
normal levels. Expenses for 2011 correlated more closely by expense component to 2009 expenses, as 2010 expenses reflected the aforementioned unusual items. Parent Company expense declined in 2011 primarily as a result of the decline in certain
employee benefit liabilities related to retired employees. Stock compensation expense has risen in each successive year as the value of Torchmark stock has increased, resulting in higher values for grants of stock and options. As stated in Note
14—Business Segments in the Notes to Consolidated financial Statements, management views stock compensation expense as a corporate expense, and therefore treats it as a Parent Company expense. 
  As mentioned in Note 1—Significant Accounting Policies in
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we incurred two settlement expense issues in 2011 that related to events occurring many years ago: the settlement of a state administrative issue of $7 million and a litigation issue
in the estimated amount of $12 million. In addition to these two items, we recorded two nonrecurring charges. In 2011, we sold aviation equipment at a loss of $979 thousand and in 2009, we wrote down Company-occupied real estate that was
other-than-temporarily impaired in the amount of $355 thousand. While these nonrecurring expenses were included in “Operating expenses” for the respective year in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in accordance with
accounting guidance, they are considered as non-operating expenses by management. 
  33 


Table of Contents
Investments.    We manage our capital resources including investments,
debt, and cash flow through the investment segment. Excess investment income represents the profit margin attributable to investment operations. It is the measure that we use to evaluate the performance of the investment segment as described in
Note 14—Business Segments in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. It is defined as net investment income less both the required interest attributable to net policy liabilities and the interest cost associated
with capital funding or “financing costs.” We also view excess investment income per diluted share as an important and useful measure to evaluate the performance of the investment segment. It is defined as excess investment income divided
by the total diluted weighted average shares outstanding, representing the contribution by the investment segment to the consolidated earnings per share of the Company. Since implementing our share repurchase program in 1986, we have used over
$5 billion of cash flow to repurchase Torchmark shares after determining that the repurchases provided a greater return than other investment alternatives. Share repurchases reduce excess investment income because of the foregone earnings on
the cash that would otherwise have been invested in interest-bearing assets, but they also reduce the number of shares outstanding. In order to put all capital resource uses on a comparable basis, we believe that excess investment income per diluted
share is an appropriate measure of the investment segment.   
Excess Investment Income.    The following table summarizes Torchmark’s investment income and excess investment
income.    Analysis of Excess Investment Income
 (Dollar amounts in thousands except for per share data)   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net investment income
  
$
693,028
  
 
$
676,364
  
 
$
632,540
  

 Reclassification of low income housing expense(1)
  
 
14,277
  
 
 
9,153
  
 
 
0
  

 Reclassification of interest amount due to deconsolidation(2)
  
 
(264
) 
 
 
(264
) 
 
 
(264
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Adjusted investment income (per segment analysis)
  
 
707,041
  
 
 
685,253
  
 
 
632,276
  

 Interest credited to net insurance policy liabilities:
  



 



 




 Interest on reserves
  
 
(551,798
) 
 
 
(521,683
) 
 
 
(487,000
) 

 Interest on deferred acquisition costs
  
 
214,998
  
 
 
208,840
  
 
 
200,042
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net required
  
 
(336,800
) 
 
 
(312,843
) 
 
 
(286,958
) 

 Financing costs
  
 
(77,644
) 
 
 
(75,265
) 
 
 
(69,668
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Excess investment income
  
$
292,597
  
 
$
297,145
  
 
$
275,650
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Excess investment income per diluted share
  
$
2.66
  
 
$
2.41
  
 
$
2.21
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Mean invested assets (at amortized cost)
  
$
11,254,566
  
 
$
10,836,788
  
 
$
10,012,673
  

 Average net insurance policy liabilities(3)
  
 
6,097,763
  
 
 
5,736,662
  
 
 
5,279,621
  

 Average debt and preferred securities (at amortized cost)
  
 
1,119,964
  
 
 
1,112,147
  
 
 
1,111,940
  
  


(1)
 
Reclassified amortization of non-guaranteed low-income housing interests included in “Net investment income” in the Consolidated Statements of Operations but
recorded in “Income taxes” in the segment analysis. See Note 1—Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the caption Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Interests for an
explanation. 


(2)
Deconsolidation of trusts liable for Trust Preferred Securities required by accounting guidance. See Note 11—Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. 


(3)
Net of deferred acquisition costs, excluding the associated unrealized gains and losses thereon.    Excess investment income declined $5 million or 2% in 2011 from the prior year. Excess investment income rose
$21 million or 8% in 2010. On a per diluted share basis, excess investment income rose 10% to $2.66 per share in 2011, after having risen 9% in the prior year. The favorable increases in the per share amounts relative to the changes in dollar
amounts for excess investment income are a result of share purchases. 
  34 


Table of Contents
The largest component of excess investment income is net investment income, which rose 3% to
$707 million in 2011. It increased 8% to $685 million in 2010 from $632 million in 2009. Presented in the following chart is the growth in net investment income compared with the growth in mean invested assets. 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Growth in net investment income
  
 
3.2
% 
 
 
8.4
% 
 
 
0.9
% 

 Growth in mean invested assets (at amortized cost)
  
 
3.9
  
 
 
8.2
  
 
 
5.4
  
   Growth in net investment income generally correlates
somewhat with the growth in mean invested assets at amortized cost. With the exception of the years 2009 and 2010, growth in investment income has slightly lagged the growth in mean assets for several years. One of the primary reasons that
investment income has grown at a lower rate than the growth in mean invested assets in recent years is due to the low-interest-rate environment during that period. As a result, new investments have been made at yield rates lower than the yield rates
earned on securities that matured or were otherwise disposed of. Another factor that has contributed to the relatively slower growth rate of investment income is the time lag between the date proceeds from maturities and dispositions are received
and the date such proceeds are reinvested. During these lags, we have held cash at lower yields. During 2009, because of the uncertainty about liquidity in the financial markets, we held significantly more cash and short-term investments than in
other years. Holding this larger balance of low-yielding securities in 2009 resulted in the extremely low growth rate in income in that year, and also affected the higher growth rate in 2010 as these lower yielding cash balances were invested in
2010. The trend of lags in growth in net investment income in relation to the growth in mean invested assets is expected to continue until yields on suitable new investments exceed the portfolio yield. 
  Excess investment income is reduced by required interest on net
insurance policy liabilities and the interest paid on corporate debt. Information about interest credited to policy liabilities is shown in the following table.   
Required Interest on Net Insurance Policy Liabilities  (Dollar amounts in millions)   
















 
  
RequiredInterest
 
 
Average NetInsurancePolicy 
Liabilities
 
 
AverageDiscountRate
 

 2011
  



 



 




 Life and Health
  
$
275.9
  
 
$
4,898.4
  
 
 
5.63
% 

 Annuity
  
 
60.9
  
 
 
1,199.4
  
 
 
5.07
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total
  
 
336.8
  
 
 
6,097.8
  
 
 
5.52
  

 Increase in 2011
  
 
7.66
% 
 
 
6.29
%  
 




 2010
  



 



 




 Life and Health
  
$
257.0
  
 
$
4,668.8
  
 
 
5.50
% 

 Annuity
  
 
55.8
  
 
 
1,067.9
  
 
 
5.23
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total
  
 
312.8
  
 
 
5,736.7
  
 
 
5.45
  

 Increase in 2010
  
 
9.02
% 
 
 
8.66
% 
 




 2009
  



 



 




 Life and Health
  
$
240.8
  
 
$
4,388.6
  
 
 
5.49
% 

 Annuity
  
 
46.2
  
 
 
891.0
  
 
 
5.19
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total
  
 
287.0
  
 
 
5,279.6
  
 
 
5.44
  

 Increase in 2009
  
 
10.18
% 
 
 
9.76
% 
 



   The combined average interest discount
rate has risen in each of the last three years due to changes in the mix of the in force business. For more specific information on life and health discount rates, please refer to Note 6—Future Policy Benefit Reserves in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  35 


Table of Contents
Excess investment income is also impacted by financing costs. Financing costs for the investment
segment primarily consist of interest on our various debt instruments and are deducted from excess investment income. The table below reconciles interest expense per the Consolidated Statements of Operations to financing costs. 
  The table below presents the components of financing costs. 
  Analysis of Financing Costs 
(Amounts in thousands)   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Interest on funded debt
  
$
72,697
  
 
$
72,889
  
 
$
64,369
  

 Interest on short-term debt
  
 
5,207
  
 
 
2,589
  
 
 
5,513
  

 Other
  
 
4
  
 
 
51
  
 
 
50
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Interest expense per Consolidated Statements of Operations
  
 
77,908
  
 
 
75,529
  
 
 
69,932
  

 Reclassification of interest due to deconsolidation (1)
  
 
(264
) 
 
 
(264
) 
 
 
(264
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Financing costs
  
$
77,644
  
 
$
75,265
  
 
$
69,668
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
See Principles of Consolidation in Note 1—Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for an
explanation of deconsolidation.    Financing
costs increased $2 million or 3% in 2011. They rose $6 million or 8% in 2010. The increase in financing costs in 2010 reflects the issuance in June 2009 of $300 million principal amount 9¼% Senior Notes due in 2019. In 2010, we
incurred a full year of interest on this issue. The 2011 increase in interest on short-term debt was primarily a result of the $2.1 million increase in financing charges on our letter of credit facility, arising from the December, 2010 restructuring
of our credit facility. More information on this facility is disclosed under the caption Short-Term Borrowings in the Financial Condition section of this report and in Note 11—Debt in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements. The 2010 decrease was due to a decline in short-term rates over the previous year, but was also impacted by a 22% decline in the average balance of commercial paper outstanding compared with 2009. 
  Excess investment income benefits from increases in long-term rates
available on new investments and decreases in short-term borrowing rates. Of these two factors, higher investment rates have the greater impact because the amount of cash that we invest is significantly greater than the amount that we borrow at
short-term rates.    However, growth in our excess investment
income decreases when growth in income from the portfolio is less than that of the interest required by policy liabilities and financing costs, such as we have experienced in recent periods. In an extended low-interest-rate environment, the
portfolio yield will tend to decline as we invest new money at lower long-term rates. We believe, however, the decline would be relatively slow, as only 2% to 3% of fixed maturities on average are expected to run off each year over the next five
years. We also believe that the deferred acquisition costs and benefit reserve balances on our life and health business would not be impacted by an extended low-interest-rate environment. While these balances for annuities could be affected, the
impact would be immaterial.    In response to the lower
interest rates, we raised the new business premium rates on certain life products. The increased premiums will provide additional margin on these policies to help offset the possible future reductions in excess investment income and are not expected
to have a detrimental impact on sales. 
  36 


Table of Contents
Investment Acquisitions.    Torchmark’s current investment policy
calls for investing almost exclusively in investment-grade fixed maturities generally with long maturities (maturity date more than 20 years after acquisition date) that meet our quality and yield objectives. We generally prefer to invest in
securities with longer maturities because they more closely match the long-term nature of our policy liabilities. Further, we believe this strategy is appropriate because our strong positive cash flows are generally stable and predictable. If such
longer-term securities do not meet our quality and yield objectives, we consider investing in short-term securities, taking into consideration the slope of the yield curve and other factors at the time. During calendar years 2009 through 2011,
Torchmark invested almost exclusively in fixed-maturity securities, primarily with longer-term maturities as presented in the chart below.   
The following table summarizes selected information for fixed-maturity purchases. The effective annual yield shown in the table is the yield
calculated to the potential termination date that produces the lowest yield. This date is commonly known as the “worst call date.” Two different average life calculations are shown, average life to the next call date and average life to
the maturity date.    Fixed Maturity Acquisitions Selected
Information  (Dollar amounts in millions)   
















 
  
For the Year
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Cost of acquisitions:
  



 



 




 Investment-grade corporate securities
  
$
1,078.3
  
 
$
1,478.5
  
 
$
1,431.6
  

 Taxable municipal securities
  
 
10.7
  
 
 
201.2
  
 
 
754.4
  

 Other investment-grade securities
  
 
15.2
  
 
 
33.7
  
 
 
15.4
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fixed-maturity acquisitions
  
$
1,104.2
  
 
$
1,713.4
  
 
$
2,201.4
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effective annual yield (one year compounded*)
  
 
5.65
% 
 
 
5.89
% 
 
 
6.43
% 

 Average life (in years, to next call)
  
 
27.4
  
 
 
24.2
  
 
 
16.3
  

 Average life (in years to maturity)
  
 
28.1
  
 
 
26.1
  
 
 
21.2
  

 Average rating
  
 
A-
  
 
 
A-
  
 
 
A
  

   * Tax-equivalent
basis, where the yield on tax-exempt securities is adjusted to produce a yield equivalent to the pretax yield on taxable securities.
    
   We prefer to invest primarily in bonds
that are not callable (on other than a make-whole basis) prior to maturity, but we periodically invest some funds in callable bonds when the incremental yield available on such bonds warrants doing so. For investments in callable bonds, the actual
life of the investment will depend on whether the issuer calls the investment prior to the maturity date. Given our investments in callable bonds, the actual average life of our investments can not be known at the time of the investment. However,
the average life will not be less than the average life to next call and will not exceed the average life to maturity. Data for both of these average life measures is provided in the above chart. The average life of funds invested in 2009 (to both
next call and maturity) was lower than that of funds invested during 2011 and 2010 due to actions taken for statutory capital management purposes and the limited availability of longer term investments. 
  During the three years 2009 through 2011, we have invested primarily in
investment-grade corporate bonds. Purchases in 2011 were almost entirely in these corporates. During 2009 and 2010, we acquired a significant amount of taxable municipal bonds, primarily Build America Bonds authorized by the American Recovery and
Retirement Act of 2009. The investments in these municipal bonds consisted almost exclusively of general obligation bonds and revenue bonds for essential services. In assessing the creditworthiness of these bonds, we took into account a number of
factors, including the geographic location of the municipalities.    New cash flow available for investment is primarily provided through our insurance operations, but has also been affected by other factors. Issuer calls, as a result of the low-interest environment experienced
during the past three years are a factor. Issuers are more likely to call bonds when rates are low because they often can refinance them at a lower cost. Calls increase funds available for investment,

  37 


Table of Contents

but they can have a negative impact on investment income if the proceeds from the calls are reinvested in bonds that have lower yields than that of the bonds that were called. Issuer calls were
$187 million in 2011, $109 million in 2010, and $181 million in 2009. The higher level of acquisitions in 2009 was primarily due to the additional cash flow available from the special sales transactions noted below. 
  Sales transactions.    During 2009, the
Company sold $703 million of fixed maturities at amortized cost, including $293 million of below- investment-grade securities. The market value for some of these securities increased significantly during the period to a level where, even though the
sales price was less than amortized cost, management determined that better risk-adjusted returns could be achieved by selling rather than continuing to hold the securities. Other securities were sold at prices that produced gains to offset these
losses for tax purposes. Due in large part to selling below-investment-grade securities and reinvesting the proceeds in investment-grade securities, below-investment-grade securities declined significantly as a percentage of total fixed maturities
at year end 2009. The reduction in below-investment-grade securities had a positive impact on the risk-based capital position of our insurance subsidiaries at that date and thereafter.    Portfolio Analysis.    Because Torchmark has recently invested almost exclusively in
fixed-maturity securities, the relative percentage of our assets invested in various types of investments varies from industry norms. The following table presents a comparison of Torchmark’s components of invested assets at amortized cost as of
December 31, 2011 with the latest industry data.   
















 
  
Torchmark
 
 
 
 

 
  
Amount(in millions)
 
  
%
 
 
Industry %(1)
 

 Bonds
  
$
9,761
  
  
 
85
% 
 
 
76
% 

 Preferred stock (redeemable and perpetual)(2)
  
 
1,177
  
  
 
10
  
 
 
0
  

 Common stocks
  
 
1
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
2
  

 Mortgage loans
  
 
1
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
10
  

 Real estate
  
 
3
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
1
  

 Policy loans
  
 
401
  
  
 
4
  
 
 
4
  

 Other invested assets
  
 
22
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
4
  

 Cash and short terms
  
 
105
  
  
 
1
  
 
 
3
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
11,471
  
  
 
100
  
 
 
100
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

   (1)    Latest data available from the American Council of Life Insurance as of December 31, 2010.
(2)    Includes redeemable preferred of $1.2 billion or 10% and perpetual preferred of $14 million or
0%.
        
       
   At December 31, 2011,
approximately 95% of our investments at book value were in a diversified fixed-maturity portfolio. Policy loans, which are secured by policy cash values, made up an additional 4%. The remaining balance was comprised of other investments including
equity securities, mortgage loans, and other long-term and short-term investments. 
  38 


Table of Contents
Because fixed maturities represent such a significant portion of our investment portfolio, the
remainder of the discussion of portfolio composition will focus on fixed maturities. An analysis of our fixed-maturity portfolio by component at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 is as follows: 
  Fixed Maturities by Component 
At December 31, 2011 
(Dollar amounts in millions)   




























 
 
Cost orAmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
 
FairValue
 
 
% of TotalFixed Maturities
 

 
 
 
 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
FairValue
 

 Corporates
 
$
8,358
  
 
$
1,051
  
 
$
(138
) 
 
$
9,271
  
 
 
77
% 
 
 
78
% 

 Redeemable preferred stock
 
 
1,163
  
 
 
27
  
 
 
(68
) 
 
 
1,122
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
10
  

 Municipals
 
 
1,213
  
 
 
119
  
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
1,330
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
11
  

 Government-sponsored enterprises
 
 
46
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
47
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1
  

 Governments & agencies
 
 
36
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
37
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
 
 
14
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
60
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(30
) 
 
 
30
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
0
  

 Other asset-backed securities
 
 
34
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
36
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities
 
$
10,924
  
 
$
1,203
  
 
$
(239
) 
 
$
11,888
  
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Fixed Maturities by Component
 At December 31, 2010  (Dollar amounts in millions)   




























 
 
Cost orAmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
 
FairValue
 
 
% of TotalFixed Maturities
 

 
 
 
 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
FairValue
 

 Corporates
 
$
7,708
  
 
$
423
  
 
$
(210
) 
 
$
7,921
  
 
 
74
% 
 
 
75
% 

 Redeemable preferred stock
 
 
1,312
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
(80
) 
 
 
1,268
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
12
  

 Municipals
 
 
1,212
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
(42
) 
 
 
1,181
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
12
  

 Government-sponsored enterprises
 
 
58
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
57
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
1
  

 Governments & agencies
 
 
35
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
37
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
 
 
16
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
18
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
57
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(34
) 
 
 
23
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Other asset-backed securities
 
 
37
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
38
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities
 
$
10,435
  
 
$
476
  
 
$
(368
) 
 
$
10,543
  
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  39 


Table of Contents
At December 31, 2011, fixed maturities had a fair value of $11.9 billion, compared with $10.5 billion
at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011, fixed maturities were in a $964 million net unrealized gain position compared with an unrealized gain position of $108 million at December 31, 2010. Approximately 77% of our fixed maturity assets at
December 31, 2011 at amortized cost were corporate bonds and 11% were redeemable preferred stocks. This compares with 74% corporate bonds and 13% redeemable preferred stocks at year end 2010. On a combined basis, residential mortgage-backed
securities, other asset-backed securities, and collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) were less than 2% of the assets at amortized cost at December 31, 2011. The $60 million of CDOs at amortized cost made up less than 0.6% of the assets and are
backed primarily by trust preferred securities issued by banks and insurance companies. The $14 million of residential mortgage-backed securities are rated AAA. For more information about our fixed-maturity portfolio by component at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, including an analysis of unrealized investment losses and a schedule of maturities, see Note 4—Investments in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Due to the strong and stable cash flows generated by its insurance
products, Torchmark has the ability to hold securities with temporary unrealized losses until recovery. Even though these fixed maturity investments are available for sale, Torchmark generally expects and intends to hold to maturity any securities
which are temporarily impaired.    Additional information
concerning the fixed-maturity portfolio is as follows.   
Fixed Maturity Portfolio Selected Information   
















 
  
At December 31,2011
 
 
At December 31,2010
 

 Average annual effective yield (1)
  
 
6.49
% 
 
 
6.63
% 

 Average life, in years, to:
  



 




 Next call
(2)
  
 
17.3
  
 
 
16.6
  

 Maturity
(2)
  
 
22.2
  
 
 
22.3
  

 Effective duration to:
  



 




 Next call
(2), (3)
  
 
9.9
  
 
 
9.0
  

 Maturity
(2), (3)
  
 
11.6
  
 
 
10.9
  

   (1)    Tax-equivalent basis, where the yield on tax-exempt securities is adjusted to produce a yield equivalent to the pretax yield on taxable securities.
         

 (2)    Torchmark calculates the average life and duration of the fixed-maturity portfolio two
ways:
        

 (a)    based on the next call date which is the next call date for callable bonds and the maturity date for
noncallable bonds, and
         

 (b)    based on the maturity date of all bonds, whether callable or not.
        

 (3)    Effective duration is a measure of the price sensitivity of a fixed-income security to a particular
change in interest rates.
         

  40 


Table of Contents
Credit Risk Sensitivity.    Credit risk is the level of certainty that a
security’s issuer will maintain its ability to honor the terms of that security until maturity. Approximately 88% of our fixed-maturity holdings at book value are in corporate securities (including redeemable preferred and asset-backed
securities). As we continue to invest in corporate bonds with relatively long maturities, credit risk is a concern. We mitigate this ongoing risk, in part, by acquiring only investment-grade bonds and by analyzing the financial fundamentals of each
prospective issuer. We continue to monitor the status of issuers on an ongoing basis. We also seek to reduce credit risk by maintaining investments in a large number of issuers over a wide range of industry sectors. 
  The following table presents the relative percentage of our fixed
maturities by industry sector at December 31, 2011.   




























 Fixed Maturities by Sector
At December 31, 2011
(Dollar amounts in millions)
 

 
 
Cost orAmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
 
FairValue
 
 
% of TotalFixed Maturities
 

 
 
 
 
 
AtAmortizedCost
 
 
AtFairValue
 

 Financial - Life/Health/PC Insurance
 
$
1,785
  
 
$
92
  
 
$
(63
) 
 
$
1,814
  
 
 
16
% 
 
 
16
% 

 Financial - Bank
 
 
1,320
  
 
 
32
  
 
 
(71
) 
 
 
1,281
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
11
  

 Financial - Other
 
 
509
  
 
 
41
  
 
 
(17
) 
 
 
533
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
4
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Financial
 
 
3,614
  
 
 
165
  
 
 
(151
) 
 
 
3,628
  
 
 
32
  
 
 
31
  

 Utilities
 
 
1,709
  
 
 
319
  
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
2,019
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
17
  

 Energy
 
 
1,243
  
 
 
188
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,431
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
12
  

 Government
 
 
1,295
  
 
 
121
  
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
1,414
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
12
  

 Basic Materials
 
 
758
  
 
 
108
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
863
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
7
  

 Consumer Non-cyclical
 
 
539
  
 
 
90
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
625
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
5
  

 Other Industrials
 
 
519
  
 
 
60
  
 
 
(19
) 
 
 
560
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
5
  

 Communications
 
 
464
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
(12
) 
 
 
518
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
4
  

 Consumer Cyclical
 
 
394
  
 
 
34
  
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
419
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
4
  

 Transportation
 
 
315
  
 
 
51
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
366
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
3
  

 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
60
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(30
) 
 
 
30
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
0
  

 Mortgage-backed securities
 
 
14
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities
 
$
10,924
  
 
$
1,203
  
 
$
(239
) 
 
$
11,888
  
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   At December 31, 2011,
approximately 32% of the fixed maturity assets at amortized cost (31% at fair value) were in the financial sector, including 16% in life and health or property casualty insurance companies and 12% in banks at amortized cost. Financial guarantors,
mortgage insurers, and insurance brokers comprised approximately 4% of the portfolio. After financials, the next largest sector was utilities, which comprised 16% of the portfolio at amortized cost. The balance of the portfolio is spread among 262
issuers in a wide variety of sectors. As previously noted, gross unrealized losses were $239 million at December 31, 2011, declining from $368 million a year earlier. The portfolio was in a net unrealized gain position of $964 million at December
31, 2011.    As shown in the table above, the ratio of gross
unrealized losses to book value was approximately 50% for our investments in CDOs. As previously noted, CDOs represented less than 0.6% of our fixed maturity investments at December 31, 2011. We evaluated each of the impaired securities in this
and all other sectors to determine whether or not any of the impairments were other-than-temporary. Our portfolio consisted of five CDO investments at December 31, 2011, in which three were carried at a value of $0, one was considered only
temporarily impaired, and one was previously considered other-than-temporarily impaired. 
  41 


Table of Contents

The CDO considered temporarily impaired was carried at an amortized cost of $23.4 million and had a fair value of $7.7 million. The CDO considered other-than-temporarily impaired was previously
written down and carried at an amortized cost of $37.0 million, based on the present value of expected cash flows at the original purchase yield. This CDO had a fair value of $22.7 million at December 31, 2011. The collateral underlying these CDOs
is primarily trust preferred securities issued by banks and insurance companies, and no sub-prime or Alt-A mortgages are included in the collateral.   
In reaching these conclusions concerning the other-than-temporary impairment of our CDOs, we reviewed and discussed with the collateral managers of
each of these CDOs the current status of the collateral underlying our investments, the credit events (defaults and deferrals in underlying collateral) experienced to date, and the possibility of future credit events. We calculated expected future
cash flows using assumptions for expected future credit events that reflect actual historical experience and expected future experience. We reviewed the actual versus expected cash flows received to date and the impact that potential future credit
events could have on our expected future cash flows. We calculated the magnitude of future credit events that could be experienced without negatively impacting the recovery of our investment and our expected yield rate. While there is a possibility
that future credit events will exceed our current expectations, we believe there is ample evidence to support our conclusions.   
An analysis of the fixed-maturity portfolio by a composite rating at December 31, 2011 is shown in the table below. 
  Fixed Maturities by Rating 
At December 31, 2011 
(Dollar amounts in millions)   




















 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
%
 
  
FairValue
 
  
%
 

 Investment grade:
  



  



  



  




 AAA
  
$
473
  
  
 
4.3
  
  
$
505
  
  
 
4.2
  

 AA
  
 
1,338
  
  
 
12.2
  
  
 
1,457
  
  
 
12.3
  

 A
  
 
2,941
  
  
 
26.9
  
  
 
3,399
  
  
 
28.6
  

 BBB+
  
 
2,172
  
  
 
19.9
  
  
 
2,400
  
  
 
20.2
  

 BBB
  
 
2,212
  
  
 
20.3
  
  
 
2,419
  
  
 
20.3
  

 BBB-
  
 
1,087
  
  
 
10.0
  
  
 
1,129
  
  
 
9.5
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Investment grade
  
 
10,223
  
  
 
93.6
  
  
 
11,309
  
  
 
95.1
  







 Below investment grade:
  



  



  



  




 BB
  
 
410
  
  
 
3.8
  
  
 
370
  
  
 
3.2
  

 B
  
 
170
  
  
 
1.6
  
  
 
134
  
  
 
1.1
  

 Below B
  
 
121
  
  
 
1.0
  
  
 
75
  
  
 
0.6
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Below investment grade
  
 
701
  
  
 
6.4
  
  
 
579
  
  
 
4.9
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
10,924
  
  
 
100.0
  
  
$
11,888
  
  
 
100.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The portfolio has a weighted average
quality rating of A- based on amortized cost. Approximately 93% of the portfolio at amortized cost was considered investment grade. Our investment portfolio contains no securities backed by sub-prime or Alt-A mortgages (loans for which some
of the typical documentation was not provided by the borrower). We have no direct investments in residential mortgages, nor do we have any counterparty risks as we are not a party to any credit default swaps or other derivative contracts. We do not
participate in securities lending. There are no off-balance sheet investments, as all investments are reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We have no direct exposure to European sovereign debt. 
  Our current investment policy is to acquire only investment-grade
obligations. Thus, any increases in below investment-grade issues are a result of ratings downgrades of existing holdings. 
  42 


Table of Contents
An analysis of changes in below-investment grade fixed maturities at amortized cost is as follows.
  








 
  
Year EndedDecember 31,
 

 
  
2011
 

 
  
(in $ millions)
 




 Balance at January 1
  
$
863
  

 Downgrades by rating agencies
  
 
76
  

 Upgrades by rating agencies
  
 
(98
) 

 Disposals
  
 
(143
) 

 Amortization
  
 
3
  


  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31
  
$
701
  


  
  
  
 
   Market Risk
Sensitivity.    Torchmark’s financial securities are exposed to interest rate risk, meaning the effect of changes in financial market interest rates on the current fair value of the company’s investment portfolio.
Since 96% of the book value of our investments is attributable to fixed-maturity investments (and virtually all of these investments are fixed-rate investments), the portfolio is highly subject to market risk. Declines in market interest rates
generally result in the fair value of the investment portfolio exceeding the book value of the portfolio and increases in interest rates cause the fair value to decline below the book value. Under normal market conditions, we do not expect to
realize these unrealized gains and losses because it is generally our investment strategy to hold these investments to maturity. The long-term nature of our insurance policy liabilities and strong cash-flow operating position substantially mitigate
any future need to liquidate portions of the portfolio. The increase or decrease in the fair value of insurance liabilities and debt due to increases or decreases in market interest rates largely offset the impact of rates on the investment
portfolio. However, in accordance with GAAP, these liabilities are not marked to market.    The following table illustrates the market risk sensitivity of our interest-rate sensitive fixed-maturity portfolio at December 31, 2011 and 2010. This table measures the effect of a change in interest rates (as
represented by the U.S. Treasury curve) on the fair value of the fixed-maturity portfolio. The data measures the change in fair value arising from an immediate and sustained change in interest rates in increments of 100 basis points. 
 








 
  
 Market Value
ofFixed Maturity Portfolio($ millions)

 Change inInterest Rates(in basis points)
  
 AtDecember 31,
2011
  
 AtDecember 31,2010

 -200
  
$14,847
  
$12,919

 -100
  
  13,261
  
  11,656

    0
  
  11,888
  
  10,543

  100
  
  10,694
  
    9,559

  200
  
    9,650
  
    8,686

  43 


Table of Contents
Realized Gains and Losses.    Our life and health insurance companies
collect premium income from policyholders for the eventual payment of policyholder benefits, sometimes paid many years or even decades in the future. In addition to the payment of these benefits, we also incur acquisition costs, administrative
expenses, and taxes as a part of insurance operations. Because benefits are expected to be paid in future periods, premium receipts in excess of current expenses are invested to provide for these obligations. For this reason, we hold a significant
investment portfolio as a part of our core insurance operations. This portfolio consists primarily of high-quality fixed maturities containing an adequate yield to provide for the cost of carrying these long-term insurance product obligations. As a
result, fixed maturities are generally held for long periods to support the liabilities. Expected yields on these investments are taken into account when setting insurance premium rates and product profitability expectations. 
  Investments are occasionally sold or called, resulting in a realized
gain or loss. These gains and losses occur only incidentally, usually as the result of sales because of deterioration in investment quality of issuers or calls by the issuers. Investment losses are also caused by writedowns due to impairments. We do
not engage in trading investments for profit. Therefore, gains or losses which occur in protecting the portfolio or its yield, or which result from events that are beyond our control, are only secondary to our core insurance operations of providing
insurance coverage to policyholders.    Realized gains and
losses can be significant in relation to the earnings from core insurance operations, and as a result, can have a material positive or negative impact on net income. The significant fluctuations caused by gains and losses can cause the
period-to-period trends of net income not to be indicative of historical core operating results nor predictive of the future trends of core operations. Accordingly, they have no bearing on core insurance operations or segment results as we view
operations. For these reasons, and in line with industry practice, we remove the effects of realized gains and losses when evaluating overall insurance operating results. 
  The following table summarizes our tax-effected realized gains (losses)
by component for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011.    Analysis of Realized Gains (Losses), Net of Tax  (Dollar amounts in thousands, except for per
share data)   




























 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
    2010    
 
 
2009
 

 
  
Amount
 
 
Per Share
 
  
Amount
 
 
Per Share
 
 
Amount
 
 
Per Share
 

 Investments:
  



 



  



 



 



 




 Sales
  
$
673
  
 
$
0.01
  
  
$
10,761
  
 
$
0.09
  
 
$
7,644
  
 
$
0.06
  

 Called or tendered
  
 
15,512
  
 
 
0.14
  
  
 
17,265
  
 
 
0.14
  
 
 
1,878
  
 
 
0.02
  

 Writedowns*
  
 
(13
) 
 
 
0.00
  
  
 
(3,152
) 
 
 
(0.02
) 
 
 
(94,367
) 
 
 
(0.77
) 

 Loss on redemption of debt
  
 
0
  
 
 
0.00
  
  
 
(1,070
) 
 
 
(0.01
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
0.00
  

 Other
  
 
666
  
 
 
0.00
  
  
 
466
  
 
 
0.00
  
 
 
(499
) 
 
 
0.00
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
16,838
  
 
$
0.15
  
  
$
24,270
  
 
$
0.20
  
 
$
(85,345
) 
 
$
(0.69
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


 
*
 
Written down due to other-than-temporary impairment.   
As described in Note 4—Investments under the caption Other-than temporary impairments in the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements, we wrote certain securities down to fair value during each year 2009 through 2011 as a result of other-than-temporary impairment. The impaired securities met our criteria for
other-than-temporary impairment as discussed in Note 4 and in our Critical Accounting Policies in this report. The writedowns resulted in pretax charges of $20 thousand in 2011 ($13 thousand after tax), $5 million in 2010 ($3
million after tax), and $143 million in 2009 ($94 million after tax). The 2009 charge included $83 million on CDOs ($55 million after tax) and $24 million on monoline financial guarantors and mortgage insurers ($16 million after tax). The
remaining writedowns in 2009 were from losses on a variety of corporate bonds. In 2010, we acquired $7.3 million book value of our
9 1/4% Senior Notes at a cost of $8.9 million, resulting in an
after-tax loss on debt redemption of $1.1 million. 
  44 


Table of Contents
FINANCIAL CONDITION 
  Liquidity.    Liquidity provides Torchmark
with the ability to meet on demand the cash commitments required by its business operations and financial obligations. Our liquidity is primarily derived from three sources: positive cash flow from operations, a portfolio of marketable securities,
and a line of credit facility.    Insurance Subsidiary
Liquidity.    The operations of our insurance subsidiaries have historically generated substantial cash inflows in excess of immediate cash needs. Sources of cash flows for the insurance subsidiaries include primarily premium
and investment income. Cash outflows from operations include policy benefit payments, commissions, administrative expenses, and taxes. The funds to provide for policy benefits, the majority of which are paid in future periods, are invested primarily
in long-term fixed maturities to meet these long-term obligations. In addition to investment income, maturities and scheduled repayments in the investment portfolio are sources of cash. Excess cash available from the insurance subsidiaries’
operations is generally distributed as a dividend to the Parent Company, subject to regulatory restriction. The dividends are generally paid in amounts equal to the subsidiaries’ prior year statutory net income excluding realized capital gains.
The leading source of the excess cash is investment income. However, due to our high underwriting margins and effective expense control, a significant portion of the excess cash comes from underwriting income. 
  Parent Company Liquidity.    Cash
flows from the insurance subsidiaries are used to pay interest and principal repayments on Parent Company debt, operating expenses of the Parent, and Parent Company dividends to Torchmark shareholders. In 2011, the Parent received $790 million
of dividends and transfers from its insurance subsidiaries, as compared with $401 million in 2010 and $392 million in 2009. The 2011 dividend included $305 million of additional dividends available as a result of the sale of United
Investors. After paying debt obligations, shareholder dividends, and other expenses (but before share repurchases), Torchmark Parent had excess operating cash flow in 2011 of approximately $672 million, including the $305 million from the sale of
United Investors. Parent Company cash flow in excess of its operating requirements is available for other corporate purposes, such as strategic acquisitions or share repurchases. In 2012, it is expected that the Parent Company will receive
approximately $470 million in dividends and transfers from subsidiaries, and that approximately $360 million will be available as excess cash flow. Certain restrictions exist on the payment of these dividends. For more information on the
restrictions on the payment of dividends by subsidiaries, see the restrictions section of Note 12—Shareholders’ Equity in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Although these restrictions exist, dividend
availability from subsidiaries historically has been sufficient for the cash flow needs of the Parent Company. As additional liquidity, the Parent held $27 million of cash and short-term investments at December 31, 2011, compared with $63 million a
year earlier. The Parent also had available a $51 million receivable from subsidiaries at December 31, 2011.   
Short-Term Borrowings. An additional source of parent company liquidity is a line of credit facility with a group of lenders which allows
unsecured borrowings and stand-by letters of credit up to $600 million. As of December 31, 2011, we had available $177 million of additional borrowing capacity under this facility, as compared with $203 million a year earlier. For detailed
information about this line of credit facility, see the Commercial Paper section of Note 11—Debt. 
  45 


Table of Contents
The following table presents certain information about our short-term borrowings, all of which was
commercial paper.    Short-term Borrowings—Commercial
Paper  (Dollar amounts in millions)   
















 
  
At December 31,
 
 
 
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
 
 

 Balance at end of period
  
$
225.0
  
 
$
199.0
  
 




 Daily-weighted average interest rate*
  
 
0.47
% 
 
 
0.45
% 
 




 Letters of credit outstanding
  
$
198.0
  
 
$
198.0
  
 




 Remaining amount available under credit line
  
$
177.0
  
 
$
203.0
  
 







 
  
For the Year
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Average balance outstanding during period
  
$
206.1
  
 
$
196.3
  
 
$
251.5
  

 Daily-weighted average interest rate*
  
 
0.39
% 
 
 
0.43
% 
 
 
1.10
% 


  



 



 




 Maximum daily amount outstanding during period
  
$
271.8
  
 
$
250.0
  
 
$
325.0
  

   *      Annualized
  



 



 



   There have been no difficulties in
accessing the commercial paper market under this facility during the three years ended December 31, 2011.   
In summary, Torchmark expects to have readily available funds for 2012 and the foreseeable future to conduct its operations and to maintain target
capital ratios in the insurance subsidiaries through internally generated cash flow and the credit facility. In the unlikely event that more liquidity is needed, the Company could generate additional funds through multiple sources including, but not
limited to, the issuance of additional debt, a short-term credit facility, and intercompany borrowing.   
Consolidated Liquidity. Consolidated net cash inflows provided from operations were $859 million in 2011, compared with $1.03 billion
in 2010, and $976 million in 2009. In addition to cash inflows from operations, our companies have received $230 million in investment calls and tenders and $180 million of scheduled maturities or repayments during 2011. Maturities, tenders,
and calls totaled $639 million in 2010 and $761 million in 2009.    Our cash and short-term investments were $105 million at year-end 2011 and $582 million at year-end 2010. Included in cash at December 31, 2010 was the $343 million of proceeds received from the sale of United
Investors on that date. Additionally, we have a portfolio of marketable fixed and equity securities that are available for sale in the event of an unexpected need. These securities had a fair value of $11.9 billion at December 31, 2011.
However, our strong cash flows from operations, investment maturities, and the availability of our credit line make any need to sell securities for liquidity unlikely. 
  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.    As
described in Note 11—Debt in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and under the subcaption Funded Debt, Torchmark had outstanding $120 million (par amount) 7.1% Trust Preferred Securities at both
December 31, 2011 and 2010. The capital trust liable for these securities is the legal entity which is responsible for the securities and facilitates the payment of dividends to shareholders. As described in Note 15—Commitments
and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we have guaranteed the performance of the capital trust to meet its financial obligations to the Trust Preferred shareholders. The trust is an off-balance sheet
arrangement which we are required to deconsolidate in accordance with GAAP rules, because the capital trust is considered to be a variable interest entity in which we have no variable interest. While these liabilities are not on our Consolidated
Balance Sheets, they are represented by Torchmark’s 7.1% Junior Subordinated Debentures due to the trust in the amount of $124 million which is on our balance sheets at both December 31, 2011 and 2010. The 7.1% preferred dividends due
to the preferred shareholders are funded by our 7.1% interest payment on our debt to the trusts. 
  46 


Table of Contents
As a part of its above-mentioned credit facility, Torchmark had outstanding $198 million in stand-by
letters of credit at December 31, 2011. However, these letters are issued among our subsidiaries and have no impact on company obligations as a whole.   
As of December 31, 2011, we had no other significant unconsolidated affiliates and no guarantees of the obligations of third-party entities
other than as described above. All of our guarantees, other than the Trust Preferred guarantee, were guarantees of the performance of consolidated subsidiaries, as disclosed in Note 15—Commitments and Contingencies. 
  The following table presents information about future payments under
our contractual obligations for the selected periods as of December 31, 2011.    (Amounts in millions)   




























 
 
ActualLiability
 
 
TotalPayments
 
 
Less thanOne Year
 
 
One toThree Years
 
 
Four toFive Years
 
 
More thanFive Years
 

 Fixed and determinable:
 



 



 



 



 



 





Debt—principal(1)
 
$
1,139
  
 
$
1,151
  
 
$
225
  
 
$
94
  
 
$
250
  
 
$
582
  


Debt—interest(2)
 
 
7
  
 
 
741
  
 
 
73
  
 
 
136
  
 
 
122
  
 
 
410
  

 Capital leases
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Operating leases
 
 
0
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
3
  

 Purchase obligations
 
 
109
  
 
 
109
  
 
 
85
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1
  

 Pension
obligations(3)
 
 
74
  
 
 
185
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
31
  
 
 
34
  
 
 
106
  

 Future insurance obligations(4)
 
 
9,572
  
 
 
40,332
  
 
 
1,208
  
 
 
2,351
  
 
 
2,241
  
 
 
34,532
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
$
10,901
  
 
$
42,531
  
 
$
1,608
  
 
$
2,639
  
 
$
2,650
  
 
$
35,634
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Funded debt is itemized in Note 11—Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and includes short-term commercial paper. 


(2)
Interest on debt is based on our fixed contractual obligations. 


(3)
Pension obligations are primarily liabilities in trust funds that are calculated in accordance with the terms of the pension plans. They are offset by invested assets in the
trusts, which are funded through periodic contributions by Torchmark in a manner which will provide for the settlement of the obligations as they become due. Therefore, our obligations are offset by those assets when reported on Torchmark’s
Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2011, these pension obligations were $332 million, but there were also assets of $258 million in the pension entities. The schedule of pension benefit payments covers ten years and is
based on the same assumptions used to measure the pension obligations, except there is no interest assumption because the payments are undiscounted. Please refer to Note 10—Postretirement Benefits in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on pension obligations. 


(4)
Future insurance obligations consist primarily of estimated future contingent benefit payments on policies in force at December 31, 2011. These estimated payments were
computed using assumptions for future mortality, morbidity and persistency. The actual amount and timing of such payments may differ significantly from the estimated amounts shown. Management believes that the assets supporting the liability of $9.6
billion at December 31, 2011, along with future premiums and investment income, will be sufficient to fund all future insurance obligations. 
  47 


Table of Contents
Capital Resources.    Torchmark’s capital structure consists of
short-term debt (the commercial paper facility described in Note 11—Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), long-term funded debt, Junior Subordinated Debentures supporting its Trust Preferred Securities,
and shareholders’ equity. The Junior Subordinated Debentures are payable to Torchmark’s Capital Trust III which is liable for its Trust Preferred Securities. In accordance with GAAP, these instruments are included in “Due to
affiliates” on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. A complete analysis and description of long-term debt issues outstanding is presented in Note 11—Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  The carrying value of the funded debt was $914 million at
December 31, 2011, compared with $913 million a year earlier. As fully explained in Note 11—Debt, we issued $300 million principal amount of 9¼% Senior Notes due in 2019 in June of 2009 for proceeds of $296 million. A
portion of these proceeds were used to repay the $99 million due upon the August, 2009 maturity of our 8¼% Senior Debentures. In addition, we also used $175 million to strengthen the capital position of certain of our insurance subsidiaries in
2009 in the form of capital contributions and surplus notes. The regulatory capital positions of these subsidiaries had been negatively affected by rating-agency downgrades of bonds in their investment portfolios. The subsidiaries in turn invested
these funds in investment-grade fixed maturities.    Our
insurance subsidiaries generally target a capital ratio of at least 325% of required regulatory capital under Risk-Based Capital (RBC), a formula designed by insurance regulatory authorities to monitor the adequacy of capital. The 325% target is
considered sufficient for the subsidiaries because of their strong reliable cash flows, the relatively low risk of their product mix, and because that ratio is in line with rating agency expectations for Torchmark. At December 31, 2011, our
insurance subsidiaries in the aggregate had RBC ratios of approximately 336%. Should we experience additional impairments and ratings downgrades in the future that cause the ratio to fall below 325%, management has more than sufficient liquidity at
the Parent Company to make additional contributions as necessary to maintain the ratios at or above 325%.   
As noted under the caption Summary of Operations in this report, we reactivated our share repurchase program during the first quarter of
2010. We previously had suspended the program indefinitely in March, 2009 due to general economic conditions at that time. However, since reactivation, we have made share purchases each quarter of 2010 and 2011. Under this program, we acquired
19 million shares at a cost of $788 million in 2011 (average of $41.68 per share), 6 million shares for $204 million in 2010, and 3 million shares for $47 million in 2009. The majority of purchased shares are retired each year.
Please refer to the description of our share repurchase program under the caption Summary of Operations in this report.   
Torchmark has recently increased the dividend on its common shares. In the first quarter of 2010, the dividend was increased from $.0933 per
share to $.10 per share and in the fourth quarter of 2010, it was further increased to $.1067 per share. In the second quarter of 2011, it was again raised to $.12 per share. 
  Shareholders’ equity was $4.2 billion at December 31, 2011,
compared with $4.0 billion at December 31, 2010. During the twelve months since December 31, 2010, shareholders’ equity was reduced by the $788 million in share purchases under the repurchase program and another $185 million to offset
the dilution from stock option exercises, but has been increased by the $518 million of net income and by after tax unrealized gains of $538 million in the fixed maturity portfolio as conditions in financial markets have improved. 
  We plan to use excess cash as efficiently as possible in the future but
we will be cautious in doing so. Excess cash flow could be used for share repurchases, acquisitions, increases in shareholder dividends, investment in fixed maturities, or repayment of short-term debt. We will determine the best use of excess cash
after ensuring that desired capital levels are maintained in our companies. 
  48 


Table of Contents
We maintain a significant available-for-sale fixed-maturity portfolio to support our insurance
policyholders’ liabilities. Current accounting guidance requires that we revalue our portfolio to fair market value at the end of each accounting period. The period-to-period changes in fair value, net of their associated impact on deferred
acquisition costs and income tax, are reflected directly in shareholders’ equity. Changes in the fair value of the portfolio can result from changes in interest rates and liquidity in financial markets. While invested assets are revalued,
accounting rules do not permit interest-bearing insurance policy liabilities to be valued at fair value in a consistent manner as that of assets, with changes in value applied directly to shareholders’ equity. Due to the size of our policy
liabilities in relation to our shareholders’ equity, this inconsistency in measurement usually has a material impact on the reported value of shareholders’ equity. If these liabilities were revalued in the same manner as the assets, the
effect on equity would be largely offset. Fluctuations in interest rates cause undue volatility in the period-to-period presentation of our shareholders’ equity, capital structure, and financial ratios which would be essentially removed if
interest-bearing liabilities were valued in the same manner as assets. From time to time, the market value of our fixed maturity portfolio may be depressed as a result of bond market illiquidity which could result in a significant decrease in
shareholders’ equity. Because of the long-term nature of our fixed maturities and liabilities and the strong cash flows generated by our insurance subsidiaries, we have the intent and ability to hold our securities to maturity. As such, we do
not expect to incur losses due to fluctuations in market value of fixed maturities caused by interest rate changes and temporarily illiquid markets. Accordingly, our management, credit rating agencies, lenders, many industry analysts, and certain
other financial statement users prefer to remove the effect of this accounting rule when analyzing our balance sheet, capital structure, and financial ratios.   
The following tables present selected data related to our capital resources. Additionally, the tables present the effect of this accounting guidance
on relevant line items, so that investors and other financial statement users may determine its impact on Torchmark’s capital structure.   
Selected Financial Data   




























 
 
At December 31, 2011
 
 
At December 31, 2010
 
 
At December 31, 2009
 

 
 
GAAP
 
 
Effect
ofAccountingRuleRequiringRevaluation*
 
 
GAAP
 
 
Effect
ofAccountingRuleRequiringRevaluation*
 
 
GAAP
 
 
Effect
ofAccountingRuleRequiringRevaluation*
 

 Fixed maturities (millions)
 
$
11,888
  
 
 
964
  
 
$
10,543
  
 
$
107
  
 
$
9,104
  
 
$
(456
) 

 Deferred acquisition costs (millions)
 
 
3,485
  
 
 
(33
) 
 
 
3,406
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
3,320
  
 
 
28
  

 Total assets (millions)
 
 
17,156
  
 
 
931
  
 
 
16,160
  
 
 
103
  
 
 
16,024
  
 
 
(428
) 

 Short-term debt (millions)
 
 
225
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
199
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
233
  
 
 
0
  

 Long-term debt (millions) **
 
 
914
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
913
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
920
  
 
 
0
  

 Shareholders’ equity (millions)
 
 
4,229
  
 
 
605
  
 
 
4,016
  
 
 
67
  
 
 
3,399
  
 
 
(278
) 









 Book value per diluted share
 
 
41.54
  
 
 
5.95
  
 
 
33.24
  
 
 
0.55
  
 
 
27.25
  
 
 
(2.23
) 

 Debt to capitalization ***
 
 
21.2
% 
 
 
(2.7
)% 
 
 
21.7
% 
 
 
(0.3
)% 
 
 
25.3
% 
 
 
1.5
% 









 Diluted shares outstanding (thousands)
 
 
101,808
  
 



 
 
120,815
  
 



 
 
124,739
  
 




 Actual shares outstanding (thousands)
 
 
100,579
  
 



 
 
118,865
  
 



 
 
124,261
  
 



  


*
Amount added to (deducted from) comprehensive income to produce the stated GAAP item 


**
Includes Torchmark’s 7.1% Junior Subordinated Debentures in each period in the amount of $124 million. 


***
Torchmark’s debt covenants require that the effect of the accounting rule requiring revaluation be removed to determine this ratio. This ratio is computed by dividing total
debt by the sum of debt and shareholders’ equity.    Previously, the FASB issued guidance which offered an option which, if elected, would permit us to value our interest-bearing policy liabilities and debt at fair value in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
However, unlike current accounting rules which permit us to account for changes in our available-for-sale bond portfolio through other comprehensive income, the new rule requires such changes to be recorded in earnings. Because both the size and
duration of the investment portfolio do not match those attributes of our policyholder liabilities and debt, the impact on earnings could be very significant and volatile, causing reported earnings not to be reflective of core results. Therefore, we
have not elected this option. 
  49 


Table of Contents
Torchmark’s ratio of earnings before interest and taxes to interest requirements (times interest
earned) was 10.7 times in 2011, compared with 11.3 times in 2010 and 9.3 times in 2009. This times-interest-earned ratio is computed by dividing interest expense into the sum of pre-tax income from continuing operations and interest expense.
A discussion of our interest expense is included in the discussion of financing costs under the caption Investments in this report.   
Credit Ratings. The chart below presents Torchmark’s credit ratings as of December 31, 2011. 
 




















 
  
Standard& Poor’s
 
  
Moody’s
 
  
A.M.Best
 
  
Fitch
 

 Commercial Paper
  
 
A-1
  
  
 
P-2
  
  
 
AMB-1
  
  
 
F-2
  

 Funded Debt
  
 
A
  
  
 
Baa1
  
  
 
a-
  
  
 
BBB+
  

 Preferred Stock
  
 
BBB+
  
  
 
Baa2
  
  
 
bbb
  
  
 
BBB-
  
   During the three year period ended
December 31, 2011, each of the rating agencies revised the outlook for Torchmark from stable to negative and then back to stable. Reasons cited for the negative outlook included increased risk in our investment portfolio, tighter liquidity, and
reduced financial flexibility. Reasons cited for the revision back to a stable outlook included improved financial flexibility, increased capital levels at the insurance subsidiaries, the decrease in unrealized losses, and strong operating
performance.    The credit quality of Torchmark’s debt
instruments and capital securities are rated by various rating agencies. During 2009, A. M. Best downgraded our preferred stock from bbb+ to bbb. Also in 2009, Fitch downgraded our Senior Debt from A to BBB+ (two notches), our preferred stock from
A- to BBB (two notches), and our commercial paper from F1 to F2 (one notch). Fitch stated that the downgrades were a result of the weakness in the statutory capital position of Torchmark’s insurance subsidiaries brought on by the ratings
downgrades of fixed maturity securities held in the subsidiaries’ investment portfolios. They also expressed concern with the level of intercompany financing by the Parent Company from the subsidiaries, the ongoing exposure to financial market
turmoil, and the expectation of continued investment deterioration going forward. In January, 2010, Fitch further downgraded our preferred stock one notch to BBB-. At that time, Fitch downgraded over 200 hybrid securities issued by insurance
industry entities, as their assessments of these securities in our industry changed.    The financial strength of our major insurance subsidiaries is also rated by Standard & Poor’s and A. M. Best. The following chart presents these ratings for our four largest insurance subsidiaries at
December 31, 2011.   












 
  
Standard& Poor’s
 
  
A.M.Best
 

 Liberty
  
 
AA-
  
  
 
A+ (Superior)
  

 Globe
  
 
AA-
  
  
 
A+ (Superior)
  

 United American
  
 
AA-
  
  
 
A+ (Superior)
  

 American Income
  
 
AA-
  
  
 
A+ (Superior)
  
   A.M. Best states that it assigns an A+
(Superior) rating to those companies which, in its opinion, have demonstrated superior overall performance when compared to the norms of the life/health insurance industry. A+ (Superior) companies have a superior ability to meet their obligations to
policyholders over a long period of time.    The AA financial
strength rating category is assigned by Standard & Poor’s Corporation to those insurers which have very strong financial security characteristics, differing only slightly from those rated higher. The minus sign (-) shows the relative
standing within the major rating category.   
  50 


Table of Contents
OTHER ITEMS 
  Litigation.    Torchmark and its
subsidiaries are subject to being named as parties to pending or threatened litigation, much of which involves punitive damage claims based upon allegations of agent misconduct at the insurance subsidiaries. Such punitive damage claims that are
tried in Alabama state courts may have the potential for significant adverse results since punitive damages in Alabama are based upon the compensatory damages (including mental anguish) awarded and the discretion of the jury in awarding compensatory
damages is not precisely defined. Additionally, it should be noted that our subsidiaries actively market insurance in the State of Mississippi, a jurisdiction which is nationally recognized for large punitive damage verdicts. This bespeaks caution
since it is impossible to predict the likelihood or extent of punitive damages that may be awarded if liability is found in any given case. Based upon information presently available, and in light of legal and other factual defenses available to
Torchmark and its subsidiaries, contingent liabilities arising from threatened and pending litigation are not presently considered by us to be material. For more information concerning litigation, please refer to
Note 15—Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
NEW UNADOPTED ACCOUNTING RULES   
The FASB has issued new accounting guidance potentially applicable to Torchmark, effective in future periods: 
  Policy Acquisition Costs (ASU 2010-26). This accounting
guidance amends the accounting for costs associated with acquiring or renewing insurance contracts in order to address the diversity in practice surrounding the capitalization and deferral of these costs. This guidance will be effective for
Torchmark beginning January 1, 2012. Please refer to Unadopted Accounting Guidance in Note 1 — Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information concerning the effects of
adoption.    Comprehensive Income (ASU 2011-05). Under
this guidance, the components of comprehensive income must be presented as either 1) a continuous statement (including the components of net income) or 2) as two separate but consecutive statements (an income statement followed by a comprehensive
income statement). This guidance is effective for us in interim and annual periods beginning in 2012. Because we already present comprehensive income as contemplated by the second alternative, this guidance should not result in any change.
   Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure (ASU 2011-04).
The primary purpose of this new guidance is to converge the measurement criteria and disclosures of fair value in U.S. GAAP with those of International Accounting Standards. The measurement principles are generally consistent with current U.S. GAAP
and are not expected to have a material impact on our financial statements. The guidance will require additional disclosures, including expanded disclosures for fair value measurements categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy and a
requirement to disclose the level in the fair value hierarchy of items whose fair value is disclosed but not measured at fair value on the balance sheet. The guidance is effective for us in calendar 2012, with early adoption prohibited. 
  Goodwill Impairment Testing (ASU 2011-08). The issuance of this
update permits an optional qualitative assessment in order to simplify how an entity tests its goodwill for impairment. Under this assessment, if an entity concludes that a reporting units’ fair value is more likely than not greater than its
carrying amount, it would not be required to perform any further impairment testing for that reporting unit. Otherwise, the two-step impairment test under current guidance would be required for the reporting unit. This new guidance lists factors to
consider in making the qualitative assessment. The revised guidance is applicable to us beginning in 2012, with early adoption permitted. We do not expect this new guidance to impact the value of our goodwill, only to modify the way we test for its
impairment.    Health Insurer’s Fees Paid to the
Federal Government (ASU 2011-06). Private health insurance carriers will be required to pay a new fee to the Federal government beginning in calendar year 2014 under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. This guidance addresses
questions about how to recognize and classify the fees, basically requiring that it be expensed ratably throughout the year. It is effective for Torchmark beginning in the year 2014. Because the majority of Torchmark’s health products are
excluded from the mandate, the impact of adoption should be immaterial. 
  51 


Table of Contents
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES    Future Policy Benefits.    Because of the long-term nature of insurance contracts, our
insurance companies are liable for policy benefit payments that will be made in the future. The liability for future policy benefits is determined by standard actuarial procedures common to the life insurance industry. The accounting policies for
determining this liability are disclosed in Note 1—Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A list of the significant assumptions used to calculate the liability for future
policy benefits is reported in Note 6—Future Policy Benefit Reserves.    Approximately 81% of our liabilities for future policy benefits at December 31, 2011 were traditional insurance liabilities whereby the liability is determined as the present value of future benefits less the
present value of the portion of the gross premium required to pay for such benefits. The assumptions used in estimating the future benefits for this portion of business are set at the time of contract issue. These assumptions are “locked
in” and are not revised for the lifetime of the contracts, except where there is a premium deficiency, as defined in Note 1—Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the
caption Future Policy Benefits. Otherwise, variability in the accrual of policy reserve liabilities after policy issuance is caused only by variability of the inventory of in force policies. Torchmark had no premium deficiency event for its
traditional business during the three years ended December 31, 2011.    The remaining portion of liabilities for future policy benefits pertains to business accounted for as deposit business, where the recorded liability is the fund balance attributable to the benefit of policyholders
as determined by the policy contract at the financial statement date. Accordingly, there are no assumptions used to determine the future policy benefit liability for deposit business.    Deferred Acquisition Costs.    The costs of acquiring new business are generally deferred and
recorded as an asset. Deferred acquisition costs consist primarily of sales commissions and other underwriting costs of new insurance sales. Additionally, the costs of acquiring blocks of insurance from other companies or through the acquisition of
other companies are also deferred and recorded as deferred acquisition costs as indicated in Note 5—Deferred Acquisition Costs in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our policies for accounting for
deferred acquisition costs and the associated amortization are reported in Note 1—Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Approximately 98% of our recorded amounts for deferred acquisition
costs at December 31, 2011 were related to traditional products and are being amortized over the premium-paying period in proportion to the present value of actual historic and estimated future gross premiums. The projection assumptions for this
business are set at the time of contract issue. These assumptions are “locked-in” at that time and, except where there is a loss recognition issue, are not revised for the lifetime of the contracts. Absent a premium deficiency, variability
in amortization after policy issuance is caused only by variability in premium volume. We have not recorded a deferred acquisition cost loss recognition event for assets related to this business for any period in the three years ended December 31,
2011.    The remaining 2% of deferred acquisition costs
pertain to deposit business for which deferred acquisition costs are amortized over the estimated lives of the contracts in proportion to actual and estimated future gross profits. These contracts are not subject to lock-in. The assumptions must be
updated when actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier estimates should be revised. As noted earlier in this report, our variable annuity block was disposed of as of December 31, 2010. Revisions related to our deposit business
assets have not had a material impact on the amortization of deferred acquisition costs during the three years ended December 31, 2011.   
Policy Claims and Other Benefits Payable.    This liability consists of known benefits currently payable and an estimate
of claims that have been incurred but not yet reported to us. The estimate of unreported claims is based on prior experience and is made after careful evaluation of all information available to us. However, the factors upon which these estimates are
based can be subject to change from historical patterns. Factors involved include the litigation environment, regulatory mandates, and the introduction of policy types for which claim patterns are not well established, and medical trend rates and
medical cost inflation as they affect our health claims. Changes in these estimates, if any, are reflected in the earnings of the period in which the adjustment is made. We believe that the estimates used to produce the liability

  52 


Table of Contents

for claims and other benefits, including the estimate of unsubmitted claims, are the most appropriate under the circumstances. However, there is no certainty that the resulting stated liability
will be our ultimate obligation. At this time, we do not expect any change in this estimate to have a material impact on earnings or financial position consistent with our historical experience. 
  Valuation of Fixed Maturities.    We hold a
substantial investment in high-quality fixed maturities to provide for the funding of our future policy contractual obligations over long periods of time. While these securities are generally expected to be held to maturity, they are classified as
available for sale and are sold from time to time, primarily to manage risk. We report this portfolio at fair value. Fair value is the price that we would expect to receive upon sale of the asset in an orderly transaction. The fair value of the
fixed-maturity portfolio is primarily affected by changes in interest rates in financial markets, having a greater impact on longer-term maturities. Because of the size of our fixed-maturity portfolio, small changes in rates can have a significant
effect on the portfolio and the reported financial position of the Company. This impact is disclosed in 100 basis point increments under the caption Market Risk Sensitivity in this report. However, as discussed under the caption
Financial Condition in this report, we believe these unrealized fluctuations in value have no meaningful impact on our actual financial condition and, as such, we remove them from consideration when viewing our financial position and
financial ratios.    At times, the values of our fixed
maturities can also be affected by illiquidity in the financial markets. Illiquidity would contribute to a spread widening, and accordingly unrealized losses, on many securities that we would expect to be fully recoverable. Even though our fixed
maturity portfolio is available for sale, we have the ability and intent to hold the securities until maturity as a result of our strong and stable cash flows generated from our insurance products. Considerable information concerning the policies,
procedures, classification levels, and other relevant data concerning the valuation of our fixed-maturity investments is presented in Note 4—Investments under the caption Fair Value Measurements. 
  Impairment of Investments.    We continually
monitor our investment portfolio for investments that have become impaired in value, where fair value has declined below carrying value. While the values of the investments in our portfolio constantly fluctuate due to market conditions, an
other-than-temporary impairment charge is recorded only when a security has experienced a decline in fair market value which is deemed to be other than temporary. The policies and procedures that we use to evaluate and account for impairments of
investments are disclosed in Note 1—Significant Accounting Policies and Note 4—Investments in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and the discussions under the captions
Investments and Realized Gains and Losses in this report. While every effort is made to make the best estimate of status and value with the information available regarding an other-than-temporary impairment, it is difficult to
predict the future prospects of a distressed or impaired security.    Defined benefit pension plans.    We maintain funded defined benefit plans covering most full-time employees. We also have unfunded nonqualified defined benefit plans covering certain key
and other employees. Our obligations under these plans are determined actuarially based on specified actuarial assumptions. In accordance with GAAP, an expense is recorded each year as these pension obligations grow due to the increase in the
service period of employees and the interest cost associated with the passage of time. These obligations are offset, at least in part, by the growth in value of the assets in the funded plans. At December 31, 2011, our gross liability under
these funded plans was $282 million, but was offset by assets of $258 million.    The actuarial assumptions used in determining our obligations for pensions include employee mortality and turnover, retirement age, the expected return on plan assets, projected salary increases, and the discount
rate at which future obligations could be settled. These assumptions have an important effect on the pension obligation. A decrease in the discount rate or rate of return on plan assets will cause an increase in the pension obligation. A decrease in
projected salary increases will cause a decrease in this obligation. Small changes in assumptions may cause material differences in reported results for these plans. While we have used our best efforts to determine the most reliable assumptions,
given the information available from company experience, economic data, independent consultants and other sources, we cannot be certain that actual results will be the same as expected. Our discount rate, rate of return on assets, and projected
salary increase assumptions are disclosed and the criteria used to determine those assumptions are discussed in Note 9—Postretirement Benefits in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The assumptions are reviewed
annually and revised, if necessary, 
  53 


Table of Contents

based on more current information available to us. Note 9 also contains information about pension plan assets, investment policies, and other related data. 
  CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS 
  We caution readers regarding certain forward-looking statements
contained in the foregoing discussion and elsewhere in this document, and in any other statements made by us or on our behalf whether or not in future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any statement that is not a historical fact,
or that might otherwise be considered an opinion or projection concerning us or our business, whether express or implied, is meant as and should be considered a forward-looking statement. Such statements represent our opinions concerning future
operations, strategies, financial results or other developments.    Forward-looking statements are based upon estimates and assumptions that are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. If these estimates or
assumptions prove to be incorrect, the actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements made on the basis of such estimates or assumptions. Whether or not actual results differ materially from forward-looking statements may
depend on numerous foreseeable and unforeseeable events or developments, which may be national in scope, related to the insurance industry generally, or applicable to Torchmark specifically. Such events or developments could include, but are not
necessarily limited to:    1) Changes in
lapse rates and/or sales of our insurance policies as well as levels of mortality, morbidity and utilization of healthcare services that differ from our assumptions; 
  2) Federal and state legislative and regulatory
developments, particularly those impacting taxes and changes to the federal Medicare program that would affect Medicare Supplement and Medicare Part D insurance; 
  3) Market trends in the senior-aged health care
industry that provide alternatives to traditional Medicare, such as health maintenance organizations (HMOs) and other managed care or private plans, and that could affect the sales of traditional Medicare Supplement insurance; 
  4) Interest rate changes that affect product sales
and/or investment portfolio yield;    5)
General economic, industry sector or individual debt issuers’ financial conditions that may affect the current market value of securities that we own, or that may impair issuers’ ability to pay interest due us on those securities;
   6) Changes in pricing competition;
   7) Litigation results; 
  8) Levels of administrative and operational
efficiencies that differ from our assumptions;    9) Our inability to obtain timely and appropriate premium rate increases for health insurance policies due to regulatory delay; 
  10) The customer response to new products and
marketing initiatives; and    11) Reported
amounts in the financial statements which are based on our estimates and judgments which may differ from the actual amounts ultimately realized.   
Readers are also directed to consider other risks and uncertainties described in our other documents on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
   Item
7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk    Information required by this item is found under the heading Market Risk Sensitivity in Item 7 beginning on page 43 of this report. 
  54 


Table of Contents
Item 8.    Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data   








 
  
Page
 

 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
56
  

 Consolidated Financial Statements:
  




 Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010
  
 
57
  

 Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2011
  
 
58
  

 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2011
  
 
59
  

 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011

  
 
60
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011

  
 
61
  

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
62
  

  55 


Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of 
Torchmark Corporation  McKinney, Texas 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Torchmark Corporation
and subsidiaries (“Torchmark”) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2011. Our audits also included the financial statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 15. These financial statements and financial statement schedules are the responsibility of Torchmark’s management. Our responsibility is
to express an opinion on the financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits.    We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Torchmark Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.    We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Torchmark’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in
Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 28, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on Torchmark’s internal control over
financial reporting.    /s/    DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
   Dallas, Texas  February 28, 2012 
  56 


Table of Contents
TORCHMARK CORPORATION 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   












 
 
December 31,
 

 
 
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 

 Assets:
 



 




 Investments:
 



 




 Fixed maturities—available for sale, at fair value (amortized cost: 2011—$10,924,244; 2010—$10,435,497)
 
$
11,888,205
  
 
$
10,543,034
  

 Equity securities, at fair value (cost: 2011—$14,875; 2010—$14,875)
 
 
17,056
  
 
 
17,154
  

 Policy loans
 
 
400,914
  
 
 
378,124
  

 Other long-term investments
 
 
26,167
  
 
 
42,985
  

 Short-term investments
 
 
21,244
  
 
 
216,680
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total investments
 
 
12,353,586
  
 
 
11,197,977
  





 Cash
 
 
84,113
  
 
 
365,679
  

 Accrued investment income
 
 
192,325
  
 
 
183,861
  

 Other receivables
 
 
253,549
  
 
 
230,319
  

 Deferred acquisition costs
 
 
3,484,851
  
 
 
3,406,335
  

 Goodwill
 
 
396,891
  
 
 
396,891
  

 Other assets
 
 
391,076
  
 
 
378,700
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
 
$
17,156,391
  
 
$
16,159,762
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 Liabilities:
 



 




 Future policy benefits
 
$
9,572,257
  
 
$
9,150,031
  

 Unearned and advance premiums
 
 
69,539
  
 
 
74,165
  

 Policy claims and other benefits payable
 
 
222,254
  
 
 
221,598
  

 Other policyholders’ funds
 
 
92,487
  
 
 
91,293
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total policy liabilities
 
 
9,956,537
  
 
 
9,537,087
  





 Current and deferred income taxes payable
 
 
1,518,695
  
 
 
1,209,433
  

 Other liabilities
 
 
312,417
  
 
 
284,062
  

 Short-term debt
 
 
224,842
  
 
 
198,875
  

 Long-term debt (estimated fair value: 2011—$947,142; 2010—$933,336)
 
 
790,571
  
 
 
789,643
  

 Due to affiliates
 
 
124,421
  
 
 
124,421
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
 
 
12,927,483
  
 
 
12,143,521
  





 Shareholders’ equity:
 



 




 Preferred stock, par value $1 per share—Authorized 5,000,000 shares; outstanding: 0 in 2011 and in 2010
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Common stock, par value $1 per share—Authorized 320,000,000 shares; outstanding: (2011—112,312,123 issued, less 11,732,658 held
in treasury and 2010—119,812,123 issued, less 947,497 held in treasury)*
 
 
112,312
  
 
 
119,812
  

 Additional paid-in capital
 
 
425,331
  
 
 
432,608
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
 
 
549,423
  
 
 
22,958
  

 Retained earnings*
 
 
3,634,481
  
 
 
3,473,482
  

 Treasury stock
 
 
(492,639
) 
 
 
(32,619
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total shareholders’ equity
 
 
4,228,908
  
 
 
4,016,241
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
 
$
17,156,391
  
 
$
16,159,762
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 


*
 
Amounts have been retroactively adjusted for stock split described in Note 1. 
  See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  57 


Table of Contents
TORCHMARK CORPORATION 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
(Amounts in thousands except per share data)   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
      2011      
 
 
      2010      
 
 
      2009      
 

 Revenue:
  



 



 




 Life premium
  
$
1,726,244
  
 
$
1,663,699
  
 
$
1,591,853
  

 Health premium
  
 
929,466
  
 
 
987,421
  
 
 
1,017,711
  

 Other premium
  
 
608
  
 
 
638
  
 
 
541
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total premium
  
 
2,656,318
  
 
 
2,651,758
  
 
 
2,610,105
  






 Net investment income
  
 
693,028
  
 
 
676,364
  
 
 
632,540
  

 Realized investment gains (losses)
  
 
25,924
  
 
 
42,190
  
 
 
13,879
  

 Other-than-temporary impairments
  
 
(20
) 
 
 
(4,850
) 
 
 
(164,137
) 

 Portion of impairment loss recognized in other comprehensive income
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
20,766
  

 Other income
  
 
2,151
  
 
 
2,170
  
 
 
1,920
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenue
  
 
3,377,401
  
 
 
3,367,632
  
 
 
3,115,073
  






 Benefits and expenses:
  



 



 




 Life policyholder benefits
  
 
1,118,909
  
 
 
1,082,423
  
 
 
1,040,248
  

 Health policyholder benefits
  
 
631,820
  
 
 
669,191
  
 
 
677,319
  

 Other policyholder benefits
  
 
42,547
  
 
 
41,430
  
 
 
35,762
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total policyholder benefits
  
 
1,793,276
  
 
 
1,793,044
  
 
 
1,753,329
  






 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs
  
 
424,781
  
 
 
418,890
  
 
 
415,986
  

 Commissions and premium taxes
  
 
124,134
  
 
 
125,330
  
 
 
128,620
  

 Other operating expense
  
 
201,636
  
 
 
176,272
  
 
 
170,130
  

 Interest expense
  
 
77,908
  
 
 
75,529
  
 
 
69,932
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total benefits and expenses
  
 
2,621,735
  
 
 
2,589,065
  
 
 
2,537,997
  






 Income from continuing operations before income taxes
  
 
755,666
  
 
 
778,567
  
 
 
577,076
  






 Income taxes
  
 
(237,326
) 
 
 
(256,274
) 
 
 
(191,024
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Income from continuing operations
  
 
518,340
  
 
 
522,293
  
 
 
386,052
  






 Discontinued operations:
  



 



 




 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax
  
 
0
  
 
 
29,784
  
 
 
18,901
  

 Loss on disposal, net of tax benefit of $467 in 2011 and $2,868 in 2010
  
 
(455
) 
 
 
(35,013
) 
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from discontinued operations
  
 
(455
) 
 
 
(5,229
) 
 
 
18,901
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
517,885
  
 
$
517,064
  
 
$
404,953
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Basic net income per share*:
  



 



 




 Continuing operations
  
$
4.79
  
 
$
4.28
  
 
$
3.10
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
(0.01
) 
 
 
(0.04
) 
 
 
0.15
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total basic net income per share
  
$
4.78
  
 
$
4.24
  
 
$
3.25
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Diluted net income per share*:
  



 



 




 Continuing operations
  
$
4.72
  
 
$
4.24
  
 
$
3.10
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
0.00
  
 
 
(0.04
) 
 
 
0.15
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total diluted net income per share
  
$
4.72
  
 
$
4.20
  
 
$
3.25
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Dividends declared per common share*
  
$
.46
  
 
$
.41
  
 
$
.38
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 


*
 
Per share amounts have been retroactively adjusted for stock split described in Note 1. 
  See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  58 


Table of Contents
TORCHMARK CORPORATION 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
(Amounts in thousands)   
















 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
 
      2011      
 
 
      2010      
 
 
      2009      
 

 Net income
 
$
517,885
  
 
$
517,064
  
 
$
404,953
  






 Other comprehensive income (loss):
 



 



 




 Unrealized investment gains (losses):
 



 



 




 Unrealized gains (losses) on securities:
 



 



 




 Unrealized holding gains (losses) arising during period
 
 
882,467
  
 
 
615,503
  
 
 
1,223,157
  

 Reclassification adjustment for (gains) losses on securities included in net income
 
 
(27,771
) 
 
 
(38,170
) 
 
 
161,323
  

 Reclassification adjustment for other-than-temporarily impaired debt securities for which a portion of the loss was recognized in
earnings
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(20,766
) 

 Reclassification adjustment for amortization of (discount) premium
 
 
(1,880
) 
 
 
(3,820
) 
 
 
(6,183
) 

 Foreign exchange adjustment on securities marked to market
 
 
3,510
  
 
 
(7,735
) 
 
 
(18,199
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrealized gains (losses) on securities
 
 
856,326
  
 
 
565,778
  
 
 
1,339,332
  






 Unrealized gains (losses), adjustment to deferred acquisition costs
 
 
(28,679
) 
 
 
(32,181
) 
 
 
(79,603
) 

 Unrealized gains (losses) on other assets
 
 
366
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total unrealized investment gains (losses)
 
 
828,013
  
 
 
533,597
  
 
 
1,259,729
  






 Less applicable taxes
 
 
(289,806
) 
 
 
(186,760
) 
 
 
(440,905
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrealized gains (losses), net of tax
 
 
538,207
  
 
 
346,837
  
 
 
818,824
  

 Foreign exchange translation adjustments, other than securities
 
 
(3,427
) 
 
 
5,006
  
 
 
21,833
  

 Less applicable taxes
 
 
758
  
 
 
(1,752
) 
 
 
(7,642
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Foreign exchange translation adjustments, other than securities, net of tax
 
 
(2,669
) 
 
 
3,254
  
 
 
14,191
  






 Pension adjustments:
 



 



 




 Amortization of pension costs
 
 
12,146
  
 
 
10,857
  
 
 
11,219
  

 Experience gain (loss)
 
 
(26,106
) 
 
 
(23,086
) 
 
 
16,811
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Pension adjustments
 
 
(13,960
) 
 
 
(12,229
) 
 
 
28,030
  






 Less applicable taxes
 
 
4,887
  
 
 
4,279
  
 
 
(9,811
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Pension adjustments, net of tax
 
 
(9,073
) 
 
 
(7,950
) 
 
 
18,219
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Other comprehensive income (loss)
 
 
526,465
  
 
 
342,141
  
 
 
851,234
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Comprehensive income (loss)
 
$
1,044,350
  
 
$
859,205
  
 
$
1,256,187
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. 
  59 


Table of Contents
TORCHMARK CORPORATION 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
(Amounts in thousands except per share data)   
































 
 
PreferredStock
 
 
CommonStock*
 
 
AdditionalPaid-inCapital
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)
 
 
RetainedEarnings*
 
 
TreasuryStock
 
 
TotalShareholders’Equity
 









 Year Ended December 31, 2009
   
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Balance at January 1, 2009
 
$
0
  
 
$
128,812
  
 
$
446,065
  
 
$
(1,170,417
) 
 
$
2,886,013
  
 
$
(67,566
) 
 
$
2,222,907
  

 Comprehensive income (loss)
 



 



 



 
 
851,234
  
 
 
404,953
  
 



 
 
1,256,187
  

 Common dividends declared ($0.38 a share)
 



 



 



 



 
 
(47,182
) 
 



 
 
(47,182
) 

 Acquisition of treasury stock
 



 



 



 



 



 
 
(47,564
) 
 
 
(47,564
) 

 Stock-based compensation
 



 



 
 
5,419
  
 



 



 
 
4,441
  
 
 
9,860
  

 Exercise of stock options
 



 



 
 
253
  
 



 
 
(435
) 
 
 
4,865
  
 
 
4,683
  

 Retirement of treasury stock
 



 
 
(3,000
) 
 
 
(10,376
) 
 



 
 
(56,382
) 
 
 
69,758
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
 
 
0
  
 
 
125,812
  
 
 
441,361
  
 
 
(319,183
) 
 
 
3,186,967
  
 
 
(36,066
) 
 
 
3,398,891
  









 Year Ended December 31, 2010
   
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Comprehensive income (loss)
 



 



 



 
 
342,141
  
 
 
517,064
  
 



 
 
859,205
  

 Common dividends declared ($.41 a share)
 



 



 



 



 
 
(49,015
) 
 



 
 
(49,015
) 

 Acquisition of treasury stock
 



 



 



 



 



 
 
(246,006
) 
 
 
(246,006
) 

 Stock-based compensation
 



 



 
 
8,393
  
 



 



 
 
3,451
  
 
 
11,844
  

 Exercise of stock options
 



 



 
 
4,205
  
 



 
 
(2,329
) 
 
 
39,446
  
 
 
41,322
  

 Retirement of treasury stock
 



 
 
(6,000
) 
 
 
(21,351
) 
 



 
 
(179,205
) 
 
 
206,556
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
 
 
0
  
 
 
119,812
  
 
 
432,608
  
 
 
22,958
  
 
 
3,473,482
  
 
 
(32,619
) 
 
 
4,016,241
  










 Year Ended December 31, 2011
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Comprehensive income (loss)
 



 



 



 
 
526,465
  
 
 
517,885
  
 



 
 
1,044,350
  

 Common dividends declared ($.46 a share)
 



 



 



 



 
 
(49,815
) 
 



 
 
(49,815
) 

 Acquisition of treasury stock
 



 



 



 



 



 
 
(972,556
) 
 
 
(972,556
) 

 Stock-based compensation
 



 



 
 
7,631
  
 



 



 
 
7,323
  
 
 
14,954
  

 Exercise of stock options
 



 



 
 
13,121
  
 



 
 
(29,328
) 
 
 
191,941
  
 
 
175,734
  

 Retirement of treasury stock
 



 
 
(7,500
) 
 
 
(28,029
) 
 



 
 
(277,743
) 
 
 
313,272
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
 
$
0
  
 
$
112,312
  
 
$
425,331
  
 
$
549,423
  
 
$
3,634,481
  
 
$
(492,639
) 
 
$
4,228,908
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 


*
 
Amounts have been retroactively adjusted for stock split described in Note 1. 
  See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  60 


Table of Contents
TORCHMARK CORPORATION 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
(Amounts in thousands)   
















 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
 
      2011      
 
 
      2010      
 
 
      2009      
 

 Net income
 
$
517,885
  
 
$
517,064
  
 
$
404,953
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash provided from operations:
 



 



 




 Increase in future policy benefits
 
 
431,362
  
 
 
544,086
  
 
 
533,466
  

 Increase (decrease) in other policy benefits
 
 
(2,776
) 
 
 
1,110
  
 
 
(18,172
) 

 Deferral of policy acquisition costs
 
 
(533,907
) 
 
 
(526,791
) 
 
 
(560,120
) 

 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs
 
 
424,781
  
 
 
433,488
  
 
 
429,253
  

 Change in current and deferred income taxes
 
 
42,059
  
 
 
78,125
  
 
 
108,052
  

 Realized (gains) losses on sale of investments and properties
 
 
(25,904
) 
 
 
(40,190
) 
 
 
141,659
  

 Change in other receivables
 
 
(22,565
) 
 
 
(24,716
) 
 
 
(43,471
) 

 Contributions to benefit plans
 
 
(15,453
) 
 
 
(34,755
) 
 
 
(14,000
) 

 Loss on disposal of subsidiary
 
 
455
  
 
 
35,013
  
 
 
0
  

 Other, net
 
 
43,527
  
 
 
46,159
  
 
 
(5,507
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash provided from operations
 
 
859,464
  
 
 
1,028,593
  
 
 
976,113
  






 Cash used for investment activities:
 



 



 




 Investments sold or matured:
 



 



 




 Fixed maturities available for sale—sold
 
 
224,335
  
 
 
325,950
  
 
 
900,417
  

 Fixed maturities available for sale—matured, called, and repaid
 
 
410,356
  
 
 
638,860
  
 
 
760,858
  

 Equity securities
 
 
28,700
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,138
  

 Other long-term investments
 
 
18,937
  
 
 
5,767
  
 
 
7,167
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total investments sold or matured
 
 
682,328
  
 
 
970,577
  
 
 
1,669,580
  

 Acquisition of investments:
 



 



 




 Fixed maturities—available for sale
 
 
(1,104,231
) 
 
 
(1,908,109
) 
 
 
(2,311,455
) 

 Equity securities
 
 
(28,772
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Other long-term investments
 
 
(6,246
) 
 
 
(905
) 
 
 
(43
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total investments acquired
 
 
(1,139,249
) 
 
 
(1,909,014
) 
 
 
(2,311,498
) 

 Net increase in policy loans
 
 
(22,790
) 
 
 
(27,793
) 
 
 
(23,652
) 

 Net (increase) decrease in short-term investments
 
 
195,435
  
 
 
128,727
  
 
 
(226,645
) 

 Net change in payable or receivable for securities
 
 
2,664
  
 
 
(754
) 
 
 
(13,829
) 

 Additions to properties
 
 
(5,386
) 
 
 
(9,181
) 
 
 
(6,499
) 

 Sales of properties
 
 
3,089
  
 
 
77
  
 
 
0
  

 Investments in low-income housing interests
 
 
(49,812
) 
 
 
(53,170
) 
 
 
(24,556
) 

 Proceeds from sale of subsidiary
 
 
21,588
  
 
 
342,890
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash used for investment activities
 
 
(312,133
) 
 
 
(557,641
) 
 
 
(937,099
) 






 Cash provided from (used for) financing activities:
 



 



 




 Issuance of common stock
 
 
162,613
  
 
 
37,863
  
 
 
4,430
  

 Cash dividends paid to shareholders
 
 
(49,125
) 
 
 
(50,061
) 
 
 
(46,615
) 

 Issuance of
9 1/4% Senior Notes
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
296,308
  

 Acquisition of
9 1/4% Senior Notes
 
 
0
  
 
 
(8,913
) 
 
 
0
  

 Repayment of
8 1/4% Senior Debentures
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(99,451
) 

 Net borrowing (repayment) of commercial paper
 
 
25,967
  
 
 
(34,432
) 
 
 
(70,928
) 

 Excess tax benefit from stock option exercises
 
 
13,121
  
 
 
3,455
  
 
 
253
  

 Acquisition of treasury stock
 
 
(972,556
) 
 
 
(246,006
) 
 
 
(47,564
) 

 Net receipts (payments) from deposit product operations
 
 
(4,505
) 
 
 
(31,527
) 
 
 
112,005
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash provided from (used for) financing activities
 
 
(824,485
) 
 
 
(329,621
) 
 
 
148,438
  






 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash
 
 
(4,412
) 
 
 
(7,570
) 
 
 
(1,934
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Increase (decrease) in cash
 
 
(281,566
) 
 
 
133,761
  
 
 
185,518
  

 Cash at beginning of year (includes cash of $0, $847 thousand and $12.3 million, at January 1, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, in
subsidiary held for sale)
 
 
365,679
  
 
 
231,918
  
 
 
46,400
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash at end of year (includes cash of $0, $0, and $847 thousand at December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively, in subsidiary held for
sale)
 
$
84,113
  
 
$
365,679
  
 
$
231,918
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. 
  61 


Table of Contents
TORCHMARK CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 1—Significant Accounting Policies 
  Business:    Torchmark
Corporation (Torchmark or alternatively, the Company) through its subsidiaries provides a variety of life and health insurance products and annuities to a broad base of customers. 
  Basis of Presentation:    The accompanying
consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP), under guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.    Principles of Consolidation:    The consolidated financial statements include the results of Torchmark and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts and transactions have
been eliminated in consolidation.    Torchmark accounts for
its variable interest entities under accounting guidance which clarifies the definition of a variable interest and the instructions for consolidating variable interest entities (VIE’s). Only primary beneficiaries are required or allowed to
consolidate VIE’s. Therefore, a company may have voting control of a VIE, but if it is not the primary beneficiary of the VIE, it is not permitted to consolidate the VIE. The trust that is liable for Torchmark’s Trust Preferred Securities
meets the definition of a VIE. However, Torchmark is not the primary beneficiary of this entity because its interest is not variable. Therefore, Torchmark is not permitted to consolidate its interest, even though it owns 100% of the voting equity of
the trust and guarantees its performance. For this reason, Torchmark reports its 7.1% Junior Subordinated Debentures due to the trust as “Due to affiliates” each period at its carrying value. However, Torchmark views the Trust Preferred
Securities as it does any other debt offering and consolidates the trust in its segment analysis because GAAP requires that the segment analysis be reported as management views its operations and financial condition. 
  Additionally, as further described under the caption Low-Income
Housing Tax Credit Interests below in this note, Torchmark holds passive interests in limited partnerships which provide investment returns through the provision of tax benefits (principally from the transfer of Federal or state tax credits
related to federal low-income housing). These interests are also considered to be VIEs. They are not consolidated because the Company has no power to control the activities that most significantly affect the economic performance of these entities
and therefore the Company is not the primary beneficiary of any of these interests. Torchmark’s involvement is limited to its limited partnership interest in the entities. Torchmark has not provided any other financial support to the entities
beyond its commitments to fund its limited partnership interests, and there are no arrangements or agreements with any of the interests to provide other financial support. The maximum loss exposure relative to these interests is limited to their
carrying value.    When a component of Torchmark’s
business is sold or expected to be sold during the ensuing year, Torchmark reports the assets and liabilities of the component as assets and liabilities of subsidiaries held for sale. Assets or liabilities of subsidiaries held for sale are
segregated and are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at the lower of the carrying amount or estimated fair value less cost to sell. If the carrying amount of the business exceeds its estimated fair value, a loss is
recognized. Torchmark reports the results of operations of a business as discontinued operations when the component is sold or expected to be sold, the operations and cash flows of the business have been or will be eliminated from the ongoing
operations as a result of the disposal transaction, and Torchmark will not have any significant continuing involvement in the operations of the business after the disposal transaction. The results of discontinued operations are reported in
discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for current and prior periods commencing in the period in which the business is either disposed of or is accounted for as a disposal group, including any gain or loss
recognized on the sale or adjustment of the carrying amount to fair value less cost to sell. Major components of the income from 
  62 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 1—Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 
 

discontinued operations are separately disclosed in Note 3 — Discontinued Operations in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Because the business
has been sold or classified as held for sale and its operations are discontinued, the financial results of the business are excluded from the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, other than in Note 3, the Consolidated Statements
of Cash Flows, and Note 2 — Statutory Accounting.    Investments:    Torchmark classifies all of its fixed-maturity investments, which include bonds and redeemable preferred stocks, as available for sale. Investments classified as available
for sale are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of deferred taxes, reflected directly in accumulated other comprehensive income. Investments in equity securities, which include common and nonredeemable preferred stocks, are
reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of deferred taxes, reflected directly in accumulated other comprehensive income. Policy loans are carried at unpaid principal balances. Mortgage loans, included in “Other long-term
investments,” are carried at amortized cost. Investments in real estate, included in “Other long-term investments,” are reported at cost less allowances for depreciation. Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method.
Short-term investments include investments in interest-bearing time deposits with original maturities of twelve months or less.   
Gains and losses realized on the disposition of investments are determined on a specific identification basis. Income attributable to investments is
included in Torchmark’s net investment income. Net investment income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 included $552 million, $522 million, and $487 million, respectively, which was allocable to policyholder
reserves or accounts. Realized investment gains and losses are not allocated to insurance policyholders’ liabilities.   
Fair Value Measurements:    Fair values for cash, short-term investments, short-term debt, receivables and payables
approximate carrying value. Fair values for long-term debt investments, equity securities, and certain other assets are determined in accordance with specific accounting guidance. Fair values are based on quoted market prices, where
available. Otherwise, fair values are based on quoted market prices of comparable instruments in active markets, quotes in inactive markets, or other observable criteria. For specific information regarding Torchmark’s measurements and
procedures in valuing financial instruments, please see Note 4—Investments under the caption Fair value measurements. The fair values of Torchmark’s long-term debt issues, along with the trust preferred securities, are based
on quoted market prices. Mortgage loans are valued at discounted cash flows.    Impairment of Investments:    Torchmark evaluates securities for other-than-temporary impairment as described in Note 4—Investments under the caption
Other-than-temporary-impairments. If a security is determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired, the cost basis of the security is written down to fair value and is treated as a realized loss. The written-down security will be amortized
and revenue recognized in accordance with estimated future cash flows.    Current accounting guidance is such that if an entity intends to sell or if it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell an impaired security prior to recovery of its cost basis, the security is to
be considered other-than-temporarily impaired and the full amount of impairment must be charged to earnings. Otherwise, losses on fixed maturities which are other-than-temporarily impaired are separated into two categories, the portion of loss which
is considered credit loss and the portion of loss which is due to other factors. The credit loss portion is charged to earnings while the loss due to other factors is charged to other comprehensive income. 
  Cash:    Cash consists of balances on hand
and on deposit in banks and financial institutions. Overdrafts arising from the overnight investment of funds offset cash balances on hand and on deposit. 
  63 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 1—Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 
 
Recognition of Premium Revenue and Related Expenses:    Premium income
for traditional long-duration life and health insurance products is recognized when due from the policyholder. Premiums for short-duration health contracts are recognized as revenue over the contract period in proportion to the insurance protection
provided. Profits for limited-payment life insurance contracts are recognized over the contract period. Premiums for universal life-type and annuity contracts are added to the policy account value, and revenues for such products are recognized as
charges to the policy account value for mortality, administration, and surrenders (retrospective deposit method). Life premium includes policy charges of $24 million, $26 million, and $28 million for the years ended December 31, 2011,
2010, and 2009, respectively. Other premium consists of annuity policy charges in each year. Profits are also earned to the extent that investment income exceeds policy liability interest requirements. The related benefits and expenses are matched
with revenues by means of the provision of future policy benefits and the amortization of deferred acquisition costs in a manner which recognizes profits as they are earned over the same period. 
  Future Policy Benefits:    The liability for
future policy benefits for universal life-type products is represented by policy account value. The liability for future policy benefits for all other life and health products, approximately 81% of total future policy benefits, is provided on the
net level premium method based on estimated investment yields, mortality, morbidity, persistency and other assumptions which were considered appropriate at the time the policies were issued. Assumptions used are based on Torchmark’s previous
experience with similar products. Once established, assumptions for these products are generally not changed. An additional provision is made on most products to allow for possible adverse deviation from the assumptions. These estimates are
periodically reviewed and compared with actual experience. If it is determined that existing contract liabilities, together with the present value of future gross premiums, will not be sufficient to cover the present value of future benefits and to
recover unamortized acquisition costs, then a premium deficiency exists. Such a deficiency would be recognized immediately by a charge to earnings and either a reduction of unamortized acquisition costs or an increase in the liability for future
policy benefits. From that point forward, the liability for future policy benefits would be based on the revised assumptions.   
Deferred Acquisition Costs:    The costs of acquiring new business are generally deferred and recorded as an asset.
Deferred acquisition costs consist primarily of sales commissions and other underwriting costs of new insurance sales. Deferred acquisition costs are amortized in a systematic manner which matches these costs with the associated revenues. Policies
other than universal life-type policies are amortized with interest over the estimated premium-paying period of the policies in a manner which charges each year’s operations in proportion to the receipt of premium income. Limited-payment
contracts are amortized over the contract period. Universal life-type policies are amortized with interest in proportion to estimated gross profits. The assumptions used to amortize acquisition costs with regard to interest, mortality, morbidity,
and persistency are consistent with those used to estimate the liability for future policy benefits. For interest-sensitive and deposit-balance type products, these assumptions are reviewed on a regular basis and are revised if actual experience
differs significantly from original expectations. For all other products, amortization assumptions are generally not revised once established. Deferred acquisition costs are subject to periodic recoverability and loss recognition testing to
determine if there is a premium deficiency. These tests ensure that the present value of future contract-related cash flows will support the capitalized deferred acquisition cost asset. These cash flows consist primarily of premium income, less
benefits and expenses taking inflation into account. The present value of these cash flows, less the benefit reserve, is then compared with the unamortized deferred acquisition cost balance. In the event the estimated present value of net cash flows
is less, the deficiency would be recognized by a charge to earnings and either a reduction of unamortized acquisition costs or an increase in the liability for future benefits, as described under the caption Future Policy Benefits.

  64 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 1—Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 
 
Policy Claims and Other Benefits Payable:    Torchmark establishes a
liability for known policy benefits payable and an estimate of claims that have been incurred but not yet reported to the Company. The estimate of unreported claims is based on prior experience. Torchmark makes an estimate after careful evaluation
of all information available to the Company. However, there is no certainty the stated liability for claims and other benefits, including the estimate of unsubmitted claims, will be Torchmark’s ultimate obligation. 
  Income Taxes:    Income taxes are accounted
for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement book values and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred
tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a
change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. More information concerning income taxes is provided in Note 8—Income Taxes. 
  Property and Equipment:    Property and
equipment, included in “Other assets,” is reported at cost less allowances for depreciation. Depreciation is recorded primarily on the straight line method over the estimated useful lives of these assets which range from two to ten years
for equipment and five to forty years for buildings and improvements. Ordinary maintenance and repairs are charged to income as incurred. Impairments, if any, are recorded when, based on events and circumstances, it becomes evident that the fair
value of the asset is less than its carrying amount. Original cost of property and equipment was $119 million at both December 31, 2011 and 2010. Accumulated depreciation was $71 million at year end 2011 and $65 million at the end of 2010.
Depreciation expense was $6.8 million in 2011, $6.0 million in 2010, and $4.6 million in 2009.   
Asset Retirements:    Certain of Torchmark’s subsidiaries own and occupy buildings containing asbestos. These
facilities are subject to regulations which could cause the Company to be required to remove and dispose of all or part of the asbestos upon the occurrence of certain events. Otherwise, the subsidiaries are under no obligation under the regulations.
At this time, no such events under these regulations have occurred. For this reason, the Company has not recorded a liability for this potential obligation, as the time at which any obligation could be settled is not known. Therefore, there is
insufficient information to estimate a fair value.   
Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Interests:    As of December 31, 2011, Torchmark had $293 million invested in limited
partnerships that provide low-income housing tax credits and other related Federal income tax and state premium tax benefits to Torchmark. The carrying value of Torchmark’s investment in these entities was $283 million at December 31,
2010. As of December 31, 2011, Torchmark was obligated under future commitments of $109 million, which amount is included in the above carrying value. Interests for which the return has been guaranteed by unrelated third-parties are accounted
for using the effective-yield method. The remaining interests are accounted for using the amortized-cost method.   
For 2011 and 2010, the Federal income benefits accrued during the year, net of the amortization associated with guaranteed interests, were recorded
in “Income taxes.” Amortization associated with non-guaranteed interests and interests providing for state premium tax benefits was reflected as a component of “Net investment income.” For years prior to 2010, the Federal income
tax benefits accrued during the year, net of the amortization associated with all interests, were recorded in “Income taxes.” All state premium tax benefits, net of the related amortization, were recorded in “Net investment
income.” At December 31, 2011, $281 million associated with the Federal interests was included in “Other assets” with the remaining $12 million state-related interests included in “Other invested assets.” At
December 31, 2010, the comparable amounts were $269 million and $14 million, respectively. Any unpaid commitments to invest are recorded in “Other liabilities.” In the segment analysis, the amortization associated with the non-guaranteed
interests is reflected as a component of “Income tax expenses,” and not “Net investment income,” consistent with the treatment of the guaranteed interests. Management views this presentation as a more accurate matching of costs
with the associated revenues with respect to the low-income housing interests. 
  65 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 1—Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 
 
Goodwill:    The excess cost of business acquired over the fair value
of their net assets is reported as goodwill. Goodwill is subject to annual impairment testing based on certain procedures outlined by GAAP. The procedures involve measuring the carrying value of each reporting unit of Torchmark’s segments,
including the goodwill of that unit, against the estimated fair value of the corresponding unit. If the carrying value of a unit including goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value, then the goodwill in that unit could potentially be impaired. In
that event, further testing is required under the accounting guidance to determine the amount of impairment, if any. If there is an impairment in the goodwill of any reporting unit, it is written down and charged to earnings in the period of test.
   Torchmark has tested its goodwill annually in each of the
years 2009 through 2011. These tests involved assigning carrying value by allocating the Company’s net assets to each of the reporting units of Torchmark’s segments, including the portion of goodwill assigned to the unit. The fair value of
each reporting unit is determined using discounted expected cash flows associated with that unit. Judgment and assumptions are used in developing the projected cash flows for the reporting units, and such estimates are subject to change. The Company
also exercises judgment in the determination of the discount rate, which management believes to be appropriate for the risk associated with the cash flow expectations. The fair value of each reporting unit is then measured against that reporting
unit’s corresponding carrying value. Because the estimated fair value exceeded the carrying value, including goodwill, of each reporting unit in each period, Torchmark’s goodwill was not impaired in any of those periods. 
  Treasury Stock:    Torchmark accounts for
purchases of treasury stock on the cost method. Issuance of treasury stock is accounted for using the weighted-average cost method.   
Settlements:    During 2011, Torchmark settled a state administrative matter involving issues arising over a period of
many years. The settlement resulted in a pre-tax charge of $6.9 million ($4.5 million after tax). Additionally in 2011, the Company accrued an estimated liability for settlement of an insurance litigation matter expected to settle in 2012. The
liability for this litigation, which arose many years ago, was estimated to be $12.0 million pretax ($7.8 million after tax). Please refer to Note 15—Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for a discussion of the litigation settlement. In 2009, Torchmark recorded a $2.9 million tax settlement primarily resulting from the favorable settlements of U.S. Federal income tax issues that related to prior tax years.
More information on this tax settlement is provided in Note 8—Income Taxes. Management removes items that are related to prior periods when evaluating the operating results of current periods. Therefore, these items are excluded in
its presentation of segment results as disclosed in Note 14—Business Segments, because accounting guidance requires that operating segment results be presented as management views its business. 
  Postretirement Benefits:    Torchmark
accounts for its postretirement defined benefit plans by recognizing the funded status of those plans on its Consolidated Balance Sheets in accordance with accounting guidance. Periodic gains and losses attributable to changes in plan assets
and liabilities that are not recognized as components of net periodic benefit costs are recognized as components of other comprehensive income, net of tax. More information concerning the accounting and disclosures for postretirement benefits is
found in Note 9—Postretirement Benefits.    Stock Compensation:    Torchmark accounts for stock-based compensation by recognizing an expense in the financial statements based on the “fair value method.” The fair value
method requires that a fair value be assigned to a stock option or other stock grant on its grant date and that this value be amortized over the grantees’ service period. 
  66 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 1—Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 
 
The fair value method requires the use of an option valuation model to value employee stock
options. Torchmark has elected to use the Black-Scholes valuation model for option expensing. A summary of assumptions for options granted in each of the three years 2009 through 2011 is as follows: 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Volatility factor
  
 
42.3
% 
 
 
40.3
% 
 
 
29.6
% 

 Dividend yield
  
 
1.0
% 
 
 
1.3
% 
 
 
2.4
% 

 Expected term (in years)
  
 
4.66
  
 
 
4.74
  
 
 
4.72
  

 Risk-free rate
  
 
2.0
% 
 
 
2.5
% 
 
 
2.6
% 
   The expected term is generally derived
from Company experience. However, expected terms of grants made under the Torchmark Corporation 2005 Incentive Plan (2005 Plan) and the 2007 Long-Term Compensation Plan (2007 Plan), involving grants made in the years 2005 through 2010, were
determined based on the simplified method as permitted by Staff Accounting Bulletins 107 and 110. This method was used because the 2005 and 2007 Plans limited grants to a maximum contract term of seven years, and Torchmark had no previous experience
with seven-year contract terms. Prior to 2005, substantially all grants contained ten-year terms. Because a large portion of these grants vest over a three-year period, the Company did not have sufficient exercise history during 2010 or previous
years to determine an appropriate expected term on these grants. Beginning in 2011, all grants with seven-year terms are based on Company experience. The Torchmark Corporation 2011 Incentive Plan replaced the previous plans and allows for option
grants with a ten-year contractual term which vest over five years in addition to seven-year grants which vest over three years as permitted by the previous plans. The Company has no historical experience with five-year vesting, and will therefore
use the simplified method to determine the expected term for these grants until such experience is developed. Volatility and risk-free interest rates are assumed over a period of time consistent with the expected term of the option. Volatility is
measured on a historical basis. Monthly data points are utilized to derive volatility for periods greater than three years. Expected dividend yield is based on current dividend yield held constant over the expected term. Once the fair value of an
option has been determined, it is amortized on a straight-line basis over the employee’s service period for that grant (from the grant date to the date the grant is fully vested).    Torchmark management views all stock-based compensation expense as a corporate or Parent Company expense and, therefore,
presents it as such in its segment analysis (See Note 14—Business Segments). It is included in “Other operating expense” in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
  Stock Split:    Torchmark declared a
three-for-two stock split paid in the form of a 50% stock dividend on all of the Company’s outstanding common stock. The record date for the split was the close of business on June 1, 2011. On July 1, 2011, the payment date, holders of
Torchmark common stock as of the record date received one additional share of stock for every two shares held. The Company paid $123 thousand in cash to acquire 2,841 fractional shares as a result of the split. All share and per share amounts have
been adjusted to reflect this split for all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements. “Common stock” and “Retained earnings” presented for all prior periods in the accompanying Consolidated Balance
Sheet and Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity have also been retroactively adjusted to reflect this split.   
Earnings Per Share:    Torchmark presents basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) on the face of the Consolidated
Statements of Operations. Basic EPS is computed by dividing income available to common shareholders by the weighted average common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS is calculated by adding to shares outstanding the additional net
effect of potentially dilutive securities or contracts, such as stock options, which could be exercised or converted into common shares. For more information on earnings per share, see Note 12—Shareholders’ Equity.

  67 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Unadopted Accounting Guidance: The FASB has adopted new guidance concerning policy
acquisition costs (ASU 2010-26). This accounting guidance amends the accounting for costs associated with acquiring or renewing insurance contracts in order to address the diversity in practice surrounding the capitalization and deferral of these
costs. This guidance will be effective for Torchmark beginning January 1, 2012. As a result of this new standard, certain costs that have been deferred and amortized through deferred acquisition costs will no longer be allowed to be deferred and
will be expensed as incurred. The new guidance limits the deferral of costs to those incremental costs related only to the successful issuance of an insurance contract. Previously, the Company was allowed to defer any cost that varied with and
related to the production of new business. For Torchmark, these costs that are no longer deferrable primarily relate to our agent distribution systems, and include such costs as training, recruiting, office space, and certain management and
underwriting expenses. The new guidance further limits the deferral of certain advertising costs associated with the Direct Response operation. Torchmark will adopt retroactively, meaning the deferred acquisition cost will be written down to a level
as if the new guidance had been in effect in prior periods. Going forward, the reduction in deferrals will cause commissions and expenses to increase. However, as a result of the retroactive writedown, the amortization of previously deferred
acquisition costs will decrease, greatly offsetting the impact of the increased expenses. The Company currently expects it to reduce the deferred acquisition cost asset approximately 16%, total assets approximately 3%, and shareholders’ equity
approximately 10% at the time of adoption. Torchmark also expects it will reduce 2012 earnings and earnings per share less than 2%. The adoption of this guidance will delay the recognition of underwriting margin on newly issued business, but not the
ultimate profitability of that business. It will have no impact on cash flows, liquidity, or statutory earnings.   
Note 2—Statutory Accounting 
  Life insurance subsidiaries of Torchmark are
required to file statutory financial statements with state insurance regulatory authorities. Accounting principles used to prepare these statutory financial statements differ from GAAP. Consolidated net income and shareholders’ equity (capital
and surplus) on a statutory basis for the insurance subsidiaries were as follows:   
























 
  
Net IncomeYear Ended December 31,
 
  
Shareholders’ Equity AtDecember 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 
  
    2009    
 
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 

 Life insurance subsidiaries
  
$
        424,738
  
  
$
499,440
  
  
$
274,734
  
  
$
        1,273,117
  
  
$
1,607,811
  
   The excess, if any, of
shareholder’s equity of the insurance subsidiaries on a GAAP basis over that determined on a statutory basis is not available for distribution to Torchmark without regulatory approval. More information on the restrictions on the payment of
dividends can be found in Note 12—Shareholders’ Equity.    Torchmark’s statutory financial statements are presented on the basis of accounting practices prescribed by the insurance department of the state of domicile of each insurance subsidiary. All states have
adopted the National Association of Insurance Commissioners’ (NAIC) statutory accounting practices (NAIC SAP) as the basis for statutory accounting. However, certain states have retained the prescribed practices of their respective insurance
code or administrative code which can differ from NAIC SAP. There are no significant differences between NAIC SAP and the accounting practices prescribed by the states of domicile for Torchmark’s life insurance companies that affect statutory
surplus. 
  68 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 3—Discontinued Operations 
  During the third quarter of 2010, Torchmark’s
subsidiary, Liberty, entered into an agreement to sell its wholly-owned subsidiary, United Investors Life Insurance Company (United Investors), to an unaffiliated insurance carrier. The sale was completed as of December 31, 2010. United Investors
marketed primarily term and interest-sensitive life insurance, fixed annuities, and, prior to 2009, variable annuities. Consideration for the sale consisted of $343 million in cash at the closing, as well as post-closing proceeds receivable from the
buyer of approximately $21 million which was received in early 2011. The transaction resulted in a pretax loss of approximately $38 million ($35 million after tax), which has been reported as a realized loss on the disposal of a discontinued
operation in 2010. Due to the sale, Torchmark’s consolidated financial statements are presented to reflect the transactions as discontinued operations.   
An analysis of income from discontinued operations is as follows:   












 
  
Twelve months ended December 31,
 

 
  
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 

 Premium income
  
$
73,675
  
 
$
77,094
  

 Investment income
  
 
43,787
  
 
 
42,375
  

 Realized investment gains (losses)
  
 
2,850
  
 
 
(12,167
) 

 Other income
  
 
103
  
 
 
22
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenue*
  
 
120,415
  
 
 
107,324
  





 Policyholder benefits
  
 
56,374
  
 
 
59,470
  

 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs
  
 
14,599
  
 
 
13,267
  

 Other expense
  
 
4,960
  
 
 
6,470
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total benefits and expense
  
 
75,933
  
 
 
79,207
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 Pre tax income from discontinued operations
  
 
44,482
  
 
 
28,117
  

 Income tax
  
 
(14,698
) 
 
 
(9,216
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from discontinued operations
  
$
29,784
  
 
$
18,901
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Revenues and profitability in the
indicated segment were as follows:   












 
  
Twelve Months Ended December 31,
 

 
  
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 

 Revenues:
  



 




 Life
  
$
65,726
  
 
$
67,917
  

 Annuity
  
 
7,949
  
 
 
9,177
  

 Investment
  
 
43,787
  
 
 
42,375
  

 Other
  
 
103
  
 
 
22
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total*
  
$
117,565
  
 
$
119,491
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Segment profitability (loss):
  



 




 Life
  
$
22,692
  
 
$
19,477
  

 Annuity
  
 
(931
) 
 
 
3,084
  

 Investment
  
 
22,490
  
 
 
21,660
  

 Other
  
 
(2,619
) 
 
 
(3,937
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
41,632
  
 
$
40,284
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


*
 
Segment revenues differ from discontinued revenues by the amount of realized investment gains/losses, which Torchmark excludes from its consideration of ongoing operations.

  69 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 4—Investments 
  Portfolio Composition: 
  A summary of fixed maturities available for sale and equity securities
by cost or amortized cost and estimated fair value at December 31, 2011 and 2010 is as follows:   




























 
 
Cost orAmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
 
Fair Value
 
 
Amountper theBalanceSheet
 
 
% of TotalFixedMaturities*
 









 2011:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Fixed maturities available for sale:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Bonds:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 U.S. Government direct, guaranteed, and government-sponsored enterprises
 
$
65,283
  
 
$
1,756
  
 
$
(4
) 
 
$
67,035
  
 
$
67,035
  
 
 
1
% 

 States, municipalities, and political subdivisions
 
 
1,213,082
  
 
 
118,636
  
 
 
(1,896
) 
 
 
1,329,822
  
 
 
1,329,822
  
 
 
11
  

 Foreign governments
 
 
21,832
  
 
 
1,327
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
23,159
  
 
 
23,159
  
 
 
0
  

 Corporates
 
 
8,357,809
  
 
 
1,051,019
  
 
 
(137,908
) 
 
 
9,270,920
  
 
 
9,270,920
  
 
 
78
  

 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
60,437
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(30,117
) 
 
 
30,320
  
 
 
30,320
  
 
 
0
  

 Other asset-backed securities
 
 
42,862
  
 
 
3,210
  
 
 
(1,392
) 
 
 
44,680
  
 
 
44,680
  
 
 
0
  

 Redeemable preferred stocks
 
 
1,162,939
  
 
 
27,184
  
 
 
(67,854
) 
 
 
1,122,269
  
 
 
1,122,269
  
 
 
10
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities
 
 
10,924,244
  
 
 
1,203,132
  
 
 
(239,171
) 
 
 
11,888,205
  
 
 
11,888,205
  
 
 
100
% 


 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Equity securities
 
 
14,875
  
 
 
2,244
  
 
 
(63
) 
 
 
17,056
  
 
 
17,056
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total fixed maturities and equity securities
 
$
10,939,119
  
 
$
1,205,376
  
 
$
(239,234
) 
 
$
11,905,261
  
 
$
11,905,261
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



  


*
 
At fair value 
  70 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
  Note 4—Investments
(continued)   




























 
 
Cost orAmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
 
Fair Value
 
 
Amountper theBalanceSheet
 
 
% of TotalFixedMaturities
 









 2010:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Fixed maturities available for sale:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Bonds:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 U.S. Government direct, guaranteed, and government-sponsored enterprises
 
$
78,387
  
 
$
1,347
  
 
$
(1,060
) 
 
$
78,674
  
 
$
78,674
  
 
 
1
% 

 States, municipalities, and political subdivisions
 
 
1,212,185
  
 
 
10,752
  
 
 
(41,811
) 
 
 
1,181,126
  
 
 
1,181,126
  
 
 
11
  

 Foreign governments
 
 
22,352
  
 
 
679
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
23,031
  
 
 
23,031
  
 
 
0
  

 Corporates
 
 
7,707,938
  
 
 
423,076
  
 
 
(210,149
) 
 
 
7,920,865
  
 
 
7,920,865
  
 
 
75
  

 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
56,525
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(34,069
) 
 
 
22,456
  
 
 
22,456
  
 
 
0
  

 Other asset-backed securities
 
 
46,406
  
 
 
3,010
  
 
 
(678
) 
 
 
48,738
  
 
 
48,738
  
 
 
1
  

 Redeemable preferred stocks
 
 
1,311,704
  
 
 
36,405
  
 
 
(79,965
) 
 
 
1,268,144
  
 
 
1,268,144
  
 
 
12
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities
 
 
10,435,497
  
 
 
475,269
  
 
 
(367,732
) 
 
 
10,543,034
  
 
 
10,543,034
  
 
 
100
% 

 Equity securities
 
 
14,875
  
 
 
2,348
  
 
 
(69
) 
 
 
17,154
  
 
 
17,154
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total fixed maturities and equity securities
 
$
10,450,372
  
 
$
477,617
  
 
$
(367,801
) 
 
$
10,560,188
  
 
$
10,560,188
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



     A schedule of fixed maturities by contractual maturity at December 31, 2011 is shown below on an amortized cost basis and on a fair value basis. Actual maturities could differ from contractual maturities due to
call or prepayment provisions.   












 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
FairValue
 

 Fixed maturities available for sale:
  



  




 Due in one year or less
  
$
64,222
  
  
$
64,895
  

 Due from one to five years
  
 
527,836
  
  
 
564,584
  

 Due from five to ten years
  
 
669,994
  
  
 
728,784
  

 Due from ten to twenty years
  
 
2,439,335
  
  
 
2,649,607
  

 Due after twenty years
  
 
7,114,402
  
  
 
7,799,590
  

 Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities
  
 
108,455
  
  
 
80,745
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
10,924,244
  
  
$
11,888,205
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  71 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 4—Investments (continued) 
 
Analysis of investment operations: 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 


  



 



 




 Net investment income is summarized as follows:
  



 



 




 Fixed maturities
  
$
683,101
  
 
$
662,202
  
 
$
609,566
  

 Equity securities
  
 
1,558
  
 
 
1,183
  
 
 
1,287
  

 Policy loans
  
 
29,293
  
 
 
27,248
  
 
 
25,394
  

 Other long-term investments
  
 
2,439
  
 
 
3,064
  
 
 
6,482
  

 Short-term investments
  
 
165
  
 
 
762
  
 
 
1,296
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
716,556
  
 
 
694,459
  
 
 
644,025
  

 Less investment expense
  
 
(23,528
) 
 
 
(18,095
) 
 
 
(11,485
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net investment income
  
$
693,028
  
 
$
676,364
  
 
$
632,540
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 An analysis of realized gains (losses) from investments is as follows:
  



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses):
  



 



 




 Fixed maturities:
  



 



 




 Sales and other
  
$
27,790
  
 
$
43,022
  
 
$
15,638
  

 Writedowns
  
 
(20
) 
 
 
(4,850
) 
 
 
(143,166
) 

 Equity securities
  
 
0
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
(862
) 

 Loss on redemption of debt
  
 
0
  
 
 
(1,646
) 
 
 
(1
) 

 Other
  
 
(1,866
) 
 
 
813
  
 
 
(1,101
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
25,904
  
 
 
37,340
  
 
 
(129,492
) 

 Applicable tax
  
 
(9,066
) 
 
 
(13,070
) 
 
 
44,147
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Realized gains (losses) from investments, net of tax
  
$
16,838
  
 
$
24,270
  
 
$
(85,345
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 An analysis of the net change in unrealized investment gains (losses) is as follows:
  



 



 




 Equity securities
  
$
(98
) 
 
$
432
  
 
$
2,377
  

 Fixed maturities available for sale
  
 
856,424
  
 
 
562,921
  
 
 
1,240,781
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net change in unrealized gains (losses) on securities
  
$
856,326
  
 
$
563,353
  
 
$
1,243,158
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Additional information about securities
sold is as follows:   
















 
  
At December 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 

 Fixed maturities:
  



 



 




 Proceeds from sales
  
$
236,662
** 
 
$
314,904
* 
 
$
830,892
* 

 Gross realized gains
  
 
28,249
  
 
 
29,821
  
 
 
69,249
  

 Gross realized losses
  
 
(24,323
) 
 
 
(13,361
) 
 
 
(56,499
) 


  



 



 




 Equities:
  



 



 




 Proceeds from sales
  
 
0
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
1,138
  

 Gross realized gains
  
 
0
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
0
  

 Gross realized losses
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(862
) 
  


*
 
Proceeds from sales including discontined assets were $326 million in 2010 and $900 million in 2009. 


**
 
Includes $12.3 million of unsettled trades 
  72 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 4—Investments (continued) 
 
Fair value measurements:    Torchmark measures the fair value of its
financial assets based on a hierarchy consisting of three levels which indicate the quality of the fair value measurements as described below:   


 
•
 
 Level 1 – fair values are based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access as
of the measurement date.   


 
•
 
 Level 2 – fair values are based on inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either
directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, inputs other than quoted prices that are
observable for the asset or liability, or inputs that can otherwise be corroborated by observable market data.   


 
•
 
 Level 3 – fair values are based on inputs that are considered unobservable where there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability
as of the measurement date. In this circumstance, the Company has to rely on values derived by independent brokers or internally-developed assumptions. Unobservable inputs are developed based on the best information available to the Company which
may include the Company’s own data or bid and ask prices in the dealer market.   
The great majority of the Company’s fixed maturities are not actively traded and direct quotes are not generally available. Management
therefore determines the fair values of these securities after consideration of data provided by third-party pricing services and independent broker/dealers. Over 99% of the fair value reported at December 31, 2011 was determined using data provided
by third-party pricing services. Prices provided by third-party pricing services are not binding offers but are estimated exit values. They are based on observable market data inputs which can vary by security type. Such inputs include benchmark
yields, available trades, broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads, benchmark securities, bids, offers, and other market data. As part of the Company’s controls over pricing, management reviews and analyzes all prices obtained to insure the
reasonableness of the values, taking all available information into account. One very important control is the corroboration of prices obtained from third-party sources against other independent sources. When corroborated prices produce small
variations, the close correlation indicates observable inputs, and the median value is used. When corroborated prices present greater variations, additional analysis is required to determine which value is the most appropriate. When only one price
is available, management evaluates observable inputs and performs additional analysis to confirm that the price is appropriate. All fair value measurements based on prices determined with observable market data are reported as Level 1 or
Level 2 measurements.    When third-party vendor prices
are not available, the Company attempts to obtain at least three quotes from broker/dealers for each security. When at least three quotes are obtained, and the standard deviation of such quotes is less than 3%, (suggesting that the independent
quotes were likely derived using similar observable inputs), the Company uses the median quote and classifies the measurement as Level 2. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, there were no assets valued as Level 2 in this manner with broker quotes.
   When the standard deviation is 3% or greater, or the
Company cannot obtain three quotes, then additional information and management judgment are required to establish the fair value. The measurement is then classified as Level 3. The Company uses information and valuation techniques deemed appropriate
for determining the point within the range of reasonable fair value estimates that is most representative of fair value under current market conditions. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, fair value measurements classified as Level 3 represented 0.4%
and 1.0%, respectively, of total fixed maturities and equity securities. 
  73 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
  Note 4—Investments
(continued)   
The following tables represent the fair value of assets measured on a recurring basis at
December 31, 2011 and 2010:   























 
  
Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2011 Using:
 

 Description
  
Quoted Prices inActive Marketsfor IdenticalAssets (Level 1)
 
 
Significant OtherobservableInputs (Level 2)
 
 
SignificantUnobservableInputs (Level 3)
 
 
Total FairValue
 

 Fixed maturities available for sale:
  



 



 



 




 Bonds:
  
 
`
  
 



 



 




 U.S. Government direct, guaranteed, and government-sponsored enterprises 
  
$
0
  
 
$
67,035
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
67,035
  

 States, municipalities, and political subdivisions
  
 
0
  
 
 
1,329,822
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,329,822
  

 Foreign governments
  
 
0
  
 
 
23,159
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
23,159
  

 Corporates
  
 
28,092
  
 
 
9,231,578
  
 
 
11,250
  
 
 
9,270,920
  

 Collateralized debt obligations
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
30,320
  
 
 
30,320
  

 Other asset-backed securities
  
 
0
  
 
 
37,558
  
 
 
7,122
  
 
 
44,680
  

 Redeemable preferred stocks
  
 
217,613
  
 
 
904,656
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,122,269
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities
  
 
245,705
  
 
 
11,593,808
  
 
 
48,692
  
 
 
11,888,205
  

 Equity securities
  
 
16,346
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
710
  
 
 
17,056
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities and equity securities
  
$
262,051
  
 
$
11,593,808
  
 
$
49,402
  
 
$
11,905,261
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Percentage of total
  
 
2.2
% 
 
 
97.4
% 
 
 
0.4
% 
 
 
100.0
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  




















 Description
 
Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2010 Using:
 

 
Quoted Prices inActive Marketsfor IdenticalAssets (Level 1)
 
 
Significant OtherObservableInputs (Level 2)
 
 
SignificantUnobservableInputs (Level 3)
 
 
Total FairValue
 

 Fixed maturities available for sale:
 



 



 



 




 Bonds:
 



 



 



 




 U.S. Government direct, guaranteed, and government-sponsored enterprises
 
$
0
  
 
$
78,674
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
78,674
  

 States, municipalities and political subdivisions
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,181,126
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,181,126
  

 Foreign governments
 
 
0
  
 
 
23,031
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
23,031
  

 Corporates
 
 
15,347
  
 
 
7,831,845
  
 
 
73,673
  
 
 
7,920,865
  

 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
22,456
  
 
 
22,456
  

 Other asset-backed securities
 
 
0
  
 
 
40,696
  
 
 
8,042
  
 
 
48,738
  

 Redeemable preferred stocks
 
 
270,189
  
 
 
997,955
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,268,144
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities
 
 
285,536
  
 
 
10,153,327
  
 
 
104,171
  
 
 
10,543,034
  







 Equity securities
 
 
16,484
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
670
  
 
 
17,154
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities and equity securities
 
$
302,020
  
 
$
10,153,327
  
 
$
104,841
  
 
$
10,560,188
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Percent of total
 
 
2.9
% 
 
 
96.1
% 
 
 
1.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  74 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 4—Investments (continued) 
 
The following table represents changes in assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis using
significant unobservable inputs (Level 3).   
























 
 
Analysis of Changes in Fair Value Measurements UsingSignificant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3)
 

 
 
Asset-backedsecurities
 
 
CollateralizeddebtObligations
 
 
Corporates*
 
 
Other
 
 
Total
 

 Balance at January 1, 2009
 
$
23,077
  
 
$
14,158
  
 
$
164,881
  
 
$
1,246
  
 
$
203,362
  

 Total gains or losses:
 



 



 



 



 




 Included in realized gains/losses
 
 
0
  
 
 
(83,458
) 
 
 
(2,502
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(85,960
) 

 Included in other comprehensive income
 
 
1,717
  
 
 
80,674
  
 
 
(2,728
) 
 
 
12
  
 
 
79,675
  

 Sales
 
 
0
  
 
 
125
  
 
 
(6,833
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(6,708
) 

 Amortization
 
 
(183
) 
 
 
1,014
  
 
 
2,366
  
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
3,192
  

 Other **
 
 
0
  
 
 
5,524
  
 
 
213
  
 
 
148
  
 
 
5,885
  

 Transfers in to Level 3
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
48,995
  
 
 
4,435
  
 
 
53,430
  

 Transfers out of Level 3
 
 
(16,630
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(132,628
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(149,258
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
 
 
7,981
  
 
 
18,037
  
 
 
71,764
  
 
 
5,836
  
 
 
103,618
  

 Total gains or losses:
 



 



 



 



 




 Included in realized gains/losses
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,712
) 
 
 
1,504
  
 
 
708
  
 
 
500
  

 Included in other comprehensive income
 
 
255
  
 
 
2,445
  
 
 
14,711
  
 
 
(534
) 
 
 
16,877
  

 Sales
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(5,862
) 
 
 
(2,331
) 
 
 
(8,193
) 

 Amortization
 
 
(194
) 
 
 
2,333
  
 
 
2,536
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
4,674
  

 Other **
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,353
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,353
  

 Transfers out of Level 3
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(10,980
) 
 
 
(3,008
) 
 
 
(13,988
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
 
 
8,042
  
 
 
22,456
  
 
 
73,673
  
 
 
670
  
 
$
104,841
  

 Total gains or losses:
 



 



 



 



 




 Included in realized gains/losses
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(12,542
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(12,542
) 

 Included in other comprehensive income
 
 
(714
) 
 
 
3,952
  
 
 
14,578
  
 
 
40
  
 
 
17,856
  

 Sales
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(13,875
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(13,875
) 

 Amortization
 
 
(206
) 
 
 
2,470
  
 
 
1,302
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
3,566
  

 Other **
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,442
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,442
  

 Transfers out of Level 3
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(51,886
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(51,886
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
 
$
7,122
  
 
$
30,320
  
 
$
11,250
  
 
$
710
  
 
$
49,402
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


*
 
Includes redeemable preferred stocks 


**
 
Includes capitalized interest and foreign exchange adjustments.   
The collateral underlying collateralized debt obligations for which fair values are reported as Level 3 consists primarily of trust preferred
securities issued by banks and insurance companies. None of the collateral is subprime or Alt-A mortgages (loans for which the typical documentation was not provided by the borrower).    The following table presents transfers in and out of each of the valuation levels of fair values. 
 








































 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
In
 
  
Out
 
 
Net
 
 
In
 
  
Out
 
 
Net
 
 
In
 
  
Out
 
 
Net
 

 Level 1
  
$
        0
  
  
$
        0
  
 
$
        0
  
 
$
54
  
  
$
(4,848
) 
 
$
(4,794
) 
 
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
 
$
0
  

 Level 2
  
 
51,886
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
51,886
  
 
 
18,836
  
  
 
(54
) 
 
 
18,782
  
 
 
149,258
  
  
 
(53,430
) 
 
 
95,828
  

 Level 3
  
 
0
  
  
 
(51,886
) 
 
 
(51,886
) 
 
 
0
  
  
 
(13,988
) 
 
 
(13,988
) 
 
 
53,430
  
  
 
(149,258
) 
 
 
(95,828
) 
   Transfers into Level 2 from Level 3
result from the availability of observable market data when a security is valued at the end of a period. Transfers into Level 3 occur when there is a lack of observable market information. Transfers into Level 1 from Level 2 occur when direct quotes
are available; transfers from Level 1 into Level 2 result when only observable market data and no direct quotes are available. 
  75 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 4—Investments (continued) 
 
Other-than-temporary impairments:    Torchmark’s portfolio of
fixed maturities fluctuates in value due to changes in interest rates in the financial markets as well as other factors. Fluctuations caused by market interest rate changes have little bearing on whether or not the investment will be ultimately
recoverable. Therefore, Torchmark considers these declines in value resulting from changes in market interest rates to be temporary. In certain circumstances, however, Torchmark determines that the decline in the value of a security is
other-than-temporary and writes the book value of the security down to its fair value, realizing an investment loss. The evaluation of Torchmark’s securities for other-than-temporary impairments is a process that is undertaken not less
frequently than quarterly and is overseen by a team of investment and accounting professionals. Each security which is impaired because the fair value is less than the cost or amortized cost is identified and evaluated. The determination that an
impairment is other-than-temporary is highly subjective and involves the careful consideration of many factors. Among the factors considered are: 


 
•
 
 The length of time and extent to which the security has been impaired 


 
•
 
 The reason(s) for the impairment 


 
•
 
 The financial condition of the issuer and the near-term prospects for recovery in fair value of the security 


 
•
 
 The Company’s ability and intent to hold the security until anticipated recovery 


 
•
 
 Expected future cash flows   
The relative weight given to each of these factors can change over time as facts and circumstances change. In many cases, management believes it is
appropriate to give relatively more weight to prospective factors than to retrospective factors. Prospective factors that are given more weight include prospects for recovery, the Company’s ability and intent to hold the security until
anticipated recovery, and expected future cash flows.    Among the facts and
information considered in the process are: 


 
•
 
 Default on a required payment 


 
•
 
 Issuer bankruptcy filings 


 
•
 
 Financial statements of the issuer 


 
•
 
 Changes in credit ratings of the issuer 


 
•
 
 The value of underlying collateral 


 
•
 
 News and information included in press releases issued by the issuer 


 
•
 
 News and information reported in the media concerning the issuer 


 
•
 
 News and information published by or otherwise provided by credit analysts 


 
•
 
 Recent cash flows   
While all available information is taken into account, it is difficult to predict the ultimately recoverable amount of a distressed or impaired security.

  76 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 4—Investments (continued) 
 
Torchmark has determined that certain of its holdings in fixed maturity investments were
other-than-temporarily impaired during the three years ended December 31, 2011. Included in the impairments were collateralized debt obligations in which the impairment was bifurcated in accordance with accounting guidance. As a result of this
guidance, the portion of an impairment considered to be a credit loss is other-than-temporarily impaired and the amount of the credit loss is charged to net income. Any portion of the impairment considered to be temporary is charged to other
comprehensive income. The credit loss portion of an impairment is determined as the difference between the security’s amortized cost and the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the securities’ original effective yield
rate. The temporary portion is the difference between this present value of expected future cash flows and fair value (as discounted by a market yield). The expected cash flows are determined using judgment and the best information available to the
Company. Inputs used to derive expected cash flows include expected default rates, current levels of subordination, and loan-to-collateral value ratios. Management believes that the present value of future cash flows at the original effective yield
is a better measure of valuation, because fair value is based on limited observable market data, and the market for these securities is neither active nor orderly. The following table presents the writedowns recorded due to these impairments in
accordance with accounting guidance and whether the writedown was charged to earnings or other comprehensive income.   
Writedowns for Other-Than-Temporary Impairments   




























 
  
2011
 
    
2010
 
    
2009
 

 
  
NetIncome
 
 
OtherComprehensiveIncome
 
    
NetIncome
 
 
OtherComprehensiveIncome
 
    
NetIncome
 
 
OtherComprehensiveIncome
 

 Collateralized debt obligations
  
$
        0
  
 
$
        0
  
    
$
1,712
  
 
$
0
  
    
 
$  83,457
  
 
$
        20,766
  

 Corporate bonds
  
 
20
  
 
 
0
  
    
 
3,138
  
 
 
0
  
    
 
  59,709
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total pre-tax
  
$
20
  
 
$
0
  
    
$
4,850
  
 
$
0
  
    
 
$143,166
  
 
$
20,766
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 After tax
  
$
13
  
 
$
0
  
    
$
    3,152
  
 
$
        0
  
    
 
$  94,234
  
 
$
13,498
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   As of year end 2011, previously written
down securities remaining in the portfolio were carried at a fair value of $22.6 million. Otherwise, as of December 31, 2011, Torchmark has no information available to cause it to believe that any of its investments are
other-than-temporarily impaired. Torchmark has the ability and intent to hold these investments to recovery, and does not intend to sell nor expects to be required to sell its other impaired securities. 
  Bifurcated credit losses result when there is an other-than-temporary
impairment for which a portion of the loss is recognized in other comprehensive income. Torchmark’s balances related to bifurcated credit loss positions included in other comprehensive income were $22 million at December 31, 2011,
December 31, 2010, and December 31, 2009. There was no change in this balance since December 31, 2009, the year the balance initially arose. 
  77 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 4—Investments (continued) 
 
Unrealized gain/loss analysis.    As conditions in financial markets
have improved since early 2009, unrealized gains in the portfolio have occurred and losses have declined. Net unrealized losses on fixed maturities of $455 million at December 31, 2009 became net unrealized gains of $108 million at December 31,
2010. During 2011, net unrealized gains rose to $964 million at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2011, investments in securities in the financial sector were in a $14 million unrealized gain position compared with an unrealized loss position of
$115 million at December 31, 2010. Investments in securities in the other sectors had net unrealized gains of $950 million in 2011 and $223 million in 2010. The following tables disclose gross unrealized investment losses by class of investment at
December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. Torchmark considers these investments to be only temporarily impaired.   
ANALYSIS OF GROSS UNREALIZED INVESTMENT LOSSES  At December 31, 2011   




























 
 
Less thanTwelve Months
 
 
Twelve Monthsor Longer
 
 
Total
 

 Description of Securities
 
FairValue
 
 
UnrealizedLoss
 
 
Fair Value
 
 
UnrealizedLoss
 
 
Fair Value
 
 
UnrealizedLoss
 

 Fixed maturities available for sale:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Bonds:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 U.S. Government direct, guaranteed, and government-sponsored enterprises
 
$
279
  
 
$
(3
) 
 
$
34
  
 
$
(1
) 
 
$
313
  
 
$
(4
) 

 States, municipalities and political subdivisions
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
17,609
  
 
 
(1,896
) 
 
 
17,609
  
 
 
(1,896
) 

 Foreign governments
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Corporates
 
 
585,265
  
 
 
(38,249
) 
 
 
612,338
  
 
 
(99,659
) 
 
 
1,197,603
  
 
 
(137,908
) 

 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
30,320
  
 
 
(30,117
) 
 
 
30,320
  
 
 
(30,117
) 

 Other asset-backed securities
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
7,122
  
 
 
(1,392
) 
 
 
7,122
  
 
 
(1,392
) 

 Redeemable preferred stocks
 
 
205,449
  
 
 
(14,250
) 
 
 
367,450
  
 
 
(53,604
) 
 
 
572,899
  
 
 
(67,854
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities
 
 
790,993
  
 
 
(52,502
) 
 
 
1,034,873
  
 
 
(186,669
) 
 
 
1,825,866
  
 
 
(239,171
) 









 Equity securities
 
 
386
  
 
 
(63
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
386
  
 
 
(63
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities and equity securities
 
$
791,379
  
 
$
(52,565
) 
 
$
1,034,873
  
 
$
(186,669
) 
 
$
1,826,252
  
 
$
(239,234
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  78 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
  Note 4—Investments
(continued)   
ANALYSIS OF GROSS UNREALIZED INVESTMENT LOSSES 
At December 31, 2010   




























 
 
Less thanTwelve Months
 
 
Twelve Monthsor Longer
 
 
Total
 

 Description of Securities
 
Fair Value
 
 
UnrealizedLoss
 
 
Fair Value
 
 
UnrealizedLoss
 
 
Fair Value
 
 
UnrealizedLoss
 

 Fixed maturities available for sale:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Bonds:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 U.S. Government direct, guaranteed, and government-sponsored enterprises
 
$
56,905
  
 
$
(1,060
) 
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
56,905
  
 
$
(1,060
) 

 States, municipalities and political subdivisions
 
 
685,754
  
 
 
(26,734
) 
 
 
66,591
  
 
 
(15,077
) 
 
 
752,345
  
 
 
(41,811
) 

 Foreign governments
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Corporates
 
 
1,284,966
  
 
 
(39,331
) 
 
 
862,820
  
 
 
(170,818
) 
 
 
2,147,786
  
 
 
(210,149
) 

 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
22,331
  
 
 
(34,069
) 
 
 
22,331
  
 
 
(34,069
) 

 Other asset-backed securities
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
8,042
  
 
 
(678
) 
 
 
8,042
  
 
 
(678
) 

 Redeemable preferred stocks
 
 
199,362
  
 
 
(3,339
) 
 
 
646,454
  
 
 
(76,626
) 
 
 
845,816
  
 
 
(79,965
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities
 
 
2,226,987
  
 
 
(70,464
) 
 
 
1,606,238
  
 
 
(297,268
) 
 
 
3,833,225
  
 
 
(367,732
) 









 Equity securities
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
30
  
 
 
(69
) 
 
 
30
  
 
 
(69
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities and equity securities
 
$
2,226,987
  
 
$
(70,464
) 
 
$
1,606,268
  
 
$
(297,337
) 
 
$
3,833,255
  
 
$
(367,801
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
     Additional information about investments in an unrealized loss position is as follows:   
















  
  
Less thanTwelve Months
 
  
TwelveMonthsor Longer
 
  
Total
 

  
  
  

  
  
  

 Number of issues (Cusip numbers) held:
   
  



  




 As of December 31, 2011
  
 
117
  
  
 
93
  
  
 
210
  

 As of December 31, 2010
  
 
234
  
  
 
133
  
  
 
367
  
   Torchmark’s entire fixed-maturity
and equity portfolio consisted of 1,373 issues at December 31, 2011 and 1,430 issues at December 31, 2010. The weighted-average quality rating of all unrealized loss positions as of December 31, 2011 was BBB-, compared with BBB+
a year earlier. The weighted-average quality ratings are based on amortized cost. 
  79 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 4—Investments (continued) 
 
Other investment information: 
  Other long-term investments consist of the following: 
 












  
  
December 31,
 

  
  
  2011  
 
  
  2010  
 

 Mortgage loans, at cost
  
$
551
  
  
$
14,481
  

 Investment real estate, at depreciated cost
  
 
3,165
  
  
 
2,154
  

 Low-income housing interests
  
 
12,188
  
  
 
14,482
  

 Collateral loans
  
 
7,598
  
  
 
8,913
  

 Other
  
 
2,665
  
  
 
2,955
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
26,167
  
  
$
42,985
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The estimated fair value of mortgage
loans, based on discounted cash flows, was approximately $0.6 million at December 31, 2011 and $14.3 million at December 31, 2010. Accumulated depreciation on investment real estate was $1.8 million at both December 31, 2011 and 2010.
   Torchmark had $125 thousand in fixed maturities at book
value ($130 thousand at fair value) that were non-income producing during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011. Torchmark had $3.0 million in investment real estate at December 31, 2011 which was non-income producing during the previous
twelve months. Torchmark did not have any other invested assets that were non-income producing during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011.   
Note 5—Deferred Acquisition Costs 
  An analysis of deferred acquisition costs is as
follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Balance at beginning of year
  
$
3,406,335
  
 
$
3,319,505
  
 
$
3,228,887
  

 Additions:
  



 



 




 Deferred during period:
  



 



 




 Commissions
  
 
291,267
  
 
 
296,043
  
 
 
309,722
  

 Other expenses
  
 
242,640
  
 
 
229,367
  
 
 
248,984
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred
  
 
533,907
  
 
 
525,410
  
 
 
558,706
  

 Foreign exchange adjustment
  
 
0
  
 
 
5,055
  
 
 
10,663
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total additions
  
 
533,907
  
 
 
530,465
  
 
 
569,369
  






 Deductions:
  



 



 




 Amortized during
period
  
 
(424,781
) 
 
 
(418,890
) 
 
 
(415,986
) 

 Foreign exchange adjustment
  
 
(1,931
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Adjustment attributable to unrealized investment gains(1)
  
 
(28,679
) 
 
 
(24,745
) 
 
 
(62,765
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deductions
  
 
(455,391
) 
 
 
(443,635
) 
 
 
(478,751
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at end of year
  
$
3,484,851
  
 
$
3,406,335
  
 
$
3,319,505
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Represents amounts pertaining to investments relating to universal life-type products. 
  In the event of lapses or early withdrawals in excess of those assumed,
deferred acquisition costs may not be recoverable. 
  80 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 6—Future Policy Benefit Reserves 
  A summary of the assumptions used in determining the
liability for future policy benefits at December 31, 2011 is as follows:   
Individual Life Insurance   
Interest assumptions:   












 Years of Issue
  
Interest Rates
 
    
Percent ofLiability
 

 1917-2011
  
 
2.5% to 5.75%
  
    
 
11
% 

 1985-2011
  
 
6.0%
  
    
 
29
  

 1986-1992
  
 
7.0% graded to 6.0%
  
    
 
7
  

 1954-2000
  
 
8.0% graded to 6.0%
  
    
 
11
  

 1951-1985
  
 
8.5% graded to 6.0%
  
    
 
4
  

 1984-2011
  
 
6.75%
  
    
 
4
  

 2011-2011
  
 
5.75% graded to 6.75%
  
    
 
1
  

 2000-2011
  
 
7.0%
  
    
 
19
  

 1984-2011
  
 
Interest Sensitive
  
    
 
14
  


  



    
  
  
 


  



    
 
100%
  


  



    
  
  
 
 Mortality assumptions:   
For individual life, the mortality tables used are various statutory mortality tables and modifications of: 
 






 1950-54
 
Select and Ultimate Table

 1954-58
 
Industrial Experience Table

 1955-60
 
Ordinary Experience Table

 1965-70
 
Select and Ultimate Table

 1955-60
 
Inter-Company Table

 1970
 
United States Life Table

 1975-80
 
Select and Ultimate Table

 X-18
 
Ultimate Table

 2001
 
Valuation Basic Table
 Withdrawal assumptions:   
Withdrawal assumptions are based on Torchmark’s experience.   
Individual Health Insurance   
Interest assumptions:   












 Years of Issue
  
Interest Rates
 
    
Percent ofLiability
 

 1955-2011
  
 
2.5% to 5.75%
  
    
 
2
% 

 1993-2011
  
 
6.0%
  
    
 
60
  

 1986-1992
  
 
7.0% graded to 6.0%
  
    
 
26
  

 1955-2000
  
 
8.0% graded to 6.0%
  
    
 
6
  

 1951-1986
  
 
8.5% graded to 6.0%
  
    
 
1
  

 2008-2010
  
 
6.75%
  
    
 
1
  

 2001-2007
  
 
7.0%
  
    
 
4
  


  



    
  
  
 


  



    
 
100
% 


  



    
  
  
 
   Morbidity assumptions: 
  For individual health, the morbidity assumptions are based on either
Torchmark’s experience or the assumptions used in calculating statutory reserves.    Termination assumptions:    Termination assumptions are based on Torchmark’s experience.    Overall Interest Assumptions:    The overall average interest assumption for determining the liability for future life and health insurance benefits in 2011 was 5.9%. 
  81 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 7—Liability for Unpaid Health Claims 
  Activity in the liability for unpaid health claims
is summarized as follows:   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 
2009
 

 Balance at beginning of year
  
$
100,598
  
 
$
104,346
  
 
$
119,855
  

 Incurred related to:
  



 



 




 Current year
  
 
628,137
  
 
 
661,740
  
 
 
674,710
  

 Prior years
  
 
(10,644
) 
 
 
(19,424
) 
 
 
(19,487
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total incurred
  
 
617,493
  
 
 
642,316
  
 
 
655,223
  

 Paid related to:
  



 



 




 Current year
  
 
538,910
  
 
 
577,875
  
 
 
583,127
  

 Prior years
  
 
75,664
  
 
 
68,189
  
 
 
87,605
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total paid
  
 
614,574
  
 
 
646,064
  
 
 
670,732
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at end of year
  
$
103,517
  
 
$
100,598
  
 
$
104,346
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   At the end of each period, the
liability for unpaid health claims includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported to the Company. Such estimates are updated regularly based upon the Company’s most recent claims data with recognition of emerging experience
trends. Because of the nature of the Company’s health business, the payment lags are relatively short and most claims are fully paid within a year from the time incurred. Fluctuations in claims experience can lead to either over- or
under-estimation of the liability for any given year. The difference between the estimate made at the end of the prior period and the actual experience during the period is reflected above under the caption “Incurred related to: Prior
years.”    Claims paid in each of the years 2009
through 2011 were settled for amounts less than anticipated when estimated at the previous year end. The most significant components of these favorable variances were in Torchmark’s UA Independent, Liberty National Branch, and Medicare Part D
distribution channels. The Company’s estimates at each point have reflected the emerging data and trends. In the Medicare Part D channel, the Company is required to estimate claim discounts that will be received from drug manufacturers. In each
of the years 2009 through 2011, the discounts from the drug manufacturers received in the current year but related to prior year claims were higher than anticipated when the claim liability was determined. 
  The liability for unpaid health claims is included with “Policy
claims and other benefits payable” on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
  82 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 8—Income Taxes 
  Torchmark and its subsidiaries file a life-nonlife
consolidated Federal income tax return.    The components of
income taxes were as follows:   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Income tax expense from continuing operations
  
$
237,326
  
 
$
256,274
  
 
$
191,024
  

 Income tax expense from discontinued operations
  
 
(467
) 
 
 
11,830
  
 
 
9,216
  

 Shareholders’ equity:
  



 



 




 Other comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
284,161
  
 
 
184,233
  
 
 
458,358
  

 Tax basis compensation expense (from the exercise of stock options and vesting of restricted stock awards) in excess of amounts recognized
for financial reporting purposes
  
 
(13,121
) 
 
 
(3,455
) 
 
 
(253
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
507,899
  
 
$
448,882
  
 
$
658,345
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Income tax expense from continuing
operations consists of:   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Current income tax expense
  
$
169,500
  
  
$
147,346
  
  
$
147,917
  

 Deferred income tax expense
  
 
67,826
  
  
 
108,928
  
  
 
43,107
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
237,326
  
  
$
256,274
  
  
$
191,024
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   In each of the years 2009 through 2011,
deferred income tax expense was incurred because of certain differences between net income before income taxes as reported on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and taxable income as reported on Torchmark’s income tax returns. As
explained in Note 1—Significant Accounting Policies, these differences caused the financial statement book values of some assets and liabilities to be different from their respective tax bases. 
  The effective income tax rate differed from the expected 35% rate as
shown below:   




























 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
%
 
 
2010
 
 
%
 
 
2009
 
 
%
 

 Expected income taxes
  
$
264,483
  
 
 
35.0
% 
 
$
272,498
  
 
 
35.0
% 
 
$
201,977
  
 
 
35.0
% 









 Increase (reduction) in income taxes resulting from:
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Tax-exempt investment income
  
 
(3,468
) 
 
 
(.5
) 
 
 
(3,371
) 
 
 
(.4
) 
 
 
(3,483
) 
 
 
(.6
) 

 Tax settlements
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(3,101
) 
 
 
(.5
) 

 Low income housing investments
  
 
(24,258
) 
 
 
(3.2
) 
 
 
(12,900
) 
 
 
(1.7
) 
 
 
(6,038
) 
 
 
(1.0
) 

 Other
  
 
569
  
 
 
.1
  
 
 
47
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,669
  
 
 
.3
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income tax expense
  
$
237,326
  
 
 
31.4
% 
 
$
256,274
  
 
 
32.9
% 
 
$
191,024
  
 
 
33.2
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  83 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 8—Income Taxes (continued) 
 
The tax effects of temporary differences that gave rise to significant portions of the deferred
tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are presented below:   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  



  




 Fixed maturity investments
  
$
35,670
  
  
$
50,126
  

 Carryover of tax losses
  
 
7,429
  
  
 
12,293
  

 Unrealized losses
  
 
0
  
  
 
2,023
  

 Other assets and other liabilities
  
 
5,509
  
  
 
1,352
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total gross deferred tax assets
  
 
48,608
  
  
 
65,794
  





 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



  




 Unrealized gains
  
 
276,591
  
  
 
0
  

 Employee and agent compensation
  
 
57,136
  
  
 
55,781
  

 Deferred acquisition costs
  
 
911,816
  
  
 
877,561
  

 Future policy benefits, unearned and advance premiums, and policy claims
  
 
355,825
  
  
 
338,771
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total gross deferred tax liabilities
  
 
1,601,368
  
  
 
1,272,113
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax liability
  
$
1,552,760
  
  
$
1,206,319
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Torchmark’s Federal income tax
returns are routinely audited by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The IRS completed its examination of the Company’s 2005, 2006, and 2007 tax years during 2009. The Company recorded a $2.5 million tax benefit to reflect the results of the
examination, including a reduction in its liability for uncertain tax positions relating to these years. The statutes of limitation for the assessments of additional tax are closed for all tax years prior to 2008. Management believes that adequate
provision has been made in the financial statements for any potential assessments that may result from future tax examinations and other tax-related matters for all open tax years. 
  Torchmark has net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $21
million at December 31, 2011 which will begin to expire in 2025 if not otherwise used to offset future taxable income. A valuation allowance is to be provided when it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets will not be realized by the
Company. No valuation allowance has been recorded relating to Torchmark’s deferred tax assets since, in management’s judgment, Torchmark will more likely than not have sufficient taxable income in future periods to fully realize its
existing deferred tax assets.    Torchmark’s tax
liability is adjusted to include the provision for uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits (excluding effects of accrued interest, net of
Federal tax benefits) for the years 2009 through 2011 is as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Balance at January 1,
  
$
875
  
 
$
3,960
  
 
$
8,481
  

 Increase based on tax positions taken in current period
  
 
0
  
 
 
245
  
 
 
73
  

 Increase related to tax positions taken in prior periods
  
 
0
  
 
 
280
  
 
 
0
  

 Decrease related to tax positions taken in prior periods
  
 
(875
) 
 
 
(3,610
) 
 
 
(4,594
) 

 Decrease due to settlements
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31,
  
$
0
  
 
$
875
  
 
$
3,960
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Torchmark’s continuing practice is
to recognize interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. The Company recognized interest income of $0, $124 thousand, and $1.7 million, net of Federal income tax benefits, in its Consolidated Statements of
Operations for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The Company had an accrued interest receivable of $2.7 million and $4.1 million, net of Federal income tax benefits, as of 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company had no accrued
penalties at December 31, 2011 or 2010. 
  84 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 9—Postretirement Benefits 
  Pension
Plans:    Torchmark has noncontributory retirement benefit plans and contributory savings plans which cover substantially all employees. There are also two nonqualified, noncontributory supplemental benefit pension plans
which cover a limited number of employees. The total cost of these retirement plans charged to operations was as follows:   












   Year EndedDecember 31,
  
Defined ContributionPlans
 
  
Defined BenefitPension Plans
 

 2011
  
$
3,552
  
  
$
20,952
  

 2010
  
 
3,617
  
  
 
18,948
  

 2009
  
 
3,511
  
  
 
17,912
  
   Torchmark accrues expense for the
defined contribution plans based on a percentage of the employees’ contributions. The plans are funded by the employee contributions and a Torchmark contribution equal to the amount of accrued expense. Plan contributions are both mandatory and
discretionary, depending on the terms of the plan.    Cost for
the defined benefit pension plans has been calculated on the projected unit credit actuarial cost method. All plan measurements for the defined benefit plans are as of December 31 of the respective year. The defined benefit pension plans covering
the majority of employees are funded. Contributions are made to funded pension plans subject to minimums required by regulation and maximums allowed for tax purposes. Defined benefit plan contributions were $8.6 million in 2011,
$13 million in 2010, and $15 million in 2009. Torchmark estimates as of December 31, 2011 that it will contribute an amount not to exceed $20 million to these plans in 2012. The actual amount of contribution may be different from this
estimate.    Torchmark has a Supplemental Executive Retirement
Plan (SERP), which provides to a limited number of executives an additional supplemental defined pension benefit. The supplemental benefit is based on the participant’s qualified plan benefit without consideration to the regulatory limits on
compensation and benefit payments applicable to qualified plans, except that eligible compensation is capped at $1 million. The SERP is unfunded. However, life insurance policies on the lives of plan participants have been established for this plan
with an unaffiliated insurance carrier. The premiums for this coverage paid in 2011 was $3.9 million and in 2010 was $1.7 million. The cash value of these policies at December 31, 2011 was $16 million and was $12 million a year earlier.
Additionally, a Rabbi Trust was established for this plan in 2010 in the amount of $21 million to support the liability for this plan. An additional deposit of $5 million was added to this trust in 2011 and an investment account was established. As
of December 31, 2011, the combined value of the insurance policies and the trust investments was $43 million. Because this plan is unqualified, the Rabbi Trust and the policyholder value of these policies are not included as defined benefit plan
assets but as assets of the Company. The liability for this SERP at December 31, 2011 was $47 million and was $38 million a year earlier.   
The other supplemental benefit pension plan is limited to a very select group of employees and was closed as of December 31, 1994. It provides the
full benefits that an employee would have otherwise received from a defined benefit plan in the absence of the limitation on benefits payable under a qualified plan. This plan is unfunded. Liability for this closed plan was $3 million at December
31, 2011 and $4 million at December 31, 2010. Pension cost for both supplemental defined benefit plans is determined in the same manner as for the qualified defined benefit plans.    Plan assets in the funded plans consist primarily of investments in marketable fixed maturities and equity securities and
are valued at fair value. Torchmark measures the fair value of its financial assets, including the assets in its benefit plans, in accordance with accounting guidance which establishes a hierarchy for asset values and provides a methodology for the
measurement of value. Please refer to Note 4—Investments under the caption Fair Value Measurements for a complete discussion of valuation procedures. The following table presents the assets of Torchmark’s defined benefit
pension plans for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
  85 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
  Note 9—Postretirement
Benefits (continued)   
Pension Assets by Component at December 31, 2011 
 
























 
 
Fair Value Determined by:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Quoted Prices inActive Marketsfor IdenticalAssets (Level 1)
 
 
SignificantObservableInputs (Level 2)
 
 
SignificantUnobservableInputs (Level 3)
 
 
TotalAmount
 
 
% toTotal
 

 Equity securities:
 



 



 



 



 




 Consumer, Non-Cyclical
 
$
14,866
  
 



 



 
$
14,866
  
 
 
6
% 

 Financial
 
 
24,255
  
 



 



 
 
24,255
  
 
 
9
  

 Industrial
 
 
11,491
  
 



 



 
 
11,491
  
 
 
5
  

 Technology
 
 
13,184
  
 



 



 
 
13,184
  
 
 
5
  

 General merchandise stores
 
 
8,119
  
 



 



 
 
8,119
  
 
 
3
  

 Other
 
 
7,544
  
 



 



 
 
7,544
  
 
 
3
  


 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total equity securities
 
 
79,459
  
 



 



 
 
79,459
  
 
 
31
  








 Corporate bonds
 
 
6,661
  
 
$
153,098
  
 



 
 
159,759
  
 
 
62
  

 Other bonds
 
 
0
  
 
 
348
  
 



 
 
348
  
 
 
0
  

 Guaranteed annuity contract
 
 
0
  
 
 
12,745
  
 



 
 
12,745
  
 
 
5
  

 Short-term investments
 
 
3,767
  
 
 
0
  
 



 
 
3,767
  
 
 
1
  

 Other
 
 
1,989
  
 
 
0
  
 



 
 
1,989
  
 
 
1
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Grand Total
 
$
91,876
  
 
$
166,191
  
 
$
    0
  
 
$
258,067
  
 
 
100
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


























 Pension Assets by Component at December 31, 2010
 
 

 
 
Fair Value Determined by:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Quoted Pricesin ActiveMarkets forIdenticalAssets (Level 1)
 
 
SignificantObservableInputs (Level 2)
 
 
SignificantUnobservableInputs (Level 3)
 
 
TotalAmount
 
 
% toTotal
 

 Equity securities:
 



 



 



 



 




 Consumer, Non-Cyclical
 
$
14,932
  
 



 



 
$
14,932
  
 
 
6
% 

 Financial
 
 
29,692
  
 



 



 
 
29,692
  
 
 
13
  

 Industrial
 
 
11,303
  
 



 



 
 
11,303
  
 
 
5
  

 Technology
 
 
10,643
  
 



 



 
 
10,643
  
 
 
4
  

 Other
 
 
1,339
  
 



 



 
 
1,339
  
 
 
1
  


 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total equity securities
 
 
67,909
  
 



 



 
 
67,909
  
 
 
29
  








 Corporate bonds
 
 
9,637
  
 
$
122,946
  
 
$
3,184
  
 
 
135,767
  
 
 
57
  

 Other bonds
 
 
0
  
 
 
772
  
 



 
 
772
  
 
 
0
  

 Guaranteed annuity contract
 
 
0
  
 
 
10,959
  
 



 
 
10,959
  
 
 
5
  

 Short-term investments
 
 
19,484
  
 
 
0
  
 



 
 
19,484
  
 
 
8
  

 Other
 
 
2,002
  
 
 
0
  
 



 
 
2,002
  
 
 
1
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Grand Total
 
$
99,032
  
 
$
134,677
  
 
$
3,184
  
 
$
236,893
  
 
 
100
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  86 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 9—Postretirement Benefits (continued)   
Torchmark’s investment objectives for its plan assets include preservation of capital,
preservation of purchasing power, and long-term growth. Torchmark seeks to preserve capital through investments made in high quality securities with adequate diversification by issuer and industry sector to minimize risk. The portfolio is monitored
continuously for changes in quality and diversification mix. The preservation of purchasing power is intended to be accomplished through asset growth, exclusive of contributions and withdrawals, in excess of the rate of inflation. Torchmark intends
to maintain investments that when combined with future plan contributions will produce adequate long-term growth to provide for all plan obligations. The Company’s expectation for the portfolio is to achieve a compound total rate of return of
3% in excess of the inflation rate, to be reviewed on a three-year basis. It is also Torchmark’s objective that the portfolio’s investment return will meet or exceed the return of a balanced market index. 
  The majority of the securities in the portfolio are highly marketable
so that there will be adequate liquidity to meet projected payments. There are no specific policies calling for asset durations to match those of benefit obligations. 
  Allowed investments are limited to equities, fixed maturities, and
short-term investments (invested cash). There is also a guaranteed annuity contract to fund the obligations of the American Income Pension Plan. The assets are to be invested in a mix of equity and fixed income investments that best serve the
objectives of the pension plan. Factors to be considered in determining the asset mix include funded status, annual pension expense, annual pension contributions, and balance sheet liability. Equities include common and preferred stocks, securities
convertible into equities, mutual funds that invest in equities, and other equity-related investments. Equities must be listed on major exchanges and adequate market liquidity is required. Fixed maturities consist of marketable debt securities rated
investment grade at purchase by a major rating agency. Short-term investments include fixed maturities with maturities less than one year and invested cash. Short-term investments in commercial paper must be rated at least A-2 by Standard &
Poor’s with the issuer rated investment grade. Invested cash is limited to banks rated A or higher. Investments outside of the aforementioned list are not permitted, except by prior approval of the Plan’s Trustees. At December 31, 2011,
there were no restricted investments contained in the portfolio. Plan contributions have been invested primarily in fixed maturities during the three years ending December 31, 2011.    The investment portfolio is to be well diversified to avoid undue exposure to a single sector, industry, business, or
security. The equity and fixed-maturity portfolios are not permitted to invest in any single issuer that would exceed 10% of total plan assets at the time of purchase. Torchmark does not employ any other special risk management techniques, such as
derivatives, in managing the pension investment portfolio. 
  87 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 9—Postretirement Benefits (continued)   
The following table discloses the assumptions used to determine Torchmark’s pension
liabilities and costs for the appropriate periods. The discount and compensation increase rates are used to determine current year projected benefit obligations and subsequent year pension expense. The long-term rate of return is used to determine
current year expense. Differences between assumptions and actual experience are included in actuarial gain or loss.   
Weighted Average Pension Plan Assumptions   
















For Benefit Obligations at December 31:
  



 



 




 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
 
 

 Discount Rate
  
 
5.09
% 
 
 
5.77
% 
 




 Rate of Compensation Increase
  
 
4.04
  
 
 
4.00
  
 









For Periodic Benefit Cost for the Year:
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Discount Rate
  
 
5.77
% 
 
 
6.31
% 
 
 
6.31
% 

 Expected Long-Term Returns
  
 
7.24
  
 
 
7.24
  
 
 
7.95
  

 Rate of Compensation Increase
  
 
4.00
  
 
 
3.79
  
 
 
3.84
  
   The discount rate is determined based
on the expected duration of plan liabilities. A yield is then derived based on the current market yield of a hypothetical portfolio of higher-quality corporate bonds which match the liability duration. The rate of compensation increase is projected
based on Company experience, modified as appropriate for future expectations. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is management’s best estimate of the average rate of earnings expected to be received on the assets invested in
the plan over the benefit period. In determining this assumption, consideration is given to the historical rate of return earned on the assets, the projected returns over future periods, and the spread between the long-term rate of return on plan
assets and the discount rate used to compute benefit obligations.    Net periodic pension cost for the defined benefit plans by expense component was as follows:   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Service cost—benefits earned during the period
  
$
9,277
  
 
$
8,174
  
 
$
7,571
  

 Interest cost on projected benefit obligation
  
 
16,106
  
 
 
15,392
  
 
 
14,490
  

 Expected return on assets
  
 
(16,068
) 
 
 
(15,025
) 
 
 
(15,577
) 

 Net amortization
  
 
11,637
  
 
 
10,407
  
 
 
11,428
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net periodic pension cost
  
$
20,952
  
 
$
18,948
  
 
$
17,912
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   An analysis of the impact on other
comprehensive income (loss) concerning pensions is as follows:   
















 
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 

 Balance at January 1
  
$
(105,903
) 
 
$
(93,674
) 
 
$
(121,704
) 






 Amortization of:
  



 



 




 Prior service cost
  
 
2,080
  
 
 
2,098
  
 
 
2,060
  

 Net actuarial (gain) loss
  
 
10,071
  
 
 
8,766
  
 
 
9,166
  

 Transition obligation
  
 
(5
) 
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
(7
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total amortization
  
 
12,146
  
 
 
10,857
  
 
 
11,219
  






 Experience gain(loss)
  
 
(24,653
) 
 
 
(23,086
) 
 
 
16,811
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Balance at December 31
  
$
(118,410
) 
 
$
(105,903
) 
 
$
(93,674
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  88 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 9—Postretirement Benefits (continued)   
The following table presents a reconciliation from the beginning to the end of the year of the
projected benefit obligation and plan assets. This table also presents the amounts previously recognized as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income.   












 
  
Pension BenefitsFor the year endedDecember 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 

 Changes in benefit obligation:
  



 




 Obligation at beginning of year
  
$
285,560
  
 
$
242,159
  

 Service cost
  
 
9,277
  
 
 
8,174
  

 Interest cost
  
 
16,106
  
 
 
15,392
  

 Actuarial loss (gain)
  
 
34,515
  
 
 
34,029
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(13,849
) 
 
 
(14,194
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Obligation at end of year
  
 
331,609
  
 
 
285,560
  





 Changes in plan assets:
  



 




 Fair value at beginning of year
  
 
236,893
  
 
 
211,877
  

 Return on assets
  
 
26,439
  
 
 
26,576
  

 Contributions
  
 
8,584
  
 
 
12,634
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(13,849
) 
 
 
(14,194
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair value at end of year
  
 
258,067
  
 
 
236,893
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 Funded status at year end
  
$
(73,542
) 
 
$
(48,667
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income consist of:
  



 




 Net loss (gain)
  
$
111,964
  
 
$
97,382
  

 Prior service cost
  
 
6,446
  
 
 
8,526
  

 Transition obligation
  
 
0
  
 
 
(5
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net amounts recognized at year end
  
$
118,410
  
 
$
105,903
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   The portion of other comprehensive
income that is expected to be reflected in pension expense in 2012 is as follows:   








 Amortization of prior service cost
  
$
2,063
  

 Amortization of net loss (gain)
  
 
12,175
  

 Amortization of transition obligation
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
14,238
  


  
  
  
 
   The accumulated benefit obligation
(ABO) for Torchmark’s funded defined benefit pension plans was $263 million and $228 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In the unfunded plans, the ABO was $39 million and $32 million at December 31,
2011 and 2010, respectively.    Torchmark has estimated its
expected pension benefits to be paid over the next ten years as of December 31, 2011. These estimates use the same assumptions that measure the benefit obligation at December 31, 2011, taking estimated future employee service into account.
Those estimated benefits are as follows:   








 For the year(s)
  
 
 

 2012
  
$
13,921
  

 2013
  
 
14,890
  

 2014
  
 
15,755
  

 2015
  
 
16,689
  

 2016
  
 
17,692
  

 2017-2020
  
 
105,596
  

  89 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 9—Postretirement Benefits (continued)   
Postretirement Benefit Plans Other Than Pensions:    Torchmark provides
a small postretirement life insurance benefit for most retired employees, and also provides additional postretirement life insurance benefits for certain key employees. The majority of the life insurance benefits are accrued over the working lives
of active employees. Otherwise, Torchmark does not provide postretirement benefits other than pensions and the life insurance benefits described above.   
Torchmark’s post-retirement defined benefit plans other than pensions are not funded. Liabilities for these plans are measured as of December
31 for the appropriate year.    The components of net periodic
postretirement benefit cost for plans other than pensions are as follows:   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
  2011  
 
 
  2010  
 
 
  2009  
 

 Service cost
  
$
919
  
 
$
728
  
 
$
641
  

 Interest cost on benefit obligation
  
 
999
  
 
 
970
  
 
 
947
  

 Expected return on plan assets
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Amortization of prior service cost
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Recognition of net actuarial (gain) loss
  
 
(815
) 
 
 
(583
) 
 
 
283
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net periodic postretirement benefit cost
  
$
1,103
  
 
$
1,115
  
 
$
1,871
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   The following table presents a
reconciliation of the benefit obligation and plan assets from the beginning to the end of the year. As these plans are unfunded, funded status is equivalent to the accrued benefit liability. 
 












 
  
Benefits Other Than PensionsFor 
the year ended December 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 

 Changes in benefit obligation:
  



  




 Obligation at beginning of year
  
$
16,889
  
  
$
16,340
  

 Service cost
  
 
919
  
  
 
728
  

 Interest cost
  
 
999
  
  
 
970
  

 Actuarial loss (gain)
  
 
638
  
  
 
(583
) 

 Benefits paid
  
 
(437
) 
  
 
(566
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Obligation at end of year
  
 
19,008
  
  
 
16,889
  





 Changes in plan assets:
  



  




 Fair value at beginning of year
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Return on assets
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Contributions
  
 
437
  
  
 
566
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(437
) 
  
 
(566
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Fair value at end of year
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Funded status at year end
  
$
(19,008
) 
  
$
(16,889
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 





 Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income:
  



  




 Net loss*
  
$
1,453
  
  
$
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net amounts recognized at year end
  
$
1,453
  
  
$
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 



*
 
The net loss for benefit plans other than pensions reduces other comprehensive income. 
 
  90 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 9—Postretirement Benefits (continued)   
The table below presents the assumptions used to determine the liabilities and costs of
Torchmark’s post-retirement benefit plans other than pensions.    Weighted Average Assumptions for Post-Retirement  Benefit Plans Other Than Pensions
  
















For Benefit Obligations at December 31:
  



 



 




 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
 
 

 Discount Rate
  
 
5.09
% 
 
 
5.77
% 
 




 Rate of Compensation Increase
  
 
3.50
  
 
 
4.50
  
 









For Periodic Benefit Cost for the Year:
  



 



 




 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Discount Rate
  
 
5.77
% 
 
 
6.60
% 
 
 
6.60
% 

 Rate of Compensation Increase
  
 
4.50
  
 
 
4.50
  
 
 
4.50
  
    
Note 10—Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow Information 
  The following table summarizes Torchmark’s
noncash transactions, which are not reflected on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows:   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Stock-based compensation not involving cash
  
$
14,954
  
  
$
11,848
  
  
$
9,860
  

 Commitments for low-income housing interests
  
 
36,722
  
  
 
137,817
  
  
 
50,789
  

 Capitalized investment income
  
 
5,321
  
  
 
6,517
  
  
 
7,345
  
   The following table summarizes certain
amounts paid during the period:   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Interest paid
  
$
75,653
  
  
$
76,911
  
  
$
71,288
  

 Income taxes paid
  
 
188,510
  
  
 
195,172
  
  
 
87,376
  
  
  91 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 11—Debt 
  The following table presents information about the
terms and outstanding balances of Torchmark’s debt.     Selected Information about Debt Issues   




























  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As of December 31,
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Instrument
 
AnnualPercentageRate
 
 
IssueDate
 
PeriodicInterestPaymentsDue
 
OutstandingPrinciple(Par Value)
 
 
OutstandingPrinciple(Book Value)
 
 
OutstandingPrinciple(Fair Value)
 
 
OutstandingPrinciple(Book Value)
 

 Notes, due
5/15/23(1)(2)
 
 
7.875
% 
 
5/93
 
5/15 & 11/15
 
$
165,612
  
 
$
163,344
  
 
$
195,654
  
 
$
163,227
  

 Notes, due
8/1/13(1)(2)
 
 
7.375
% 
 
7/93
 
2/1 & 8/1
 
 
94,050
  
 
 
93,823
  
 
 
100,302
  
 
 
93,700
  

 Senior Notes, due 6/15/16(1)(8)
 
 
6.375
% 
 
6/06
 
6/15 & 12/15
 
 
250,000
  
 
 
247,875
  
 
 
275,910
  
 
 
247,477
  

 Senior Notes, due 6/15/19(1)(8)
 
 
9.250
% 
 
6/09
 
6/15 & 12/15
 
 
292,647
  
 
 
289,661
  
 
 
375,276
  
 
 
289,397
  

 Issue
Expenses(3)
 



 

 

 
 
0
  
 
 
(4,132
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(4,158
) 


 



 

 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal long-term debt
 



 

 

 
 
802,309
  
 
 
790,571
  
 
 
947,142
  
 
 
789,643
  










 Junior Subordinated
 



 

 

 



 



 



 




 Debentures due
6/1/46(4)(5)
 
 
7.100
% 
 
6/06
 
quarterly(6)

 
 
123,711
  
 
 
123,711
  
 
 

122,208
(7) 

 
 
123,711
  


 



 

 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total funded debt
 



 

 

 
 
926,020
  
 
 
914,282
  
 
 
1,069,350
  
 
 
913,354
  










 Commercial
Paper(9)
 



 

 

 
 
225,000
  
 
 
224,842
  
 
 
224,842
  
 
 
198,875
  


 



 

 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


 



 

 

 
$
1,151,020
  
 
$
1,139,124
  
 
$
1,294,192
  
 
$
1,112,229
  


 



 

 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
All securities other than the Junior Subordinated Debentures have equal priority with one another. 


(2)
Not callable. 


(3)
Unamortized issue expenses related to Trust Preferred Securities. 


(4)
Junior Subordinated Debentures are classified as “Due to affiliates” and are junior to other securities in priority of payment. 


(5)
Callable anytime 


(6)
Quarterly payments on the first day of March, June, Sept., and Dec. 


(7)
Fair value of Trust Preferred Securities. 


(8)
Callable subject to “make-whole” premium. 


(9)
Classified as short-term debt.   
The amount of debt that becomes due during each of the next five years is: 2012—$225 million; 2013—$94 million; 2014—$0;
2015—$0; 2016—$250 million and thereafter—$582 million.    Funded debt:    During 2006, Torchmark established Torchmark Capital Trust III (Trust III) to facilitate the public offering of 4.8 million shares of $25 par value Trust Preferred
Securities. Trust III completed the offering for total proceeds of $120 million. It then exchanged $3.7 million of its common stock and the $120 million of proceeds from the offering for $124 million of Torchmark Junior Subordinated Debentures,
due June 1, 2046. Trust III pays quarterly dividends on the Trust Preferred Securities at an annual rate of 7.1%, and receives quarterly payments at the same annual rate from Torchmark on the Junior Subordinated Debentures. All payments due to be
paid by Trust III on the Trust Preferred Securities are guaranteed by Torchmark (see Note 15). The securities are redeemable on June 1, 2046. They are callable by Trust III at any time. 
  Trust III is a variable interest entity in which Torchmark is not the
primary beneficiary. Therefore, Torchmark is prohibited by accounting rules from consolidating Trust III even though it has 100% ownership, complete voting control, and has guaranteed the performance of Trust III. Accordingly,

  92 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 11—Debt (continued) 
 

Torchmark carries its 7.1% Junior Subordinated Debentures due to Trust III as a liability under the caption “Due to Affiliates” on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. Expenses
related to the offering reduce long-term debt and are amortized over the forty-year redemption period.   
On June 30, 2009, Torchmark issued $300 million principal amount of 9.25% Senior Notes due June 15, 2019. Interest on
the Notes is payable semi-annually commencing on December 15, 2009. Proceeds from the issuance of this debt, net of expenses, were $296 million. The Notes are redeemable by Torchmark in whole or in part at any time subject to a
“make-whole” premium, whereby the Company would be required to pay the greater of the full principal amount of the Notes or otherwise the present value of the remaining repayment schedule of the Notes discounted at a rate of interest
equivalent to the rate of a United States Treasury security of comparable term plus a spread of 75 basis points. Torchmark used a portion of the net proceeds from this offering to repay its $99 million 8 1/4% Senior Debentures which matured on August 15, 2009 (plus accrued
interest). Remaining funds were invested.    During 2010, Torchmark acquired $7.4 million par value of its 9 1/4% Senior Notes ($7.3 million book value) at a cost of $8.9 million. This repurchase resulted in a pre-tax loss of $1.6 million ($1.1 million after tax). 
  Commercial Paper:    In December, 2010,
Torchmark entered into a credit facility with a group of lenders allowing unsecured borrowings and stand-by letters of credit up to $600 million. The facility includes a provision which allows Torchmark to increase the facility limit by $200 million
if certain conditions are met. The Company also has the ability to request up to $250 million in letters of credit to be issued against the facility. The agreement is set to terminate on January 7, 2015. The credit facility is further
designated as a back-up credit line for a commercial paper program, where Torchmark may borrow from either the credit line or issue commercial paper at any time, with total commercial paper outstanding not to exceed the facility limit less any
letters of credit issued. Interest is charged at variable rates. At December 31, 2011, Torchmark had $225 million face amount ($225 million carrying amount) of commercial paper outstanding, $198 million of letters of credit issued, and no
borrowings under the line of credit. During 2011, the short term borrowings under the facility averaged approximately $206 million, and were made at an average yield of .4%, compared with an average balance of $196 million and also at an
average yield of .4% a year earlier. The facility does not have a ratings-based acceleration trigger which would require early payment. A facility fee is charged for the entire facility.There is also an issuance fee for letters of credit issued.
Torchmark is subject to certain covenants for the agreements regarding capitalization and earnings, with which it was in compliance at December 31, 2011 and throughout the three-year period ended December 31, 2011. Borrowings on the credit
facilities are reported as short-term debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
  93 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 12—Shareholders’ Equity 
  Share Data: A summary of preferred and
common share activity is as follows:   




















 
  
Preferred Stock
 
  
Common Stock*
 

 
  
Issued
 
  
TreasuryStock
 
  
Issued
 
 
TreasuryStock
 

 2009:
  



  



  



 




 Balance at January 1, 2009
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
128,812,123
  
 
 
(1,750,651
) 

 Grants of restricted stock
  



  



  



 
 
115,060
  

 Issuance of common stock due to exercise of stock options
  



  



  



 
 
189,258
  

 Treasury stock acquired
  



  



  



 
 
(3,104,700
) 

 Retirement of treasury stock
  



  



  
 
(3,000,000
)  
 
 
3,000,000
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
125,812,123
  
 
 
(1,551,033
) 

 2010:
  



  



  



 




 Grants of restricted stock
  



  



  



 
 
121,923
  

 Forfeitures of restricted stock
  



  



  



 
 
(10,621
) 

 Issuance of common stock due to exercise of stock options
  



  



  



 
 
1,273,598
  

 Treasury stock acquired
  



  



  



 
 
(6,781,364
) 

 Retirement of treasury stock
  



  



  
 
(6,000,000
) 
 
 
6,000,000
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
119,812,123
  
 
 
(947,497
) 

 2011:
  



  



  



 




 Grants of restricted stock
  



  



  



 
 
173,553
  

 Forfeitures of restricted stock
  



  



  



 
 
(7,153
) 

 Issuance of common stock due to exercise of stock options
  



  



  



 
 
4,829,892
  

 Treasury stock acquired
  



  



  



 
 
(23,281,453
) 

 Retirement of treasury stock
  



  



  
 
(7,500,000
) 
 
 
7,500,000
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
112,312,123
  
 
 
(11,732,658
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


*
 
Retroactively adjusted for stock split described in Note 1   
Acquisition of Common Shares:    Torchmark shares are acquired from time to time through open market purchases under the
Torchmark stock repurchase program when it is believed to be the best use of Torchmark’s excess cash flows. Torchmark suspended its share repurchase program temporarily from the first quarter of 2009 until the first quarter of 2010 because of
uncertain economic conditions. Share repurchases under this program were 18.9 million shares at a cost of $788 million in 2011, 5.7 million shares at a cost of $204 million in 2010, and 3.1 million shares at a cost of $47 million in
2009. When stock options are exercised, proceeds from the exercises are generally used to repurchase approximately the number of shares available with those funds in order to reduce dilution. Shares repurchased for dilution purposes were
4.4 million shares at a cost of $185 million in 2011, 1.1 million shares at a cost of $42 million in 2010, and 30 thousand shares at a cost of $869 thousand in 2009.    Retirement of Treasury Stock:    Torchmark retired 7.5 million shares of treasury stock
in 2011, 6 million in 2010, and 3 million in 2009.   
Restrictions:    Restrictions exist on the flow of funds to Torchmark from its insurance subsidiaries. Statutory
regulations require life insurance subsidiaries to maintain certain minimum amounts of capital and surplus. Dividends from insurance subsidiaries of Torchmark are limited to the greater of prior year statutory net income excluding realized capital
gains on an annual noncumulative basis, or 10% of prior year surplus, in the absence of special regulatory approval. Additionally, insurance company distributions are generally not permitted in excess of statutory surplus. Subsidiaries are also
subject to certain minimum capital requirements. In 2011, subsidiaries of Torchmark paid $769 million in dividends to the parent company, including $305 million available from the proceeds from the sale of United Investors. During 2012, a
maximum amount of $470 million is expected to be available to Torchmark in dividends and transfers from subsidiaries without regulatory approval. 
  94 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 12—Shareholders’ Equity (continued) 
 
Earnings Per Share:    A reconciliation of basic and diluted
weighted-average shares outstanding used in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share is as follows, retroactively adjusted for the three-for-two stock split:   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Basic weighted average shares outstanding
  
 
108,278,113
  
  
 
122,009,228
  
  
 
124,550,384
  

 Weighted average dilutive options outstanding
  
 
1,537,277
  
  
 
1,114,110
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted weighted average shares outstanding
  
 
109,815,390
  
  
 
123,123,338
  
  
 
124,550,384
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Stock options to purchase 3.5 million
shares, 10.3 million shares, and 14.1 million shares, during the years 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively, are considered to be anti-dilutive and are excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share. Income available to common
shareholders for basic earnings per share is equivalent to income available to common shareholders for diluted earnings per share.   
Note 13—Stock-Based Compensation 
  All share and per share amounts within this note
have been retroactively adjusted for the three-for-two stock split.    Certain employees, directors, and consultants have been granted fixed equity options to buy shares of Torchmark stock at the market value of the stock on the date of grant, under the provisions of the Torchmark
stock option plans. The options are exercisable during the period commencing from the date they vest until expiring according to the terms of the grant. Options generally expire the earlier of employee termination or option contract term, which
ranges from seven to eleven years. Employee and consultant stock options generally vest one-half in two years and one-half in three years. Director grants generally vest in six months. Stock options awarded in connection with compensation deferrals
by certain directors and executives generally vest over a range of ten years. Beginning in 2011, with the approval by Shareholders of the Torchmark Corporation 2011 Incentive Plan, some employee grants vest one-fourth over two years and the
remaining three-fourths vest one-fourth over each of the next three years. All employee options vest immediately upon retirement on or after the attainment of age 65. Torchmark generally issues shares for the exercise of stock options from treasury
stock. The Company generally uses the proceeds from option exercises to buy shares of Torchmark common stock in the open market to reduce the dilution from option exercises. 
  An analysis of shares available for grant is as follows: 
 
















 
  
Available for Grant
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Balance at January 1
  
 
255,263
  
 
 
1,724,540
  
 
 
3,205,209
  

 Approval of Torchmark Corporation 2011 Incentive Plan*
  
 
7,950,000
  
 



 




 Cancellation of available shares from prior plans
  
 
(229,333
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Expired and forfeited during year
  
 
0
  
 
 
26,269
  
 
 
37,500
  

 Options granted during year
  
 
(1,338,013
) 
 
 
(1,358,175
) 
 
 
(1,393,275
) 

 Restricted stock granted under the Torchmark Corporation 2011 Incentive Plan (counted as 3.1 options per grant)*
  
 
(519,558
) 
 



 




 Restricted stock and restricted stock units granted during the year under previous plans
  
 
(19,017
) 
 
 
(137,371
) 
 
 
(124,894
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31
  
 
6,099,342
  
 
 
255,263
  
 
 
1,724,540
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  
  



 



 




 *   Plan allows for grant of restricted stock such that each stock grant reduces 3.1 options available for
grant
      

  95 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 13—Stock-Based Compensation (continued) 
 
A summary of stock compensation activity for each of the years in the three years ended
December 31, 2011 is presented below:   
















 
  
  2011  
 
  
  2010  
 
  
  2009  
 

 Stock-based compensation expense recognized*
  
$
14,954
  
  
$
11,848
  
  
$
9,860
  

 Tax benefit recognized
  
 
5,234
  
  
 
4,147
  
  
 
3,451
  

 Weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted
  
 
15.48
  
  
 
10.35
  
  
 
3.67
  

 Intrinsic value of options exercised
  
 
40,991
  
  
 
12,102
  
  
 
1,088
  

 Cash received from options exercised
  
 
162,613
  
  
 
37,863
  
  
 
4,430
  

 Actual tax benefit received from exercises
  
 
14,347
  
  
 
4,236
  
  
 
381
  

  
  



  



  




 *   No stock-based compensation expense was capitalized in any period.
      
   An analysis of option activity for each
of the three years ended December 31, 2011 is as follows:   




























 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
Options
 
 
Weighted AverageExercise Price
 
 
Options
 
 
Weighted AverageExercise Price
 
 
Options
 
 
Weighted AverageExercise Price
 

 Outstanding-beginning of year
 
 
15,185,729
  
 
$
34.09
  
 
 
15,509,978
  
 
$
34.04
  
 
 
14,581,461
  
 
$
35.60
  

 Granted
 
 
1,338,013
  
 
 
44.37
  
 
 
1,358,175
  
 
 
30.86
  
 
 
1,393,275
  
 
 
16.03
  

 Exercised
 
 
(4,829,892
) 
 
 
33.67
  
 
 
(1,273,598
) 
 
 
29.73
  
 
 
(189,258
) 
 
 
23.41
  

 Expired and forfeited
 
 
(73,425
) 
 
 
39.17
  
 
 
(408,826
) 
 
 
35.05
  
 
 
(275,500
) 
 
 
32.88
  

 Adjustment due to 7/1/11 stock split
 
 
(32
) 
 
 
32.96
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0.00
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0.00
  


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Outstanding-end of year
 
 
11,620,393
  
 
$
35.42
  
 
 
15,185,729
  
 
$
34.09
  
 
 
15,509,978
  
 
$
34.04
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Exercisable at end of year
 
 
8,265,818
  
 
$
36.28
  
 
 
11,830,076
  
 
$
36.10
  
 
 
12,384,363
  
 
$
34.98
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   A summary of restricted stock and
restricted stock units granted during each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2011 is presented in the table below. Restricted stock holders are entitled to dividends on the stock and holders of restricted stock units are
entitled to dividend equivalents. Executive grants vest over five years and director grants vest over six months.   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Executives restricted stock:
  



 



 




 Shares
  
 
167,250
  
 
 
112,500
  
 
 
113,250
  

 Price per share
  
$
44.39
  
 
$
30.87
  
 
$
15.67
  

 Aggregate value
  
$
7,424
  
 
$
3,473
  
 
$
1,774
  

 Percent vested as of 12/31/11
  
 
0
% 
 
 
20
% 
 
 
40
% 






 Directors restricted stock:
  



 



 




 Shares
  
 
6,303
  
 
 
9,423
  
 
 
1,810
  

 Price per share
  
$
40.45
  
 
$
30.85
  
 
$
29.93
  

 Aggregate value
  
$
255
  
 
$
291
  
 
$
54
  

 Percent vested as of 12/31/11
  
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 






 Directors restricted stock units (including dividend equivalents):
  



 



 




 Shares
  
 
13,063
  
 
 
15,443
* 
 
 
9,831
  

 Price per share
  
$
40.49
  
 
$
29.95
  
 
$
29.76
  

 Aggregate value
  
$
529
  
 
$
463
  
 
$
293
  

 Percent vested as of 12/31/11
  
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 

  
  



 



 




 *   2,013 shares at $29.84 per share were later forfeited in 2010.
      

  96 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
  Note 13—Stock-Based
Compensation (continued)   
An analysis of unvested restricted stock is as follows: 
 
















 
  
ExecutivesRestricted Stock
 
 
DirectorsRestricted Stock
 
 
Total
 






 2009:
  



 



 




 Balance at January 1, 2009
  
 
117,450
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
117,450
  

 Grants
  
 
113,250
  
 
 
1,810
  
 
 
115,060
  

 Restriction lapses
  
 
(27,450
) 
 
 
(1,810
) 
 
 
(29,260
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
 
203,250
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
203,250
  






 2010:
  



 



 




 Grants
  
 
112,500
  
 
 
9,423
  
 
 
121,923
  

 Restriction lapses
  
 
(71,100
) 
 
 
(9,423
) 
 
 
(80,523
) 

 Forfeitures
  
 
(7,500
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(7,500
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
237,150
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
237,150
  






 2011:
  



 



 




 Grants
  
 
167,250
  
 
 
6,303
  
 
 
173,553
  

 Restriction lapses
  
 
(72,600
) 
 
 
(6,303
) 
 
 
(78,903
) 

 Forfeitures
  
 
(4,800
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(4,800
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
 
327,000
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
327,000
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Restricted stock units outstanding at
each of the year ends 2011, 2010, and 2009, were 42,938, 29,872, and 14,426, respectively. Restricted stock units are only available to directors, and are not converted to shares until the director’s retirement, death, or disability. There were
no unvested director restricted shares outstanding at the end of any of the years 2009 through 2011. Director restricted stock and restricted stock units are generally granted on the first working day of the year and vest in six months. Dividend
equivalents are earned on restricted stock units only. They are granted in the form of additional restricted stock units and vest immediately upon grant.   
Additional information about Torchmark’s stock-based compensation as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 is as follows: 
 












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Outstanding options:
  



  




 Weighted-average remaining contractual term (in years)
  
 
2.95
  
  
 
2.85
  

 Aggregate intrinsic value
  
$
94,270
  
  
$
94,086
  





 Exercisable options:
  



  




 Weighted-average remaining contractual term (in years)
  
 
1.89
  
  
 
2.16
  

 Aggregate intrinsic value
  
$
59,097
  
  
$
49,810
  





 Unrecognized compensation*
  
$
30,299
  
  
$
17,077
  

 Weighted average period of expected recognition (in years)*
  
 
1.68
  
  
 
1.33
  
  


 
*
 
Includes restricted stock   
Additional information concerning Torchmark’s unvested options is as follows at December 31: 
 












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Number of shares outstanding
  
 
3,354,575
  
  
 
3,355,653
  

 Weighted-average exercise price (per share)
  
$
33.30
  
  
 
$27.01
  

 Weighted-average remaining contractual term (in years)
  
 
5.55
  
  
 
5.28
  

 Aggregate intrinsic value
  
$
35,173
  
  
$
44,276
  

  97 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 13—Stock-Based Compensation (continued) 
 
Torchmark expects that substantially all unvested options will vest. 
  The following table summarizes information about stock options
outstanding at December 31, 2011.   
























 
 
Options Outstanding
 
  
Options Exercisable
 

 Range of
Exercise Prices
 
NumberOutstanding
 
  
Weighted-AverageRemainingContractualLife
(Years)
 
  
Weighted-AverageExercisePrice
 
  
NumberExercisable
 
  
Weighted-AverageExercisePrice
 

 $15.67 - $15.67
 
 
1,086,231
  
  
 
4.13
  
  
$
        15.67
  
  
 
431,969
  
  
$
        15.67
  

   22.03 -   30.40
 
 
1,244,673
  
  
 
1.85
  
  
 
28.49
  
  
 
1,226,486
  
  
 
28.50
  

   30.87 -   36.33
 
 
1,401,238
  
  
 
4.86
  
  
 
31.11
  
  
 
71,188
  
  
 
35.51
  

   36.51 -   36.51
 
 
1,859,229
  
  
 
0.34
  
  
 
36.51
  
  
 
1,859,229
  
  
 
36.51
  

   36.70 -   37.20
 
 
1,005,845
  
  
 
1.05
  
  
 
37.00
  
  
 
994,084
  
  
 
37.00
  

   37.49 -   40.45
 
 
1,134,413
  
  
 
2.97
  
  
 
37.69
  
  
 
1,125,948
  
  
 
37.68
  

   41.79 -   41.79
 
 
1,270,873
  
  
 
3.13
  
  
 
41.79
  
  
 
1,270,873
  
  
 
41.79
  

   42.47 -   43.06
 
 
1,130,041
  
  
 
1.99
  
  
 
42.78
  
  
 
1,130,041
  
  
 
42.78
  

   44.39 -   45.45
 
 
1,487,850
  
  
 
6.32
  
  
 
44.50
  
  
 
156,000
  
  
 
45.45
  


 
  
  
 
  



  



  
  
  
 
  




 $15.67 - $45.45
 
 
11,620,393
  
  
 
2.95
  
  
$
35.42
  
  
 
8,265,818
  
  
$
36.28
  


 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   No equity awards were cash settled
during the three years ended December 31, 2011.     
Note 14—Business Segments 
  Torchmark’s reportable segments are based on
the insurance product lines it markets and administers: life insurance, health insurance, and annuities. These major product lines are set out as reportable segments because of the common characteristics of products within these categories,
comparability of margins, and the similarity in regulatory environment and management techniques. There is also an investment segment which manages the investment portfolio, debt, and cash flow for the insurance segments and the corporate function.
Torchmark’s chief operating decision maker evaluates the overall performance of the operations of the Company in accordance with these segments.   
Life insurance products include traditional and interest-sensitive whole life insurance as well as term life insurance. Health products are
generally guaranteed-renewable and include Medicare Supplement, Medicare Part D, cancer, accident, long-term care, and limited-benefit hospital and surgical coverages. Annuities include fixed-benefit contracts. 
  98 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 14—Business Segments (continued)   
Torchmark markets its insurance products through a number of distribution channels, each of which
sells the products of one or more of Torchmark’s insurance segments. The tables below present segment premium revenue by each of Torchmark’s marketing groups. 
  Torchmark Corporation 
Premium Income By Distribution Channel   







































 
  
For the Year 2011
 

 
  
Life
 
  
Health
 
  
Annuity
 
  
Total
 

 Distribution Channel
  
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 
  
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 
  
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 
  
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 

 United American Independent
  
$
22,846
  
  
 
1
  
  
$
306,490
  
  
 
33
  
  
$
608
  
  
 
100
  
  
$
329,944
  
  
 
12
  

 Liberty National Exclusive
  
 
288,308
  
  
 
17
  
  
 
290,107
  
  
 
31
  
  



  



  
 
578,415
  
  
 
22
  

 American Income Exclusive
  
 
607,914
  
  
 
35
  
  
 
80,119
  
  
 
9
  
  



  



  
 
688,033
  
  
 
26
  

 Direct Response
  
 
593,650
  
  
 
35
  
  
 
57,067
  
  
 
6
  
  



  



  
 
650,717
  
  
 
25
  

 Medicare Part D
  



  



  
 
196,710
  
  
 
21
  
  



  



  
 
196,710
  
  
 
7
  

 Other
  
 
213,526
  
  
 
12
  
  



  



  



  



  
 
213,526
  
  
 
8
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
1,726,244
  
  
 
100
  
  
$
930,493
  
  
 
100
  
  
$
608
  
  
 
100
  
  
$
2,657,345
  
  
 
100
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 




 
  
For the Year 2010
 

 
  
Life
 
  
Health
 
  
Annuity
 
  
Total
 

 Distribution Channel
  
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 
  
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 
  
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 
  
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 

 United American Independent
  
$
25,534
  
  
 
1
  
  
$
314,524
  
  
 
32
  
  
$
638
  
  
 
100
  
  
$
340,696
  
  
 
13
  

 Liberty National Exclusive
  
 
294,587
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
331,056
  
  
 
34
  
  



  



  
 
625,643
  
  
 
24
  

 American Income Exclusive
  
 
560,649
  
  
 
34
  
  
 
79,059
  
  
 
8
  
  



  



  
 
639,708
  
  
 
24
  

 Direct Response
  
 
566,604
  
  
 
34
  
  
 
54,328
  
  
 
5
  
  



  



  
 
620,932
  
  
 
23
  

 Medicare Part D
  



  



  
 
208,970
  
  
 
21
  
  



  



  
 
208,970
  
  
 
8
  

 Other
  
 
216,325
  
  
 
13
  
  



  



  



  



  
 
216,325
  
  
 
8
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
1,663,699
  
  
 
100
  
  
$
987,937
  
  
 
100
  
  
$
638
  
  
 
100
  
  
$
2,652,274
  
  
 
100
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 




 
  
For the Year 2009
 

 
  
Life
 
  
Health
 
  
Annuity
 
  
Total
 

 Distribution Channel
  
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 
  
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 
  
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 
  
Amount
 
  
% ofTotal
 

 United American Independent
  
$
28,498
  
  
 
2
  
  
$
326,442
  
  
 
32
  
  
$
541
  
  
 
100
  
  
$
355,481
  
  
 
14
  

 Liberty National Exclusive
  
 
298,485
  
  
 
19
  
  
 
388,522
  
  
 
38
  
  



  



  
 
687,007
  
  
 
26
  

 American Income Exclusive
  
 
507,899
  
  
 
32
  
  
 
75,097
  
  
 
7
  
  



  



  
 
582,996
  
  
 
22
  

 Direct Response
  
 
536,878
  
  
 
33
  
  
 
46,555
  
  
 
5
  
  



  



  
 
583,433
  
  
 
22
  

 Medicare Part D
  



  



  
 
183,586
  
  
 
18
  
  



  



  
 
183,586
  
  
 
7
  

 Other
  
 
220,093
  
  
 
14
  
  



  



  



  



  
 
220,093
  
  
 
9
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
1,591,853
  
  
 
100
  
  
$
1,020,202
  
  
 
100
  
  
$
541
  
  
 
100
  
  
$
2,612,596
  
  
 
100
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Because of the nature of the life
insurance industry, Torchmark has no individual or group which would be considered a major customer. Substantially all of Torchmark’s business is conducted in the United States, primarily in the Southeastern and Southwestern regions.
   The measure of profitability established by the chief
operating decision maker for insurance segments is underwriting margin before other income and administrative expenses, in accordance with the manner the segments are managed. It essentially represents gross profit margin on insurance products
before insurance administrative expenses and consists of premium, less net policy obligations, acquisition expenses, and commissions. Interest credited to net policy liabilities (reserves less deferred acquisition costs) is reflected as a component
of the Investment segment in order to match this cost to the investment earnings from the assets supporting the net policy liabilities. 
  99 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 14—Business Segments (continued)   
The measure of profitability for the Investment segment is excess investment income, which
represents the income earned on the investment portfolio in excess of net policy requirements and financing costs associated with Torchmark’s debt. Other than the above-mentioned interest allocations and an intersegment commission, there are no
other intersegment revenues or expenses. Expenses directly attributable to corporate operations are included in the “Corporate” category. Stock-based compensation expense is considered a corporate expense by Torchmark management and is
included in this category. All other unallocated revenues and expenses on a pretax basis, including insurance administrative expense, are included in the “Other” segment category. The following tables set forth a reconciliation of
Torchmark’s revenues and operations by segment to its major income statement line items.   






































 
 
For the Year 2011
 

 
 
Life
 
 
Health
 
 
Annuity
 
 
Investment
 
 
Other
 
 
Corporate
 
 
Adjustments
 
Consolidated
 

 Revenue:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 

 




 Premium
 
$
1,726,244
  
 
$
930,493
  
 
$
608
  
 



 



 



 
$
(1,027
)(1) 
 

 
$
2,656,318
  

 Net investment income
 



 



 



 
$
707,041
  
 



 



 
 
(14,013
)(2,5) 
 

 
 
693,028
  

 Other income
 



 



 



 



 
$
2,507
  
 



 
 
(356
)(4) 
 

 
 
2,151
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 

 Total revenue
 
 
1,726,244
  
 
 
930,493
  
 
 
608
  
 
 
707,041
  
 
 
2,507
  
 



 
 
(15,396
) 
 

 
 
3,351,497
  

 Expenses:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 

 




 Policy benefits
 
 
1,118,909
  
 
 
632,847
  
 
 
42,547
  
 



 



 



 
 
(1,027
)(1) 
 

 
 
1,793,276
  

 Required interest on netreserves
 
 
(458,029
) 
 
 
(36,729
) 
 
 
(57,040
) 
 
 
551,798
  
 



 



 



 

 
 
0
  

 Amortization of acquisition costs
 
 
503,649
  
 
 
123,442
  
 
 
12,688
  
 
 
(214,998
) 
 



 



 



 

 
 
424,781
  

 Commissions and premium tax
 
 
75,480
  
 
 
48,942
  
 
 
68
  
 



 



 



 
 
(356
)(4) 
 

 
 
124,134
  

 Insurance administrative expense(3)
 



 



 



 



 
 
159,109
  
 



 
 
19,880
(6,7,8) 
 

 
 
178,989
  

 Parent expense
 



 



 



 



 



 
$
7,693
  
 



 

 
 
7,693
  

 Stock-based compensation expense
 



 



 



 



 



 
 
14,954
  
 



 

 
 
14,954
  

 Interest expense
 



 



 



 
 
77,644
  
 



 



 
 
264
(2) 
 

 
 
77,908
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 

 Total expenses
 
 
1,240,009
  
 
 
768,502
  
 
 
(1,737
) 
 
 
414,444
  
 
 
159,109
  
 
 
22,647
  
 
 
18,761
  
 

 
 
2,621,735
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 

 Sub total
 
 
486,235
  
 
 
161,991
  
 
 
2,345
  
 
 
292,597
  
 
 
(156,602
) 
 
 
(22,647
) 
 
 
(34,157
) 
 

 
 
729,762
  

 Non operating items
 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
19,880
(6,7,8) 
 

 
 
19,880
  

 Amortization of low-income housing interests
 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
14,277
(5) 
 

 
 
14,277
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 

 Measure of segment profitability (pretax)
 
$
486,235
  
 
$
161,991
  
 
$
2,345
  
 
$
292,597
  
 
$
(156,602
) 
 
$
(22,647
) 
 
$
0
  
 

 
 
763,919
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 




 Deduct applicable income taxes
   
 

 
 
(249,495
) 


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 

 
  
  
 

 Segment profits after tax
   
 

 
 
514,424
  





 Add back income taxes applicable to segment profitability
   
 

 
 
249,495
  

 Add (deduct) realized investment gains (losses)
   
 

 
 
25,904
  

 Deduct amortization of low-income
housing(5)
   
 

 
 
(14,277
) 

 Deduct state administrative settlement
expense(6)
   
 

 
 
(6,901
) 

 Deduct loss on sale of equipment(7)
   
 

 
 
(979
) 

 Deduct litigation expense(8)
   
 

 
 
(12,000
) 


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 

 
  
  
 

 Pretax income per Consolidated Statement of Operations
   
 

 
$
755,666
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 

 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Medicare Part D items adjusted to GAAP from the segment analysis, which matches expected benefits with policy premium. 


(2)
 
Reclassification of interest amount due to accounting rule requiring deconsolidation of Trust Preferred Securities. 


(3)
 
Administrative expense is not allocated to insurance segments. 


(4)
 
Elimination of intersegment commission. 


(5)
 
Amortization of low-income housing interests. 


(6)
 
State administrative settlement expense. 


(7)
 
Loss on sale of equipment. 


(8)
 
Litigation expense. 
  100 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 14—Business Segments (continued)   






































 
 
For the Year 2010
 

 
 
Life
 
 
Health
 
 
Annuity
 
 
Investment
 
 
Other
 
 
Corporate
 
 
Adjustments
 
Consolidated
 

 Revenue:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 

 




 Premium
 
$
1,663,699
  
 
$
987,937
  
 
$
638
  
 



 



 



 
$
(516
)(1) 
 

 
$
2,651,758
  

 Net investment income
 



 



 



 
$
685,253
  
 



 



 
 
(8,889
)(2,5) 
 

 
 
676,364
  

 Other income
 



 



 



 



 
$
2,834
  
 



 
 
(664
)(4) 
 

 
 
2,170
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 

 Total revenue
 
 
1,663,699
  
 
 
987,937
  
 
 
638
  
 
 
685,253
  
 
 
2,834
  
 



 
 
(10,069
) 
 

 
 
3,330,292
  

 Expenses:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 

 




 Policy benefits
 
 
1,082,423
  
 
 
669,707
  
 
 
41,430
  
 



 



 



 
 
(516
)(1) 
 

 
 
1,793,044
  

 Required interest on netreserves
 
 
(434,319
) 
 
 
(35,368
) 
 
 
(51,996
) 
 
 
521,683
  
 



 



 



 

 
 
0
  

 Amortization of acquisition costs
 
 
487,770
  
 
 
130,238
  
 
 
9,722
  
 
 
(208,840
) 
 



 



 



 

 
 
418,890
  

 Commissions and premium tax
 
 
72,559
  
 
 
53,301
  
 
 
134
  
 



 



 



 
 
(664
)(4) 
 

 
 
125,330
  

 Insurance administrative expense(3)
 



 



 



 



 
 
155,615
  
 



 



 

 
 
155,615
  

 Parent expense
 



 



 



 



 



 
$
8,809
  
 



 

 
 
8,809
  

 Stock-based compensation expense
 



 



 



 



 



 
 
11,848
  
 



 

 
 
11,848
  

 Interest expense
 



 



 



 
 
75,265
  
 



 



 
 
264
(2) 
 

 
 
75,529
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 

 Total expenses
 
 
1,208,433
  
 
 
817,878
  
 
 
(710
) 
 
 
388,108
  
 
 
155,615
  
 
 
20,657
  
 
 
(916
) 
 

 
 
2,589,065
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
 
 
455,266
  
 
 
170,059
  
 
 
1,348
  
 
 
297,145
  
 
 
(152,781
) 
 
 
(20,657
) 
 
 
(9,153
) 
 

 
 
741,227
  

 Amortization of low-income housing interests
 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
9,153
(5) 
 

 
 
9,153
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

 Measure of segment profitability (pretax)
 
$
455,266
  
 
$
170,059
  
 
$
1,348
  
 
$
297,145
  
 
$
(152,781
) 
 
$
(20,657
) 
 
$
0
  
 

 
 
750,380
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 




 Deduct applicable income taxes
   
 

 
 
(252,357
) 


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 

 
  
  
 

 Segment profits after tax
   
 

 
 
498,023
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 

 








 Add back income taxes applicable to segment profitability
   
 

 
 
252,357
  

 Add (deduct) realized investment gains (losses)
   
 

 
 
37,340
  

 Deduct amortization of low-income
housing(5)
   
 

 
 
(9,153
) 


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 

 
  
  
 

 Pretax income per Consolidated Statement of Operations
   
 

 
$
778,567
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 

 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Medicare Part D items adjusted to GAAP from the segment analysis, which matches expected benefits with policy premium. 


(2)
 
Reclassification of interest amount due to accounting rule requiring deconsolidation of Trust Preferred Securities. 


(3)
 
Administrative expense is not allocated to insurance segments. 


(4)
 
Elimination of intersegment commission. 


(5)
 
Amortization of low-income housing interests, previously considered a reduction of consolidated pretax segment profitability. 
  101 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 14—Business Segments (continued)   






































 
 
For the Year 2009
 

 
 
Life
 
 
Health
 
 
Annuity
 
 
Investment
 
 
Other
 
 
Corporate
 
 
Adjustments
 
Consolidated
 

 Revenue:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 

 




 Premium
 
$
1,591,853
  
 
$
1,020,202
  
 
$
541
  
 



 



 



 
$
(2,491
)(1) 
 

 
$
2,610,105
  

 Net investment income
 



 



 



 
$
632,276
  
 



 



 
 
264
 (2) 
 

 
 
632,540
  

 Other income
 



 



 



 



 
$
2,914
  
 



 
 
(994
)(4) 
 

 
 
1,920
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 

 Total revenue
 
 
1,591,853
  
 
 
1,020,202
  
 
 
541
  
 
 
632,276
  
 
 
2,914
  
 



 
 
(3,221
) 
 

 
 
3,244,565
  

 Expenses:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 

 




 Policy benefits
 
 
1,040,248
  
 
 
679,810
  
 
 
35,762
  
 



 



 



 
 
(2,491
)(1) 
 

 
 
1,753,329
  

 Required interest on net reserves
 
 
(410,917
) 
 
 
(34,243
) 
 
 
(41,840
) 
 
 
487,000
  
 



 



 



 

 
 
0
  

 Amortization of acquisition costs
 
 
462,837
  
 
 
147,151
  
 
 
6,040
  
 
 
(200,042
) 
 



 



 



 

 
 
415,986
  

 Commissions and premium tax
 
 
72,273
  
 
 
57,074
  
 
 
267
  
 



 



 



 
 
(994
)(4) 
 

 
 
128,620
  

 Insurance administrative expense(3)
 



 



 



 



 
 
150,325
  
 



 
 
355
 (5) 
 

 
 
150,680
  

 Parent expense
 



 



 



 



 



 
$
9,590
  
 



 

 
 
9,590
  

 Stock-based compensation expense
 



 



 



 



 



 
 
9,860
  
 



 

 
 
9,860
  

 Interest expense
 



 



 



 
 
69,668
  
 



 



 
 
264
 (2) 
 

 
 
69,932
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 

 Total expenses
 
 
1,164,441
  
 
 
849,792
  
 
 
229
  
 
 
356,626
  
 
 
150,325
  
 
 
19,450
  
 
 
(2,866
) 
 

 
 
2,537,997
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
 
 
427,412
  
 
 
170,410
  
 
 
312
  
 
 
275,650
  
 
 
(147,411
) 
 
 
(19,450
) 
 
 
(355
) 
 

 
 
706,568
  

 Nonoperating items
 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
355
 (5) 
 

 
 
355
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 

 Measure of segment profitability (pretax)
 
$
427,412
  
 
$
170,410
  
 
$
312
  
 
$
275,650
  
 
$
(147,411
) 
 
$
(19,450
) 
 
$
0
  
 

 
 
706,923
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 




 Deduct applicable income taxes
   
 

 
 
(238,153
) 


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 

 
  
  
 

 Segment profits after tax
   
 

 
 
468,770
  





 Add back income taxes applicable to segment profitability
   
 

 
 
238,153
  

 Add (deduct) realized investment gains (losses) and impairments
   
 

 
 
(129,492
) 

 Deduct loss on Company-occupied
property(5)
   
 

 
 
(355
) 


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 

 
  
  
 

 Pretax income per Consolidated Statement of Operations
   
 

 
$
577,076
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 

 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Medicare Part D items adjusted to GAAP from the segment analysis, which matches expected benefits with policy premium. 


(2)
 
Reclassification of interest amount due to accounting rule requiring deconsolidation of Trust Preferred Securities. 


(3)
 
Administrative expense is not allocated to insurance segments. 


(4)
 
Elimination of intersegment commission. 


(5)
 
Loss on Company-occupied property.    Torchmark holds a sizeable investment portfolio to support its insurance liabilities, the yield from which is used to offset policy benefit, acquisition, administrative and tax expenses. This yield or investment
income is taken into account when establishing premium rates and profitability expectations of its insurance products. In holding such a portfolio, investments are sold, called, or written down from time to time, resulting in a realized gain or
loss. These gains or losses generally occur as a result of disposition due to issuer calls, a downgrade in credit quality, compliance with Company investment policies, or other reasons often beyond management’s control. Unlike investment
income, realized gains and losses are incidental to insurance operations, and only overall yields are considered when setting premium rates or insurance product profitability expectations. While these gains and losses are not relevant to segment
profitability or core operating results, they can have a material positive or negative result on net income. For these reasons, management removes realized investment gains and losses when it views its segment operations. 
  102 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 14—Business Segments (continued)   
The following table summarizes the measures of segment profitability as determined in the three
preceding tables for comparison with prior periods. The table also reconciles segment profits to net income.   
Analysis of Profitability by Segment   
































 
 
2011
 
 
2010*
 
 
2009
 
 
2011Change
 
 
%
 
 
2010Change
 
 
%
 

 Life insurance underwriting margin
 
$
486,235
  
 
$
455,266
  
 
$
427,412
  
 
$
30,969
  
 
 
7
  
 
$
27,854
  
 
 
7
  

 Health insurance underwriting margin
 
 
161,991
  
 
 
170,059
  
 
 
170,410
  
 
 
(8,068
) 
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
(351
) 
 
 
0
  

 Annuity underwriting margin
 
 
2,345
  
 
 
1,348
  
 
 
312
  
 
 
997
  
 



 
 
1,036
  
 




 Other insurance:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Other income
 
 
2,507
  
 
 
2,834
  
 
 
2,914
  
 
 
(327
) 
 
 
(12
) 
 
 
(80
) 
 
 
(3
) 

 Administrative expense
 
 
(159,109
) 
 
 
(155,615
) 
 
 
(150,325
) 
 
 
(3,494
) 
 
 
2
  
 
 
(5,290
) 
 
 
4
  

 Excess investment income
 
 
292,597
  
 
 
297,145
  
 
 
275,650
  
 
 
(4,548
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
21,495
  
 
 
8
  

 Corporate and adjustments
 
 
(22,647
) 
 
 
(20,657
) 
 
 
(19,450
) 
 
 
(1,990
) 
 
 
10
  
 
 
(1,207
) 
 
 
6
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Pre-tax total
 
 
763,919
  
 
 
750,380
  
 
 
706,923
  
 
 
13,539
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
43,457
  
 
 
6
  

 Applicable taxes
 
 
(249,495
) 
 
 
(252,357
) 
 
 
(238,153
) 
 
 
2,862
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
(14,204
) 
 
 
6
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 After-tax total, before discontinued operations
 
 
514,424
  
 
 
498,023
  
 
 
468,770
  
 
 
16,401
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
29,253
  
 
 
6
  

 Discontinued operations (after tax)
 
 
0
  
 
 
27,932
  
 
 
26,810
  
 
 
(27,932
) 
 



 
 
1,122
  
 
 
4
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Total
 
 
514,424
  
 
 
525,955
  
 
 
495,580
  
 
 
(11,531
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
30,375
  
 
 
6
  

 Realized gains (losses)—investments (after tax)
 
 
16,838
  
 
 
24,270
  
 
 
(85,345
) 
 
 
(7,432
) 
 



 
 
109,615
  
 




 Realized gains (losses)—discontinued operations (after tax)
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,852
  
 
 
(7,909
) 
 
 
(1,852
) 
 



 
 
9,761
  
 




 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations (after tax)
 
 
(455
) 
 
 
(35,013
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
34,558
  
 



 
 
(35,013
) 
 




 Tax settlements (after tax)
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
2,858
  
 
 
0
  
 



 
 
(2,858
) 
 




 Cost of legal settlements (after tax)
 
 
(7,800
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(7,800
) 
 



 
 
0
  
 




 State administrative settlement (after tax)
 
 
(4,486
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(4,486
) 
 



 
 
0
  
 




 Loss on Company-occupied property (after tax)
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(231
) 
 
 
0
  
 



 
 
231
  
 




 Loss on sale of equipment (after tax)
 
 
(636
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(636
) 
 



 
 
0
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Net income
 
$
517,885
  
 
$
517,064
  
 
$
404,953
  
 
$
821
  
 
 
0
  
 
$
112,111
  
 
 
28
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


*
 
During 2011, management changed the definition of total segment profits before tax to exclude the amortization of low-income housing interests, which management views as a tax
expense. Accordingly, the 2010 total segment profits before tax and applicable tax amount have been updated for comparison purposes. 
  103 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 14—Business Segments (continued)   
Assets for each segment are reported based on a specific identification basis. The insurance
segments’ assets contain deferred acquisition costs (including the value of insurance purchased). The investment segment includes the investment portfolio, cash, and accrued investment income. Goodwill is assigned to the insurance segments at
the time of purchase based on the excess of cost over the fair value of assets acquired for the benefit of that segment. All other assets, representing approximately 4% of total assets, are included in the other category. The table below reconciles
segment assets to total assets as reported in the consolidated financial statements.    Assets by Segment   































  
  
At December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Life
 
  
Health
 
  
Annuity
 
  
Investment
 
  
Other
 
  
Consolidated
 

 Cash and invested assets
  



  



  



  
$
12,437,699
  
  



  
$
12,437,699
  

 Accrued investment income
  



  



  



  
 
192,325
  
  



  
 
192,325
  

 Deferred acquisition costs
  
$
2,929,739
  
  
$
520,685
  
  
$
34,427
  
  



  



  
 
3,484,851
  

 Goodwill
  
 
309,609
  
  
 
87,282
  
  



  



  



  
 
396,891
  

 Other assets
  



  



  



  



  
$
644,625
  
  
 
644,625
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
3,239,348
  
  
$
607,967
  
  
$
34,427
  
  
$
12,630,024
  
  
$
644,625
  
  
$
17,156,391
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 




 
  
At December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Life
 
  
Health
 
  
Annuity
 
  
Investment
 
  
Other
 
  
Consolidated
 

 Cash and invested assets
  



  



  



  
$
11,563,656
  
  



  
$
11,563,656
  

 Accrued investment income
  



  



  



  
 
183,861
  
  



  
 
183,861
  

 Deferred acquisition costs
  
$
2,803,095
  
  
$
548,436
  
  
$
54,804
  
  



  



  
 
3,406,335
  

 Goodwill
  
 
309,609
  
  
 
87,282
  
  



  



  



  
 
396,891
  

 Other assets
  



  



  



  



  
$
609,019
  
  
 
609,019
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
3,112,704
  
  
$
635,718
  
  
$
54,804
  
  
$
11,747,517
  
  
$
609,019
  
  
$
16,159,762
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Other Balances by Segment
  




















 
  
At December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Life
 
  
Health
 
  
Annuity
 
  
Consolidated
 

 Future policy benefits
  
$
7,697,108
  
  
$
589,441
  
  
$
1,285,708
  
  
$
9,572,257
  

 Unearned and advance premium
  
 
16,965
  
  
 
52,574
  
  



  
 
69,539
  

 Policy claims and other benefits payable
  
 
118,737
  
  
 
103,517
  
  



  
 
222,254
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
7,832,810
  
  
$
745,532
  
  
$
1,285,708
  
  
$
9,864,050
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




















 
  
At December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Life
 
  
Health
 
  
Annuity
 
  
Consolidated
 

 Future policy benefits
  
$
7,318,283
  
  
$
570,775
  
  
$
1,260,973
  
  
$
9,150,031
  

 Unearned and advance premium
  
 
17,343
  
  
 
56,822
  
  



  
 
74,165
  

 Policy claims and other benefits payable
  
 
121,000
  
  
 
100,598
  
  



  
 
221,598
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
7,456,626
  
  
$
728,195
  
  
$
1,260,973
  
  
$
9,445,794
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  104 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 15—Commitments and Contingencies 
 
Reinsurance:    Insurance affiliates of Torchmark reinsure that portion of insurance risk which is in excess of their
retention limits. Retention limits for ordinary life insurance range up to $2.0 million per life. Life insurance ceded represented .5% of total life insurance in force at December 31, 2011. Insurance ceded on life and accident and health products
represented .3% of premium income for 2011. Torchmark would be liable for the reinsured risks ceded to other companies to the extent that such reinsuring companies are unable to meet their obligations. 
  Insurance affiliates also assume insurance risks of other companies.
Life reinsurance assumed represented 3.0% of life insurance in force at December 31, 2011 and reinsurance assumed on life and accident and health products represented 1.2% of premium income for 2011. 
  Leases:    Torchmark leases office space and
office equipment under a variety of operating lease arrangements. Rental expense for operating leases was $4.8 million in 2011, $4.9 million in 2010, and $4.9 million in 2009. Future minimum rental commitments required under operating leases having
remaining noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year at December 31, 2011 were as follows: 2012, $2.7 million; 2013, $2.4 million; 2014, $2.0 million; 2015, $2.0 million; 2016, $1.4 million and in the aggregate, $13.2 million. 
  Low-Income Housing Tax Credit
Interests:    As described in Note 1, Torchmark has $293 million invested in entities which provide certain tax benefits. As of December 31, 2011, Torchmark remained obligated under these commitments for $109 million,
of which $85 million is due in 2012, $21 million in 2013, $2 million in 2014, and $1 million thereafter.   
Concentrations of Credit Risk:    Torchmark maintains a diversified investment portfolio with limited concentration in
any given issuer. At December 31, 2011, the investment portfolio, at fair value, consisted of the following:   








 Investment-grade corporate securities
  
 
80
% 

 Securities of state and municipal governments
  
 
11
  

 Below-investment-grade securities
  
 
5
  

 Policy loans, which are secured by the underlying insurance policy values
  
 
3
  

 Other fixed maturities, equity securities, mortgages, real estate, other long-term investments, and short-term investments
  
 
1
  


  
  
  
 


  
 
100
% 


  
  
  
 
   As of December 31, 2011, securities of
state and municipal governments represented 11% of invested assets at fair value. Such investments are made throughout the U.S. At year-end 2011, 5% or more of the state and municipal bond portfolio at fair value was invested in securities issued
within the following states: Texas (34%), Ohio (8%), Washington (7%), and Alabama (5%). Otherwise, there was no significant concentration within any given state. 
  105 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 15—Commitments and Contingencies (continued) 
 
Corporate debt and equity investments are made in a wide range of industries. Below are the ten
largest industry concentrations held in the corporate portfolio at December 31, 2011, based on fair value:   








 Insurance
  
 
18
% 

 Electric utilities and services
  
 
17
% 

 Banks
  
 
12
% 

 Oil and gas extraction
  
 
6
% 

 Pipelines
  
 
6
% 

 Mining
  
 
4
% 

 Transportation
  
 
3
% 

 Chemicals
  
 
3
% 

 Telecommunications
  
 
3
% 

 Diversified financial services
  
 
2
% 
   At year-end 2011, 5% of invested assets
at fair value was represented by fixed maturities rated below investment grade (BB or lower as determined by the weighted average of available ratings from rating services). Par value of these investments was $787 million, amortized cost was
$701 million, and fair value was $579 million. While these investments could be subject to additional credit risk, such risk should generally be reflected in their fair value. 
  Collateral Requirements:    Torchmark
requires collateral for investments in instruments where collateral is available and is typically required because of the nature of the investment. Torchmark’s mortgages are secured by the underlying real estate. 
  Guarantees:    At December 31, 2011,
Torchmark had in place four guarantee agreements, all of which were either parent company guarantees of subsidiary obligations to a third party, or parent company guarantees of obligations between wholly-owned subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2011,
Torchmark had no liability with respect to these guarantees.    Trust Preferred Securities:    Torchmark entered into a performance guarantee for the obligations of the Torchmark Capital Trust III when the trust preferred securities were issued by
that trust. It guarantees payment of distributions and the redemption price of the securities until the securities are redeemed in full, or all obligations have been satisfied should Trust III default on an obligation. The total redemption price of
the trust preferred securities is $120 million.    Letters of Credit:    Torchmark has guaranteed letters of credit in connection with its credit facility with a group of banks. The letters of credit were issued by TMK Re, Ltd., a
wholly-owned subsidiary, to secure TMK Re, Ltd.’s obligation for claims on certain policies reinsured by TMK Re, Ltd. that were sold by other Torchmark insurance companies. These letters of credit facilitate TMK Re, Ltd.’s ability to
reinsure the business of Torchmark’s insurance carriers. The agreement expires in 2015. The maximum amount of letters of credit available is $250 million. Torchmark (parent company) would be liable to the extent that TMK Re, Ltd. does not pay
the reinsured party. At December 31, 2011, $198 million of letters of credit were outstanding. 
  106 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 15—Commitments and Contingencies (continued) 
 
Equipment leases:    Torchmark has guaranteed
performance of a subsidiary as lessee under two leasing arrangements for aviation equipment. One of the leases commenced in 2003 for a lease term of approximately 10 years and the other was entered into in 2009 also for 10 years. Torchmark has
certain renewal and early termination options under the first lease. At December 31, 2011, total remaining undiscounted payments under the leases were approximately $8 million. Torchmark (parent company) would be responsible for any subsidiary
obligation in the event the subsidiary did not make payments or otherwise perform under the terms of the lease.   
Litigation:     Torchmark and its subsidiaries, in common with the insurance industry in general, are subject to
litigation, including claims involving tax matters, alleged breaches of contract, torts, including bad faith and fraud claims based on alleged wrongful or fraudulent acts of agents of Torchmark’s subsidiaries, employment discrimination, and
miscellaneous other causes of action. Based upon information presently available, and in light of legal and other factual defenses available to Torchmark and its subsidiaries, management does not believe that such litigation will have a material
adverse effect on Torchmark’s financial condition, future operating results or liquidity; however, assessing the eventual outcome of litigation necessarily involves forward-looking speculation as to judgments to be made by judges, juries and
appellate courts in the future. This bespeaks caution, particularly in states with reputations for high punitive damage verdicts such as Alabama and Mississippi. Torchmark’s management recognizes that large punitive damage awards bearing little
or no relation to actual damages continue to be awarded by juries in jurisdictions in which Torchmark and its subsidiaries have substantial business, particularly Alabama and Mississippi, creating the potential for unpredictable material adverse
judgments in any given punitive damage suit.    As previously
disclosed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), United American was named as a defendant in purported class action litigation originally filed on September 16, 2004, in the Circuit Court of Saline County, Arkansas on
behalf of the Arkansas purchasers of association group health insurance policies or certificates issued by United American through Heartland Alliance of America Association and Farm & Ranch Healthcare, Inc. (Smith and Ivie v.
Collingsworth, et al., CV2004-742-2). The plaintiffs asserted claims for fraudulent concealment, breach of contract, common law liability for non-disclosure, breach of fiduciary duties, civil conspiracy, unjust enrichment, violation of the
Arkansas Deceptive Trade Practices Act, and violation of Arkansas law and the rules and regulations of the Arkansas Insurance Department. Declaratory, injunctive and equitable relief, as well as actual and punitive damages were sought by the
plaintiffs. On September 7, 2005, the plaintiffs amended their complaint to assert a nation-wide class, defined as all United American insureds who simultaneously purchased both an individual Hospital and Surgical Expense health insurance
policy (Form HSXC) and an individual supplemental term life insurance policy (Form RT85) from Farm & Ranch through Heartland. Defendants removed this litigation to the United States District Court for the Western District of Arkansas (No.
4:05-cv-1382) but that Court remanded the litigation back to the state court on plaintiffs’ motion. On July 22, 2008, the plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint, asserting a class defined as “all persons who, between January 1998
and the present, were residents of Arkansas, California, Georgia, Louisiana or Texas, and purchased through Farm & Ranch: (1) a health insurance policy issued by United American known as Flexguard Plan, CS-1 Common Sense Plan, GSP Good
Sense Plan, SHXC Surgical & Hospital Expense Policy, HSXC 7500 Hospital/Surgical Plan, MMXC Hospital/Surgical Plan, SMXC Surgical/Medical Expense Plan and/or SSXC Surgical Safeguard Expense Plan, and (ii) a membership in
Heartland.” Plaintiffs assert claims for breach of contract, violation of Arkansas Deceptive Trade Practices Act and/or applicable consumer protection laws in other states, unjust enrichment, and common law fraud. Plaintiffs seek actual,
compensatory, statutory and punitive damages, equitable and declaratory relief. On September 8, 2009, the Saline County Circuit Court granted the plaintiff’s motion certifying the class. On October 7, 2009, United American filed its
notice of appeal of the class certification and subsequently filed its appellate brief on April 8, 2010. On December 2, 2010, the Arkansas Supreme Court affirmed the lower court’s decision to certify the class. On January 6,
2012, the parties agreed in  principal to settle the case. On January 11, 2012, the Court ordered the continuation of the trial, previously set to
commence on January 17, 2012, pending notice to the class and the Court’s consideration of the agreed-upon settlement. 
  107 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 15—Commitments and Contingencies (continued) 
 
On March 15, 2011, purported class action litigation was filed against American Income and
Torchmark in the District Court for the Northern District of Ohio (Fitzhugh v. American Income Life Insurance Company and Torchmark Corporation, Case No. 1:11-cv-00533). The plaintiff, a formerly independently contracted American Income
agent, alleges that American Income intentionally misclassified its agents as independent contractors rather than as employees in order to escape minimum wage and overtime requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act, as well as to avoid payroll
taxes, workers compensation premiums and other benefits required to be provided by employers. Monetary damages in the amount of unpaid compensation plus liquidated damages and/or prejudgment interest as well as injunctive and/or declaratory relief
is sought by the plaintiff on behalf of the purported class. On November 3, 2011, the Court granted American Income’s motion to compel arbitration and dismissed the case. Plaintiffs have appealed this decision. 
  Torchmark subsidiary, United American was named as defendant in
purported class action litigation filed on May 31, 2011 in Cross County Arkansas Circuit Court (Kennedy v. United American Insurance Company (Case # CV-2011-84-5). In the litigation, filed on behalf of a proposed nationwide class
of owners of certain limited hospital and surgical expense benefit policies from United American, the plaintiff alleged that United American breached the policy by failing and/or refusing to pay benefits for the total number of days an insured is
confined to a hospital and by limiting payment to the number of days for which there are incurred hospital room charges rather than also including benefits for services and supplies. Claims for unjust enrichment, breach of contract, bad faith
refusal to pay first party benefits, breach of the implied duty of good faith and fair dealing, bad faith, and violation of the Arkansas Deceptive Trade Practices Act were initially asserted. The plaintiff sought declaratory relief, restitution
and/or monetary damages, punitive damages, costs and attorneys fees. In September 2011, the plaintiff dismissed all causes of action, except for the breach of contract claim. 
  On November 14, 2011, plaintiff filed an amended complaint based
upon the same facts asserting only breach of contract claims on behalf of a purported nationwide restitution/monetary relief class or, in the first alternative, a purported multiple-state restitution/monetary relief class or, in the second
alternative, a purported Arkansas statewide restitution/monetary relief class. Restitution and/or monetary relief for United American’s alleged breaches of contract, costs, attorney’s fees and expenses, expert fees, prejudgment interest
and other relief are sought on behalf of the plaintiff and members of the class. On December 7, 2011, United American filed a Motion to Dismiss the plaintiff’s amended complaint and on January 11, 2012, plaintiff filed a response
thereto. Discovery has commenced and is ongoing.   
  108 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)   
Note 16—Selected Quarterly Data (Unaudited) 
  The following is a summary of quarterly results for
the two years ended December 31, 2011. The information is unaudited but includes all adjustments (consisting of normal accruals) which management considers necessary for a fair presentation of the results of operations for these periods. 
 




















 
  
Three Months Ended
 

 
  
    March 31,    
 
 
    June 30,    
 
 
September 30,
 
 
December 31,
 







 2011:
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Premium and policy charges
  
$
679,901
  
 
$
672,350
  
 
$
650,525
  
 
$
653,542
  

 Net investment income
  
 
171,647
  
 
 
173,104
  
 
 
173,491
  
 
 
174,786
  

 Realized investment gains(losses)
  
 
(22,723
) 
 
 
31,272
  
 
 
12,600
  
 
 
4,755
  

 Total revenues
  
 
829,272
  
 
 
877,334
  
 
 
837,241
  
 
 
833,554
  

 Policy benefits
  
 
464,127
  
 
 
454,694
  
 
 
438,774
  
 
 
435,681
  

 Amortization of acquisition expenses
  
 
107,788
  
 
 
106,752
  
 
 
104,804
  
 
 
105,437
  

 Pretax Income from continuing operations
  
 
155,812
  
 
 
218,528
  
 
 
198,822
  
 
 
182,504
  

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
106,132
  
 
 
148,940
  
 
 
136,911
  
 
 
126,357
  

 Income from discontinued operations
  
 
(599
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
144
  
 
 
0
  

 Net income
  
 
105,533
  
 
 
148,940
  
 
 
137,055
  
 
 
126,357
  

 Basic net income per common share*
  



 



 



 




 Continuing operations
  
 
0.91
  
 
 
1.34
  
 
 
1.31
  
 
 
1.25
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
(0.01
) 
 
 
0.00
  
 
 
0.00
  
 
 
0.00
  

 Total basic net income per share
  
 
0.90
  
 
 
1.34
  
 
 
1.31
  
 
 
1.25
  

 Diluted net income per common share*
  



 



 



 




 Continuing operations
  
 
0.89
  
 
 
1.32
  
 
 
1.30
  
 
 
1.23
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
0.00
  
 
 
0.00
  
 
 
0.00
  
 
 
0.00
  

 Total diluted net income per share
  
 
0.89
  
 
 
1.32
  
 
 
1.30
  
 
 
1.23
  







 2010:
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Premium and policy charges
  
$
670,944
  
 
$
669,569
  
 
$
657,827
  
 
$
653,418
  

 Net investment income
  
 
167,111
  
 
 
170,612
  
 
 
172,337
  
 
 
166,304
  

 Realized investment gains(losses)
  
 
7,261
  
 
 
(5,002
) 
 
 
8,045
  
 
 
27,036
  

 Total revenues
  
 
845,678
  
 
 
835,895
  
 
 
838,888
  
 
 
847,171
  

 Policy benefits
  
 
468,934
  
 
 
454,177
  
 
 
433,514
  
 
 
436,419
  

 Amortization of acquisition expenses
  
 
109,602
  
 
 
104,851
  
 
 
104,045
  
 
 
100,392
  

 Pretax income from continuing operations
  
 
174,054
  
 
 
180,720
  
 
 
208,313
  
 
 
215,480
  

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
115,393
  
 
 
119,848
  
 
 
138,097
  
 
 
148,955
  

 Income from discontinued operations
  
 
6,283
  
 
 
6,201
  
 
 
(23,566
) 
 
 
5,853
  

 Net income
  
 
121,676
  
 
 
126,049
  
 
 
114,531
  
 
 
154,808
  

 Basic net income per common share*
  



 



 



 




 Continuing operations
  
 
0.93
  
 
 
0.97
  
 
 
1.14
  
 
 
1.24
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
0.05
  
 
 
0.05
  
 
 
(0.19
) 
 
 
0.05
  

 Total basic net income per share
  
 
0.98
  
 
 
1.02
  
 
 
0.95
  
 
 
1.29
  

 Diluted net income per common share*
  



 



 



 




 Continuing operations
  
 
0.92
  
 
 
0.97
  
 
 
1.13
  
 
 
1.23
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
0.05
  
 
 
0.05
  
 
 
(0.19
) 
 
 
0.05
  

 Total diluted net income per share
  
 
0.97
  
 
 
1.02
  
 
 
0.94
  
 
 
1.28
  
  


*
 
Basic and diluted net income per share by quarter may not add to per share income on a year-to-date basis due to share weighting and rounding. 
  109 


Table of Contents
Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with
Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
No disagreements with accountants on any matter of accounting principles or practices or financial statement disclosure have been reported on a Form
8-K within the twenty-four months prior to the date of the most recent financial statements.    Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures   
Torchmark, under the direction of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, has
established disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by Torchmark in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized
and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. The disclosure controls and procedures are also intended to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to Torchmark’s management, including the
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. 
  As of the end of the fiscal year completed December 31, 2011, an
evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation of Torchmark management, including the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, of Torchmark’s disclosure
controls and procedures (as those terms are defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based upon their evaluation, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer have
concluded that Torchmark’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective as of the date of this Form 10-K. In compliance with Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C. § 1350), each of these officers executed a
Certification included as an exhibit to this Form 10-K.    As
of the quarter ended December 31, 2011, there have not been any changes in Torchmark’s internal control over financial reporting or in other factors that could significantly affect this control over financial reporting subsequent to the date of
their evaluation which have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Torchmark’s internal control over financial reporting. No material weaknesses in such internal controls were identified in the evaluation and as a
consequence, no corrective action was required to be taken.   
Item 9B.    Other Information    There were no items required. 
  110 


Table of Contents
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
  Management at Torchmark Corporation is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company and for assessing the effectiveness of internal control on an annual basis. As a framework for assessing internal control over financial reporting, the Company utilizes
the criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting described in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
  There are inherent limitations in the effectiveness of any internal
control, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of controls. Accordingly, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation. Further, because
of changes in conditions, the effectiveness of internal control may vary over time.    Management evaluated the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, and based on its assessment, determined that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of
December 31, 2011. The Company’s independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as stated in their report which is included herein. 
 






 /s/ Mark S. McAndrew

 Mark S. McAndrew
Chief Executive Officer



 /s/ Gary L. Coleman

 Gary L. Coleman
Executive Vice President andChief Financial Officer
   February 28, 2012 
  111 


Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of 
Torchmark Corporation  McKinney, Texas 
  We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Torchmark Corporation
and subsidiaries (“Torchmark”) as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Torchmark’s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on Torchmark’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.   
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.    A
company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the
company’s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of
controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the
risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
In our opinion, Torchmark maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the criteria
established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and
financial statement schedules as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011 of Torchmark and our report dated February 28, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and financial statement schedules. 
  /s/    DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP 
  Dallas, Texas  February 28, 2012 
  112 


Table of Contents
PART III    Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
   Information required by this item is incorporated by
reference from the sections entitled “Election of Directors,” “Profiles of Directors and Nominees,” “Executive Officers,” “Audit Committee Report,” “Governance Guidelines and Codes of Ethics,”
“Director Qualification Standards,” “Procedures for Director Nominations by Stockholders,” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to
be held April 26, 2012 (the Proxy Statement), which is to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).   
Item 11.    Executive Compensation    Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled Executive Compensation,
“Compensation Committee Report” and “Compensation Committee interlocks and insider participation” in the Proxy Statement, which is to be filed with the SEC. 
  Item 12.    Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   






 (a)
 
 Equity Compensation Plan Information
As of December 31, 2011
  
















 Plan Category
 
 Number of securities to beissued upon exercise
ofoutstanding options,warrants, and rights
 
 
Weighted-averageexercise price ofoutstanding options,warrants, and rights
 
 
Number of securitiesremaining available forfuture issuance
underequity compensation plans
 

 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders
 
 
11,620,393
  
 
$
35.42
  
 
 
6,099,342
  






 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 
11,620,393
  
 
$
35.42
  
 
 
6,099,342
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  






 (b)
 
Security ownership of certain beneficial owners:





 
Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the section entitled “Principal Stockholders” in the Proxy Statement, which is to be filed with the
SEC.




 (c)
 
Security ownership of management:





 
Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the section entitled “Stock Ownership” in the Proxy Statement, which is to be filed with the
SEC.




 (d)
 
Changes in control:





 
Torchmark knows of no arrangements, including any pledges by any person of its securities, the operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change of control.
   Item
13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence   
Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled Related Party Transaction Policy and
Transactions and “Director Independence Determinations” in the Proxy Statement, which is to be filed with the SEC.   
Item 14.    Principal Accountant Fees and Services 
  Information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the
section entitled Principal Accounting Firm Fees and “Pre-approval Policy” in the Proxy Statement, which is to be filed with the SEC. 
  113 


Table of Contents
PART IV    Item 15.    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 
  Index of documents filed as a part of this report: 
 








 
  
Page ofthis report
 

 Financial Statements:
  







 Torchmark Corporation and Subsidiaries:
  




 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
56
  

 Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010 
  
 
57
  

 Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2011
  
 
58
  

 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for each of the three years in the period ended December 
31, 2011
  
 
59
  

 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 
31, 2011
  
 
60
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2011
  
 
61
  

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
62
  

 Schedules Supporting Financial Statements for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011:
  




  II. Condensed Financial Information of Registrant (Parent Company)
  
 
121
  

 IV. Reinsurance (Consolidated)
  
 
125
  

 Schedules not referred to have been omitted as inapplicable or not required by Regulation S-X.
   

  114 


Table of Contents
EXHIBITS   








 
 
 
 
Page ofthisReport

3.1
 
Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Torchmark Corporation, filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on April 30, 2010 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.1.2 to Form 8-K
dated May 5, 2010)
 






3.2
 
Amended and Restated By-Laws of Torchmark Corporation, as amended August 5, 2010 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.2 to Form 8-K dated August 11, 2010)
 






4.1
 
Specimen Common Stock Certificate (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4(a) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1989)
 






4.2
 
Trust Indenture dated as of February 1, 1987 between Torchmark Corporation and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as Trustee (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4(b) to Form
S-3 for $300,000,000 of Torchmark Corporation Debt Securities and Warrants (Registration No. 33-11816))
 






4.3
 
Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated November 2, 2001, between Torchmark Corporation and The Bank of New York defining the rights of the 7 3/4% Junior Subordinated Debentures (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.3
to Form 8-K dated November 2, 2001)
 






4.4
 
Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 14, 2001, between Torchmark, BankOne Trust Company, National Association and The Bank of New York, supplementing the Indenture Agreement dated
February 1, 1987 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Torchmark’s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 33-11716), and defining the rights of the 6 1/4% Senior Notes (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K dated
December 14, 2001)
 






4.5
 
Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 23, 2006 between Torchmark Corporation, J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K filed June 23, 2006)
 






4.6
 
Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 30, 2009 between Torchmark Corporation and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4 to Form
10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009)
 






10.1
 
Torchmark Corporation and Affiliates Retired Lives Reserve Agreement, as amended, and Trust (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10(b) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
31, 1991)*
 






10.2
 
Capital Accumulation and Bonus Plan of Torchmark Corporation, as amended, (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10(c) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
1988)*
 






10.3
 
Torchmark Corporation Supplementary Retirement Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10(c) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992)*
 






10.4
 
Credit Agreement dated as of December 10, 2010 among Torchmark Corporation, as the Borrower, TMK Re, Ltd., as a Loan Party, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative
Agent, Swing Line Lender, L/C Issuer and L/C Administrator and the other lenders listed therein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.01 to Form 8-K dated December 16, 2010)
 

  115 


Table of Contents








 
 
 
 
Page ofthisReport





10.5
 
Certified Copy of Resolution Regarding Director Retirement Benefit Program (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10(e) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
1999)*
 






10.6
 
Torchmark Corporation Restated Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors, Advisory Directors, Directors Emeritus and Officers, as amended (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10(e) to
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992)*
 






10.7
 
The Torchmark Corporation 1987 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10(f) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998)*
 






10.8
 
General Agency Contract between Liberty National Life Insurance Company and First Command Financial Services, Inc., (formerly known as Independent Research Agency For Life Insurance, Inc.)
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10(i) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990)
 






10.9
 
Amendment to General Agency Contract between First Command Financial Services and Liberty National Life Insurance Company (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q for
the First Quarter 2005)**
 






10.10
 
Form of Deferred Compensation Agreement Between Torchmark Corporation or Subsidiary and Officer at the Level of Vice President or Above Eligible to Participate in the Torchmark Corporation
and Affiliates Retired Lives Reserve Agreement and to Retire Prior to December 31, 1986 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10(k) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1991)*
 






10.11
 
Form of Deferred Compensation Agreement between Torchmark Corporation or Subsidiary and Officer at the Level of Vice President or Above Eligible to Participate in the Torchmark Corporation
and Affiliates Retired Lives Reserve Agreement and Not Eligible to Retire Prior to December 31, 1986 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10(l) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1991)*
 






10.12
 
Form of Deferred Compensation Agreement Between Torchmark Corporation or Subsidiary and Officer at the Level of Vice President or Above Not Eligible to Participate in Torchmark Corporation
and Affiliates Retired Lives Reserve Agreement (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10(j) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1991)*
 






10.13
 
Torchmark Corporation Supplemental Savings and Investment Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10(m) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992)*
 






10.14
 
Service Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1991, between Torchmark Corporation and Liberty National Life Insurance Company (prototype for agreements between Torchmark Corporation and other
principal operating subsidiaries) (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10(n) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992)
 






10.15
 
The Torchmark Corporation Amended and Restated Pension Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.15 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010)*
 






10.16
 
The Torchmark Corporation 1998 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10(n) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998)*
 

  116 


Table of Contents








 
 
 
 
Page ofthisReport





10.17
 
The Torchmark Corporation Savings and Investment Plan (amended and restated as of January 1, 2009)* (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.17 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2010)
 






10.18
 
Torchmark Corporation 2008 Management Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K dated April 30, 2008)*
 






10.19
 
Coinsurance and Servicing Agreement between Security Benefit Life Insurance Company and Liberty National Life Insurance Company, effective as of December 31, 1995 (incorporated by
reference from Exhibit 10(u) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995)
 






10.20
 
Torchmark Corporation 1996 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10(w) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996)*
 






10.21
 
Torchmark Corporation 1996 Executive Deferred Compensation Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10(x) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
1996)*
 






10.22
 
Form of Retirement Life Insurance Benefit Agreement ($1,995,000 face amount limit) (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10(z) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2001)*
 






10.23
 
Form of Retirement Life Insurance Benefit Agreement ($495,000 face amount limit) (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10(aa) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2001)*
 






10.24
 
Payments to Directors*
 






10.25
 
Form of Non-Formula Based Director Stock Option Agreement pursuant to Torchmark Corporation 2005 Non-Employee Director Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to Form
10-Q for the First Quarter 2005)*
 






10.26
 
Form of Stock Option Agreement pursuant to Torchmark Corporation 2005 Incentive Plan (Section 16(a) (restoration)) (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q for the
First Quarter 2005)*
 






10.27
 
Form of Stock Option Agreement pursuant to Torchmark Corporation 2005 Incentive Plan (restoration general) (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-Q for the First Quarter
2005)*
 






10.28
 
Form of Stock Option Agreement pursuant to Torchmark Corporation 2005 Incentive Plan (bonus) (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.36 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
31, 2005)*
 






10.29
 
Form of Stock Option Agreement pursuant to Torchmark Corporation 2005 Incentive Plan (regular vesting) (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.37 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2005)*
 






10.30
 
Torchmark Corporation 2005 Non-Employee Director Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K dated May 4, 2005)*
 






10.31
 
Torchmark Corporation 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to Form 8-K dated May 4, 2005)*
 






10.32
 
Form of Deferred Compensation Stock Option Grant Agreement pursuant to the Torchmark Corporation 2005 Non-Employee Director Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to
Form 8-K dated May 4, 2005)*
 






10.33
 
Torchmark Corporation Amended and Restated 2005 Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q for quarter ended March 31, 2006)*
 






10.34
 
Torchmark Corporation Amended and Restated 2005 Non-Employee Director Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-Q for quarter ended March 31,
2006)*
 

  117 


Table of Contents








 
 
 
 
Page ofthisReport





10.35
 
Form of Director Stock Option Issued under Torchmark Corporation Amended and Restated 2005 Non-Employee Director Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q
for quarter ended March 31, 2006)*
 






10.36
 
Amendment One to Torchmark Corporation Supplementary Retirement Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-Q for quarter ended March 31, 2006)*
 






10.37
 
Torchmark Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K dated January 25, 2007)*
 






10.38
 
Torchmark Corporation 2007 Long-Term Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 99.1 to Form 8-K dated May 2, 2007)*
 






10.39
 
Form of Stock Option Award Agreement under Torchmark Corporation 2007 Long-Term Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 99.2 to Form 8-K dated May 2,
2007)*
 






10.40
 
Form of Restricted Stock Award (Board grant) under Torchmark Corporation 2007 Long-Term Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 99.3 to Form 8-K dated May 2,
2007)*
 






10.41
 
Torchmark Corporation Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan, as amended and restated (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K dated April 29, 2008)*
 






10.42
 
Amendment No. 1 to the Torchmark Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.53 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2007)*
 






10.43
 
Amendment No. 2 to the Torchmark Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.54 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2007)*
 






10.44
 
Amendment No. 2 to the Torchmark Corporation Supplementary Retirement Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.55 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2007)*
 






10.45
 
Amendment No. 3 to the Torchmark Corporation Supplementary Retirement Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.56 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2007)*
 






10.46
 
Form of Restricted Stock Award Notice under Torchmark Corporation Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.57 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2007)*
 






10.47
 
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Notice under Torchmark Corporation Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.58 to Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2007)*
 






10.48
 
Form of Restricted Stock Award (Compensation Committee grant) under Torchmark Corporation 2007 Long-Term Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.59 to Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007)*
 






10.49
 
Amendment Four to the Torchmark Corporation Supplementary Retirement Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.52 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008)*
 






10.50
 
Amendment Three to the Torchmark Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.53 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2008)*
 






10.51
 
Amendment One to the Torchmark Corporation Restated Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors, Advisory Directors, Directors Emeritus and Officers (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.54
to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008)*
 

  118 


Table of Contents










 
 
 
 
Page ofthisReport
 





10.52
 
Amendment Two to the Torchmark Corporation Restated Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.55 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2008)*
 








10.53
 
Amendment to the Torchmark Corporation 2007 Long-Term Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.56 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008)*
 








10.54
 
Amendment Five to the Torchmark Corporation Savings and Investment Plan (amended and restated as January 1, 2009)*
 








10.55
 
Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of December 31, 2008 among AILIC Receivables Corporation, American Income Life Insurance Company and TMK Re, Ltd. (incorporated by reference from
Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K dated January 6, 2009)
 








10.56
 
Torchmark Corporation 2011 Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.56 to Form10-K for fiscal year ended December 31, 2010)*
 








10.57
 
Form of Stock Option under Torchmark Corporation 2011 Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.57 to Form 10-K for fiscal year ended December
31,2010)*
 








10.58
 
Form of Restricted Stock Award Notice under Torchmark Corporation 2011 Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.58 to Form 10-K for fiscal year
ended December 31, 2010)*
 








10.59
 
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Notice under Torchmark Corporation 2011 Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.59 to Form 10-K for fiscal
year ended December 31, 2010)*
 








10.60
 
Torchmark Corporation 2011 Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K dated May 4, 2011)*
 








10.61
 
Form of Restricted Stock Award (Executive) under Torchmark Corporation 2011 Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to Form 8-K dated
May 4, 2011)*
 








10.62
 
Form of Restricted Stock Award (Special) under Torchmark Corporation 2011 Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to Form 8-K dated May 4, 2011)*
 








10.63
 
Form of Ten year Stock Option under Torchmark Corporation 2011 Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.4 to Form 8-K dated May 4, 2011)*
 








10.64
 
Form of Five year Stock Option under Torchmark Corporation 2011 Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.5 to Form 8-K dated May 4, 2011)*
 








(11)
 
Statement re computation of per share earnings
 
 
120
  





(12)
 
Statement re computation of ratios
 








(20)
 
Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 26, 2012***
 








(21)
 
Subsidiaries of the registrant
 
 
120
  





(23)
 
Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP
 








(24)
 
Powers of attorney
 








(31.1)
 
Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification by Mark S. McAndrew
 








(31.2)
 
Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification by Gary L. Coleman
 








(32.1)
 
Section 1350 Certification by Mark S. McAndrew and Gary L. Coleman
 








(101)
 
Interactive Data File
 



  


*
 
Compensatory plan or arrangement. 


**
 
Certain portions of the exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a request for confidential treatment which was granted June 23, 2010 effective until May 9, 2015. The
non-public information was filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 


***
 
To be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. 
  119 


Table of Contents
Exhibit 11. Statement re computation of per share earnings 
  TORCHMARK CORPORATION 
COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE*   
















 
  
Twelve Months Ended December 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 

Income from continuing operations
  
$518,340,000
 
 
$522,293,000
 
 
$386,052,000
 

 Income (loss) from discontinued operations
  
 
(455,000
) 
 
 
(5,229,000
) 
 
 
18,901,000
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Net Income
  
$
517,885,000
  
 
$
517,064,000
  
 
$
404,953,000
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic weighted average shares outstanding
  
 
108,278,113
  
 
 
122,009,228
  
 
 
124,550,384
  

 Diluted weighted average shares outstanding
  
 
109,815,390
  
 
 
123,123,338
  
 
 
124,550,384
  






 Basic net income per share:
  



 



 




 Continuing operations
  
$
4.79
  
 
$
4.28
  
 
$
3.10
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
(0.01
) 
 
 
(0.04
) 
 
 
0.15
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total basic net income per share
  
$
4.78
  
 
$
4.24
  
 
$
3.25
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Diluted net income per share:
  



 



 




 Continuing operations
  
$
4.72
  
 
$
4.24
  
 
$
3.10
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
0.00
  
 
 
(0.04
) 
 
 
0.15
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total diluted net income per share
  
$
4.72
  
 
$
4.20
  
 
$
3.25
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


*
 
Retroactively adjusted for three-for-two stock split   
Exhibit 21. Subsidiaries of the Registrant   
The following table lists subsidiaries of the registrant which meet the definition of “significant subsidiary” according to Regulation S-X: 
 









                Company        
        
  
 State ofIncorporation
    
 Name Under WhichCompany DoesBusiness

 American Income Life
Insurance Company
  
Indiana
    
 American Income Life
Insurance Company

 Globe Life And Accident
Insurance Company
  
Nebraska
    
 Globe Life And Accident
Insurance Company

 Liberty National Life
Insurance Company
  
Nebraska
    
 Liberty National Life
Insurance Company

 United American
Insurance Company
  
Nebraska
    
 United American
Insurance Company
   All other exhibits required by Regulation S-K are
listed as to location in the “Index of documents filed as a part of this report” on pages 115 through 119 of this report. Exhibits not referred to have been omitted as inapplicable or not required. 
  120 


Table of Contents
TORCHMARK CORPORATION 
(PARENT COMPANY)  SCHEDULE II.
CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT  CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS 
(Amounts in thousands)   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
      2011      
 
 
      2010      
 

 Assets:
  



 




 Investments:
  



 




 Long-term investments
  
$
36,458
  
 
$
15,963
  

 Short-term investments
  
 
58
  
 
 
62,582
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total investments
  
 
36,516
  
 
 
78,545
  

 Cash
  
 
27,099
  
 
 
0
  

 Investment in affiliates
  
 
5,329,769
  
 
 
4,973,495
  

 Due from affiliates
  
 
50,977
  
 
 
138,130
  

 Taxes receivable
  
 
61,616
  
 
 
65,195
  

 Other assets
  
 
7,581
  
 
 
5,391
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
5,513,558
  
 
$
5,260,756
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity:
  



 




 Liabilities:
  



 




 Short-term debt
  
$
224,842
  
 
$
198,875
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
790,571
  
 
 
789,643
  

 Due to affiliates
  
 
145,556
  
 
 
136,931
  

 Other liabilities
  
 
123,681
  
 
 
119,066
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
1,284,650
  
 
 
1,244,515
  





 Shareholders’ equity:
  



 




 Preferred stock
  
 
351
  
 
 
351
  

 Common stock
  
 
112,312
  
 
 
119,812
  

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
775,842
  
 
 
783,119
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive income
  
 
549,423
  
 
 
22,958
  

 Retained earnings
  
 
3,634,481
  
 
 
3,473,482
  

 Treasury stock
  
 
(843,501
) 
 
 
(383,481
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total shareholders’ equity
  
 
4,228,908
  
 
 
4,016,241
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
  
$
5,513,558
  
 
$
5,260,756
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   See Notes to Condensed Financial
Statements and accompanying Report of Independent Registered  Public Accounting Firm. 
  121 


Table of Contents
TORCHMARK CORPORATION 
(PARENT COMPANY)  SCHEDULE II.
CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (continued)   
CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
(Amounts in thousands)   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
      2011      
 
 
      2010      
 
 
      2009      
 

 Net investment income
  
$
23,542
  
 
$
26,031
  
 
$
17,374
  

 Realized investment gains (losses)
  
 
508
  
 
 
(1,646
) 
 
 
(1
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenue
  
 
24,050
  
 
 
24,385
  
 
 
17,373
  






 General operating expenses
  
 
30,945
  
 
 
21,682
  
 
 
18,119
  

 Reimbursements from affiliates
  
 
(19,335
) 
 
 
(13,375
) 
 
 
(5,973
) 

 Interest expense
  
 
75,426
  
 
 
74,827
  
 
 
71,687
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expenses
  
 
87,036
  
 
 
83,134
  
 
 
83,833
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Operating income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of affiliates
  
 
(62,986
) 
 
 
(58,749
) 
 
 
(66,460
) 

 Income taxes
  
 
14,380
  
 
 
18,521
  
 
 
19,773
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Net operating loss before equity in earnings of affiliates
  
 
(48,606
) 
 
 
(40,228
) 
 
 
(46,687
) 

 Equity in earnings of affiliates
  
 
566,491
  
 
 
557,292
  
 
 
451,640
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Net income
  
$
517,885
  
 
$
517,064
  
 
$
404,953
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   See Notes to Condensed Financial
Statements and accompanying Report of Independent Registered  Public Accounting Firm. 
  122 


Table of Contents
TORCHMARK CORPORATION 
(PARENT COMPANY)  SCHEDULE II.
CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT—(continued)   
CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
(Amounts in thousands)   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
      2011      
 
 
      2010      
 
 
      2009      
 

 Cash provided from (used for) operations before dividends from subsidiaries
  
$
(33,042
) 
 
$
(33,403
) 
 
$
(51,241
) 

 Cash dividends from subsidiaries
  
 
769,139
  
 
 
370,947
  
 
 
354,695
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash provided from operations
  
 
736,097
  
 
 
337,544
  
 
 
303,454
  






 Cash provided from (used for) investing activities:
  



 



 




 Acquisition of investments
  
 
0
  
 
 
(14,279
) 
 
 
(125
) 

 Disposition of investments
  
 
11,828
  
 
 
33
  
 
 
31
  

 Net decrease (increase) in short-term investments
  
 
62,524
  
 
 
106,881
  
 
 
(129,789
) 

 Investment in subsidiaries
  
 
(25,000
) 
 
 
(18,722
) 
 
 
(100,000
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash provided from (used for) investing activities
  
 
49,352
  
 
 
73,913
  
 
 
(229,883
) 






 Cash provided from (used for) financing activities:
  



 



 




 Issuance of
9 1/4% Senior Notes
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
296,308
  

 Acquisition of
9 1/4% Senior Notes
  
 
0
  
 
 
(8,913
) 
 
 
0
  

 Repayment of
8 1/4% Senior Debentures
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(99,050
) 

 Net issuance (repayment) of commercial paper
  
 
25,967
  
 
 
(34,432
) 
 
 
(71,329
) 

 Issuance of stock
  
 
162,613
  
 
 
37,863
  
 
 
4,430
  

 Acquisitions of treasury stock
  
 
(972,556
) 
 
 
(246,006
) 
 
 
(47,564
) 

 Net borrowings to/from subsidiaries
  
 
96,000
  
 
 
(86,800
) 
 
 
(87,200
) 

 Excess tax benefit on stock option exercises
  
 
2,021
  
 
 
162
  
 
 
(30
) 

 Payment of dividends
  
 
(72,395
) 
 
 
(73,331
) 
 
 
(69,885
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash provided from (used for) financing activities
  
 
(758,350
) 
 
 
(411,457
) 
 
 
(74,320
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Net increase (decrease) in cash
  
 
27,099
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(749
) 

 Cash balance at beginning of period
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
749
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash balance at end of period
  
$
27,099
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   See Notes to Condensed Financial
Statements and accompanying Report of Independent Registered  Public Accounting Firm. 
  123 


Table of Contents
TORCHMARK CORPORATION  (PARENT COMPANY)  NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Amounts in thousands)   
Note A—Dividends from Subsidiaries   
Cash dividends paid to Torchmark from the consolidated subsidiaries were as follows: 
 
















 
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 
  
    2009    
 

 Consolidated subsidiaries
  
$
769,139
  
  
$
370,947
  
  
$
354,695
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Note B—Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow
Information    The following table summarizes noncash
transactions, which are not reflected on the Condensed Statements of Cash Flows:   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 
  
    2009    
 

 Stock-based compensation not involving cash
  
$
14,954
  
  
$
11,848
  
  
$
9,860
  
   The following table summarizes certain
amounts paid (received) during the period:   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 
  
    2009    
 

 Interest paid
  
$
74,569
  
  
$
75,909
  
  
$
73,031
  

 Income taxes received
  
 
22,893
  
  
 
2,379
  
  
 
25,202
  
   Note C—Special Items 
  In 2009, a Federal income tax expense of $1.5 million was incurred
relating to Internal Revenue Service examinations of prior years.    Note
D—Preferred Stock    As of December 31, 2011,
Torchmark had 351 thousand shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, issued and outstanding, of which 280 thousand shares were 6.50% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, and 71 thousand shares were 7.15% Cumulative Preferred Stock,
Series A (collectively, the “Series A Preferred Stock”). All issued and outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock were held by wholly-owned insurance subsidiaries. In the event of liquidation, the holders of the
Series A Preferred Stock at the time outstanding would be entitled to receive a liquidating distribution out of the assets legally available to stockholders in the amount of $1 thousand per share or $351 million in the aggregate, plus any
accrued and unpaid dividends, before any distribution is made to holders of Torchmark common stock. Holders of Series A Preferred Stock do not have any voting rights nor have rights to convert such shares into shares of any other class of
Torchmark capital stock.      See accompanying Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 
  124 


Table of Contents
TORCHMARK CORPORATION 
SCHEDULE IV. REINSURANCE (CONSOLIDATED) 
(Amounts in thousands)   
























 
  
GrossAmount
 
  
Cededto OtherCompanies(1)
 
  
Assumedfrom OtherCompanies
 
  
NetAmount
 
  
Percentageof AmountAssumedto Net
 








 For the Year Ended December 31,2011:
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 Life insurance in force
  
$
144,778,793
  
  
$
738,935
  
  
$
4,414,247
  
  
$
148,454,105
  
  
 
3.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 









Premiums:(2)
  



  



  



  



  




 Life insurance
  
$
1,675,307
  
  
$
4,716
  
  
$
31,311
  
  
$
1,701,902
  
  
 
1.8
% 

 Health insurance
  
 
931,751
  
  
 
2,285
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
929,466
  
  
 
0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total premium
  
$
2,607,058
  
  
$
7,001
  
  
$
31,311
  
  
$
2,631,368
  
  
 
1.2
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 








 For the Year Ended December 31,2010:
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 Life insurance in force
  
$
140,653,839
  
  
$
722,577
  
  
$
4,743,222
  
  
$
144,674,484
  
  
 
3.3
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 









Premiums:(2)
  



  



  



  



  




 Life insurance
  
$
1,618,973
  
  
$
4,684
  
  
$
23,419
  
  
$
1,637,708
  
  
 
1.4
% 

 Health insurance
  
 
990,024
  
  
 
2,603
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
987,421
  
  
 
0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total premium
  
$
2,608,997
  
  
$
7,287
  
  
$
23,419
  
  
$
2,625,129
  
  
 
.9
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 








 For the Year Ended December 31,2009:
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 Life insurance in force
  
$
139,408,962
  
  
$
744,213
  
  
$
1,898,360
  
  
$
140,563,109
  
  
 
1.4
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 









Premiums:(2)
  



  



  



  



  




 Life insurance
  
$
1,550,434
  
  
$
4,647
  
  
$
18,172
  
  
$
1,563,959
  
  
 
1.2
% 

 Health insurance
  
 
1,020,467
  
  
 
2,756
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,017,711
  
  
 
0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total premium
  
$
2,570,901
  
  
$
7,403
  
  
$
18,172
  
  
$
2,581,670
  
  
 
.7
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
No amounts have been netted against ceded premium 


(2)
 
Excludes policy charges of $24,950, $26,629, and $28,435, in each of the years 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 
  See accompanying Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm. 
  125 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 12 or 15(d) of the Securities
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   






TORCHMARK CORPORATION




By:
 
/s/    MARK S.
MCANDREW        


 
Mark S. McAndrew,


 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Director




By:
 
/s/    GARY L.
COLEMAN        


 
Gary L. Coleman, Executive Vice Presidentand Chief Financial Officer




By:
 
/s/  DANNY H. ALMOND        


 
Danny H. Almond Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer
   Date: February 28, 2012 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.   


















By:
 
/s/    CHARLES E.
ADAIR  *        
 

 
By:
 
/s/    LLOYD W.
NEWTON  *        


 
Charles E. Adair
 

 

 
Lloyd W. Newton


 
Director
 

 

 
Director







By:
 
/s/    DAVID L.
BOREN  *        
 

 
By:
 
/s/    SAM R. PERRY  *        



 
David L. Boren
 

 

 
Sam R. Perry


 
Director
 

 

 
Director







By:
 
/s/    M. JANE
BUCHAN  *        
 

 
By:
 
/s/    DARREN M.
REBELEZ  *        


 
M. Jane Buchan
 

 

 
Darren M. Rebelez


 
Director
 

 

 
Director







By:
 
/s/    ROBERT W.
INGRAM  *        
 

 
By:
 
/s/    LAMAR C.
SMITH  *        


 
Robert W. Ingram
 

 

 
Lamar C. Smith


 
Director
 

 

 
Director














  
/s/    PAUL J.
ZUCCONI  *        
  



  
Paul J. Zucconi
  



  
Director
  



















Date: February 28, 2012
 

 

 








 *By:  
 
/s/    GARY L. COLEMAN        
 

 

 



 
Gary L. Coleman
 

 

 



 
Attorney-in-fact
 

 

 


  126 



