
10-K
1
v244511_10k.htm
FORM 10-K








UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
Washington, D.C. 20549
 


 
FORM 10-K
 

xANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
For the fiscal year ended December 31,
2011
 
OR
 

¨TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
For the transition period from                          to                          
 
Commission File Number 001-06605
 


 
EQUIFAX INC.
 
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)
 


Georgia
58-0401110

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

1550 Peachtree Street, N.W.
 

Atlanta, Georgia
30309

(Address of principal executive offices)
(Zip Code)

 
Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code: 404-885-8000
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b)
of the Act:
 


Title of each class
 
Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, $1.25 par value per share
 
New York Stock Exchange

Common Stock Purchase Rights
 
New York Stock Exchange

 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g)
of the Act: None.
 


 
Indicate by check mark if Registrant is a well-known
seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Exchange Act (“Act”). x  YES   ¨  NO
 
Indicate by check mark if Registrant is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.   ¨
 YES   x  NO
 
Indicate by check mark whether Registrant (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject
to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.         x  YES   ¨  NO
 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.   x
 
Indicate by check mark whether the
Registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to
be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the Registrant was required to submit and post such files).    YES  x   NO  ¨
 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant
is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of
“large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act. (Check one):
 



S
Large accelerated filer
£
Accelerated filer
£
Non-accelerated filer
£
Smaller reporting company

 
(Do not check if a smaller
    reporting company)

 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant
is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). ¨ YES   x  NO
 
As of June 30, 2011, the aggregate market
value of Registrant’s common stock held by non-affiliates of Registrant was approximately $4,249,886,427 based on the closing
sale price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange. At January 31, 2012, there were 119,845,979 shares of Registrant’s
common stock outstanding.
 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
Portions of Registrant’s definitive proxy
statement for its 2012 annual meeting of shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K.
 

 
 

 
PART I
 
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
 
OVERVIEW
 
Equifax Inc. is a leading global provider of
information solutions for businesses and consumers. We have a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including financial
institutions, corporations, governments and individuals. Our products and services are based on comprehensive databases of consumer
and business information derived from numerous types of credit, financial, employment, income, public record, demographic and marketing
data. We use proprietary tools to analyze all available data to create customized insights, decision-making solutions and processing
services for our clients. We help consumers understand, manage and protect their personal information and make more informed financial
decisions. Additionally, we are a leading provider of payroll-related and human resources business process outsourcing services
in the United States of America, or U.S.
 
We currently operate in three global regions:
North America (U.S. and Canada), Europe (the United Kingdom, or U.K., Spain and Portugal) and Latin America (Argentina, Chile,
Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay). We also maintain support operations in the Republic of
Ireland, Chile and Costa Rica. We have an investment in the second largest consumer and commercial credit information company in
Brazil and offer credit services in Russia and India through joint ventures.
 
Equifax was originally incorporated under the
laws of the State of Georgia in 1913, and its predecessor company dates back to 1899. As used herein, the terms Equifax, the Company,
we, our and us refer to Equifax Inc., a Georgia corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where
it is clear that the terms mean only Equifax Inc.
 
We are organized and report our business results
in five operating segments, as follows:
 

•U.S. Consumer Information Solutions (USCIS) — provides consumer information solutions to businesses in
the U.S. including online consumer information, decisioning technology solutions, fraud and identity management services, and portfolio
management services (OCIS), mortgage reporting and settlement solutions, and consumer financial marketing services (CFMS).
 

•International — includes our Canada Consumer, Europe and Latin America business units. Products and services
offered are similar to those available in the USCIS, North America Commercial Solutions and North America Personal Solutions operating
segments but vary by geographic region.
 

•TALX Workforce Solutions — provides services enabling clients to verify income and employment (Verification
Services) and outsource and automate the performance of certain payroll-related and human resources management and business processes,
including social security number verification, employment-related tax management and talent management services (TALX Employer
Services).
 

•North America Personal Solutions — provides products to consumers enabling them to monitor, manage and
protect their credit, credit score and identity information and make more informed financial decisions.
 

•North America Commercial Solutions — provides credit, financial, marketing and other information regarding
businesses in the U.S. and Canada.
 

2
 

 
Our revenue base and business mix are diversified
among our five segments as depicted in the chart below.
 

 

3
 

 
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
 
The following chart summarizes the key products
and services offered by each of the business units within our segments:
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
North
 
North
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
USCIS
 
America
 
America
 
International
 
TALX

 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage
 
Personal
 
Commercial
 
Canada
 
 
 
Latin
 
Verification
 
Employer

 
 
OCIS
 
CFMS
 
Services
 
Solutions
 
Solutions
 
Consumer
 
Europe
 
America
 
Services
 
Services

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Online consumer information
 
X
 
 
 
X
 
X
 
 
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Business credit & demographic information
 
 
 
X
 
 
 
 
 
X
 
 
 
X
 
X
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Scores and analytical services
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Enabling technology services (i.e., decisioning platforms)
 
X
 
 
 
X
 
 
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Identity authentication/fraud
 
X
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Consumer financial marketing services
 
 
 
X
 
X
 
 
 
 
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Business marketing services and database management
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
X
 
 
 
X
 
X
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Direct to consumer credit monitoring
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
X
 
 
 
X
 
X
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Identity protection
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
X
 
 
 
X
 
X
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Employment, income and identity verification services
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
X
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Business process outsourcing (BPO)
 
 
 
 
 
X
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
X
 
X

 
 
Each of our operating segments is described
more fully below.
 
USCIS
 
USCIS provides consumer information solutions
to businesses in the U.S. through three product lines, as follows:
 
Online Consumer Information Solutions
(OCIS). OCIS products are derived from multiple large databases of consumer information that we maintain about individual
consumers, including credit history, current credit status, payment history and consumer address information. Our customers utilize
the information we provide to make decisions for a wide range of financial and business purposes, such as whether, and on what
terms, to approve auto loans or credit card applications, whether to allow a consumer to open a new utility or telephone account,
cross-selling additional products to existing customers, improving their underwriting and risk management decisions and many other
business uses. We also offer analytical and predictive services based on the information in the consumer databases to help further
mitigate the risk of granting credit by verifying the identity of consumers, predicting the risk of bankruptcy, or indicating the
applicant’s risk potential for account delinquency. These risk management services, as well as fraud detection and prevention
services, enable our customers to monitor risks and opportunities and proactively manage their existing consumer accounts.
 

4
 

 
OCIS customers access products through a full
range of electronic distribution mechanisms, including direct real-time access, which facilitates instant decisions. We also develop
and host customized applications that enhance the decision-making process for our customers. These decisioning technology applications
assist with pre-approved offers, cross-selling of various products, determining deposit amounts for telephone and utility companies,
and verifying the identity of consumer customers.
 
Mortgage Solutions. Our Mortgage
Solutions products, offered in the U.S., consist of specialized credit reports that combine information from the three major consumer
credit reporting agencies (Equifax, Experian Group and TransUnion LLC) into a single “merged” credit report in an online
format, commonly referred to as a tri-merge report. Mortgage lenders use these tri-merge reports in making their mortgage underwriting
decisions. Additionally, we offer various “triggering” services designed to alert lenders to changes in a consumer’s
credit status during the underwriting period and securitized portfolio risk assessment services for evaluating inherent portfolio
risk. We also offer certain mortgage settlement services, such as appraisal, title and closing documentation, with certain of these
services provided through agreements with third parties.
 
Consumer Financial Marketing Services
(CFMS). Our CFMS products utilize consumer financial information enabling our customers to more effectively manage their
marketing efforts, including targeting and segmentation; identify and acquire new customers for their products and services; and
realize additional revenue from existing customers through more effective cross-selling and up-selling of additional products and
services. These products utilize information derived from consumer information, including credit, income, asset, liquidity, net
worth and spending activity, which also support many of our OCIS products. These data assets broaden the understanding of customer
financial potential and opportunity which can further drive high value decisioning and targeting solutions for our customers. We
also provide account review services which assist our customers in managing their existing customers and prescreen services that
help our clients identify new opportunities with their customers. Customers for these products primarily include institutions in
the banking, brokerage, retail, insurance, and mortgage industries as well as companies primarily focused on digital and interactive
marketing.
 
International
 
The International operating segment includes
our Canada Consumer, Europe and Latin America business units. These business units offer products that are similar to those available
in the USCIS operating segment, and to a lesser extent our North America Commercial and Personal Solutions segments, although data
sources tend to rely more heavily on government agencies than in the U.S. These products generate revenue in Argentina, Canada,
Chile, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, Spain, the U.K. and Uruguay. We also maintain support
operations in the Republic of Ireland, Chile and Costa Rica. We have an investment in the second largest consumer and commercial
credit information company in Brazil and offer consumer credit services in Russia and India through joint ventures.
 
Canada Consumer. Similar to our
OCIS, Mortgage Solutions and CFMS business units, Canada Consumer offers products derived from the credit information that we maintain
about individual consumers. We offer many products in Canada, including credit reporting and scoring, consumer marketing, risk
management, fraud detection and modeling services, together with certain of our decisioning products that facilitate pre-approved
offers of credit and automate a variety of credit decisions.
 
Europe. Our European operation
provides information solutions, marketing and personal solutions products. Information solutions and personal solutions products
are generated from information that we maintain and include credit reporting and scoring, asset information, risk management, fraud
detection and modeling services. Most of these products are sold in the U.K. with a more limited set of information solutions products
sold in Portugal and Spain. Our commercial products, such as business credit reporting and commercial risk management services,
are only available in the U.K. Marketing products, which are similar to those offered in our CFMS business unit, are primarily
available in the U.K. and, to a lesser extent, in Spain.
 
Latin America. Our Latin American
operation provides consumer and commercial information solutions products and marketing products. We offer a full range of products,
generated from credit records that we maintain, including credit reporting and scoring, decisioning technology, risk management,
identity verification and fraud detection services. Our consumer products are the primary source of revenue in each of the countries
in which we operate. We also offer various commercial products, which include credit reporting, decisioning tools and risk management
services, in the countries we serve. Additionally, we provide a variety of consumer and commercial marketing products generated
from our credit information databases, including business profile analysis, business prospect lists and database management. The
countries in which we operate include Argentina, Chile, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay.
 

5
 

 
TALX Workforce Solutions
 
TALX Workforce Solutions operates in the U.S.
through two business units, as follows:
 
Verification Services. Verification
Services include employment, income and social security number verification services. Our online verification services enable employers
to direct third-party verifiers to our work number database to verify the employee’s employment status and income information.
We also offer an offline research verification service which expands employment verification to locate data outside our existing
work number database. In 2009, we increased our services to provide IRS income verifications using the IncomeChek ®
product as well as identity verification through a secure, web-based portal using the DirectChek ®
product.
 
We rely on payroll data received from over 2,250
organizations, including almost three quarters of Fortune 500 companies, to regularly update the database. This data is updated
as employers transmit data electronically directly to us from their payroll systems. Employers contract to provide this data to
us for specified periods under the terms of contracts which range from one to five years. We use this data to provide employment
and income verifications to third-party verifiers; the fees we charge for these services are generally per transaction. After the
expiration of the applicable contract, absent renewal by mutual agreement of the parties, we generally do not have any further
right to use the employment data we obtained pursuant to the contract. We have not experienced significant turnover in the employer
contributors to the database because we generally do not charge them to add their employment data to the database and the verification
service we offer relieves them of the administrative burden and expense of responding to third party employment verification requests.
The database contained approximately 210 million current and historic employment records at December 31, 2011.
 
Employer Services. These services
are aimed at reducing the cost to the human resources function of businesses through a broad suite of services including assisting
with employment tax matters designed to reduce the cost of unemployment claims through effective claims representation and management
and efficient processing and to better manage the tax rate that employers are assessed for unemployment taxes; comprehensive services
designed to research the availability of employment-related tax credits (e.g., the federal work opportunity and welfare to work
tax credits and state tax credits), process the necessary filings and assist the customer in obtaining the tax credit; W-2 management
services (which include initial distribution, reissue and correction of W-2 forms); paperless pay services that enable employees
to electronically receive pay statement information as well as review and change direct deposit account or W-4 information; integrated
electronic time capture and reporting services; paperless new-hire services to bring new workers on board using electronic forms;
I-9 management services designed to help clients electronically comply with the immigration laws that require employers to complete
an I-9 form for each new hire; and planning and improving the cost effectiveness of talent recruitment and management through secure,
electronic-based psychometric testing and assessments, as well as onboarding services using online forms to complete the new hire
process for employees of corporate and government agencies.
 
North America Personal Solutions
 
Our Personal Solutions products give consumers
information to make financial decisions and monitor and protect credit, credit score and identity information through our Equifax
Complete, ID Patrol, Credit Watch and Score Watch monitoring products. Consumers can obtain a copy of credit file information about
them and their credit score. We offer monitoring products for consumers who are concerned about identity theft and data breaches,
including the Credit Report Control service that allows consumers subscribing to our credit monitoring products to restrict access
to their credit report to mitigate unauthorized use of Equifax credit file information by third parties. Our products are available
to consumers directly and through relationships with business partners who distribute our products or provide these services to
their employees or customers.
 

6
 

 
North America Commercial Solutions
 
Our Commercial Solutions products are derived
from databases of credit, financial and marketing information regarding businesses in the U.S. and Canada. Databases we have compiled
include loan; credit card; public records and leasing history data; trade accounts receivable performance; and Secretary of State
and Securities and Exchange Commission registration information. We also offer scoring and analytical services that provide additional
information to help mitigate the credit risk assumed by our customers. We also have a marketing database which hosts approximately
50 million commercial demographic data records from around the world helping companies to identify corporate family structures
for enterprise visibility of customers and suppliers. In addition, we are integrating information from other databases, such as
asset information, that will make our marketing services offerings more valuable.
 
A portion of the business records included in
the U.S. credit database has been developed in part from the Small Business Financial Exchange, Inc., or SBFE. SBFE members, including
a number of commercial lending financial institutions, contribute their data to the member-owned SBFE database which we exclusively
manage and market the data. Our contract with the SBFE is scheduled to expire at the end of 2012, unless renewed by mutual agreement
of the parties. While we have successfully maintained our access to the data at prior renewal dates, the information comprising
the database is generally not owned by us, and the SBFE could decide that we no longer have exclusive marketing rights to the information
in the database, the SBFE could elect to have another party manage the database, or the participating organizations could discontinue
contributing information to the database.
 
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
 
Our strategic objective is to be the trusted
provider of information driven solutions that empower our customers with the ability to make critical decisions with greater confidence.
Data is at the core of our value proposition. Leveraging our extensive resources, we deliver differentiated decisions through a
broad and diverse set of data assets, sophisticated analytics and proprietary decisioning technology. Our comprehensive set of
data assets can provide an in-depth view of the consumer’s financial potential and opportunity including their propensity,
ability and capacity to pay. Our long-term corporate growth strategy is driven by the following initiatives:
 

•Increase penetration of our customers’ information solutions needs. We seek to increase our share of customers’
spending on information-related services through the development and introduction of new products, pricing our services in accordance
with the value they create, increasing the range of current services utilized by our customers, and improving the quality and effectiveness
of our sales organization and customer support interactions with consumers. We are also helping customers address increased compliance.
 

•Deploy decisioning technologies and analytics globally. We continue to invest in and develop new technology to enhance
the functionality, cost-effectiveness and security of the services we offer and further differentiate our products from those offered
by our competitors. In addition to custom products for large customers, we develop off-the-shelf, decisioning technology platforms
that are more cost-effective for medium- and smaller-sized customers. We also develop predictive scores and analytics, some of
which leverage multiple data assets, to help customers acquire new customers and manage their existing customer relationships.
We develop a broad array of industry, risk management, cross-sell and account acquisition models to enhance the precision of our
customers’ decisioning activities.
 

•Invest in unique data sources. We continue to invest in and acquire unique sources of credit and non-credit information
to enhance the variety and quality of our services while increasing customers’ confidence in information-based business decisions.
Areas of focus for investment in new sources of data include, among others, positive payment data, real estate data and new commercial
business data.
 

•Pursue new vertical markets and expand into emerging markets. We believe there are many opportunities to expand into
emerging markets both in the U.S. and internationally. In the U.S., our Capital Markets area offers unique products which enable
investors and underwriters to have a more current and relevant understanding of the inherent risk in a portfolio of loans. Our
Mortgage Services business continues to expand its presence in the mortgage value chain with a broader offering of mortgage underwriting
services. Also, we will continue to invest in growing our ventures in Russia, India and Brazil.
 

7
 

 
COMPETITION
 
The market for our products and services is
highly competitive and is subject to constant change. Our competitors vary widely in size and the nature of the products and services
they offer. Sources of competition are numerous and include the following:
 

•Competition for our consumer information solutions and personal solutions products varies by both application and industry,
but generally includes two global consumer credit reporting companies, Experian, and TransUnion, both of which offer a product
suite similar to our credit reporting solutions, and LifeLock, a national provider of personal identity theft protection products.
There are also a large number of smaller competitors who offer competing products in specialized areas (such as fraud prevention,
risk management and application processing and decisioning solutions) and software companies offering credit modeling services
or analytical tools. We believe that our products offer our customers an advantage over those of our competitors because of the
depth and breadth of our consumer information files, which we believe to be superior in terms of accuracy, coverage and availability.
Other differentiators include our decisioning technology and the features and functionality of our analytical services. Our competitive
strategy is to emphasize improved decision-making and product quality while remaining competitive on price. Our marketing services
products also compete with the foregoing companies and others who offer demographic information products, including Acxiom Corporation,
Harte-Hanks, Inc. and infoGROUP, Inc. We also compete with Fair Isaac Corporation with respect to certain of our analytical tools.
 

•Competition for our commercial solutions products primarily includes Experian, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, and Cortera,
Inc., and providers of these services in the international markets we serve. We believe our U.S. small business loan information
from financial institutions is a unique database and enables more efficient and effective decision-making for the small business
segment of that market.
 

•Competition for our employment and income verification services includes large employers who serve their own needs through
in-house systems to manage verification as well as regional online verification companies, such as Verify Jobs and First Advantage,
who offer verification services along with other human resources and tax services. Competition for TALX Employer Services includes
payroll processors such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc., or ADP, Paychex, Inc. and Ceridian Corporation. Competitors of our
Tax Management Services include in-house management of this function primarily by large employers; ADP; and a number of smaller
regional firms that offer tax management services (including Barnett Associates, Thomas & Thorngren, UC Advantage). Talent
Management Services competitors include assessment service providers that offer proprietary content (Previsor, Inc., Development
Dimensions International, Brainbench, Inc.), human resources consulting firms (AON Corporation, Towers Watson, Right Management
Consulting) and assessment or test publishers that have proprietary delivery platforms (Devine Group, Inc., Hogan Assessments Systems,
Inc., SHL Group plc).
 
While we believe that none of our competitors
offers the same mix of products and services as we do, certain competitors may have a larger share of particular geographic or
product markets or operate in geographic areas where we do not currently have a presence.
 
We assess the principal competitive factors
affecting our markets to include: product attributes such as quality, depth, coverage, adaptability, scalability, interoperability,
functionality and ease-of-use; product price; technical performance; access to unique proprietary databases; availability in application
service provider, or ASP, format; quickness of response, flexibility and customer services and support; effectiveness of sales
and marketing efforts; existing market penetration; new product innovation; and our reputation as a trusted steward of information.
 
MARKETS AND CUSTOMERS
 
Our products and services serve clients across
a wide range of industries, including financial services, mortgage, human resources, consumer, commercial, telecommunications,
retail, automotive, utilities, brokerage, healthcare and insurance industries, as well as state and federal governments. We also
serve consumers directly. Our revenue stream is highly diversified with our largest customer providing only 3% of total revenue.
The following table summarizes the various end-user markets we serve:
 

8
 

 


  
Percentage of 

  
Consolidated Revenue 

  
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Financial 
 26% 
 26%

Mortgage 
 15% 
 15%

Consumer 
 11% 
 10%

Employers 
 10% 
 11%

Commercial 
 7% 
 8%

Telecommunications 
 7% 
 7%

Retail 
 5% 
 5%

Automotive 
 4% 
 4%

Other (1) 
 15% 
 14%

  
 100% 
 100%

 

(1)Other includes revenue from marketing services, government, insurance and health care end-users.
 
We market our products and services primarily
through our own direct sales organization that is organized around sales teams that focus on customer segments typically aligned
by vertical markets and geography. Sales groups are based in our headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia, and field offices located in
the U.S. and in the countries where we have operations. We also market our products and services through indirect channels, including
alliance partners, joint ventures and other resellers. In addition, we sell through direct mail and various websites, such as www.equifax.com.
 
Our largest geographic market segments are North
America (the U.S. and Canada); Europe (the U.K., Spain and Portugal); and Latin America (Argentina, Chile, Costa Rica, Ecuador,
El Salvador, Honduras, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay). We also maintain support operations in the Republic of Ireland, Chile and Costa
Rica. We have an investment in the second largest consumer and commercial credit information company in Brazil and offer consumer
credit services in Russia and India through joint ventures.
 
Revenue from international customers, including
end-users and resellers, amounted to 26% of our total revenue in 2011 and 27% of our total revenue in 2010 and 2009.
 

9
 

 
TECHNOLOGY AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
 
We generally seek protection under federal,
state and foreign laws for strategic or financially important intellectual property developed in connection with our business.
Certain intellectual property, where appropriate, is protected by registration under applicable trademark laws or by prosecution
of patent applications. We own several patents registered in the U.S. and certain foreign countries. We also have certain registered
trademarks in the U.S. and in many foreign countries. The most important of these are “Equifax,” “TALX”,
“The Work Number” and many variations thereof. These trademarks are used in connection with most of our product lines
and services. The Company believes that, in the aggregate, the rights under these patents and trademarks are generally important
to its operations and competitive position, but does not regard any of its businesses as being dependent upon any single patent
or group of patents or trademark. However, certain Company trademarks, which contribute to the Company’s identity and the
recognition of its products and services, including but not limited to the “Equifax” trademark, are an integral part
of our business, and their loss could have a material adverse effect on the Company.
 
We license other companies to use certain data,
technology and other intellectual property rights we own or control, primarily as core components of our products and services,
on terms that are consistent with customary industry standards and that are designed to protect our interest in our intellectual
property. Other companies license us to use certain data, technology and other intellectual property rights they own or control,
none of which is material to our business except for a license from Fair Isaac Corporation, relating to certain credit-scoring
algorithms and the right to sell credit scores derived from them. This license has a five-year term expiring in June 2013 and provides
for usage-based fees. Additionally, the licenses do not contain early termination provisions except for standard provisions providing
the right to terminate in the event of breach by the other party. We do not hold any franchises or concessions that are material
to our business or results of operations.
 
INFORMATION SECURITY AND GOVERNMENT REGULATION
 
Safeguarding the privacy and security of consumer
credit information, whether delivered online or in an offline format, is a top priority. We recognize the importance of secure
online transactions and we maintain physical, administrative, and technical safeguards reasonably designed to protect personal
and business identifiable information. We have security protocols and measures in place to protect information from unauthorized
access or alteration. These measures include internal and external firewalls, physical security and technological security measures,
and encryption of certain data.
 
Our databases are regularly updated by information
provided by financial institutions, telecommunications companies, other trade credit providers, employers, public records vendors
and government agencies. Various laws and regulations govern the collection and use of this information. These laws and existing
and proposed regulations impact how we are able to provide information to our customers and may significantly increase our compliance
costs. We are subject to differing laws and regulations depending on where we operate.
 
U.S. Data and Privacy Protection
 
Our U.S. operations are subject to various federal
and state laws and regulations governing the collection, protection and use of consumer credit and other information, and imposing
sanctions for the misuse of such information or unauthorized access to data. Many of these provisions also affect our customers’
use of consumer credit or other data we furnish. The information underlying our North America Commercial Services business is less
regulated than the other portions of our business.
 
Examples include:
 

•The Fair Credit Reporting Act, or FCRA, which governs among other things the reporting of information to consumer reporting
agencies that engage in the practice of assembling or evaluating certain information relating to consumers, including our credit
reporting business and employment verification; making prescreened offers of credit; the sharing of consumer report information
among affiliated and unaffiliated third parties; access to credit scores; and requirements for data furnishers and users of consumer
report information. Violation of the FCRA, or of similar state laws, can result in an award of actual damages, as well as statutory
and/or punitive damages in the event of a willful violation.
 

10
 

 

•The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (2003), or FACT Act, which amended the FCRA and requires, among other things,
nationwide consumer credit reporting agencies, such as us, upon the request of a consumer, to place a fraud alert in the consumer’s
credit file stating that the consumer may be the victim of identity theft or other fraud, and furnish a free annual credit file
disclosure to consumers through a centralized request facility we have established with the other nationwide credit reporting agencies.
FACT Act regulations also require financial institutions to develop policies and procedures to identify potential identity theft,
and consumer credit report notice requirements for lenders that use consumer report information in connection with risk-based credit
pricing actions. Entities that furnish information to consumer reporting agencies are required to implement procedures and policies
regarding the accuracy and integrity of the furnished information and regarding the correction of previously furnished information
that is later determined to be inaccurate. Mortgage lenders are required to disclose credit scores to consumers. Additionally,
the FACT Act prohibits a business that receives consumer information from an affiliate from using that information for marketing
purposes unless the consumer is first provided a notice and an opportunity to direct the business not to use the information for
such marketing purposes (“opt-out”), subject to certain exceptions.
 

•The Financial Services Modernization Act (1999), or Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, or GLB, which, among other things, regulates the
use of non-public personal financial information of consumers that is held by financial institutions. Equifax is subject to various
GLB provisions, including rules relating to the physical, administrative and technological protection of non-public personal financial
information. Breach of the GLB can result in civil and/or criminal liability and sanctions by regulatory authorities, such as fines
of up to $100,000 per violation and up to five years imprisonment for individuals.
 

•The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (1996), or HIPAA, which requires reasonable safeguards to prevent intentional
or unintentional use or disclosure of protected health information.
 

•Most states in the U.S. have passed versions of security breach notification and credit file freeze legislation. A file freeze
enables consumers to place and lift a freeze on access to their credit files. File freeze laws impose differing requirements on
credit reporting agencies with respect to how and when to respond to such credit file freeze requests and in the fees, if any,
the agencies may charge for freeze-related actions.
 

•Federal and state laws governing the use of the Internet and regulating telemarketing, including the federal Controlling the
Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act (2003), or CAN-SPAM, which regulates commercial email, prohibits false or
misleading header information, requires that a commercial email be identified as an advertisement, and requires that commercial
emails give recipients an opt-out method. Senate Bill 3386, enacted into federal law, seeks to protect online consumers from unfair
and deceptive sales tactics on the Internet. Other Internet privacy laws and regulations have been proposed from time to time to
address digital marketing, i.e., how personal information is collected and distributed online, including behavioral advertising.
 

•Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac regulations applicable to our credit reporting and mortgage solutions products, the Real Estate
Settlement Procedures Act and HUD’s Regulation X, which requires the disclosure of certain basic information to borrowers
concerning settlement costs and prohibits the charging of unearned fees and certain “kickbacks” or other fees for referrals
in connection with a residential mortgage settlement service.
 

•The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010), or Dodd-Frank Act,
                                                                   represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the U.S. The Dodd-Frank Act will allow
                                                                   consumers free access to their credit score if their score negatively affects them in a financial transaction or a hiring
                                                                   decision, and also gives consumers access to credit score disclosures as part of an adverse action and risk-based pricing
                                                                   notice. Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act establishes the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or CFPB, within the Federal
                                                                   Reserve Board, and will require the CFPB and other federal agencies to implement many new and significant rules
                                                                   and regulations. Significant portions of the Dodd-Frank Act related to the CFPB became effective on July 21, 2011. The CFPB
                                                                   has broad powers to promulgate, administer and enforce consumer financial regulations, including those applicable to use and
                                                                   our customers.




Under the Dodd-Frank Act,
the CFPB is the principal supervisor and enforcer of federal consumer financial protection laws with respect to non-depository
institutions, or “nonbanks”, including, without limitation, any “covered person” who is a “larger
participant” in a market for other consumer financial products or services.

 

11
 

 
With the appointment of a CFPB Director
by the President on January 4, 2012, the CFPB has begun to exercise authority to define unfair, deceptive or abusive acts and
practices and to require reports and conduct examinations of these entities for purposes of assessing compliance with federal
consumer financial protections laws; obtaining information about the activities and compliance systems or procedures of such entities;
and detecting and assessing risks to consumers and to markets for consumer financial products and services. The exercise of this
supervisory authority must be risk-based, meaning that the CFPB will identify nonbanks for examination based on the risk they
pose to consumers, including consideration of the entity’s asset size, transaction volume, risk to consumers, existing oversight
by state authorities, and any other factors that the CFPB determines to be relevant. On February 16, 2012, the CFPB issued a proposed
rule designating certain consumer reporting agencies, including the Company, as within its nonbank supervision program for “larger
participants.” The CFPB must issue its final rule by July 21, 2012.




As a “larger market participant,”
we are subject to CFPB supervisory, examination and enforcement authority. Such examination may include the filing of reports,
reviewing materials we use to offer products and services and our compliance management systems and procedures. When a nonbank
is in violation of federal consumer financial laws, including the CFPB’s own rules, the CFPB may pursue administrative proceedings
or litigation to enforce these laws and rules. In these proceedings, the CFPB can obtain cease and desist orders, which can include
orders for restitution or rescission of contracts, as well as other kinds of affirmative relief, and monetary penalties ranging
from $5,000 per day for ordinary violations of federal consumer financial laws to $25,000 per day for reckless violations and $1
million per day for knowing violations. Also, where a company has violated Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act or CFPB regulations under
Title X, the Dodd-Frank Act empowers state attorneys general and state regulators to bring civil actions for the kind of cease
and desist orders available to the CFPB (but not for civil penalties). If the CFPB or one or more state officials believe that
we have committed a violation of the foregoing laws, they could exercise their enforcement powers in a manner that would have a
material adverse effect on us.

 
At this time, we cannot predict
the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act or the resulting rules and regulations, including those of the CFPB, will impact the
U.S. economy or our business.
 
Compliance with these new
laws and regulations may require changes in the way we conduct our business and may result in additional compliance costs, which
could be significant and could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.
 

12
 

 
International Data and Privacy Protection
 
We are subject to data protection, privacy and
consumer credit laws and regulations in the various foreign countries where we do business, including, without limitation, the
following:
 

•In Canada, the federal and provincial privacy and provincial credit reporting laws apply to organizations
with respect to personal information that they collect, use or disclose in the course of commercial activities. The laws are based
on the National Standard of Canada Model Code for the Protection of Personal Information, covering accountability and identifying
purposes, consent, collection, use, disclosure, retention, accuracy, safeguards, individual access and compliance. The federal
and provincial privacy regulators have powers of investigation and intervention, and provisions of Canadian law regarding civil
liability apply in the event of unlawful processing which is prejudicial to the persons concerned. The European Union, or EU, recognizes
Canada as having adequate levels of protection for personal data transfers and processing.
 

•In Europe, Equifax is subject to the EU data protection regulations, including the comprehensive
EU Directive on Data Protection (1995), which imposes a number of obligations on Equifax with respect to use of personal data,
and includes a prohibition on the transfer of personal information from the EU to other countries that do not provide consumers
with an “adequate” level of privacy or security. The EU standard for adequacy is generally stricter and more comprehensive
than that of the U.S. and most other countries. In the U.K., in addition to the EU Directive on Data Protection, the Data Protection
Act of 1998 regulates the manner in which we can use third-party data. In addition, regulatory limitations affect our use of the
Electoral Roll, one of our key data sources in the U.K. Generally, the data underlying the products offered by our U.K. Information
Services and Personal Solutions product lines, excluding our Commercial Services products, are subject to these regulations. In
Spain and Portugal, the privacy laws which are subject to the EU Directive on Data Protection regulate all credit bureau and personal
solutions activities.
 

•In Latin America, consumer data protection and privacy laws and regulations exist in Argentina,
Chile, Peru and Uruguay. Uruguay generally follows the EU data protection model. There are also constitutional provisions in Argentina,
Chile, Peru and certain other countries which declare the right to seek judicial protection regarding the use of personal data,
and in many of those countries grant individuals the right to access and correction of information in the possession of data controllers.
Chile is in the process of revising its credit reporting provisions to promote more transparency about data use, and will consider
new data protection legislation later this year. The EU recognizes Argentina as having adequate levels of protection for personal
data transfers and processing.
 

•In India, several pieces of legislation, including the Information Technology Act 2000 and the Credit
Information Companies Regulation Act 2005 establish a federal data protection framework. Entities that collect and maintain personal
credit information to ensure that it is complete, accurate and safeguarded, and must adopt certain privacy principles with respect
to collecting, processing, preserving, sharing and using such credit information.
 
Tax Management Services
 
The Tax Management Services business within
our TALX Workforce Solutions segment is potentially impacted by changes in U.S. tax laws or interpretations, for example, those
pertaining to work opportunity tax credits and unemployment compensation claims. A subsidiary of TALX Workforce Solutions, Talent
Management, provides employee testing, assessment and talent management services to the federal government through a number of
primary contracts and subcontracts with federal agencies, including the Transportation Security Administration. These contracts
may be adversely affected by changes in U.S. federal government programs or contractor requirements, including the adoption of
new laws or regulations.
 
Environmental Regulation
 
We are subject to federal, state and local laws
and regulations in the areas of safety, health and environmental protection. Compliance with these laws and regulations has not
in the past had any material effect on our earnings, capital expenditures or competitive position. However, the effect of such
compliance in the future cannot be predicted. We believe that we are in material compliance with applicable federal, state and
local safety, health and environmental regulations.
 

13
 

 
PERSONNEL
 
Equifax employed approximately 6,500 employees
in 15 countries as of December 31, 2011. None of our U.S. employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement and no work
stoppages have been experienced. Pursuant to local laws, certain of our employees in Argentina and Spain are covered under government-mandated
collective bargaining regulations that govern general salary and compensation matters, basic benefits and hours of work.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF EQUIFAX
 
The executive officers of Equifax and their
ages and titles are set forth below. Business experience and other information is provided in accordance with SEC rules.
 
Richard F. Smith (52) has been Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer since December 15, 2005. He was named Chairman-Elect and Chief Executive Officer effective September
19, 2005 and was elected as a Director on September 22, 2005. Prior to that, Mr. Smith served as Chief Operating Officer, GE Insurance
Solutions, from 2004 to September 2005 and President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Property and Casualty Reinsurance from 2003
to 2004.
 
Lee Adrean (60) has been Corporate Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer since October 2006. Prior to joining Equifax, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of NDCHealth Corporation from 2004 to 2006. Prior thereto, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of EarthLink, Inc. from 2000 until 2004.
 
Kent E. Mast (68) has served as Corporate
Vice President and Chief Legal Officer since 2000. His responsibilities include legal services, global sourcing, security and compliance,
government and legislative relations, corporate governance and privacy functions.
 
Coretha M. Rushing (55) has been Corporate
Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since 2006. Prior to joining Equifax, she served as an executive coach and HR
Consultant with Atlanta-based Cameron Wesley LLC. Prior thereto, she was Senior Vice President of Human Resources at The Coca-Cola
Company, where she was employed from 1996 until 2004.
 
Paul J. Springman (66) has served as
Corporate Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer since February 2004. Prior thereto, he was head of the Predictive Sciences
unit from August 2002 until February 2004.
 
David C. Webb (56) became Chief Information
Officer on January 19, 2010. Prior thereto, he served as Chief Operations Officer for SVB Financial Corp. from 2008, and from 2004
to 2008 was Chief Information Officer. Mr. Webb was Vice President, Investment Banking Division at Goldman Sachs, a leading global
investment banking, securities and investment management firm, from 1999 to 2004. He was Chief Information Officer at Bank One
from 1997 to 1999.
 
Rodolfo M. Ploder (51) has been President,
U.S. Consumer Information Solutions since July 2010. Prior thereto, he served as President, International from January 2007 until
June 2010. Prior thereto, he was Group Executive, Latin America from February 2004 to January 2007.
 
J. Dann Adams (54) has been President
of Equifax’s TALX subsidiary since July 2010. Prior thereto, he served as President, U.S. Consumer Information Solutions
from 2007 to June 2010. Prior thereto, he served as Group Executive, North America Information Services from November 2003 until
December 2006.
 
Paulino R. Barros (55) has been President,
International since July 2010. Prior thereto, he served as President of PB&C Global Investments, LLC, an international consulting
and investment firm. Prior thereto, he was President of Global Operations for AT&T.
 
Joseph M. Loughran, III (44) has been
President, North America Personal Solutions since January 4, 2010. Prior thereto, he was Senior Vice President — Corporate
Development from April 2006 to December 2009. Prior to joining Equifax he held various executive roles at BellSouth Corporation
from May 2001 to April 2006, including most recently Managing Director-Corporate Strategy and Planning from May 2005 to April 2006.
Prior to joining BellSouth, Mr. Loughran held various roles with McKinsey & Company, King & Spalding, and Lazard Frères
& Co.
 

14
 

 
Alejandro (“Alex”) Gonzalez (42)
has been President, North America Commercial Solutions since January 4, 2010. Prior thereto, he was Senior Vice President of Strategic
Marketing from January 2006 to December 2009, and Customer Experience Leader for GE Insurance Solutions from January 2005 to December
2005.
 
Nuala M. King (58) has been Senior Vice
President and Controller since May 2006. Prior thereto, she was Vice President and Corporate Controller from March 2004 to April
2006. Prior to joining Equifax, Ms. King served as Corporate Controller for UPS Capital from March 2001 until March 2004.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This report contains information that may constitute
“forward-looking statements.” Generally, the words “believe,” “expect,” “intend,”
“estimate,” “anticipate,” “project,” “will” and similar expressions identify forward-looking
statements, which generally are not historical in nature. All statements that address operating performance, events or developments
that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Management believes that these forward-looking
statements are reasonable as and when made. However, forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties
that could cause actual results to differ materially from our Company’s historical experience and our present expectations
or projections, including without limitation our expectations regarding the Company’s outlook, long-term organic and inorganic
growth, and customer acceptance of our business solutions referenced below under “Business Environment, Company Outlook and
Strategy.” These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those described below in Item 1A. Risk Factors,
and elsewhere in this report and those described from time to time in our future reports filed with the United States Securities
and Exchange Commission, or SEC. As a result of such risks and uncertainties, we urge you not to place undue reliance on any such
forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date when made. We undertake no obligation to publicly
update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as
required by law.
 
AVAILABLE INFORMATION
 
Detailed information about us is contained in
our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other reports,
and amendments to those reports, that we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. These reports are available free of charge at our website,
www.equifax.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with or furnish such reports to the
SEC. However, our website and any contents thereof should not be considered to be incorporated by reference into this document.
We will furnish copies of such reports free of charge upon written request to Corporate Secretary, Equifax Inc., P.O. Box 4081,
Atlanta, Georgia, 30302.
 
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
 
Our business faces a variety of risks and uncertainties,
including those described below, and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently
deem immaterial. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business, financial results or results of operations
may be adversely impacted. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K.
 
Weakness in consumer lending activity could materially adversely
affect us.
 
Business customers use our credit information
and related analytical services and data to process applications for new credit cards, automobile loans, home and equity loans
and other consumer loans, and to manage their existing credit relationships. Bank and other lenders’ willingness to extend
credit is adversely affected by elevated consumer delinquency and loan losses in a weak economy. Consumer demand for credit (i.e.,
rates of spending and levels of indebtedness) also tends to grow more slowly or decline during periods of economic contraction
or slow economic growth. High or rising rates of unemployment and interest, declines in income, home prices, or investment values,
lower consumer confidence and reduced access to credit adversely affect demand for our products and services, and consequently
our revenue, as consumers may continue to postpone or reduce their spending and use of credit, and lenders may reduce the amount
of credit offered or available.
 

15
 

 
The loss of access to credit and other data from external
sources could harm our ability to provide our products and services.
 
We rely extensively upon data from external
sources to maintain our proprietary and non-proprietary databases, including data received from customers, strategic partners and
various government and public record sources. This includes the widespread and voluntary contribution of credit data from most
lenders in the U.S and many other markets as well as the contribution of data under proprietary contractual agreements, such as
employers’ contribution of employment and income data to The Work Number, financial institutions’ contribution of individual
financial data to IXI, telecommunications, cable and utility companies’ contribution of payment and fraud data to the National
Cable, Telecommunications and Utility Exchange, and financial institutions’ contribution of small business borrowing information
to the Small Business Financial Exchange. Our data sources could withdraw their data from us for a variety of reasons, including
legislatively or judicially imposed restrictions on use. Where we currently have exclusive use of data, the providers of the data
sources could elect to make the information available to competitors. We also compete with several of our third-party data suppliers.
If a substantial number of data sources or certain key data sources were to withdraw or be unable to provide their data, if we
were to lose access to data due to government regulation, if we lose exclusive right to the use of data, or if the collection of
data becomes uneconomical, our ability to provide products and services to our clients could be materially adversely impacted,
which could result in decreased revenue, net income and earnings per share.
 
Our markets are highly competitive and new product introductions
and pricing strategies being offered by our competitors could decrease our sales and market share or require us to reduce our prices
in a manner that reduces our operating margins.
 
We operate in a number of geographic, product
and service markets that are highly competitive. Competitors may develop products and services that are superior to or that achieve
greater market acceptance than our products and services. The size of our competitors varies across market segments, as do the
resources we have allocated to the segments we target. Therefore, some of our competitors may have significantly greater financial,
technical, marketing or other resources than we do in one or more of our market segments, or overall. As a result, our competitors
may be in a position to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements,
or may devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion, sale and support of products and services. Moreover,
new competitors or alliances among our competitors may emerge and potentially reduce our market share, revenue or margins.
 
We also sell our information to competing firms,
and buy information from certain of our competitors, in order to sell “tri-bureau” and other products, most notably
into the mortgage and direct to consumer markets. Changes in prices between competitors for this information and/or changes in
the design or sale of tri-bureau versus single bureau product offerings may affect our revenue or profitability.
 
Some of our competitors may choose to sell products
competitive to ours at lower prices by accepting lower margins and profitability, or may be able to sell products competitive to
ours at lower prices given proprietary ownership of data, technological superiority or economies of scale. Price reductions by
our competitors could negatively impact our margins and results of operations and could also harm our ability to obtain new customers
on favorable terms. Historically, certain of our key products have experienced declines in per unit pricing due to competitive
factors and customer demand. Since a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature due to sales,
information technology and development and other costs, if we were unable to respond quickly enough to changes in competition or
customer demand, we could experience further reductions in our operating margins.
 
If we do not introduce successful new products and services
in a timely manner, our products and services will become obsolete and our operating results will suffer.
 
We generally sell our products in industries
that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and changing industry standards.
In addition, certain of the markets in which we operate are seasonal and cyclical. Without the timely introduction of new products,
services and enhancements, our products and services will become technologically or commercially obsolete over time, in which case
our revenue and operating results would suffer. The success of our new products and services will depend on several factors, including
our ability to properly identify customer needs; innovate and develop new technologies, services and applications; successfully
commercialize new technologies in a timely manner; produce and deliver our products in sufficient volumes on time; differentiate
our offerings from competitor offerings; price our products competitively; anticipate our competitors’ development of new
products, services or technological innovations; and control product quality in our product development process.
 

16
 

 
The impact of consolidation in the financial services, mortgage,
retail, telecommunications and other markets is difficult to predict and may harm our business.
 
The financial services, mortgage, retail and
telecommunications industries are intensely competitive and have been subject to increasing consolidation. Continuation of the
consolidation trends in these and other industries could result in lower average prices for the larger combined entities, lower
combined purchases of our services than were purchased cumulatively by separate entities prior to consolidation, or existing competitors
increasing their market share in newly consolidated entities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations if we are not retained or chosen as a service provider. We may not be able to compete successfully
in an increasingly consolidated industry and cannot predict with certainty how industry consolidation will affect our competitors
or us.
 
Security breaches and other disruptions to our information
technology infrastructure could interfere with our operations, and could compromise Company, customer and consumer information,
exposing us to liability which could cause our business and reputation to suffer.
 
In the ordinary course of business, we rely
upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic
information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including business-to-business and business-to-consumer
electronic commerce and internal accounting and financial reporting systems. Additionally, we collect and store sensitive data,
including intellectual property, proprietary business information, the proprietary business information and personally identifiable
information of our customers, employees, consumers and suppliers, in data centers and on information technology networks. The secure
operation of these networks and systems, and of the processing and maintenance of this information, is critical to our business
operations and strategy.
 
Despite our substantial investment in security
measures and business continuity plans, our information technology networks and infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions
or shutdowns due to attacks by hackers or breaches due to employee error or malfeasance, or other disruptions during the process
of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures
or natural disasters or other catastrophic events. The occurrence of any of these events could compromise our networks and the
information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information
could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information,
disrupt operations, and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. Our
property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. Also,
our third party insurance coverage will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on availability, cost and our
decisions with respect to risk retention.
 
Dependence on outsourcing certain portions of our supply and
distribution chain may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market and damage our reputation. Dependence on outsourced
information technology and other administrative functions may impair our ability to operate effectively.
 
As part of our efforts to streamline operations
and to reduce operating costs, we have outsourced various components of our application development, information technology, operational
support and administrative functions and will continue to evaluate additional outsourcing. Although we have implemented service
level agreements and have established monitoring controls, if our outsourcing vendors fail to perform their obligations in a timely
manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring products to market and support our customers, and our reputation
could suffer. Any failure to perform on the part of these third party providers could impair our ability to operate effectively
and could result in lower future revenue, unexecuted efficiencies and adversely impact our results of operations and our stock
price. Much of our outsourcing takes place in developing countries and, as a result, may be subject to geopolitical uncertainty.
 
Interest rates and credit ratings could adversely affect our
cost of capital and net income.
 
Rising interest rates, credit market dislocations
and decisions and actions by credit rating agencies can affect the availability and cost of our funding. Credit rating downgrades
or negative changes to ratings outlooks can increase our cost of capital and hurt our competitive position. Guidance from rating
agencies as to acceptable leverage can affect our returns as well.
 

17
 

 
Our retirement and post retirement pension
plans are subject to financial market risks that could adversely affect our future results of operations and cash flows.
 
We have significant retirement and post retirement
pension plan assets and obligations. The performance of the financial markets and interest rates impact our plan expenses and funding
obligations. Significant decreases in market interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on
plan assets will increase our funding obligations, and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows.
 
Concerns regarding the European debt crisis and market perception
concerning the instability of the euro, the potential reintroduction of individual currencies with the Eurozone, or the potential
dissolution of the euro entirely, could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financing.
 
As a result of the debt crisis with respect
to countries in Europe, in particular most recently in Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, concerns have been raised regarding
the debt burden of certain countries using the euro as their currency and their ability to meet future financial obligations, the
overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances
in individual Eurozone countries. These concerns could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more Eurozone
countries, or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency entirely. Should the euro be dissolved
entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect
at such time. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could adversely affect the
value of the Company's euro-denominated assets and obligations, particularly in Portugal, Spain and Ireland, and the future profitability
or even viability of our operations in those countries. In addition, concerns over the effect of this financial crisis on financial
institutions in Europe and globally could have an adverse impact on global economies and capital markets generally, and more specifically
on the Company's business in Europe and the ability of the Company and its customers, suppliers and lenders to finance their respective
businesses, to access liquidity at acceptable financing costs, if at all, and on the demand for our products and services.
 
We may suffer adverse financial consequences if Computer Sciences
Corporation requires us to purchase its credit reporting business at a time when the public equity or debt markets or other financing
conditions are unfavorable to us.
 
In 1988, we entered into an agreement with Computer
Sciences Corporation, or CSC, and certain of its affiliates under which CSC’s credit reporting agencies utilize our computerized
credit database services. Under this agreement, CSC has an option, exercisable at any time, to sell its credit reporting business
to us. The option expires in August 2013. The option exercise price will be determined by an appraisal process and would be due
in cash within 180 days after the exercise of the option. We estimate that if CSC were to exercise the option at December 31, 2011,
the option price would have been approximately $650 million to $750 million. This estimate is based solely on our internal analysis
of the value of the business, current market conditions and other factors, all of which are subject to constant change. Therefore,
the actual option exercise price could be materially higher or lower than the estimated amount. If CSC were to exercise its option,
we would have to obtain additional sources of funding. We believe that this funding would be available from sources such as additional
bank lines of credit and the issuance of public debt and/or equity. However, the availability and terms of any such capital financing
would be subject to a number of factors, including credit or equity market conditions, general economic conditions and our financial
performance and condition. Because we do not control the timing of the exercise, if any, by CSC of its option, we could be required
to seek such financing and increase our debt levels at a time when market or other conditions are unfavorable.
 
The acquisition, integration or divestiture of businesses
by us may not produce the desired financial or operating results.
 
During 2011, we completed the acquisition of
various businesses in separate transactions, including DataVision Resources and several smaller domestic and international acquisitions,
and merged our Brazilian business with and into Boa Vista Servicos in exchange for an equity interest in Boa Vista Servicos. Expected
benefits, synergies and growth from these initiatives may not materialize as planned. We may have difficulty assimilating new businesses
and their products, services, technologies, and personnel into our operations. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business,
distract our management and workforce, increase our expenses and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial
condition. Also, we may not be able to retain key management and other critical employees after an acquisition.
 

18
 

 
Our customers and we are subject to various current governmental
regulations, and could be affected by new laws or regulations, compliance with which may cause us to incur significant expenses,
and if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with certain regulations, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties.
 
Our businesses are subject to various significant
international, federal, state and local regulations, including but not limited to privacy and consumer data protection, health
and safety, tax, labor and environmental regulations. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become
more stringent over time. We may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations
of these regulations. Any failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation of our
operations or portions of our operations or impositions of fines and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations.
In addition, because many of our products are regulated or sold into regulated industries, we must comply with additional regulations
in marketing our products.
 
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted in 2010 to broadly reform practices in the financial services
industry. Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act established a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or CFPB, to
protect consumers from abusive financial services practices. The CFPB will have authority to write rules impacting the
business of credit reporting companies, including the Company, and also to supervise, conduct examinations of, and enforce
compliance as to federal consumer financial protections laws and regulations, with respect to certain “non-depository
covered persons” determined by the CFPB to be “larger participants” that offer consumer financial products
and services. On February 16, 2012, the CFPB issued a proposed rule that would include our credit reporting agency under the
CFPB nonbank supervision program. These laws and regulations (as well as actions that may be taken by legislatures
and regulatory bodies in other countries) could limit our ability to pursue business opportunities we might otherwise
consider engaging in, impose additional costs on us, result in significant loss of revenue, impact the value of assets we
hold, or otherwise significantly adversely affect our business.
 
As in the United States, legislation regarding
the availability or use of consumer and commercial data has been, and continues to be, proposed from time to time in various foreign
countries in which we have operations, most notably in certain Latin American countries. These proposals have in some cases had
the potential to expand the availability or uses of information and in other cases had the potential to restrict the availability
or use of information we currently maintain. Accordingly, such possible regulatory action could either increase or decrease our
potential revenue and profits.
 
We derive a portion of our revenue from direct
and indirect sales to U.S., state, local and foreign governments and their respective agencies. Such contracts are subject to various
procurement laws and regulations, and contract provisions relating to their formation, administration and performance. Failure
to comply with these laws, regulations or provisions in our government contracts could result in the imposition of various civil
and criminal penalties, termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, or suspension of future government
contracting. If our government contracts are terminated, if we are suspended from government work, or if our ability to compete
for new contracts is adversely affected, our business could suffer.
 
Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual
property and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services.
 
From time to time, third parties may claim that
one or more of our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights. We analyze and take action in response to
such claims on a case by case basis. Any dispute or litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly
and time-consuming due to the complexity of our technology and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation and could divert
our management and key personnel from our business operations. A claim of intellectual property infringement could force us to
enter into a costly or restrictive license agreement, which might not be available under acceptable terms or at all, or could subject
us to significant damages or to an injunction against development and sale of certain of our products or services. Our intellectual
property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of intellectual
property infringement. In certain of our businesses we rely on third party intellectual property licenses and we cannot ensure
that these licenses will be available to us in the future on favorable terms or at all.
 

19
 

 
Third parties may infringe our intellectual property and we
may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our rights.
 
Our success increasingly depends on our proprietary
technology. We rely on various intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, database rights, trademarks and trade
secrets, as well as confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish our proprietary rights. The extent to which
such rights can be protected varies in different jurisdictions. If we do not enforce our intellectual property rights successfully
our competitive position may suffer which could harm our operating results. Our pending patent applications, and our pending copyright
and trademark registration applications, may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents,
copyrights or trademarks. In addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide
us a significant competitive advantage.
 
We may need to spend significant resources monitoring
our intellectual property rights and we may or may not be able to detect infringement by third parties. Our competitive position
may be harmed if we cannot detect infringement and enforce our intellectual property rights quickly or at all. In some circumstances,
enforcement may not be available to us because an infringer has a dominant intellectual property position or for other business
reasons. In addition, competitors might avoid infringement by designing around our intellectual property rights or by developing
non-infringing competing technologies. Intellectual property rights and our ability to enforce them may be unavailable or limited
in some countries which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share and could result in lost revenue.
 
Economic, political and other risks associated with international
sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations.
 
Sales outside the U.S. comprise 26% of our net
operating revenue and, as a result, our business is subject to various risks associated with doing business internationally. We
anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent an increasing portion of our total revenue. In
addition, many of our employees, suppliers, job functions and facilities are increasingly located outside the U.S. Accordingly,
our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors including changes in specific country or region political, economic
or other conditions; trade protection measures; data privacy and consumer protection regulations; difficulty in staffing and managing
widespread operations; differing labor, intellectual property protection and technology standards and regulations; business licensing
requirements or other requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business
in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from entering certain markets, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions;
difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner; and geopolitical instability,
including terrorism and war.
 
We earn revenue, pay expenses, own assets and
incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including among others the British pound, the Canadian
dollar, the Brazilian real, the Chilean peso and the Euro. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S.
dollars, we must translate revenue, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates
in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against
other major currencies will affect our net operating revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated
in foreign currencies. Because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by
strengths in others over time. We generally do not mitigate the risks associated with fluctuating exchange rates, although we may
from time to time through forward contracts or other derivative instruments hedge a portion of our translational foreign currency
exposure or exchange rate risks associated with material transactions which are denominated in a foreign currency. The use of such
hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign
exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. Accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly
the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against major currencies, may materially affect our consolidated financial results.
 
Additionally, we must comply with complex foreign
and U.S. laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other local laws prohibiting
corrupt payments to government officials, and anti-competition regulations. Violations of these laws and regulations could result
in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, restrictions on our business conduct and on our ability to offer products in one or
more countries, and could adversely affect our brand, our ability to attract and retain employees, our international operations,
our business and operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these
laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents, as well as those companies to which
we outsource certain of our business operations, will not violate our policies.
 

20
 

 
Our business will suffer if we are not able to retain and
hire key personnel.
 
Our future success depends partly on the continued
service of our key development, sales, marketing, executive and administrative personnel. Additionally, increased retention risk
exists in certain key areas of our operations that require specialized skills, such as maintenance of certain legacy computer systems,
data security experts and analytical modelers. If we fail to retain and hire a sufficient number of these personnel, we will not
be able to maintain or expand our business. We believe our pay levels are competitive within the regions that we operate. However,
there is intense competition for certain highly technical specialties in geographic areas where we continue to recruit, and it
may become more difficult to retain our key employees.
 
Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially
affect us.
 
We are subject to various legal proceedings
and claims, including putative class action claims, that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet
resolved and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. We may
be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially adversely affect a portion of
our business and might materially affect our financial condition and operating results.
 
Changes in income tax laws can significantly impact our net
income.
 
Federal and state governments in the U.S. as
well as a number of other governments around the world are currently facing significant fiscal pressures and have considered or
may consider changes to their tax laws for revenue raising or economic competiveness reasons. Changes to tax laws can have immediate
impacts, either favorable or unfavorable, on our results of operations and cash flows, and may impact our competitive position
versus certain competitors who are domiciled in other jurisdictions and subject to different tax laws.
 
We are subject to a variety of other general risks and uncertainties
inherent in doing business.
 
In addition to the specific factors discussed
above, we are subject to risks that are inherent to doing business. These include growth rates, general economic and political
conditions, customer satisfaction with the quality of our services, costs of obtaining insurance, changes in unemployment rates,
and other events that can impact revenue and the cost of doing business.
 
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
 
Not applicable.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
Our executive offices are located at 1550 Peachtree
Street, N.W., Atlanta, Georgia. Our other properties are geographically distributed to meet sales and operating requirements worldwide.
We consider these properties to be both suitable and adequate to meet our current operating requirements, and most of the space
is being utilized. We ordinarily lease office space for conducting our business and are obligated under approximately 80 leases
and other rental arrangements for our field locations. We owned six office buildings at December 31, 2011, including our executive
offices, two buildings which house our Atlanta, Georgia data center, two buildings utilized by our TALX Workforce Solutions operations
located in St. Louis, Missouri and Charleston, South Carolina, as well as a building utilized by our Latin America operations located
in Sao Paulo, Brazil. We also own 23.5 acres adjacent to the Atlanta, Georgia data center.
 
For additional information regarding our obligations
under leases, see Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. We believe that suitable additional
space will be available to accommodate our future needs.
 

21
 

 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
Equifax, certain of its subsidiaries, and other
persons have been named as parties in various legal actions and administrative proceedings arising in connection with the operation
of Equifax’s businesses. In most cases, plaintiffs seek unspecified damages and other relief. These actions include the following:
 
California Bankruptcy Litigation.
In consolidated actions filed in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California, captioned Terri N. White, et
al. v. Equifax Information Services LLC, Jose Hernandez v. Equifax Information Services LLC, Kathryn L. Pike v. Equifax
Information Services LLC, and Jose L. Acosta, Jr., et al. v. Trans Union LLC, et al. , plaintiffs asserted that Equifax
violated federal and state law (the FCRA, the California Credit Reporting Act and the California Unfair Competition Law) by failing
to follow reasonable procedures to determine whether credit accounts are discharged in bankruptcy, including the method for updating
the status of an account following a bankruptcy discharge. On August 20, 2008, the District Court approved a Settlement Agreement
and Release providing for certain changes in the procedures used by defendants to record discharges in bankruptcy on consumer credit
files. That settlement resolved claims for injunctive relief, but not plaintiffs’ claims for damages. On May 7, 2009,
the District Court issued an order preliminarily approving an agreement to settle remaining class claims. The District Court subsequently
deferred final approval of the settlement and required the settling parties to send a supplemental notice to those class members
who filed a claim and objected to the settlement or opted out, with the cost for the re-notice to be deducted from the plaintiffs’
counsel fee award.   Mailing of the supplemental notice was completed on February 15, 2011.  The deadline for
this group of settling plaintiffs to provide additional documentation to support their damage claims or to opt-out of the settlement
was March 31, 2011.  On July 15, 2011, following another approval hearing, the District Court approved the settlement.
Several objecting plaintiffs subsequently filed notices of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
 
Other. Equifax has been named
as a defendant in various other legal actions, including administrative claims, class actions and other litigation arising in connection
with our business. Some of the legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate
amounts of damages. We believe we have strong defenses to and, where appropriate, will vigorously contest, many of these matters.
Given the number of these matters, some are likely to result in adverse judgments, penalties, injunctions, fines or other relief.
However, we do not believe that these litigation matters will be individually material to our financial condition or results of
operations. We may explore potential settlements before a case is taken through trial because of the uncertainty and risks inherent
in the litigation process.
 
For information regarding contingent tax claims
raised by the Canada Revenue Agency, and our accounting for legal contingencies, see Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements in this report.
 
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
 
Not applicable.
 

22
 

 
PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY,
RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
 
Equifax’s common stock is traded on the
New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “EFX.” As of January 31, 2012, Equifax had approximately 5,433 holders of
record; however, Equifax believes the number of beneficial owners of common stock exceeds this number.
 
The table below sets forth the high and low
sales prices per share of Equifax common stock, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, for each quarter in the last two fiscal
years and dividends declared per share:
 


  
High Sales Price  
Low Sales Price  
Dividends (1) 

  
(In dollars) 

2011 
    
    
   

First Quarter 
$38.88  
$34.48  
$0.16 

Second Quarter 
$39.90  
$33.44  
$0.16 

Third Quarter 
$35.75  
$28.59  
$0.16 

Fourth Quarter 
$39.26  
$29.07  
$0.16 

  
    
    
   

2010 
    
    
   

First Quarter 
$36.63  
$30.93  
$0.04 

Second Quarter 
$36.22  
$27.98  
$0.04 

Third Quarter 
$32.29  
$27.64  
$0.04 

Fourth Quarter 
$36.13  
$30.53  
$0.16 

 

(1)Equifax’s Senior Credit Facility restricts our ability to pay cash dividends on our capital stock or repurchase capital
stock if a default exists or would result according to the terms of the credit agreement.
 
Shareholder Return Performance Graph
 
The following graph compares Equifax’s
five-year cumulative total shareholder return with that of the Standard & Poor’s Composite Stock Index (S&P 500)
and a peer group index, the Dow Jones U.S. General Financial Index. The graph assumes that value of the investment in our Common
Stock and each index was $100 on the last trading day of 2006 and that all quarterly dividends were reinvested without commissions.
Our past performance may not be indicative of future performance.
 

23
 

 
COMPARATIVE FIVE-YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN AMONG EQUIFAX INC.,
S&P 500, AND DOW JONES U.S. GENERAL FINANCIAL INDICES
 
COMPARISON OF 5-YEAR
CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN
AMONG EQUIFAX INC., S&P 500 INDEX, AND
DJ US GENERAL FINANCE INDEX
 

 


  
Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 

  
Initial  
2007  
2008  
2009  
2010  
2011 

Equifax, Inc. 
 100.00  
 89.92  
 65.94  
 77.27  
 89.82  
 99.58 

S&P 500 Index 
 100.00  
 105.49  
 66.46  
 84.05  
 96.71  
 98.75 

DJ US General Financial Index 
 100.00  
 84.66  
 32.42  
 49.11  
 50.87  
 44.96 

 

24
 

 
The table below contains information with respect
to purchases made by or on behalf of Equifax of its common stock during the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2011:
 
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 


  
   
   
   
Maximum Number 

  
   
   
   
(or Approximate 

  
   
   
Total Number  
Dollar Value) 

  
Total  
Average  
of Shares Purchased  
of Shares that May 

  
Number  
Price  
as Part of  
Yet Be Purchased 

  
of Shares  
Paid  
Publicly-Announced  
Under the Plans or 

Period 
Purchased (1)  
Per Share (2)  
Plans or Programs  
Programs (3) 

September 30, 2011 
    
    
    
$179,268,333 

October 1 - October 31, 2011 
 155,802  
$35.50  
 154,503  
$173,783,477 

November 1 - November 30, 2011 
 1,453,819  
$35.15  
 1,452,781  
$122,718,224 

December 1 - December 31, 2011 
 282,500  
$37.49  
 282,500  
$112,127,299 

Total 
 1,892,121  
$35.53  
 1,889,784  
$112,127,299 

 

(1)The total number of shares purchased includes: (a) shares purchased pursuant to our publicly-announced share repurchase program,
or Program; and (b) shares surrendered, or deemed surrendered, in satisfaction of the exercise price and/or to satisfy tax withholding
obligations in connection with the exercise of employee stock options and vesting of restricted stock, totaling 1,299 shares for
the month of October 2011, 1,038 shares for the month of November 2011, and none for the month of December 2011.
 

(2)Average price paid per share for shares purchased as part of our publicly-announced plan (includes brokerage commissions).
 

(3)Under the share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors, we purchased 4.2 million common shares on the open
market during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 for $142.3 million. At December 31, 2011, the amount authorized for future
share repurchases under the Program was $112.1 million.
 
Information relating to compensation plans under which the Company’s
equity securities are authorized for issuance is included in the section captioned “Equity Compensation Plan Information”
in our 2012 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
 

25
 

 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
The table below summarizes our selected historical
financial information for each of the last five years. The summary of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009, and the balance sheet data as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, have been derived from our audited Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this report. The summary of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the balance
sheet data as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, have been derived from our audited Consolidated Financial Statements not included
in this report. The historical selected financial information may not be indicative of our future performance and should be read
in conjunction with the information contained in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations, and the Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in
this report.
 


  
Twelve Months Ended 

  
December 31, 

  
2011(6)  
2010(5)  
2009(1)(2)(3)  
2008(2)(3)  
2007(4) 

  
(In millions, except per share data) 

Summary of Operations: 
    
    
    
    
   

Operating revenue 
$1,959.8  
$1,859.5  
$1,716.0  
$1,813.6  
$1,706.7 

Operating expenses 
$1,488.8  
$1,429.5  
$1,334.2  
$1,374.6  
$1,261.7 

Operating income 
$471.0  
$430.0  
$381.8  
$439.0  
$445.0 

Consolidated income from continuing operations 
$240.2  
$243.3  
$224.4  
$254.9  
$252.7 

Discontinued operations, net of tax (5) 
$1.5  
$31.5  
$16.1  
$24.1  
$26.1 

Net income attributable to Equifax 
$232.9  
$266.7  
$233.9  
$272.8  
$272.7 

Dividends paid to Equifax shareholders 
$78.1  
$35.2  
$20.2  
$20.5  
$20.7 

Diluted earnings per common share 
    
    
    
    
   

Net income from continuing operations attributable to Equifax 
$1.87  
$1.86  
$1.70  
$1.91  
$1.83 

Discontinued operations attributable to Equifax 
 0.01  
 0.25  
 0.13  
 0.18  
 0.19 

Net income attributable to Equifax 
$1.88  
$2.11  
$1.83  
$2.09  
$2.02 

Cash dividends declared per common share 
$0.64  
$0.28  
$0.16  
$0.16  
$0.16 

Weighted-average common shares 
    
    
    
    
   

outstanding (diluted) 
 123.7  
 126.5  
 127.9  
 130.4  
 135.1 

 


  
As of December 31, 

  
2011  
2010  
2009(1)  
2008  
2007(4) 

  
(In millions) 

Balance Sheet Data: 
    
    
    
    
   

Total assets 
$3,508.6  
$3,437.5  
$3,550.5  
$3,260.3  
$3,523.9 

Short-term debt and current maturities 
$47.2  
$20.7  
$183.2  
$31.9  
$222.1 

Long-term debt, net of current portion 
$966.0  
$978.9  
$990.9  
$1,187.4  
$1,165.2 

Total debt, net 
$1,013.2  
$999.6  
$1,174.1  
$1,219.3  
$1,387.3 

Total equity 
$1,722.1  
$1,708.4  
$1,615.0  
$1,323.5  
$1,408.0 

 

(1)On October 27, 2009, we acquired IXI Corporation for $124.0 million. On November 2, 2009, we acquired Rapid Reporting Verification
Company for $72.5 million. The results of these acquisitions are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements subsequent to
the acquisition dates. For additional information about these acquisitions, see Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
in this report.
 

(2)During 2009 and 2008, we recorded restructuring and asset write-down charges of $24.8 million and $16.8 million, respectively
($15.8 million and $10.5 million, respectively, net of tax). For additional information about the 2009 charges, see Note 12 of
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.
 

(3)During 2009, we recorded a $7.3 million income tax benefit related to our ability to utilize foreign tax credits beyond 2009.
In 2008 and 2006, we recorded income tax benefits of $14.6 million and $9.5 million, respectively, related to uncertain tax positions
for which the statute of limitations expired.
 

(4)On May 15, 2007 we acquired all of the outstanding shares of TALX. Under the terms of the transaction, we issued 20.6 million
shares of Equifax common stock and 1.9 million fully-vested options to purchase Equifax common stock, and paid approximately $288.1
million in cash, net of cash acquired. We also assumed TALX’s outstanding debt, which had a fair value totaling $177.6 million
at May 15, 2007. The results of TALX’s operations are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on the
date of acquisition.
 

26
 

 

(5)On April 23, 2010, we sold our APPRO product line (“APPRO”) for approximately $72 million. On July 1, 2010, we
sold the assets of our Direct Marketing Services division (“DMS”) for approximately $117 million.  Both of these
were previously reported in our U.S. Consumer Information Solutions segment.  We have presented the APPRO and DMS operations
as discontinued operations for all periods presented. For additional information about these divestitures, see Note 3 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.
 

(6)On May 31, 2011, we completed the merger of our Brazilian business with Boa Vista Serviços S.A. (“BVS”)
in exchange for a 15% equity interest in BVS, which was accounted for as a sale and was deconsolidated.   BVS, an unrelated
third party whose results we do not consolidate, is the second largest consumer and commercial credit information company in Brazil.
 

27
 

 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
As used herein, the terms Equifax, the Company,
we, our and us refer to Equifax Inc., a Georgia corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except
where it is clear that the terms mean only Equifax Inc.
 
All references to earnings per share data
in Management’s Discussion and Analysis, or MD&A, are to diluted earnings per share, or EPS, unless otherwise noted.
Diluted EPS is calculated to reflect the potential dilution that would occur if stock options or other contracts to issue common
stock were exercised and resulted in additional common shares outstanding.
 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
 
We are a leading global provider of information
solutions, employment, income and identity verifications and human resources business process outsourcing services. We leverage
some of the largest sources of consumer and commercial data, along with advanced analytics and proprietary technology, to create
customized insights which enable our business customers to grow faster, more efficiently, and more profitably, and to inform and
empower consumers.
 
Businesses rely on us for consumer and business
credit intelligence, credit portfolio management, fraud detection, decisioning technology, marketing tools, and human resources
and payroll services. We also offer a portfolio of products that enable individual consumers to manage their financial affairs
and protect their identity. Our revenue stream is diversified among individual consumers and among businesses across a wide range
of industries and international geographies.
 
Segment and Geographic Information
 
Segments.   The U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions, or USCIS, segment, the largest of our five segments, consists of three product and service lines:
Online Consumer Information Solutions, or OCIS; Mortgage Solutions; and Consumer Financial Marketing Services. OCIS and Mortgage
Solutions revenue is principally transaction-based and is derived from our sales of products such as consumer credit reporting
and scoring, mortgage settlement services, identity management, fraud detection and modeling services. USCIS also markets certain
of our decisioning products which facilitate and automate a variety of consumer credit-oriented decisions. Consumer Financial Marketing
Services revenue is principally project- and subscription-based and is derived from our sales of batch credit, consumer wealth
or demographic information such as those that assist clients in acquiring new customers, cross-selling to existing customers and
managing portfolio risk.
 
The International segment consists of Latin
America, Europe and Canada Consumer. Canada Consumer’s products and services are similar to our USCIS offerings, while Europe
and Latin America are made up of varying mixes of product lines that are in our USCIS, North America Commercial Solutions and North
America Personal Solutions reportable segments.
 
The TALX Workforce Solutions segment consists
of the Verification Services and Employer Services business units. Verification Services revenue is transaction based and is derived
primarily from employment, income and social security number verifications. Employer Services revenues are derived from our provision
of certain human resources business process outsourcing services that include both transaction- and subscription-based product
offerings. These services assist our customers with the administration of unemployment claims and employer-based tax credits, the
handling of certain payroll-related transaction processing, and the management of the assessment of new hires.
 
North America Personal Solutions revenue is
both transaction- and subscription-based and is derived from the sale of credit monitoring, debt management and identity theft
protection products, which we deliver to consumers through the mail and electronically via the internet.
 
North America Commercial Solutions revenue is
principally transaction based, with the remainder project based, and is derived from the sale of business information, credit scores
and portfolio analytics that enable customers to utilize our reports to make financial, marketing and purchasing decisions related
to businesses.
 

28
 

 
Geographic Information.   We
currently operate in the following countries: Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, Paraguay,
Peru, Portugal, the Republic of Ireland, Spain, the U.K., Uruguay, and the U.S. Our operations in the Republic of Ireland focus
on data handling and customer support activities. We have an investment in the second largest consumer and commercial credit information
company in Brazil and offer consumer credit services in India and Russia through joint ventures. Of the countries we operate in,
74% of our revenue was generated in the U.S. during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011.
 
Key Performance Indicators.   Management
focuses on a variety of key indicators to monitor operating and financial performance. These performance indicators include measurements
of operating revenue, change in operating revenue, operating income, operating margin, net income, diluted earnings per share,
cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures. Key performance indicators for the twelve months ended December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009, include the following:
 


  
Key Performance Indicators 

  
Twelve Months Ended 

  
December 31, 

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
(Dollars in millions, except per share data) 

Operating revenue 
$1,959.8  
$1,859.5  
$1,716.0 

Operating revenue change 
 5% 
 8% 
 -5%

Operating income 
$471.0  
$430.0  
$381.8 

Operating margin 
 24.0% 
 23.1% 
 22.2%

Net income attributable to Equifax 
$232.9  
$266.7  
$233.9 

Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 
$1.87  
$1.86  
$1.70 

Cash provided by operating activities 
$408.7  
$352.6  
$418.4 

Capital expenditures 
$75.0  
$99.8  
$70.7 

 
Operational and Financial Highlights.
 

•On May 31, 2011, we completed the merger of our Brazilian business with Boa Vista Serviços S.A. (“BVS”)
in exchange for a 15% equity interest in BVS, which was accounted for as a sale and was deconsolidated (the “Brazilian Transaction”). 
 BVS, an unrelated third party whose results we do not consolidate, is the second largest consumer and commercial credit information
company in Brazil.
 

•On August 2, 2011, we acquired DataVision Resources, which provides data and business solutions to the mortgage, insurance
and financial services industries, for $50.0 million. DataVision Resources is part of our TALX Workforce Solutions segment.
 

•We repurchased 4.2 million shares of our common stock on the open market for $142.3 million during 2011.
 
Business Environment, Company Outlook and Strategy
 
Consumer and small business lending activity,
is one of the key drivers of demand for our services. Lending activity is now growing at a moderate rate in most loan categories
and markets around the world, but lenders continue to demonstrate caution in loan decisions due to continuing concerns about consumer
and small business credit quality and about home values.  Mortgage lending activity, which is an important lending category
for our company, is cyclical, based on fluctuations in both home sales and refinancing activity; and mortgage activity is currently
below long term average activity levels, in part due to reduced home values. In addition, new financial regulations are increasing
the compliance requirements for many of our customers and introduce new challenges as well as opportunities in the marketing of
our product and service offerings to our customers. Real time decision-making for many of our customers has become more complex
and reliant on quality data assets with broad market coverage. Our proprietary technology is efficient and sufficiently flexible
to adapt to a broad array of decisioning applications. By linking data assets, we are able to develop high value solutions that
improve the effectiveness of our customers’ decision-making activities. In an effort to respond to these market conditions,
we have focused on the following activities:
 

•Further diversification of our revenues by pursuing and investing in key strategic initiatives including new product innovation,
differentiated decisioning solutions and analytics, leveraging and broadening our diverse data assets and enhancing our technology
platforms.
 

29
 

 

•Reorganizing our sales force with key customer teams dedicated to our largest accounts and broadening our product offerings
to address the needs of our medium-to-smaller customers.

•Acquiring new data assets and technologies both domestically and internationally.

•Expanding and investing in attractive international markets, including Russia, India and Brazil.

•Continuing our focus on managing expenses through the use of LEAN and other process improvement initiatives.
 
In 2012, we do not expect measurable improvement
in the overall business environment. The environment will continue to be challenging as various countries deal with their particular
political, budgetary, and economic issues. However, we currently expect that with our ongoing investments in new product innovation,
technology infrastructure, strategic acquisitions, enterprise growth initiatives, and continuous process improvement will enable
us to deliver long term average organic revenue growth between 6% and 8% with additional growth of 1% to 2% derived from strategic
acquisitions, and we expect to grow earnings per share at a somewhat faster rate than revenue as a result of operating and financial
leverage. The diversity of our data assets, the strength of our analytical capabilities, and our proprietary decisioning technology
has enabled us to consistently deliver high value solutions that our clients integrate into their business operations. As our clients'
business environment becomes more difficult and competitive, these high value solutions will enable them to operate their businesses
more efficiently and effectively.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS —
TWELVE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011, 2010 AND 2009
 
Consolidated Financial Results
 
Operating Revenue
 


  
Twelve Months Ended December 31,  
Change 

  
   
   
   
2011 vs. 2010  
2010 vs. 2009 

Operating Revenue 
2011  
2010  
2009  
$  
%  
$  
% 

  
(Dollars in millions) 

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

U.S. Consumer Information Solutions 
$792.6  
$743.0  
$712.2  
$49.6  
 7% 
$30.8  
 4%

International 
 492.9  
 482.8  
 438.6  
 10.1  
 2% 
 44.2  
 10%

TALX Workforce Solutions 
 404.3  
 395.6  
 346.4  
 8.7  
 2% 
 49.2  
 14%

North America Personal Solutions 
 180.7  
 157.6  
 149.0  
 23.1  
 15% 
 8.6  
 6%

North America Commercial Solutions 
 89.3  
 80.5  
 69.8  
 8.8  
 11% 
 10.7  
 15%

Consolidated operating revenue 
$1,959.8  
$1,859.5  
$1,716.0  
$100.3  
 5% 
$143.5  
 8%

 
Revenue from continuing
operations increased by 5% in 2011 compared to 2010. The deconsolidation of our Brazilian business, which resulted from the merger
of our business into BVS during the second quarter of 2011, negatively impacted revenue by $48.7 million, compared to the prior
year, while all other revenue increased by 8% compared to 2010, primarily driven by strong execution of key strategic initiatives
across each of our businesses. The favorable effect of foreign exchange rates, in locations other than Brazil, did not have a material
impact on revenue.
 
Revenue from continuing operations increased
by 8% in 2010 compared to 2009.  The favorable effect of foreign exchange rates increased revenue by $24.1 million, or
1.4%, in 2010 compared to the prior year period.  Revenue grew over the prior year in each of our operating segments,
primarily driven by strong execution of key strategic initiatives as well as growth contributed by 2009 acquisitions in USCIS and
TALX Workforce Solutions.
 

30
 

 
Operating Expenses
 


  
Twelve Months Ended December 31,  
Change 

  
   
   
   
2011 vs. 2010  
2010 vs. 2009 

Operating Expenses 
2011  
2010  
2009  
$  
%  
$  
% 

  
(Dollars in millions) 

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

Consolidated cost of services 
$768.5  
$759.9  
$718.8  
$8.6  
 1% 
$41.1  
 6%

Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses 
 554.8  
 507.4  
 470.2  
 47.4  
 9% 
 37.2  
 8%

Consolidated depreciation and amortization expense 
 165.5  
 162.2  
 145.2  
 3.3  
 2% 
 17.0  
 12%

Consolidated operating expenses 
$1,488.8  
$1,429.5  
$1,334.2  
$59.3  
 4% 
$95.3  
 7%

 
Cost of Services.
  The slight increase in cost of services from continuing operations, when compared to 2010, was due primarily to the
impact of increased salary and benefits expense and contract services expenses of $31.1 million, and by the impact of changes in
foreign currency exchange rates which increased our cost of services by $7.2 million, largely offset by decreases related to the
deconsolidation of our Brazilian business.
 
The increase in cost of services from continuing
operations in 2010, when compared to 2009, was due primarily to the impact of increased salary and incentive expense of $6.3 million;
the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates which increased our cost of services by $11.4 million; and the impact
of our fourth quarter 2009 acquisitions of IXI Corporation and Rapid Reporting Verification Company.
 
Selling, General
and Administrative Expenses.   Selling, general and administrative expense from continuing operations increased
$47.4 million compared to 2010. The increase was primarily due to increased salary and incentive expense of $33.3 million, higher
advertising expenses of $9.1 million and higher severance costs offset by decreases in expenses related to the deconsolidation
of our Brazilian business.  The impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates increased our selling, general and administrative
expense by $5.2 million in 2011.
 
The increase in selling, general and administrative
expenses from continuing operations of $37.2 million in 2010 when compared to 2009, was due to changes in foreign exchange
rates, which increased 2010 expense by $5.2 million, and increased salary, incentive and benefits expenses of $32.3 million, offset
by $24.8 million in restructuring charges that were incurred during 2009 that did not recur in 2010.  The remaining increase
was primarily due to the impact of the inclusion of businesses acquired in the fourth quarter of 2009.
 
Depreciation and Amortization.
  Depreciation and amortization expense from continuing operations increased in 2011 as compared to 2010 due to $6.6
million of incremental depreciation and amortization expense related to our fourth quarter 2010 acquisition of Anakam and our 2011
acquisitions partially offset by the decline in amortization of certain purchased intangibles acquired as part of TALX in 2007
which fully amortized at the end of the second quarter of 2011 and the amortization and depreciation decrease resulting from the
deconsolidation of our Brazilian business.
 
Depreciation and amortization expense from continuing
operations in 2010 increased $17.0 million as compared to 2009 primarily due to our fourth quarter 2009 acquisitions which
contributed $9.0 million of incremental depreciation and amortization expense, as well as the effect of recent investments in new
products and technology infrastructure.
 

31
 

 
Operating Income and Operating Margin
 


  
Twelve Months Ended December 31,  
Change 

  
   
   
   
2011 vs. 2010  
2010 vs. 2009 

Operating Income and Operating Margin 
2011  
2010  
2009  
$  
%  
$  
% 

  
(Dollars in millions) 

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

Consolidated operating revenue 
$1,959.8  
$1,859.5  
$1,716.0  
$100.3  
 5% 
$143.5  
 8%

Consolidated operating expenses 
 (1,488.8) 
 (1,429.5) 
 (1,334.2) 
 (59.3) 
 4% 
 (95.3) 
 7%

Consolidated operating income 
$471.0  
$430.0  
$381.8  
$41.0  
 10% 
$48.2  
 13%

Consolidated operating margin 
 24.0% 
 23.1% 
 22.2% 
    
 0.9pts 
    
 0.9pts

 
Operating income from continuing operations
for 2011 increased faster than revenue due to better operating leverage from revenue growth and business mix as well as the deconsolidation
of Brazil, which reduced reported revenue, but which had little impact on operating profit because it had been operating near break-even.
These factors resulted in operating margin improvement of 90 basis points to 24.0% compared to 2010.
 
The increase in operating income from continuing
operations and operating margin for 2010, as compared to 2009, is primarily attributed to the 8% increase in revenue and $24.8
million of restructuring charges in 2009 that did not recur in 2010.
 
Other Expense, Net
 


  
Twelve Months Ended December 31,  
Change 

  
   
   
   
2011 vs. 2010  
2010 vs. 2009 

Other Expense, Net 
2011  
2010  
2009  
$  
%  
$  
% 

  
(Dollars in millions) 

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

Consolidated interest expense 
$55.1  
$56.1  
$57.0  
$(1.0) 
 -2% 
$(0.9) 
 -2%

Consolidated other expense (income), net 
 7.7  
 (1.3) 
 (6.2) 
 9.0  
 nm  
 4.9  
 -79%

Consolidated other expense, net 
$62.8  
$54.8  
$50.8  
$8.0  
 15% 
$4.0  
 8%

Average cost of debt 
 5.5% 
 5.2% 
 4.8% 
    
    
    
   

Total consolidated debt, net, at year end 
$1,013.2  
$999.6  
$1,174.1  
$13.6  
 1% 
$(174.5) 
 -15%

 
nm - not meaningful
 
Interest expense decreased slightly in 2011,
when compared to the same period in 2010, due to lower average debt balances outstanding for 2011 as compared to 2010. Our consolidated
debt balance has increased at December 31, 2011, as a result of additional borrowings in the form of commercial paper, on which
interest rates and accordingly interest expense are currently very low. The increase in the average cost of debt for 2011 is due
to less low rate commercial paper outstanding on average year to date which caused the average cost of debt to increase as compared
to the prior year period.
 
Interest expense decreased slightly for 2010,
when compared to 2009, as a decrease in our average debt balance from $1.18 billion to $1.07 billion more than offset an increase
in the average interest rate on our total debt from 4.8% in 2009 to 5.2% in 2010.   The increase in our average interest
rate paid was caused by a reduction in short term, floating rate commercial paper, while longer term fixed rate debt outstanding
remained essentially unchanged.
 
Other expense (income), net, from continuing
operations for 2011 increased $9.0 million as compared to the prior year. The increase is primarily due to the merger of our Brazilian
business during the second quarter of 2011. On May 31, 2011, we completed the merger of our Brazilian business with BVS, which
was accounted for as a sale and was deconsolidated, in exchange for a 15% equity interest in BVS.  We recorded a $10.3 million
pre-tax loss on the Brazilian Transaction in other expense (income), net.
 
Other expense (income), net, for 2010 as compared
to 2009, declined, as 2009 included a $2.2 million mark-to-market adjustment on certain insurance policies, a $1.1 million
gain on our repurchase of $7.5 million principal amount of our ten-year senior notes due 2017 and a $1.3 million gain
related to a litigation settlement.
 

32
 

 
Income Taxes
 


  
Twelve Months Ended December 31,  
Change 

  
   
   
   
2011 vs. 2010  
2010 vs. 2009 

Provision for Income Taxes 
2011  
2010  
2009  
$  
%  
$  
% 

  
(Dollars in millions) 

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

Consolidated provision for income taxes   
$168.0  
$131.9  
$106.6  
$36.1  
 27% 
$25.3  
 24%

Effective income tax rate 
 41.2% 
 35.1% 
 32.2% 
    
    
    
   

 
Our effective rate was
41.2% for 2011, up from 35.1% for the same period in 2010. The 2011 rate was higher primarily due to the impact of the Brazilian
Transaction which increased our effective rate by 5.2%. In addition, the 2010 rate benefited from certain state benefits that did
not recur in 2011. This is partially offset by a cumulative income tax benefit resulting from the recognition of an income tax
deduction related to several prior years. We expect our effective tax rate in 2012 to be in the range of 36% to 38%.
 
Our effective tax rate was 35.1% for 2010, up
from 32.2% for the same period in 2009.  The 2010 rate was higher due primarily to the prior year recognition of a $7.3
million income tax benefit related to our ability to utilize foreign tax credits beyond 2009, more favorable discrete items in
2009 related to foreign and state taxes and a 2009 investment loss in subsidiary, partially offset by a permanent federal deduction
realized in 2010.
 
Net Income
 


  
Twelve Months Ended December 31,  
Change 

  
   
   
   
2011 vs. 2010  
2010 vs. 2009 

Net Income 
2011  
2010  
2009  
$  
%  
$  
% 

  
(In millions, except per share amounts) 

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

Consolidated operating income 
$471.0  
$430.0  
$381.8  
$41.0  
 10% 
$48.2  
 13%

Consolidated other expense, net 
 (62.8) 
 (54.8) 
 (50.8) 
 (8.0) 
 15% 
 (4.0) 
 8%

Consolidated provision for income taxes 
 (168.0) 
 (131.9) 
 (106.6) 
 (36.1) 
 27% 
 (25.3) 
 24%

Consolidated net income from continuing operations 
$240.2  
$243.3  
$224.4  
$(3.1) 
 -1% 
$18.9  
 8%

Discontinued operations, net of tax 
 1.5  
 31.5  
 16.1  
 (30.0) 
 -95% 
 15.4  
 94%

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
 (8.8) 
 (8.1) 
 (6.6) 
 (0.7) 
 9% 
 (1.5) 
 22%

Net income attributable to Equifax 
$232.9  
$266.7  
$233.9  
$(33.8) 
 -13% 
$32.8  
 14%

Diluted earnings per common share 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net income from continuing operations attributable to Equifax 
$1.87  
$1.86  
$1.70  
$0.01  
 1% 
$0.16  
 9%

Discontinued operations attributable to Equifax 
 0.01  
 0.25  
 0.13  
$(0.24) 
 -95% 
$0.12  
 92%

Net income attributable to Equifax 
$1.88  
$2.11  
$1.83  
$(0.23) 
 -11% 
$0.28  
 15%

Weighted-average shares used in computing diluted earnings per share 
 123.7  
 126.5  
 127.9  
    
    
    
   

 
Consolidated income from continuing operations
decreased by $3.1 million, or 1%, in 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, due to the $27.8 million loss recorded on the Brazilian
Transaction (reflected in other expense and income tax expense), partially offset by operating income growth of $41.0 million due
to revenue growth, net of associated income taxes. Consolidated income attributable to Equifax decreased $33.8 million in 2011.
In addition to improved operating results and the loss on the Brazilian Transaction described above, 2010 consolidated income from
continuing operations included transaction gains from discontinued operations of $27.2 million which did not recur in 2011.
 
The increase in net income attributable to Equifax
for 2010, as compared to 2009, was primarily due to increased income from discontinued operations, driven by a $14.9 million gain,
net of tax, on the sale of DMS recorded in the third quarter of 2010 and a $12.3 million gain, net of tax, on the sale of the APPRO
product line recorded in the second quarter of 2010.  Net income attributed to Equifax for 2010 also benefited from higher
operating income, which grew generally in line with higher revenue.
 

33
 

 
Segment Financial Results
 
U.S. Consumer Information Solutions
 


  
Twelve Months Ended December 31,  
Change 

  
   
   
   
2011 vs. 2010  
2010 vs. 2009 

U.S. Consumer Information Solutions 
2011  
2010  
2009  
$  
%  
$  
% 

  
(Dollars in millions) 

Operating revenue: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Online Consumer Information Solutions 
$519.8  
$485.2  
$501.4  
$34.6  
 7% 
$(16.2) 
 -3%

Mortgage Solutions 
 119.5  
 113.5  
 99.5  
 6.0  
 5% 
 14.0  
 14%

Consumer Financial Marketing Services 
 153.3  
 144.3  
 111.3  
 9.0  
 6% 
 33.0  
 30%

Total operating revenue 
$792.6  
$743.0  
$712.2  
$49.6  
 7% 
$30.8  
 4%

% of consolidated revenue 
 40% 
 40% 
 41% 
    
    
    
   

Total operating income 
$287.3  
$269.8  
$259.4  
$17.5  
 6% 
$10.4  
 4%

Operating margin 
 36.2% 
 36.3% 
 36.4% 
    
 -0.1pts 
    
 -0.1pts

 
U.S. Consumer Information Solutions revenue
increased 7% in 2011 as compared to 2010 as a result of growth across all of our USCIS business lines.  The increase
in revenue for 2010, as compared to 2009, was due to growth in Mortgage Solutions along with growth due to our acquisition of IXI
Corporation in the fourth quarter of 2009 partially offset by a small decline in online credit reporting revenue.
 
OCIS.   The increase
in revenue for 2011, as compared to 2010, was driven by increased market volume, particularly in the credit card and auto markets;
new customer wins; new service introductions; and select pricing actions in subscription and wholesale arrangements. An 11% increase
in core credit decision transaction volumes was partially offset by lower average price per transaction for our transaction based
revenue. Revenue for 2010, as compared to 2009, declined primarily due to a reduction of online credit decision transaction volume
of 5% caused by weakness in the U.S. consumer credit markets while pricing remained relatively flat year over year.
 
Mortgage Solutions.   Revenue
has increased in 2011 primarily due to increased sales of settlement services as a result of increased market share from existing
customers partially offset by the declines in core mortgage reporting services due to lower refinancing activity as compared to
the comparable periods of 2010. Revenue for 2010 increased, as compared to the prior year, due to favorable long-term interest
rates that resulted in higher consumer refinancing activity and increased home sales activity attributable to U.S. government incentives
for housing purchases which expired on May 31, 2010.
 
Consumer Financial Marketing Services.
  2011 revenue increased, as compared to 2010, due to continued growth in credit-based pre-screen and portfolio management
revenue as well as strong market penetration of wealth-based consumer information services. The increase in revenue in 2010, as
compared to 2009, was primarily due to our acquisition of IXI Corporation during the fourth quarter of 2009.
 
U.S. Consumer Information Solutions Operating
Margin.   In 2011, improved margins in online credit services and CFMS resulting from solid revenue growth were
offset by lower margins in mortgage solutions due to less favorable product mix and by expense investment and increased acquisition-related
amortization associated with our fourth quarter 2010 acquisition of Anakam.
 
Operating margin remained relatively consistent
in 2010, as compared to 2009.   The margin impact of amortization expense associated with the IXI acquisition was
offset by expense leveraging resulting from revenue growth and expense reductions due to certain process streamlining activities.
 

34
 

 
International
 


  
Twelve Months Ended December 31,  
Change 

  
   
   
   
2011 vs. 2010  
2010 vs. 2009 

International 
2011  
2010  
2009  
$  
%  
$  
% 

  
(Dollars in millions) 

Operating revenue: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Latin America 
$208.8  
$231.3  
$200.4  
$(22.5) 
 -10% 
$30.9  
 15%

Europe 
 158.7  
 137.6  
 138.4  
 21.1  
 15% 
 (0.8) 
 -1%

Canada Consumer 
 125.4  
 113.9  
 99.8  
 11.5  
 10% 
 14.1  
 14%

Total operating revenue 
$492.9  
$482.8  
$438.6  
$10.1  
 2% 
$44.2  
 10%

% of consolidated revenue 
 25% 
 26% 
 26% 
    
    
    
   

Total operating income 
$132.2  
$119.4  
$118.9  
$12.8  
 11% 
$0.5  
 0%

Operating margin 
 26.8% 
 24.7% 
 27.1% 
    
 2.1pts 
   
 -2.4pts

 
International revenue increased by 2% in 2011
as compared to 2010. While the deconsolidation of Brazil negatively impacted revenue by $48.7 in 2011, revenue in our other geographies
increased by 15% as compared to 2010. Local currency revenue, excluding Brazil, increased 12% due to solid growth in Europe, Canada
and other Latin American countries. Local currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar, excluding Brazil, favorably impacted our
International revenue by $12.0 million, or 3%.
 
International revenue increased in 2010, as
compared to 2009, primarily due to strong growth in Latin America and the favorable impact of changes in foreign exchange rates.  Local
currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar favorably impacted our International revenue by $21.8 million, or 5%.  In
local currency, International revenue was up 5% in 2010.
 
Latin America.   Revenue
decreased by 10% in 2011 as compared to 2010. While the deconsolidation of Brazil negatively impacted revenue by $48.7 million
in 2011, revenue in our other Latin American countries increased 18% in 2011 as compared to 2010. Local currency revenue, excluding
Brazil, increased by 17% due to broad-based growth across other Latin American countries. The favorable impact of changes in foreign
exchange rates, excluding Brazil, added $1.0 million, or 1%, to revenue in 2011.
 
Revenue increased for 2010, as compared to the
prior year by $30.9 million, or 15%, partially due to the favorable foreign currency impact of $14.3 million, or 7%. In local
currency, revenue increased 8% from 2009.  Local currency revenue increased in most of our Latin American geographies,
resulting from broad-based growth across all product segments, partially offset by a modest decline in Brazil.
 
Europe.   Revenue increased
15% in 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 due to increased sales in most product segments and the impact of a first quarter
2011 acquisition, as well as the favorable impact of changes in foreign exchange rates. In local currency, revenue was up 11% in
2011. Local currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar favorably impacted revenue by $6.0 million, or 4%.
 
The slight decrease in revenue for 2010, as
compared to 2009, was due to an unfavorable foreign currency impact of $3.2 million, or 3%.  In local currency, revenue
increased 2%, as compared to the same period in 2009.  The increase was due to growth in online transactions and a higher
volume of subscriptions in the U.K. as well as higher registries usage in Spain and Portugal offset by declines in some of our
other product segments.
 
Canada Consumer.   Revenue
increased 10% compared to the same period in 2010 due to increased volumes for our technology and analytical services products,
primarily due to growth in the customer base for a fraud mitigation product, and the favorable impact of changes in foreign exchange
rates.  In local currency, revenue was up 6% in 2010.  Local currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar
favorably impacted revenue by $5.1 million, or 4%. The $14.1 million increase in revenue for 2010, as compared to the prior year,
was primarily due to favorable foreign currency impact of $10.6 million, or 11%.  In local currency, revenue increased
3% when compared to 2009. The increase in local currency was due to increased volumes for our technology and analytical services
products primarily due to growth in the customer base for a new fraud mitigation product.
 

35
 

 
International Operating Margin.
  Operating margin increased in 2011 as compared to the prior year period primarily due to the deconsolidation of our
Brazilian business, whose margins had declined in recent periods.  The 2011 operating margins were also impacted by increased
investments in new product development and increased sales force, particularly in Brazil prior to the deconsolidation of the business.
Operating margin decreased for 2010, as compared to 2009, primarily due to a shift in product mix and increased operating expenses.
Operating expenses increased 8% for 2010, in local currency, when compared to 2009, due to increased revenue and expense investments
in new product development and increased sales force, particularly in Brazil.
 
TALX Workforce Solutions
 


  
Twelve Months Ended December 31,  
Change 

  
   
   
   
2011 vs. 2010  
2010 vs. 2009 

TALX Workforce Solutions 
2011  
2010  
2009  
$  
%  
$  
% 

  
(Dollars in millions) 

Operating Revenue: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Verfication Services 
$192.5  
$183.4  
$134.6  
$9.1  
 5% 
$48.8  
 36%

Employer Services 
 211.8  
 212.2  
 211.8  
 (0.4) 
 0% 
 0.4  
 0%

Total operating revenue 
$404.3  
$395.6  
$346.4  
$8.7  
 2% 
$49.2  
 14%

% of consolidated revenue 
 21% 
 21% 
 20% 
    
    
    
   

Total operating income 
$90.7  
$92.1  
$75.4  
$(1.4) 
 -2% 
$16.7  
 22%

Operating margin 
 22.4% 
 23.3% 
 21.8% 
    
 -0.9pts 
    
 1.5pts

 
Verification Services.
  Revenue from Verification Services increased in 2011, compared to the prior year period, as high single digit percentage
revenue growth in verifications provided to non-mortgage customers and the benefit of our third quarter 2011 acquisition of DataVision
Resources were partially offset by high single digit declines in verification revenue from mortgage customers due to reduced mortgage
activity.  Revenue increased in 2010 compared to 2009 due to mid-double digit growth
from traditional employment based verification, with strong demand across each of the mortgage, pre-employment screening, social
services and collections sectors; and due to the impact of our acquisition of Rapid Reporting Verification Company in the fourth
quarter of 2009.
 
Employer Services.
  Revenue for 2011 as compared to 2010 slightly decreased. Declines in our talent recruitment and management services
business due to decreased government hiring activity at the U.S. Transportation Security Administration and reduced licensing revenue
were offset by revenue growth in our complementary services business. The slight increase
in revenue during 2010, as compared to the prior year, resulted from growth in our complementary services and as well as growth
in our talent recruitment and management services business due to increased government hiring activity at the U.S. Transportation
and Security Administration and other large government customers. This was partially offset by expected declines in our Tax Management
Services business driven primarily by decreases in unemployment compensation claims activity.
 
TALX Workforce Solutions Operating Margin.
  Operating margin for 2011, when compared to the prior year period, decreased due to revenue and associated margin declines
in government-based tax transcript verification services and talent recruitment and management services as a result of a slowdown
in mortgage-related activity and decreased license revenue, respectively. There was also increased acquisition-related amortization
associated with our two acquisitions in the latter half of 2011. Operating margin increased in 2010, as compared to 2009, due to
continued revenue growth, while operating expenses grew at a slower rate due to the leveraging of certain fixed operational and
overhead costs and certain operating process efficiencies for both periods.
 
North America Personal Solutions
 


  
Twelve Months Ended December 31,  
Change 

  
   
   
   
2011 vs. 2010  
2010 vs. 2009 

North America Personal Solutions 
2011  
2010  
2009  
$  
%  
$  
% 

  
(Dollars in millions) 

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

Total operating revenue 
$180.7  
$157.6  
$149.0  
$23.1  
 15% 
$8.6  
 6%

% of consolidated revenue 
 9% 
 9% 
 9% 
    
    
    
   

Total operating income 
$54.1  
$44.6  
$34.3  
$9.5  
 21% 
$10.3  
 30%

Operating margin 
 29.9% 
 28.3% 
 23.0% 
    
 1.6pts 
  
 5.3pts

 

36
 

 
Revenue increased 15% in 2011 as compared to
the prior year primarily due to increased direct to consumer, Equifax-branded subscription service revenue. Equifax-branded subscription
revenue was up 17% from the prior year, driven by both higher subscription sales and higher average revenue per subscriber due
to new product offerings and better market segmentation.  Revenue from wholesalers, which benefited from more favorable
pricing, and from Canada also contributed to growth, while data breach services and transaction-based services each declined modestly.
The operating margin increase in 2011, as compared to 2010, was primarily due to the increased revenue along with a shift in product
mix to higher margin products.
 
The increase in revenue for 2010, as compared
to 2009, was primarily due to increased direct to customer, Equifax-branded subscription service revenue, which was up 11% from
2009, driven by higher average revenue per subscriber due to new product offerings and better market segmentation.  The
increase in subscription revenue was partially offset by lower transaction sales and lower corporate breach revenues.  The
operating margin increase was primarily due to the revenue growth and operating efficiencies.
 
North America Commercial Solutions
 


  
Twelve Months Ended December 31,  
Change 

  
   
   
   
2011 vs. 2010  
2010 vs. 2009 

North America Commercial Solutions 
2011  
2010  
2009  
$  
%  
$  
% 

  
(Dollars in millions) 

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

Total operating revenue 
$89.3  
$80.5  
$69.8  
$8.8  
 11% 
$10.7  
 15%

% of consolidated revenue 
 5% 
 4% 
 4% 
    
    
    
   

Total operating income 
$23.6  
$19.5  
$15.1  
$4.1  
 21% 
$4.4  
 29%

Operating margin 
 26.5% 
 24.2% 
 21.7% 
    
 2.3pts 
    
 2.5pts

 
2011 revenue increased $8.8 million, or 11%,
as compared to 2010.   In local currency, revenue increased 10% compared 2010 primarily due to increases in U.S. risk
and marketing service revenue and revenue from our data management products.   The favorable impact of changes in the
U.S.—Canadian foreign exchange rate impacted revenue by $1.0 million, or 1%, as compared to the prior year.  Operating
margin also increased for 2011, as compared 2010, due to strong revenue growth and the margin leverage which results from a partially
fixed cost business.
 
Revenue increased for 2010, as compared to 2009,
$10.7 million, or 15%.  The favorable impact of changes in the U.S. – Canadian foreign exchange rate increased
revenue by $2.3 million, or 3%.  In local currency, revenue increased 12% in 2010 compared to the prior year.  The
local currency increase was primarily due to increases in U.S. risk and marketing service revenue and revenue from our data management
products.  Online transaction volume for U.S. commercial credit information products for 2010 increased when compared
to the prior year.  Operating margin increased for 2010, as compared to 2009, as the rapid rate of revenue growth exceeded
growth in operating expenses.
 
General Corporate Expense
 


  
Twelve Months Ended December 31,  
Change 

  
   
   
   
2011 vs. 2010  
2010 vs. 2009 

General Corporate Expense 
2011  
2010  
2009  
$  
%  
$  
% 

  
(Dollars in millions) 

  
  

General corporate expense 
$116.9  
$115.4  
$121.3  
$1.5  
 1% 
$(5.9) 
 -5%

 
Our general corporate expenses are costs that
are incurred at the corporate level and include those expenses impacted by corporate direction, such as shared services, administrative,
legal, equity compensation costs and restructuring expenses. General corporate expenses increased by $1.5 million in 2011, compared
to 2010, primarily due to higher salary and incentive costs partially offset by lower technology costs and professional fees.
 
General corporate expenses decreased for 2010,
as compared to 2009, primarily as a result of $24.8 million of restructuring charges recorded in 2009 that did not recur in 2010.  This
was partially offset by increased salary, benefit and incentive costs, upgrades in shared corporate technology, and acquisition-related
expenses.
 

37
 

 
LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
Management assesses liquidity in terms of our
ability to generate cash to fund operating, investing and financing activities. We continue to generate substantial cash from operating
activities and remain in a strong financial position, with resources available for reinvestment in existing businesses, strategic
acquisitions and managing our capital structure to meet short- and long-term objectives.
 
Sources and Uses of Cash
 
Funds generated by operating activities and
our credit facilities continue to be our most significant sources of liquidity. We expect that funds generated from results of
operations will be sufficient to finance our anticipated working capital and other cash requirements (such as capital expenditures,
interest payments, potential pension funding contributions and dividend payments) for the foreseeable future. In the event that
credit market conditions were to deteriorate, we would rely more heavily on borrowings from the Senior Credit Facility as described
below. During the first quarter, we extended the maturity date of our Senior Credit Facility from July 2011 to February 2015 and
reduced the borrowing limits from $850.0 million to $500.0 million.  At December 31, 2011, $468.6 million was available
to borrow under our Senior Credit Facility. Our Senior Credit Facility does not include a provision under which lenders could refuse
to allow us to borrow under this facility in the event of a material adverse change in our financial condition, as long as we are
in compliance with the covenants contained in the lending agreement.
 
Information about our cash flows, by category,
is presented in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the twelve months
ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:
 


  
Twelve Months Ended December 31,  
Change 

Net cash provided by (used in): 
2011  
2010  
2009  
2011 vs. 2010  
2010 vs. 2009 

  
(Dollars in millions) 

  
   
   
   
   
  

Operating activities 
$408.7  
$352.6  
$418.4  
$56.1  
$(65.8)

Investing activities 
$(204.1) 
$1.0  
$(270.1) 
$(205.1) 
$271.1 

Financing activities 
$(195.9) 
$(335.3) 
$(108.3) 
$139.4  
$(227.0)

 
Operating Activities
 
Cash provided by operating activities for 2011
increased by $56.1 million over the prior year. Cash provided from net income, adjusted for the impact of divestitures, increased
by $20.3 million. The remaining increase in cash from operations was primarily driven by changes in net working capital and other
balance sheet changes, most notably from a $10.0 million decrease in pension contributions in 2011 and other lesser changes in
liabilities, partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable due to revenue growth.
 
The decrease in operating cash flow for 2010
was primarily driven by $35.0 million of additional pension contributions; a $16.4 million net impact on use of funds as accounts
receivable, which had been reduced in 2009, grew in 2010 as revenue grew; and $42.0 million in taxes paid on the sale of DMS and
the APPRO product line.  These, and other lesser changes in assets and liabilities, more than offset increased net income
and the contribution from higher depreciation and amortization.
 

38
 

 
Fund Transfer Limitations.
  The ability of certain of our subsidiaries and associated companies to transfer funds to us is limited, in some cases,
by certain restrictions imposed by foreign governments; these restrictions do not, individually or in the aggregate, materially
limit our ability to service our indebtedness, meet our current obligations or pay dividends. We currently hold $106.0 million
of cash in our foreign subsidiaries.
 
Investing Activities
 


  
Twelve Months Ended December 31,  
Change 

Net cash used in: 
2011  
2010  
2009  
2011 vs. 2010  
2010 vs. 2009 

  
(Dollars in millions) 

  
  

Capital expenditures   
$75.0  
$99.8  
$70.7  
$(24.8) 
$29.1 

 
Our capital expenditures are used for developing,
enhancing and deploying new and existing software in support of our expanding product set, replacing or adding equipment, updating
systems for regulatory compliance, the licensing of software applications and investing in system reliability, security and disaster
recovery enhancements.
 
Capital expenditures in
2011 were lower than 2010 primarily due to the purchase of our headquarters building in Atlanta, Georgia during the first quarter
of 2010 for cash consideration of $29.0 million, partially offset by an increase in investments in new products and technology
infrastructure in 2011.
 
Capital expenditures in 2010 were higher than
2009 due to the purchase of our headquarters building in Atlanta, as noted above.  On February 27, 2009, we notified
the lessor of our headquarters building that we intended to exercise our purchase option in accordance with the lease terms. We
purchased the building for $29.0 million on February 26, 2010. The notice of our intent to exercise our purchase option
caused us to account for this lease obligation as a capital lease. We recorded the building and the related obligation on our Consolidated
Balance Sheets at December 31, 2009.
 

39
 

 
Acquisitions, Divestitures and Investments
 


  
Twelve Months Ended December 31,  
Change 

Net cash used in: 
2011  
2010  
2009  
2011 vs. 2010  
2010 vs. 2009 

  
(Dollars in millions) 

  
   
   
   
   
  

Acquisitions, net of cash acquired 
$(127.4) 
$(82.6) 
$(196.0) 
$(44.8) 
$113.4 

Proceeds received from divestitures 
$2.5  
$181.7  
$-  
$(179.2) 
$181.7 

Investment in unconsolidated affiliates, net 
$(4.2) 
$1.7  
$(3.4) 
$(5.9) 
$5.1 

 
2011 Acquisitions and Investments.
  On August 1, 2011, to further enhance our market position, we acquired DataVision Resources, which provides data and
business solutions to the mortgage, insurance and financial services, for $50.0 million.  The results of this acquisition
have been included in our TALX Workforce Solutions segment.
 
To further broaden our product offerings, during
the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, we completed a number of smaller acquisitions of information services businesses in
the European and Latin American regions of our International segment as well as our U.S. Consumer Information Solutions and TALX
Workforce Solutions segments. The results of these acquisitions are not material.
 
During the second quarter of 2010, we sold our
APPRO product line, generating cash proceeds of approximately $67 million.  Approximately $5 million of the purchase
price was paid by the acquirer into an escrow account that will release to us, upon the satisfaction of certain conditions, over
the two year period following the sale.  We received $2.5 million from the escrow account during the second quarter of
2011. During 2011, we also invested $4.2 million in our joint ventures in India and Russia.
 
2010 Acquisitions, Divestitures and Investments.
On October 1, 2010, we acquired Anakam, Inc., a provider of large-scale, software-based, multi-factor identity authentication solutions
for $64.3 million.  The results of this acquisition are included in our U.S. Consumer Information Solutions segment.
 
To further enhance our market share, during
the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, we completed four acquisitions totaling $12.3 million, net of cash acquired.  These
transactions were in our International segment and the results of these acquisitions are not material.
 
During 2010, we resolved a contingent earn-out
associated with a 2008 acquisition included in our TALX segment.  The earn-out of $6 million was measured on the completion
of 2009 revenue targets and was accrued at December 31, 2009.
 
On April 23, 2010, we sold our Equifax Enabling
Technologies LLC legal entity, consisting of our APPRO loan origination software business (“APPRO”) for approximately
$72 million.  On July 1, 2010, we sold the assets of our Direct Marketing Services division (“DMS”) for approximately
$117 million.  Both of these were previously reported in our U.S. Consumer Information Solutions segment.  We
have presented the APPRO and DMS operations as discontinued operations for all periods presented.  The discontinued operations
are further described in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.
 
2009 Acquisitions, Divestitures and Investments.
  On December 23, 2009, as a part of our long-term growth strategy of expanding into emerging markets, we formed
a joint venture, Equifax Credit Information Services Private Limited, or ECIS, to provide a broad range of credit data and information
solutions in India. We paid cash consideration of $5.2 million for our 49 percent equity interest in ECIS.
 
On November 2, 2009, to further enhance
our income and identity verification service offerings, we acquired Rapid Reporting Verification Company, a provider of IRS tax
transcript information and social security number authentication services, for $72.5 million. The results of this acquisition
have been included in our TALX Workforce Solutions operating segment subsequent to the acquisition.
 

40
 

 
On October 27, 2009, we acquired IXI Corporation,
a provider of consumer wealth and asset data, for $124.0 million. This acquisition enables us to offer more differentiated
and in-depth consumer income, wealth and other data to help our clients improve their marketing, collections, portfolio management
and customer management efforts across different product segments. The results of this acquisition have been included in our USCIS
operating segment subsequent to the acquisition date.
 
We financed these purchases through borrowings
under our Senior Credit Facility, which were subsequently refinanced through the issuance in November 2009 of our 4.45%, five-year
unsecured Senior Notes. The 4.45% Senior Notes are further described in Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements in this report.
 
On August 12, 2009, in order to enhance
our Mortgage Solutions business market share, we acquired certain assets and specified liabilities of a small mortgage credit reporting
reseller for cash consideration of $3.8 million. The results of this acquisition have been included in our USCIS segment subsequent
to the acquisition date.
 
For additional information about our acquisitions,
see Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.
 
Financing Activities
 


  
Twelve Months Ended December 31,  
Change 

Net cash provided by (used in): 
2011  
2010  
2009  
2011 vs. 2010  
2010 vs. 2009 

  
(Dollars in millions) 

  
   
   
   
   
  

Net short-term borrowings (repayments) 
$24.4  
$(134.0) 
$101.8  
$158.4  
$(235.8)

Net borrowings (repayments) under long-term revolving credit facilities 
$-  
$(5.0) 
$(415.2) 
$5.0  
$410.2 

Payments on long-term debt 
$(16.7) 
$(20.8) 
$(31.8) 
$4.1  
$11.0 

Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 
$-  
$-  
$274.4  
$-  
$(274.4)

 
Credit Facility Availability.
  Our principal unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of banks, which we refer to as the Senior Credit Facility,
permits us to borrow up to $500.0 million through February 2015. The Senior Credit Facility may be used for general corporate
purposes. Availability of the Senior Credit Facility for borrowings is reduced by the outstanding face amount of any letters of
credit issued under the facility and, pursuant to our existing Board of Directors authorization, by the outstanding principal amount
of our commercial paper (CP) notes.
 
Our $500.0 million CP program has been
established to allow for borrowing through the private placement of CP with maturities ranging from overnight to 397 days.
We may use the proceeds of CP for general corporate purposes. The CP program is supported by our Senior Credit Facility and, pursuant
to our existing Board of Directors authorization, the total amount of CP which may be issued is reduced by the amount of any outstanding
borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility.
 
We had a 364-day revolving credit agreement
with a Canadian bank (our Canadian Credit Facility) which permitted us to borrow up to C$10.0 million (denominated in Canadian
dollars).  The Canadian Credit Facility was scheduled to terminate in June 2011. We cancelled this agreement at the end
of the first quarter 2011 and there were no outstanding borrowings under this agreement at the time of cancellation.
 
At December 31, 2011, there were no borrowings
outstanding under our Senior Credit Facility and $30.0 million outstanding under our CP program. At December 31, 2011, a total
of $468.6 million was available under our Senior Credit Facility.
 
At December 31, 2011, approximately 68%
of our debt was fixed rate and 32% was effectively variable rate. Our variable-rate debt, consisting of our five-year senior notes
due 2014 (against which we have executed interest rate swaps to convert interest expense from fixed rates to floating rates), generally
bears interest based on a specified margin plus a base rate (LIBOR) or on CP rates for investment grade issuers. The interest rates
reset periodically, depending on the terms of the respective financing arrangements. At December 31, 2011, interest rates
on our variable-rate debt ranged from 0.48% to 2.5%.
 
Borrowing and Repayment Activity.
  Net short-term borrowings (repayments) primarily represent activity under our CP program, as well as activity under
our Canadian short-term revolving credit agreement. Net (repayments) borrowings under long-term revolving credit facilities relates
to activity on our Senior Credit Facility. We primarily borrow under our CP program, when available.
 

41
 

 
The increase in net short-term borrowings (repayments)
primarily reflects the outstanding borrowings of CP notes at December 31, 2011 as compared to a net repayment of $134.0 million
of CP notes during 2010 as we decreased our use of CP to fund our capital needs. The change in net short-term (repayments) borrowings
in 2010 primarily reflects the net repayment of $134.0 million of CP notes since December 31, 2009.
 
The decrease in net repayments under long-term
revolving credit facilities represents the 2010 repayment of borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2009, under our Senior
Credit Facility. The change in net repayments for 2010 under long-term revolving credit facilities
represents the 2009 repayment of borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2008, under our Senior Credit Facility as we decreased
our use of CP to fund our capital needs in 2009 and 2010. The 2009 repayment of these borrowing drove the increase in net (repayments)
borrowings for 2009. In 2009, we purchased $7.5 million principal amount of our outstanding ten-year senior notes due 2017
for $6.3 million and $25.0 million principal amount of our outstanding debentures due 2028 for $25.1 million.
 
On November 4, 2009, we issued $275.0 million
principal amount of 4.45%, five-year senior notes in an underwritten public offering. We used the net proceeds from the sale of
the senior notes to repay amounts outstanding under our CP program, a portion of which was used to finance our fourth quarter 2009
acquisitions. In conjunction with our 2009 sale of five-year senior notes, we entered into five-year interest rate swaps, designated
as fair value hedges, which convert the debt’s fixed interest rate to a variable rate.
 
Debt Covenants.   Our
outstanding indentures and comparable instruments contain customary covenants including for example limits on secured debt and
sale/leaseback transactions. In addition, our Senior Credit Facility requires us to maintain a maximum leverage ratio of not more
than 3.5 to 1.0, and limit the amount of subsidiary debt. Our leverage ratio was 1.61 at December 31, 2011. None of these
covenants are considered restrictive to our operations and, as of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all of our
debt covenants.
 
We do not have any credit rating triggers that
would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of our outstanding debt; however, our senior notes, discussed above, contain
change in control provisions. If we experience a change of control or publicly announce our intention to effect a change of control
and the rating on the senior notes is lowered by Standard & Poor’s, or S&P, and Moody’s Investors Service,
or Moody’s, below an investment grade rating within 60 days of such change of control or notice thereof, then we will
be required to offer to repurchase the senior notes at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the senior notes
plus accrued and unpaid interest.
 
Credit Ratings.   Credit
ratings reflect an independent agency’s judgment on the likelihood that a borrower will repay a debt obligation at maturity.
The ratings reflect many considerations, such as the nature of the borrower’s industry and its competitive position, the
size of the company, its liquidity and access to capital and the sensitivity of a company’s cash flows to changes in the
economy. The two largest rating agencies, S&P and Moody’s, use alphanumeric codes to designate their ratings. The highest
quality rating for long-term credit obligations is AAA and Aaa for S&P and Moody’s, respectively. A security rating is
not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning
rating agency.
 
Long-term ratings of BBB- and Baa3 or better
by S&P and Moody’s, respectively, reflect ratings on debt obligations that fall within a band of credit quality considered
to be “investment grade”. At December 31, 2011, the long-term ratings for our obligations were BBB+ and Baa1,
which are consistent with the ratings and outlooks which existed at December 31, 2010. A downgrade in our credit rating would
increase the cost of borrowings under our CP program and credit facilities, and could limit, or in the case of a significant downgrade,
preclude our ability to issue CP. If our credit ratings were to decline to lower levels, we could experience increases in the interest
cost for any new debt. In addition, the market’s demand for, and thus our ability to readily issue, new debt could become
further influenced by the economic and credit market environment.
 

42
 

 
For additional information about our debt, including
the terms of our financing arrangements, basis for variable interest rates and debt covenants, see Note 6 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.
 
Equity Transactions
 


  
Twelve Months Ended December 31,  
Change 

Net cash provided by (used in): 
2011  
2010  
2009  
2011 vs. 2010  
2010 vs. 2009 

  
(Dollars in millions) 

  
   
   
   
   
  

Treasury stock purchases 
$(142.3) 
$(167.5) 
$(23.8) 
$25.2  
$(143.7)

Dividends paid to Equifax shareholders 
$(78.1) 
$(35.2) 
$(20.2) 
$(42.9) 
$(15.0)

Dividends paid to noncontrolling interests 
$(5.6) 
$(5.1) 
$(4.0) 
$(0.5) 
$(1.1)

Proceeds from exercise of stock options 
$23.7  
$29.3  
$10.2  
$(5.6) 
$19.1 

Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation plans 
$1.2  
$3.5  
$1.3  
$(2.3) 
$2.2 

 
Sources and uses of cash related to equity during
the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows:
 

•Under share repurchase programs authorized by our Board of Directors, we purchased 4.2 million, 5.2 million, and
0.9 million common shares on the open market during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively,
for $142.3 million, $167.5 million and $23.8 million, respectively, at an average price per common share of $34.19,
$32.28 and $26.41, respectively. At December 31, 2011, the Company had $112.1 million remaining for stock repurchases
under the existing Board authorization.
 

•During the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we paid cash dividends to Equifax shareholders of $78.1 million,
$35.2 million and $20.2 million, respectively, at $0.64 per share for 2011, $0.28 per share for 2010 and $0.16 per share
for 2008.
 
Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments
 
The following table summarizes our significant
contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2011. The table excludes commitments that are contingent based
on events or factors uncertain at this time. Some of the excluded commitments are discussed below the footnotes to the table.
 


  
Payments due by 

  
Total  
Less than 1 year  
1 to 3 years  
3 to 5 years  
Thereafter 

  
(In millions) 

Debt (including capitalized lease obligation) (1) 
$999.2  
$46.6  
$305.1  
$-  
$647.5 

Operating leases (2) 
 92.2  
 18.6  
 24.8  
 13.9  
 34.9 

Data processing, outsourcing agreements and other purchase obligations (3) 
 153.3  
 77.6  
 69.6  
 3.8  
 2.3 

Other long-term liabilities (4) (6) 
 102.4  
 6.0  
 12.8  
 9.6  
 74.0 

Interest payments (5) 
 685.7  
 52.8  
 102.3  
 86.6  
 444.0 

  
$2,032.8  
$201.6  
$514.6  
$113.9  
$1,202.7 

 

(1)The amounts are gross of unamortized discounts totaling $1.8 million and fair value adjustments of $15.8 million
at December 31, 2011. Total debt on our Consolidated Balance Sheets is net of the unamortized discounts and fair value adjustments.
 

(2)Our operating lease obligations principally involve office space and equipment, which include the ground lease associated with
our headquarters building that expires in 2048.
 

(3)These agreements primarily represent our minimum contractual obligations for services that we outsource associated with our
computer data processing operations and related functions, and certain administrative functions. These agreements expire between
2011 and 2018.
 

43
 

 

(4)These long-term liabilities primarily relate to obligations associated with certain pension, postretirement and other compensation-related
plans, some of which are discounted in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. We made certain
assumptions about the timing of such future payments. In the table above, we have not included amounts related to future pension
plan obligations, as such required funding amounts beyond 2011 have not been deemed necessary due to our current expectations regarding
future plan asset performance.
 

(5)For future interest payments on variable-rate debt, which are generally based on a specified margin plus a base rate (LIBOR)
or on CP rates for investment grade issuers, we used the variable rate in effect at December 31, 2011 to calculate these payments.
Our variable rate debt at December 31, 2011, consisted of CP, borrowings under our credit facilities and our five-year senior
notes due 2014 (against which we have executed interest rate swaps to convert interest expense from fixed rates to floating rates).
Future interest payments related to our Senior Credit Facility and our CP program are based on the borrowings outstanding at December 31,
2011 through their respective maturity dates, assuming such borrowings are outstanding until that time. The variable portion of
the rate at December 31, 2011 ranged from 0.48% to 2.5% for all of our variable-rate debt. Future interest payments may be
different depending on future borrowing activity and interest rates.
 

(6)This table excludes $25.1 million of unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, as we cannot make a
reasonably reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities.
 
A potential significant future use of cash would
be the payment to Computer Sciences Corporation, or CSC, if it were to exercise its option to sell its credit reporting business
to us at any time prior to August 2013. The option exercise price would be determined by agreement or by an appraisal process and
would be due in cash within 180 days after the exercise of the option. We estimate that if the option had been exercised at
December 31, 2011, the price would have been in the range of approximately $650 million to $750 million. This estimate
is based solely on our internal analysis of the value of the business (based on limited information available to us), current market
conditions and other factors, all of which are subject to constant change. Therefore, the actual option exercise price could be
materially higher or lower than our estimate. Our agreement with CSC, which expires on July 31, 2018, also provides us with
an option to purchase its credit reporting business if it does not elect to renew the agreement or if there is a change in control
of CSC while the agreement is in effect. If CSC were to exercise its option, or if we were able to and decided to exercise our
option, then we would have to obtain additional sources of funding. We believe that this funding would be available from sources
such as additional bank lines of credit and the capital markets for debt and/or equity financing. However, the availability and
terms of any such capital financing would be subject to a number of factors, including credit market conditions, the state of the
equity markets, general economic conditions, our credit ratings and our financial performance and condition.
 

44
 

 
Off-Balance Sheet Transactions
 
We do not engage in off-balance sheet financing
activities.
 
Pursuant to the terms of certain industrial
revenue bonds, we transferred title to certain of our fixed assets with costs of $65.3 million and $47.9 million, as
of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, to a local governmental authority in the U.S. to receive a property tax abatement
related to economic development. The title to these assets will revert back to us upon retirement or cancellation of the applicable
bonds. These fixed assets are still recognized on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets as all risks and rewards remain
with the Company.
 
Letters of Credit and Guarantees
 
We will from time to time issue standby letters
of credit, performance bonds or other guarantees in the normal course of business. The aggregate notional amount of all performance
bonds and standby letters of credit was not material at December 31, 2011, and all have a remaining maturity of one year or
less. Guarantees are issued from time to time to support the needs of our operating units. The maximum potential future payments
we could be required to make under the guarantees is not material at December 31, 2011.
 
Benefit Plans
 
Prior to December 31, 2009, we had one
non-contributory qualified retirement plan covering most U.S. salaried employees (the Equifax Inc. Pension Plan, or EIPP),
a qualified retirement plan that covered U.S. salaried employees (the U.S. Retirement Income Plan, or USRIP) who terminated or
retired before January 1, 2005 and a defined benefit plan for most salaried and hourly employees in Canada (the Canadian Retirement
Income Plan, or CRIP). On December 31, 2009, the plan assets and obligations of the EIPP were merged with the USRIP. The USRIP
remained as the sole U.S. qualified retirement plan.
 
At December 31, 2011, the USRIP met or
exceeded ERISA’s minimum funding requirements. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we made contributions
of $40.0 million and $50.0 million, respectively, to the USRIP. We also contributed $2.6 and $1.6 million to the CRIP
during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In the future, we will make minimum funding contributions
as required and may make discretionary contributions, depending on certain circumstances, including market conditions and liquidity
needs. We believe additional funding contributions, if any, would not prevent us from continuing to meet our liquidity needs, which
are primarily funded from cash flows generated by operating activities, available cash and cash equivalents, and our credit facilities.
 
For our non-U.S., tax-qualified retirement plans,
we fund an amount sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements but no more than allowed as a tax deduction pursuant to applicable
tax regulations. For the non-qualified supplementary retirement plans, we fund the benefits as they are paid to retired participants,
but accrue the associated expense and liabilities in accordance with GAAP.
 
For additional information about our benefit
plans, see Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.
 
Seasonality
 
We experience seasonality in certain of our
revenue streams. Revenue generated from the Employer Services business unit within the TALX Workforce Solutions operating segment
is generally higher in the first quarter due primarily to the provision of Form W-2 preparation services which occur in the
first quarter each year. Revenue from our OCIS and Mortgage Solutions business units tends to increase in periods of the year in
which our customers have higher volumes of credit granting decisions, most commonly the second and third calendar quarters. Revenues
in our North America Commercial business and the Consumer Financial Marketing Services business line within USCIS are typically
highest in the fourth quarter each year due to the timing of certain significant annual renewals of project-based agreements. On
a consolidated basis, combining all of these businesses, and assuming normal economic conditions, first quarter revenue is normally
the lowest quarterly revenue of the year, and the fourth quarter is the highest.
 

45
 

 
Effects of Inflation and Changes in Foreign Currency Exchange
Rates
 
Equifax’s operating results are not materially
affected by inflation, although inflation may result in increases in the Company’s expenses, which may not be readily recoverable
in the price of services offered. To the extent inflation results in rising interest rates and has other adverse effects upon the
securities markets and upon the value of financial instruments, it may adversely affect the Company’s financial position
and profitability.
 
A significant portion of the Company’s
business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar
can therefore affect the value of non-U.S. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. Potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations
in currencies are closely monitored. We generally do not mitigate the risks associated with fluctuating exchange rates, although
we may from time to time through forward contracts or other derivative instruments hedge a portion of our translational foreign
currency exposure or exchange rate risks associated with material transactions which are denominated in a foreign currency.
 
RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
 
For information about new accounting pronouncements
and the potential impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
in this report.
 
APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
 
The Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements
are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. This requires our management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures
of contingent assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The following accounting policies involve critical accounting estimates because they are particularly dependent on estimates and
assumptions made by management about matters that are uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made. In addition, while
we have used our best estimates based on facts and circumstances available to us at the time, different estimates reasonably could
have been used in the current period, or changes in the accounting estimates that we used are reasonably likely to occur from period
to period, either of which may have a material impact on the presentation of our Consolidated Balance Sheets and Statements of
Income. We also have other significant accounting policies which involve the use of estimates, judgments and assumptions that are
relevant to understanding our results. For additional information about these policies, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements in this report. Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions and judgments are reasonable, they are
based upon information available at the time. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions,
judgments or conditions.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence
of an arrangement exists, collectibility of arrangement consideration is reasonably assured, the arrangement fees are fixed or
determinable and delivery of the product or service has been completed. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from the
provision of information services to our customers on a transaction basis, in which case revenue is recognized, assuming all other
revenue recognition criteria are met, when the services are provided. A smaller portion of our revenues relate to subscription-based
contracts under which a customer pays a preset fee for a predetermined or unlimited number of transactions or services provided
during the subscription period, generally one year. Revenue related to subscription-based contracts having a preset number of transactions
is recognized as the services are provided, using an effective transaction rate as the actual transactions are completed. Any remaining
revenue related to unfulfilled units is not recognized until the end of the related contract’s subscription period. Revenue
related to subscription-based contracts having an unlimited volume is recognized ratably during the contract term. Revenue is recorded
net of sales taxes.
 
If at the outset of an arrangement, we determine
that collectibility is not reasonably assured, revenue is deferred until the earlier of when collectibility becomes probable or
the receipt of payment. If there is uncertainty as to the customer’s acceptance of our deliverables, revenue is not recognized
until the earlier of receipt of customer acceptance or expiration of the acceptance period. If at the outset of an arrangement,
we determine that the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, revenue is deferred until the arrangement fee becomes estimable,
assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met.
 

46
 

 
The determination of certain of our tax management
services revenue requires the use of estimates, principally related to transaction volumes in instances where these volumes are
reported to us by our clients on a monthly basis in arrears. In these instances, we estimate transaction volumes based on average
actual volumes reported in the past. Differences between our estimates and actual final volumes reported are recorded in the period
in which actual volumes are reported. We have not experienced significant variances between our estimates and actual reported volumes
in the past. We monitor actual volumes to ensure that we will continue to make reasonable estimates in the future. If we determine
that we are unable to make reasonable future estimates, revenue may be deferred until actual customer data is obtained. Also within
our TALX Workforce Solutions operating segment, the fees for certain of our tax credits and incentives revenue are based on a percentage
of the credit delivered to our clients. Revenue for these arrangements is recognized based on the achievement of milestones, upon
calculation of the credit, or when the credit is utilized by our client, depending on the provisions of the client contract.
 
We have certain offerings that are sold as multiple
element arrangements. The multiple elements may include consumer or commercial information, file updates for certain solutions,
services provided by our decisioning technologies personnel, training services, statistical models and other services. To account
for each of these elements separately, the delivered elements must have stand-alone value to our customer, and there must exist
objective and reliable evidence of the fair value for any undelivered elements.  If we are unable to unbundle the arrangement
into separate units of accounting, we apply one of the accounting policies described above. This may lead to the arrangement consideration
being recognized as the final contract element is delivered to our customer or ratably over the contract.
 
Many of our multiple element arrangements involve
the delivery of services generated by a combination of services provided by one or more of our operating segments. No individual
information service impacts the value or usage of other information services included in an arrangement and each service can be
sold alone or, in most cases, purchased from another vendor without affecting the quality of use or value to the customer of the
other information services included in the arrangement. Some of our products require the development of interfaces or platforms
by our decisioning technologies personnel that allow our customers to interact with our proprietary information databases. These
development services do not meet the requirement for having stand-alone value, thus any related development fees are deferred when
billed and are recognized over the expected period that the customer will benefit from the related decisioning technologies service.
Revenue from the provision of statistical models is recognized as the service is provided and accepted, assuming all other revenue
recognition criteria are met. The direct costs of set up of a customer are capitalized and amortized as a cost of service during
the term of the related customer contract.
 
We have some multiple element arrangements that
include software.  We recognize the elements for which we have established vendor specific objective evidence at fair
value upon delivery, in accordance with the applicable guidance.
 
We record revenue on a net basis for those sales
in which we have in substance acted as an agent or broker in the transaction.
 
Deferred revenue consists of amounts billed
in excess of revenue recognized on sales relating generally to the deferral of subscription fees and arrangement consideration
from elements not meeting the criteria for having stand-alone value discussed above. Deferred revenues are subsequently recognized
as revenue in accordance with our revenue recognition policies.
 
Judgments and uncertainties —
Each element of a multiple element arrangement must be considered separately to ensure that appropriate accounting is performed
for these deliverables. These considerations include assessing the price at which the element is sold compared to its relative
fair value; concluding when the element will be delivered; evaluating collectability; and determining whether any contingencies
exist in the related customer contract that impact the prices paid to us for the services.
 
In addition, the determination of certain of
our marketing information services and tax management services revenue requires the use of estimates, principally related to transaction
volumes in instances where these volumes are reported to us by our clients on a monthly basis in arrears. In these instances, we
estimate transaction volumes based on average actual volumes reported in the past. Differences between our estimates and actual
final volumes reported are recorded in the period in which actual volumes are reported.
 

47
 

 
Effects if actual results differ from assumptions —
We have not experienced significant variances between our estimates of marketing information services and tax management services
revenues reported to us by our customers and actual reported volumes in the past. We monitor actual volumes to ensure that we will
continue to make reasonable estimates in the future. If we determine that we are unable to make reasonable future estimates, revenue
may be deferred until actual customer data is obtained. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions,
or if our customer arrangements become more complex or include more bundled offerings in the future, we may be required to recognize
revenue differently in the future to account for these changes. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will
be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use to recognize revenue.
 
Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets
 
We review goodwill and indefinite lived intangible
assets for impairment annually (as of September 30) and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value
of an asset may not be recoverable. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal
factors, operating performance or trends, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. We
have ten reporting units comprised of Consumer Information Solutions (which includes part of Online Consumer Information Solutions,
Mortgage Solutions and Consumer Financial Marketing Services), Identity Management (part of Online Consumer Information Solutions),
Europe, Latin America, Canada Consumer, North America Personal Solutions, North America Commercial Solutions, Verification Services,
Tax Management Services (part of Employer Services) and Talent Management Services (part of Employer Services).
 
The goodwill balance at December 31, 2011,
for our ten reporting units was as follows:
 


  
December 31, 

  
2011 

  
(In millions) 

Consumer Information Solutions 
$583.9 

ID Management 
 54.5 

Europe 
 114.3 

Latin America 
 204.0 

Canada Consumer 
 30.2 

North America Personal Solutions 
 1.8 

North America Commercial Solutions 
 37.4 

Verification Services 
 740.1 

Tax Management Services 
 168.9 

Talent Management Services 
 26.1 

Total goodwill 
$1,961.2 

 
As permitted by applicable accounting rules,
the fair values of Consumer Information Solutions, Latin America, Europe, Canada Consumer, North America Personal Solutions, and
North America Commercial Solutions were not calculated at September 30, 2011 as (a) the assets and liabilities that make up the
reporting unit have not changed significantly since their most recent fair value determination, (b) the most recent fair value
determination resulted in an amount that exceeded the carrying amount of the reporting unit by a substantial margin and (c) based
on an analysis of events that have occurred and circumstances that have changed since the most recent fair value determination,
the likelihood that a current fair value determination would be less than the current carrying amount of the reporting unit is
remote.
 
Judgments and Uncertainties — In
determining the fair value of our reporting units, we used a combination of the income and market approaches to estimate the reporting
unit’s business enterprise value.
 

48
 

 
Under the income approach, we calculate the
fair value of a reporting unit based on estimated future discounted cash flows which require assumptions about short and long-term
revenue growth rates, operating margins for each reporting unit, discount rates, foreign currency exchange rates and estimates
of capital charges. The assumptions we use are based on what we believe a hypothetical marketplace participant would use in estimating
fair value. Under the market approach, we estimate the fair value based on market multiples of revenue or earnings before income
taxes, depreciation and amortization, for benchmark companies. We believe the benchmark companies used for each of the reporting
units serve as an appropriate input for calculating a fair value for the reporting unit as those benchmark companies have similar
risks, participate in similar markets, provide similar services for their customers and compete with us directly. The companies
we use as benchmarks are principally outlined in our “Competition” discussion in Item 1 of our 2011 Annual Report on
Form 10-K. Data for the benchmark companies was obtained from publicly available information. ID Management has benchmark companies
that conduct operations of businesses of a similar type, such as Experian Group Limited and The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation.
Verification Services, Tax Management Services and Talent Management Services share a different set of benchmark companies, notably
ADP and Paychex Inc., as the markets they serve are different than those served by our other reporting units. Valuation multiples
were selected based on a financial benchmarking analysis that compared the reporting unit’s operating result with the comparable
companies’ information. In addition to these financial considerations, qualitative factors such as variations in growth opportunities
and overall risk among the benchmark companies were considered in the ultimate selection of the multiple.
 
The values separately derived from each of the
income and market approach valuation techniques were used to develop an overall estimate of a reporting unit’s fair value.
We use a consistent approach across all reporting units when considering the weight of the income and market approaches for calculating
the fair value of each of our reporting units. This approach relies more heavily on the calculated fair value derived from the
income approach, with 70% of the value coming from the income approach. We believe this approach is consistent with that of a market
participant in valuing prospective purchase business combinations. The selection and weighting of the various fair value techniques
may result in a higher or lower fair value. Judgment is applied in determining the weightings that are most representative of fair
value.
 
We have not made any material changes to the
valuation methodology we use to assess goodwill impairment since the date of the last annual impairment test.
 
Growth Assumptions
 
The assumptions for our future cash flows begin
with our historical operating performance, the details of which are described in our Management’s Discussion & Analysis
of operating performance. Additionally, we consider the impact that known economic, industry and market trends will have on our
future forecasts, as well as the impact that we expect from planned business initiatives including new product initiatives, client
service and retention standards, and cost management programs. At the end of the forecast period, the long-term growth rate we
used to determine the terminal value of each reporting unit was generally 3% to 5% based on management’s assessment of the
minimum expected terminal growth rate of each reporting unit, as well as broader economic considerations such as GDP, inflation
and the maturity of the markets we serve.
 
As a result of the slow rate of economic recovery,
we projected only modest revenue growth in 2012 for our reporting units in completing our 2011 impairment testing based on planned
business initiatives and prevailing trends exhibited by these units, such as continued demand for employment verification services
and government hiring activity at the U.S. Transportation and Security Administration in the Verification Services and Talent Management
Services reporting units. The anticipated revenue growth, however, is partially offset by assumed increases in expenses for a majority
of our reporting units which reflect the additional level of investment needed in order to achieve the planned revenue growth.
Our 2011 long-term forecast is not dependent upon strong recovery of the global economy in the near term and we continue to take
cost containment actions to help maintain operating margins for our reporting units.
 

49
 




 
Discount Rate Assumptions
 
We utilize a weighted average cost of capital,
or WACC, in our impairment analysis that makes assumptions about the capital structure that we believe a market participant would
make and include a risk premium based on an assessment of risks related to the projected cash flows of each reporting unit. We
believe this approach yields a discount rate that is consistent with an implied rate of return that a market participant would
require for an investment in a company having similar risks and business characteristics to the reporting unit being assessed.
To calculate the WACC, the cost of equity and cost of debt are multiplied by the assumed capital structure of the reporting unit
as compared to industry trends and relevant benchmark company structures. The cost of equity was computed using the Capital Asset
Pricing Model which considers the risk-free interest rate, beta, equity risk premium and specific company risk premium related
to a particular reporting unit. The cost of debt was computed using a benchmark rate and the Company’s tax rate. For the
2011 annual goodwill impairment evaluation, the discount rates used to develop the estimated fair value of the reporting units
evaluated ranged from 9% to 10%. Because of assigned market premiums, discount rates are lowest for reporting units, whose cash
flows are expected to be less volatile due to such factors as the maturity of the market they serve, their position in that market
or other macroeconomic factors. Where there is the greatest volatility of cash flows due to competition, the discount rate selected
is in the higher portion of the range as there is more inherent risk in the expected cash flows of that reporting unit.
 
Estimated Fair Value and Sensitivities
 
The estimated fair value of the reporting units
whose fair value was calculated for purposes of the 2011 impairment testing is derived from the valuation techniques described
above, incorporating the related projections and assumptions. An indication of possible impairment occurs when the estimated fair
value of the reporting unit is below the carrying value of its equity. The estimated fair value for all reporting units exceeded
the carrying value of these units as of September 30, 2011. As a result, no goodwill impairment was recorded.
 
The estimated fair value of the reporting unit
is highly sensitive to changes in these projections and assumptions; therefore, in some instances changes in these assumptions
could impact whether the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying value. For example, an increase in the discount
rate and decline in the projected cumulative cash flow of a reporting unit could cause the fair value of certain reporting units
to be below its carrying value. We perform sensitivity analyses around these assumptions in order to assess the reasonableness
of the assumptions and the resulting estimated fair values. Ultimately, future potential changes in these assumptions may impact
the estimated fair value of a reporting unit and cause the fair value of the reporting unit to be below its carrying value. The
excess of fair value over carrying value for the Company’s reporting units that were valued as of September 30, 2011, ranged
from approximately 19% to 86%.
 
The reporting unit having the lowest absolute
dollar excess of fair value over carrying value is our Talent Management Services business which has a goodwill balance of $26.1
million as of September 30, 2011. This reporting unit has been impacted by uncertainty in government hiring activity. While no
impairment was noted in our impairment test as of September 30, 2011, if customer hiring activity does not increase in the near
to medium term as forecast or if other events adversely impact the business drivers and corresponding assumptions used to value
this reporting unit, there could be a change in the valuation of our goodwill in future periods and may possibly result in the
recognition of an impairment loss.
 
No new indications of impairment existed during
the fourth quarter of 2011, thus no impairment testing was updated as of December 31, 2011.
 
Effect if actual results differ from assumptions
— We believe that our estimates are consistent with assumptions that marketplace participants would use in their estimates
of fair value. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions, we may be exposed to an impairment
charge that could be material.
 

50
 

 
Loss Contingencies
 
We are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits
and claims arising in the normal course of our business. We determine whether to disclose and/or accrue for loss contingencies
based on our assessment of whether the potential loss is probable, reasonably possible or remote.
 
Judgments and uncertainties — We
periodically review claims and legal proceedings and assess whether we have potential financial exposure based on consultation
with internal and outside legal counsel and other advisors. If the likelihood of an adverse outcome from any claim or legal proceeding
is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we record a liability on our Consolidated Balance Sheets for the estimated
settlement costs. If the likelihood of an adverse outcome is reasonably possible, but not probable, we provide disclosures related
to the potential loss contingency. Our assumptions related to loss contingencies are inherently subjective.
 
Effect if actual results differ from assumptions
— We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates or
assumptions we use to determine loss contingencies. However, if facts and circumstances change in the future that change our belief
regarding assumptions used to determine our estimates, we may be exposed to a loss that could be material.
 
Income Taxes
 
We record deferred income taxes using enacted
tax laws and rates for the years in which the taxes are expected to be paid. We assess the likelihood that our net deferred tax
assets will be recovered from future taxable income or other tax planning strategies. To the extent that we believe that recovery
is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred tax asset to the amount we estimate will be recoverable.
 
Our income tax provisions are based on assumptions
and calculations which will be subject to examination by various tax authorities. We record tax benefits for positions in which
we believe are more likely than not of being sustained under such examinations. We assess the potential outcome of such examinations
to determine the adequacy of our income tax accruals.
 
Judgments and uncertainties — We
consider accounting for income taxes critical because management is required to make significant judgments in determining our provision
for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and our future taxable income for purposes of assessing our ability
to realize any future benefit from our deferred tax assets. These judgments and estimates are affected by our expectations of future
taxable income, mix of earnings among different taxing jurisdictions, and timing of the reversal of deferred tax assets and liabilities.
 
We also use our judgment to determine whether
it is more likely than not that we will sustain positions that we have taken on tax returns and, if so, the amount of benefit to
initially recognize within our financial statements. We review our uncertain tax positions and adjust our unrecognized tax benefits
in light of changes in facts and circumstances, such as changes in tax law, interactions with taxing authorities and developments
in case law. These adjustments to our unrecognized tax benefits may affect our income tax expense. Settlement of uncertain tax
positions may require use of our cash. At December 31, 2011, $25.1 million was recorded for uncertain tax benefits, including
interest and penalties, of which it is reasonably possible that up to $4.6 million of our unrecognized tax benefit may change within
the next twelve months.
 

51
 

 
Effect if actual results differ from assumptions
— Although management believes that the judgments and estimates discussed herein are reasonable, actual results could
differ, and we may be exposed to increases or decreases in income tax expense that could be material.
 
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans
 
We consider accounting for our U.S. and Canadian
pension and other postretirement plans critical because management is required to make significant subjective judgments about a
number of actuarial assumptions, which include discount rates, salary growth, expected return on plan assets, interest cost and
mortality and retirement rates. Actuarial valuations are used in determining our benefit obligation and net periodic benefit cost.
 
Judgments and uncertainties — We
believe that the most significant assumptions related to our net periodic benefit cost are (1) the discount rate and (2) the
expected return on plan assets, in each case as it relates to our U.S. pension plan. Our Canadian plan is small, and the impact
of changes in assumptions for that plan is not material.
 
We determine our discount rates primarily based
on high-quality, fixed-income investments and yield-to-maturity analysis specific to our estimated future benefit payments available
as of the measurement date. Discount rates are updated annually on the measurement date to reflect current market conditions. We
use a third party yield curve to develop our discount rates. The yield curve provides discount rates related to a dedicated high-quality
bond portfolio whose cash flows extend beyond the current period, from which we choose a rate matched to the expected benefit payments
required for each plan.
 
The expected rate of return on plan assets is
based on both our historical returns and forecasted future investment returns by asset class, as provided by our external investment
advisor. In setting the long-term expected rate of return, management considers capital markets’ future expectations and
the asset mix of the plan investments. Prior to 2008, the U.S. Pension Plan compound annual investment returns were 10.9%, 13.0%
and 7.5% over three, five and ten years, respectively. The returns exceeded the S&P 500 returns for similar periods of
time primarily due to an asset allocation strategy where large allocations to alternative asset classes (hedge fund of funds, private
equity, real estate and real assets) provided consistently higher returns with a low correlation to equity market returns. These
returns historically demonstrate a long-term record of producing returns at or above the expected rate of return. However, the
dramatic adverse market conditions in 2008 skewed the traditional measures of long-term performance, such as the ten-year average
return. The severity of the 2008 losses, approximately negative 20%, makes the historical ten-year average return a less accurate
predictor of future return expectations. Our weighted-average expected rate of return for 2012 is 7.73% which is the same as the
2011 and 2010 expected rate.
 
Annual differences, if any, between the expected
and actual returns on plan assets are included in unrecognized net actuarial gain, a component of other comprehensive income. In
calculating the annual amortization of the unrecognized net actuarial gain or loss, we use a market-related value of assets that
smoothes actual investment gains and losses on plan assets over a period up to five years. The resulting unrecognized net actuarial
gain or loss amount is recognized in net periodic pension expense over the average remaining life expectancy of the participant
group since almost all participants are inactive.  The market-related value of our assets was $625.7 million at
December 31, 2011. We do not expect our 2012 net periodic benefit cost, which includes the effect of the market-related value
of assets, to be materially different than our 2011 cost. See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for details on changes in the pension benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets.
 
Effect if actual results differ from assumptions
— We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates or
assumptions that are used in our actuarial valuations. Adjusting our weighted-average expected long-term rate of return (7.73%
at December 31, 2011) by 50 basis points would change our estimated pension expense in 2012 by approximately $3.1 million.
Adjusting our weighted-average discount rate (4.60% at December 31, 2011) by 50 basis points would change our estimated pension
expense in 2012 by approximately $1.4 million. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions,
we may be exposed to changes in pension expense that could be material.
 

52
 

 
ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES
ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
In the normal course of our business, we are
exposed to market risk, primarily from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates that could impact our results
of operations and financial position. We manage our exposure to these market risks through our regular operating and financing
activities, and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps, to
hedge certain of these exposures. We use derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for speculative or trading
purposes.
 
Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk
 
A substantial majority of our revenue, expense
and capital expenditure activities are transacted in U.S. dollars. However, we do transact business in other currencies, primarily
the British pound, the Canadian dollar, the Chilean peso, the Argentine peso and the Euro. For most of these foreign currencies,
we are a net recipient, and, therefore, benefit from a weaker U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger U.S. dollar
relative to the foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business.
 
We are required to translate, or express in
U.S. dollars, the assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries that are denominated or measured in foreign currencies at
the applicable year-end rate of exchange on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and income statement items of our foreign subsidiaries
at the average rates prevailing during the year. We record the resulting translation adjustment, and gains and losses resulting
from the translation of intercompany balances of a long-term investment nature within other comprehensive income, as a component
of our shareholders’ equity. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses, which have historically been immaterial, are
recorded on our Consolidated Statements of Income. We generally do not mitigate the risks associated with fluctuating exchange
rates, although we may from time to time through forward contracts or other derivative instruments hedge a portion of our translational
foreign currency exposure or exchange rate risks associated with material transactions which are denominated in a foreign currency.
 
For the year ended December 31, 2011, a
10% weaker U.S. dollar against the currencies of all foreign countries in which we had operations during 2011 would have increased
our revenue by $50.2 million and our pre-tax operating profit by $15.2 million. For the year ended December 31,
2010, a 10% weaker U.S. dollar against the currencies of all foreign countries in which we had operations during 2010 would have
increased our revenue by $49.6 million and our pre-tax operating profit by $13.7 million. A 10% stronger U.S. dollar
would have resulted in similar decreases to our revenue and pre-tax operating profit for 2011 and 2010.
 
Interest Rate Risk
 
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest
rates relates to our variable-rate, long-term Senior Credit Facility and commercial paper borrowings, as well as our interest rate
swaps which economically convert our 2014 fixed rate bonds from a fixed rate of interest to a floating rate. We attempt to achieve
the lowest all-in weighted-average cost of debt while simultaneously taking into account the mix of our fixed- and floating-rate
debt, and the average life and scheduled maturities of our debt. At December 31, 2011, our weighted average cost of debt was
5.3% and weighted-average life of debt was 10.8 years. At December 31, 2011, 68% of our debt was fixed rate, and the
remaining 32% was variable rate after giving effect to the interest rate swaps on our 2014 bonds. Occasionally we use derivatives
to manage our exposure to changes in interest rates by entering into interest rate swaps. A 100 basis point increase in the weighted-average
interest rate on our variable-rate debt would have increased our 2011 interest expense by $2.8 million.
 
Based on the amount of outstanding variable-rate
debt, we have material exposure to interest rate risk. In the future, if our mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt were to change
due to additional borrowings under existing or new variable-rate debt, we could have additional exposure to interest rate risk.
The nature and amount of our long-term and short-term debt, as well as the proportionate amount of fixed-rate and variable-rate
debt, can be expected to vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions and other factors.
 

53
 

 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 


Index to Financial Statements
 
 

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
 
54

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
 
55

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
56

Consolidated Statements of Income for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011
 
57

Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010
 
58

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011
 
59

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011
 
60

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
62

 
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL
REPORTING
 
Management of Equifax is responsible for establishing
and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934. Equifax’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. Internal control over financial reporting includes those written policies and procedures
that:
 

•Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions
of the assets of Equifax;
 

•Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles;
 

•Provide reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures of Equifax are being made only in accordance with authorization
of management and the Board of Directors of Equifax; and
 

•Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of assets
that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
 
Internal control over financial reporting includes
the controls themselves, monitoring and internal auditing practices, and actions taken to correct deficiencies as identified.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal
control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness
to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
Management assessed the effectiveness of Equifax’s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. Management based this assessment on criteria for effective internal
control over financial reporting described in “Internal Control — Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Management’s assessment included an evaluation of the design of Equifax’s
internal control over financial reporting and testing of the operational effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting.
Management reviewed the results of its assessment with the Audit Committee of its Board of Directors.
 
Based on this assessment, management determined
that, as of December 31, 2011, Equifax maintained effective internal control over financial reporting. Ernst & Young LLP, the
Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an audit report on the Company’s internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011.
 

54
 

 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Equifax Inc.:
 
We have audited Equifax Inc.’s (
“Equifax ” or “the Company ”) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based
on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Equifax’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control
over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in
the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a
material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed
risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides
a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
A company’s internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that,
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal
control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness
to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
In our opinion, Equifax Inc. maintained,
in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the COSO criteria.
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31,
2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders’ equity and comprehensive income, and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 of Equifax Inc. and our report dated February 23,
2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
 
Atlanta, Georgia
February 23, 2012
 

55
 

 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Equifax Inc.:
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Equifax Inc. as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders’
equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. Our audits
also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a)(2). These financial statements and schedule
are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements
and schedule based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Equifax Inc. at December 31,
2011 and 2010, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion the related financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material
respects the information set forth therein.
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Equifax Inc.’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 23, 2012 expressed an
unqualified opinion thereon.
 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
 
Atlanta, Georgia
February 23, 2012
 

56
 

 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 


  
Twelve Months Ended 

  
December 31, 

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

(In millions, except per share amounts) 
   
   
  

Operating revenue 
$1,959.8  
$1,859.5  
$1,716.0 

Operating expenses: 
    
    
   

Cost of services (exclusive of depreciation and amortization below) 
 768.5  
 759.9  
 718.8 

Selling, general and administrative expenses 
 554.8  
 507.4  
 470.2 

Depreciation and amortization 
 165.5  
 162.2  
 145.2 

Total operating expenses 
 1,488.8  
 1,429.5  
 1,334.2 

Operating income 
 471.0  
 430.0  
 381.8 

Interest expense 
 (55.1) 
 (56.1) 
 (57.0)

Other income (expense), net 
 (7.7) 
 1.3  
 6.2 

Consolidated income from continuing operations before income taxes 
 408.2  
 375.2  
 331.0 

Provision for income taxes 
 (168.0) 
 (131.9) 
 (106.6)

Consolidated income from continuing operations 
 240.2  
 243.3  
 224.4 

Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 
 1.5  
 31.5  
 16.1 

Consolidated net income 
 241.7  
 274.8  
 240.5 

Less:  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
 (8.8) 
 (8.1) 
 (6.6)

Net income attributable to Equifax 
$232.9  
$266.7  
$233.9 

Amounts attributable to Equifax: 
    
    
   

Net income from continuing operations attributable to Equifax 
$231.4  
$235.2  
$217.8 

Discontinued operations, net of tax 
 1.5  
 31.5  
 16.1 

Net income attributable to Equifax 
$232.9  
$266.7  
$233.9 

Basic earnings per common share: 
    
    
   

Income from continuing operations attributable to Equifax 
$1.90  
$1.89  
$1.72 

Discontinued operations 
 0.01  
 0.25  
 0.13 

Net income attributable to Equifax 
$1.91  
$2.14  
$1.85 

Weighted-average shares used in computing basic earnings per share 
 121.9  
 124.8  
 126.3 

Diluted earnings per common share: 
    
    
   

Income from continuing operations attributable to Equifax 
$1.87  
$1.86  
$1.70 

Discontinued operations 
 0.01  
 0.25  
 0.13 

Net income attributable to Equifax 
$1.88  
$2.11  
$1.83 

Weighted-average shares used in computing diluted earnings per share 
 123.7  
 126.5  
 127.9 

Dividends per common share 
$0.64  
$0.28  
$0.16 

 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

57
 

 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 


  
December 31, 

  
2011  
2010 

(In millions, except par values) 
   
  

ASSETS 
    
   

Current assets: 
    
   

Cash and cash equivalents 
$127.7  
$119.4 

Trade accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $5.9 and $7.5 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively 
 284.4  
 262.6 

Prepaid expenses 
 24.6  
 26.1 

Other current assets 
 15.6  
 25.0 

Total current assets 
 452.3  
 433.1 

Property and equipment: 
    
   

Capitalized internal-use software and system costs 
 332.2  
 315.9 

Data processing equipment and furniture 
 183.1  
 181.0 

Land, buildings and improvements 
 178.4  
 169.5 

Total property and equipment 
 693.7  
 666.4 

Less accumulated depreciation and amortization 
 (400.8) 
 (368.0)

Total property and equipment, net 
 292.9  
 298.4 

  
    
   

Goodwill 
 1,961.2  
 1,914.7 

Indefinite-lived intangible assets 
 95.6  
 95.6 

Purchased intangible assets, net 
 550.2  
 593.9 

Other assets, net 
 156.4  
 101.8 

Total assets 
$3,508.6  
$3,437.5 

LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 
    
   

Current liabilities: 
    
   

Short-term debt and current maturities 
$47.2  
$20.7 

Accounts payable 
 27.5  
 24.6 

Accrued expenses 
 56.3  
 61.9 

Accrued salaries and bonuses 
 79.2  
 71.9 

Deferred revenue 
 55.8  
 58.7 

Other current liabilities 
 96.8  
 81.7 

Total current liabilities 
 362.8  
 319.5 

Long-term debt 
 966.0  
 978.9 

Deferred income tax liabilities, net 
 227.8  
 248.1 

Long-term pension and other postretirement benefit liabilities 
 176.4  
 129.0 

Other long-term liabilities 
 53.5  
 53.6 

Total liabilities 
 1,786.5  
 1,729.1 

Commitments and Contingencies (see Note 7) 
    
   

Equifax shareholders' equity: 
    
   

Preferred stock, $0.01 par value: Authorized shares - 10.0; Issued shares - none 
 -  
 - 

Common stock, $1.25 par value: Authorized shares - 300.0; Issued shares - 189.3 at December 31, 2011 and 2010; Outstanding shares - 119.6 and 122.6 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively 
 236.6  
 236.6 

Paid-in capital 
 1,118.0  
 1,105.8 

Retained earnings 
 2,879.2  
 2,725.7 

Accumulated other comprehensive loss 
 (391.8) 
 (344.5)

Treasury stock, at cost, 69.1 shares and 64.6 shares at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively 
 (2,133.7) 
 (1,991.0)

Stock held by employee benefits trusts, at cost, 0.6 shares and 2.1 shares at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively 
 (5.9) 
 (41.2)

Total Equifax shareholders' equity 
 1,702.4  
 1,691.4 

Noncontrolling interests 
 19.7  
 17.0 

Total equity 
 1,722.1  
 1,708.4 

Total liabilities and equity 
$3,508.6  
$3,437.5 

 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

58
 

 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 


  
Twelve Months Ended 

  
December 31, 

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

(In millions) 
   
   
  

Operating activities: 
    
    
   

Consolidated net income 
$241.7  
$274.8  
$240.5 

Adjustments to reconcile consolidated net income to net cash provided by operating activities: 
    
    
   

Loss (gain) on divestitures 
 26.3  
 (27.1) 
 - 

Depreciation and amortization 
 164.9  
 167.8  
 158.8 

Stock-based compensation expense 
 24.4  
 21.8  
 19.6 

Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation plans 
 (1.2) 
 (3.5) 
 (1.3)

Deferred income taxes 
 3.6  
 0.1  
 14.7 

Changes in assets and liabilities, excluding effects of acquisitions: 
    
    
   

Accounts receivable, net 
 (26.6) 
 (3.6) 
 12.8 

Prepaid expenses and other current assets 
 2.4  
 6.1  
 (1.4)

Other assets 
 15.0  
 (1.4) 
 (6.9)

Current liabilities, excluding debt 
 1.3  
 (32.4) 
 4.2 

Other long-term liabilities, excluding debt 
 (43.1) 
 (50.0) 
 (22.6)

Cash provided by operating activities 
 408.7  
 352.6  
 418.4 

Investing activities: 
    
    
   

Capital expenditures 
 (75.0) 
 (99.8) 
 (70.7)

Acquisitions, net of cash acquired 
 (127.4) 
 (82.6) 
 (196.0)

Proceeds received from divestitures 
 2.5  
 181.7  
 - 

Investment in unconsolidated affiliates, net 
 (4.2) 
 1.7  
 (3.4)

Cash provided by (used in) investing activities 
 (204.1) 
 1.0  
 (270.1)

  
    
    
   

Financing activities: 
    
    
   

Net short-term (repayments) borrowings 
 24.4  
 (134.0) 
 101.8 

Net (repayments) borrowings under long-term revolving credit facilities 
 -  
 (5.0) 
 (415.2)

Payments on long-term debt 
 (16.7) 
 (20.8) 
 (31.8)

Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 
 -  
 -  
 274.4 

Treasury stock purchases 
 (142.3) 
 (167.5) 
 (23.8)

Dividends paid to Equifax shareholders 
 (78.1) 
 (35.2) 
 (20.2)

Dividends paid to noncontrolling interests 
 (5.6) 
 (5.1) 
 (4.0)

Proceeds from exercise of stock options 
 23.7  
 29.3  
 10.2 

Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation plans 
 1.2  
 3.5  
 1.3 

Other 
 (2.5) 
 (0.5) 
 (1.0)

Cash used in financing activities 
 (195.9) 
 (335.3) 
 (108.3)

Effect of foreign currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 
 (0.4) 
 (2.0) 
 4.9 

Increase in cash and cash equivalents 
 8.3  
 16.3  
 44.9 

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period 
 119.4  
 103.1  
 58.2 

Cash and cash equivalents, end of period 
$127.7  
$119.4  
$103.1 

 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

59
 

 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE
INCOME
 


  
Equifax Shareholders  
   
  

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
Stock  
   
  

  
   
   
   
   
Accumulated  
   
Held By  
   
  

  
Common Stock  
   
   
Other  
   
Employee  
   
Total 

  
Shares  
   
Paid-In  
Retained  
Comprehensive  
Treasury  
Benefits  
Noncontrolling  
Shareholders’ 

  
Outstanding  
Amount  
Capital  
Earnings  
Loss  
Stock  
Trusts  
Interests  
Equity 

  
(In millions, except per share values) 

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

Balance, December 31, 2008 
 126.3  
$236.5  
$1,075.2  
$2,281.0  
$(390.6) 
$(1,837.9) 
$(51.8) 
$11.1  
$1,323.5 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net income 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 233.9  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 6.6  
 240.5 

Other comprehensive income (loss) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 71.9  
 -  
 -  
 0.1  
 72.0 

Shares issued under stock and benefit plans, net of minimum tax withholdings 
 0.8  
 0.1  
 (0.6) 
 -  
 -  
 2.5  
 6.4  
 -  
 8.4 

Treasury stock purchased under share repurchase program ($26.41 per share)* 
 (0.9) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (23.8) 
 -  
 -  
 (23.8)

Treasury stock purchased from the Equifax Employee Stock Benefits Trust ($29.29 per share)** 
 -  
 -  
 8.3  
 -  
 -  
 (12.5) 
 4.2  
 -  
 - 

Cash dividends ($0.16 per share) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (20.7) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (20.7)

Dividends paid to employee benefits trusts 
 -  
 -  
 0.5  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 0.5 

Stock-based compensation expense 
 -  
 -  
 19.6  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 19.6 

Tax effects of stock-based compensation plans 
 -  
 -  
 0.9  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 0.9 

Dividends paid to noncontrolling interests 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (4.0) 
 (4.0)

Other 
 -  
 -  
 (1.9) 
    
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (1.9)

Balance, December 31, 2009 
 126.2  
$236.6  
$1,102.0  
$2,494.2  
$(318.7) 
$(1,871.7) 
$(41.2) 
$13.8  
$1,615.0 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net income 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 266.7  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 8.1  
 274.8 

Other comprehensive income (loss) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (25.8) 
 -  
 -  
 (0.2) 
 (26.0)

Shares issued under stock and benefit plans, net of minimum tax withholdings 
 1.6  
 -  
 (21.7) 
 -  
 -  
 48.2  
 -  
 -  
 26.5 

Treasury stock purchased under share repurchase program ($32.28 per share)* 
 (5.2) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (167.5) 
 -  
 -  
 (167.5)

Cash dividends ($0.28 per share) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (35.2) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (35.2)

Dividends paid to employee benefits trusts 
 -  
 -  
 0.3  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 0.3 

Stock-based compensation expense 
 -  
 -  
 21.8  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 21.8 

Tax effects of stock-based compensation plans 
 -  
 -  
 3.4  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 3.4 

Dividends paid to noncontrolling interests 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (5.1) 
 (5.1)

Other 
 -  
 -  
 -  
    
 -  
 -  
 -  
 0.4  
 0.4 

Balance, December 31, 2010 
 122.6  
$236.6  
$1,105.8  
$2,725.7  
$(344.5) 
$(1,991.0) 
$(41.2) 
$17.0  
$1,708.4 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net income 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 232.9  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 8.8  
 241.7 

Other comprehensive income (loss) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (47.3) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (47.3)

Shares issued under stock and benefit plans, net of minimum tax withholdings 
 1.2  
 -  
 (14.3) 
 -  
 -  
 34.9  
 -  
 -  
 20.6 

Treasury stock purchased under share repurchase program ($34.19 per share)* 
 (4.2) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (142.3) 
 -  
 -  
 (142.3)

Treasury stock transferred from the Executive Life Insurance Benefit Trust*** 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (35.3) 
 35.3  
 -  
 - 

Cash dividends ($0.64 per share) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (79.4) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (79.4)

Dividends paid to employee benefits trusts 
 -  
 -  
 1.3  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 1.3 

Stock-based compensation expense 
 -  
 -  
 24.4  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 24.4 

Tax effects of stock-based compensation plans 
 -  
 -  
 2.3  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 2.3 

Dividends paid to noncontrolling interests 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (5.6) 
 (5.6)

Other 
 -  
 -  
 (1.5) 
    
 -  
 -  
    
 (0.5) 
 (2.0)

Balance, December 31, 2011 
 119.6  
$236.6  
$1,118.0  
$2,879.2  
$(391.8) 
$(2,133.7) 
$(5.9) 
$19.7  
$1,722.1 

 

*At December 31, 2011, $112.1 million was authorized for future repurchases of our common stock.
 

**426,533 shares were reclassified from Stock Held by Employee Benefits Trusts to Treasury Stock on our Consolidated Balance
Sheets as a result of this transaction.
 

***1,500,000 shares were reclassified from Stock Held by Employee Benefits Trusts to Treasury Stock on our Consolidated Balance
Sheets as a result of this transaction.
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

60
 

 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE
INCOME
 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss consists of the following
components:
 


  
December 31, 

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
(In millions) 

Foreign currency translation 
$(89.3) 
$(100.8) 
$(99.9)

Unrecognized actuarial losses and prior service cost related to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans, net of accumulated tax of $172.1, $138.6 and $124.9 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively 
 (300.3) 
 (241.3) 
 (216.2)

Cash flow hedging transactions, net of tax of $1.4, $1.6 and $1.7 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively 
 (2.2) 
 (2.4) 
 (2.6)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss 
$(391.8) 
$(344.5) 
$(318.7)

 
Comprehensive Income is as follows:
 


  
Twelve Months Ended December 31, 

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
Equifax  
Noncontrolling  
   
Equifax  
Noncontrolling  
   
Equifax  
Noncontrolling  
  

  
Shareholders  
Interests  
Total  
Shareholders  
Interests  
Total  
Shareholders  
Interests  
Total 

  
(In millions) 

Net income 
$232.9  
$8.8  
$241.7  
$266.7  
$8.1  
$274.8  
$233.9  
$6.6  
$240.5 

Other comprehensive income: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Foreign currency translation
    adjustment 
 11.5  
 -  
 11.5  
 (0.9) 
 (0.2) 
 (1.1) 
 78.5  
 0.1  
 78.6 

Recognition of prior
    service cost and actuarial gains (losses) related to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans 
 (59.0) 
 -  
 (59.0) 
 (25.1) 
 -  
 (25.1) 
 (7.7) 
 -  
 (7.7)

Change
    in cumulative loss from cash flow hedging transactions 
 0.2  
 -  
 0.2  
 0.2  
 -  
 0.2  
 1.1  
 -  
 1.1 

Comprehensive
    income 
$185.6  
$8.8  
$194.4  
$240.9  
$7.9  
$248.8  
$305.8  
$6.7  
$312.5 

 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

61
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
As used herein, the terms Equifax, the Company,
we, our and us refer to Equifax Inc., a Georgia corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except
where it is clear that the terms mean only Equifax Inc.
 
Nature of Operations.   We
collect, organize and manage various types of financial, demographic, employment and marketing information. Our products and services
enable businesses to make credit and service decisions, manage their portfolio risk, automate or outsource certain payroll-related,
tax and human resources business processes, and develop marketing strategies concerning consumers and commercial enterprises. We
serve customers across a wide range of industries, including the financial services, mortgage, retail, telecommunications, utilities,
automotive, brokerage, healthcare and insurance industries, as well as government agencies. We also enable consumers to manage
and protect their financial health through a portfolio of products offered directly to consumers. As of December 31, 2011,
we operated in the following countries: Argentina, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal,
Spain, the United Kingdom, or U.K., Uruguay, and the United States of America, or U.S. We also maintain support operations in the
Republic of Ireland. We have an investment in a consumer and commercial credit information company in Brazil and offer consumer
credit services in India and Russia through joint ventures.
 
We develop, maintain and enhance secured proprietary
information databases through the compilation of actual consumer data, including credit, employment, asset, liquidity, net worth
and spending activity, and business data, including credit and business demographics, that we obtain from a variety of sources,
such as credit granting institutions, public record information (including bankruptcies, liens and judgments), income and tax information
primarily from large to mid-sized companies in the U.S., and survey-based marketing information. We process this information utilizing
our proprietary information management systems.
 
Basis of Consolidation.   Our
Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes, which are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles, or GAAP, include Equifax and all its subsidiaries. We consolidate all majority-owned and controlled subsidiaries as
well as variable interest entities in which we are the primary beneficiary. Other parties’ interests in consolidated entities
are reported as noncontrolling interests. We use the equity method of accounting for investments in which we are able to exercise
significant influence and use the cost method for all other investments. All significant intercompany transactions and balances
are eliminated.
 
Our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect
all adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair presentation of the periods presented therein. Certain
prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. The effect of these reclassifications is not
material.
 
Segments.   We manage our business
and report our financial results through the following five reportable segments, which are the same as operating segments:
 

•U.S. Consumer Information Solutions, or USCIS
 

•International
 

•TALX Workforce Solutions
 

•North America Personal Solutions
 

•North America Commercial Solutions
 

62
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
USCIS is our largest reportable segment, with
40% of total operating revenue for 2011. Our most significant foreign operations are located in Canada and the U.K.
 
Use of Estimates.   The preparation
of our Consolidated Financial Statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions in accordance with GAAP. Accordingly, we
make these estimates and assumptions after exercising judgment. We believe that the estimates and assumptions inherent in our Consolidated
Financial Statements are reasonable, based upon information available to us at the time they are made including the consideration
of events that have occurred up until the point these Consolidated Financial Statements have been filed. These estimates and assumptions
affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
at the date of the financial statements, as well as reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual
results could differ materially from these estimates.
 
Revenue Recognition and Deferred Revenue.
  Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, collectibility of arrangement consideration
is reasonably assured, the arrangement fees are fixed or determinable and delivery of the product or service has been completed.
A significant portion of our revenue is derived from the provision of information services to our customers on a transaction basis,
in which case revenue is recognized, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met, when the services are provided. A
smaller portion of our revenues relates to subscription-based contracts under which a customer pays a preset fee for a predetermined
or unlimited number of transactions or services provided during the subscription period, generally one year. Revenue related to
subscription-based contracts having a preset number of transactions is recognized as the services are provided, using an effective
transaction rate as the actual transactions are completed. Any remaining revenue related to unfulfilled units is not recognized
until the end of the related contract’s subscription period. Revenue related to subscription-based contracts having an unlimited
volume is recognized ratably during the contract term. Revenue is recorded net of sales taxes.
 
If at the outset of an arrangement, we determine
that collectibility is not reasonably assured, revenue is deferred until the earlier of when collectibility becomes probable or
the receipt of payment. If there is uncertainty as to the customer’s acceptance of our deliverables, revenue is not recognized
until the earlier of receipt of customer acceptance or expiration of the acceptance period. If at the outset of an arrangement,
we determine that the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, revenue is deferred until the arrangement fee becomes estimable,
assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met.
 
The determination of certain of our tax management
services revenue requires the use of estimates, principally related to transaction volumes in instances where these volumes are
reported to us by our clients on a monthly basis in arrears. In these instances, we estimate transaction volumes based on average
actual volumes reported in the past. Differences between our estimates and actual final volumes reported are recorded in the period
in which actual volumes are reported. We have not experienced significant variances between our estimates and actual reported volumes
in the past. We monitor actual volumes to ensure that we will continue to make reasonable estimates in the future. If we determine
that we are unable to make reasonable future estimates, revenue may be deferred until actual customer data is obtained. Also within
our TALX Workforce Solutions operating segment, the fees for certain of our tax credits and incentives revenue are based on a portion
of the credit delivered to our clients. Revenue for these arrangements is recognized based on the achievement of milestones, upon
calculation of the credit, or when the credit is utilized by our client, depending on the provisions of the client contract.
 
We have certain offerings that are sold as multiple
element arrangements. The multiple elements may include consumer or commercial information, file updates for certain solutions,
services provided by our decisioning technologies personnel, training services, statistical models and other services. To account
for each of these elements separately, the delivered elements must have stand-alone value to our customer, and there must exist
objective and reliable evidence of the fair value for any undelivered elements. For certain customer contracts, the total arrangement
fee is allocated to the undelivered elements. If we are unable to unbundle the arrangement into separate units of accounting, we
apply one of the accounting policies described above. This may lead to the arrangement consideration being recognized as the final
contract element is delivered to our customer or ratably over the contract.
 

63
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Many of our multiple element arrangements involve
the delivery of services generated by a combination of services provided by one or more of our operating segments. No individual
information service impacts the value or usage of other information services included in an arrangement and each service can be
sold alone or, in most cases, purchased from another vendor without affecting the quality of use or value to the customer of the
other information services included in the arrangement. Some of our products require the development of interfaces or platforms
by our decisioning technologies personnel that allow our customers to interact with our proprietary information databases. These
development services do not meet the requirement for having stand-alone value, thus any related development fees are deferred when
billed and are recognized over the expected period that the customer will benefit from the related decisioning technologies service.
Revenue from the provision of statistical models is recognized as the service is provided and accepted, assuming all other revenue
recognition criteria are met. The direct costs of set up of a customer are capitalized and amortized as a cost of service during
the term of the related customer contract.
 
We have some multiple element arrangements that
include software.  We recognize the elements for which we have established vendor specific objective evidence at fair
value upon delivery, in accordance with the applicable guidance.
 
We record revenue on a net basis for those sales
in which we have in substance acted as an agent or broker in the transaction.
 
Deferred revenue consists of amounts billed
in excess of revenue recognized on sales of our information services relating generally to the deferral of subscription fees and
arrangement consideration from elements not meeting the criteria for having stand-alone value discussed above. Deferred revenues
are subsequently recognized as revenue in accordance with our revenue recognition policies.
 
Cost of Services.   Cost of
services consist primarily of (1) data acquisition and royalty fees; (2) customer service costs, which include: personnel
costs to collect, maintain and update our proprietary databases, to develop and maintain software application platforms and to
provide consumer and customer call center support; (3) hardware and software expense associated with transaction processing
systems; (4) telecommunication and computer network expense; and (5) occupancy costs associated with facilities where
these functions are performed by Equifax employees.
 
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.
  Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, restructuring costs, corporate
costs, fees for professional and consulting services, advertising costs, and other costs of administration.
 
Advertising.   Advertising
costs from continuing operations, which are expensed as incurred, totaled $42.0 million, $32.6 million and $31.9 million
during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Stock-Based Compensation.   We
recognize the cost of stock-based payment transactions in the financial statements over the period services are rendered according
to the fair value of the stock-based awards issued. All of our stock-based awards, which are stock options and nonvested stock,
are classified as equity instruments.
 
Income Taxes.   We account
for income taxes under the liability method. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the estimated future
tax effects of temporary differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as measured by current
enacted tax rates. We assess whether it is more likely than not that we will generate sufficient taxable income to realize our
deferred tax assets. We record a valuation allowance, as necessary, to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount of future tax
benefit that we estimate is more likely than not to be realized.
 
We record tax benefits for positions that we
believe are more likely than not of being sustained under audit examinations. We assess the potential outcome of such examinations
to determine the adequacy of our income tax accruals. We recognize interest and penalties accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits
in the provision for income taxes on our Consolidated Statements of Income. We adjust our income tax provision during the period
in which we determine that the actual results of the examinations may differ from our estimates or when statutory terms expire.
Changes in tax laws and rates are reflected in our income tax provision in the period in which they occur.
 

64
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Earnings Per Share.   Our basic
earnings per share, or EPS, is calculated as net income divided by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during
the reporting period. Diluted EPS is calculated to reflect the potential dilution that would occur if stock options or other contracts
to issue common stock were exercised and resulted in additional common shares outstanding. The net income amounts used in both
our basic and diluted EPS calculations are the same. A reconciliation of the weighted-average outstanding shares used in the two
calculations is as follows:
 


  
Twelve Months Ended December 31, 

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
(In millions) 

Weighted-average shares outstanding (basic) 
 121.9  
 124.8  
 126.3 

Effect of dilutive securities: 
    
    
   

Stock options and restricted stock units 
 1.8  
 1.7  
 1.6 

Weighted-average shares outstanding (diluted) 
 123.7  
 126.5  
 127.9 

 
For the twelve months ended December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009, 2.3 million, 3.3 million and 3.3 million stock options, respectively, were anti-dilutive and
therefore excluded from this calculation.
 
Cash Equivalents.   We consider
all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
 
Trade Accounts Receivable and Allowance for
Doubtful Accounts.   We do not recognize interest income on our trade accounts receivable. Additionally, we generally
do not require collateral from our customers related to our trade accounts receivable.
 
The allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated
losses on trade accounts receivable is based on historical write-off experience, an analysis of the aging of outstanding receivables,
customer payment patterns and the establishment of specific reserves for customers in an adverse financial condition. We reassess
the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts each reporting period. Increases to the allowance for doubtful accounts are
recorded as bad debt expense, which are included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the accompanying Consolidated
Statements of Income. Bad debt expense from continuing operations was $2.8 million, $0.8 million and $6.6 million
during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.
 
Long-Lived Assets.   Property
and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. The cost of additions is capitalized. Property
and equipment are depreciated primarily on a straight-line basis over the assets’ estimated useful lives, which are generally
three to five years for data processing equipment and capitalized internal-use software and systems costs. Leasehold improvements
are depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or lease terms that are reasonably assured. Buildings are depreciated
over a forty-year period. Other fixed assets are depreciated over three to seven years. Upon sale or retirement of an asset, the
related costs and accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and any gain or loss is recognized and included in income
from operations on the Consolidated Statements of Income, with the classification of any gain or loss dependent on the characteristics
of the asset sold or retired.
 
Certain internal-use software and system development
costs are deferred and capitalized. Accordingly, the specifically identified costs incurred to develop or obtain software which
is intended for internal use are not capitalized until the determination is made as to the availability of a technically feasible
solution to solve the predefined user and operating performance requirements as established during the preliminary stage of an
internal-use software development project. Costs incurred during a software development project’s preliminary stage and post-implementation
stage are expensed. Application development activities which are eligible for capitalization include software design and configuration,
development of interfaces, coding, testing, and installation. Capitalized internal-use software and systems costs are subsequently
amortized on a straight-line basis over a three- to ten-year period after project completion and when the related software or system
is ready for its intended use.
 

65
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Depreciation and amortization expense from continuing
operations related to property and equipment was $75.0 million, $72.2 million and $65.0 million during the twelve
months ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.
 
Industrial Revenue Bonds.   Pursuant
to the terms of certain industrial revenue bonds, we transferred title to certain of our fixed assets with costs of $65.3 million
and $47.9 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, to a local governmental authority in the U.S. to receive
a property tax abatement related to economic development. The title to these assets will revert back to us upon retirement or cancellation
of the applicable bonds. These fixed assets are still recognized in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets as all risks
and rewards remain with the Company.
 
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets.   We
monitor the status of our long-lived assets in order to determine if conditions exist or events and circumstances indicate that
an asset group may be impaired in that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. Significant factors that are considered that
could be indicative of an impairment include: changes in business strategy, market conditions or the manner in which an asset group
is used; underperformance relative to historical or expected future operating results; and negative industry or economic trends.
If potential indicators of impairment exist, we estimate recoverability based on the asset group’s ability to generate cash
flows greater than the carrying value of the asset group. We estimate the undiscounted future cash flows arising from the use and
eventual disposition of the related long-lived asset group. If the carrying value of the long-lived asset group exceeds the estimated
future undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recorded based on the amount by which the asset group’s carrying amount
exceeds its fair value. We utilize estimates of discounted future cash flows to determine the asset group’s fair value. We
did not record any impairment losses in any of the periods presented.
 
Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible
Assets.   Goodwill represents the cost in excess of the fair value of the net assets of acquired businesses. Goodwill
is not amortized. We are required to test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis and on an interim
basis if an event occurs or circumstances change that would reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value.
We perform our annual goodwill impairment test as of September 30 each year. In analyzing goodwill for potential impairment,
we use a combination of the income and market approaches to estimate the reporting unit’s fair value. Under the income approach,
we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit based on estimated future discounted cash flows. The assumptions we use are based
on what we believe a hypothetical marketplace participant would use in estimating fair value. Under the market approach, we estimate
the fair value based on market multiples of revenue or earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization for
benchmark companies. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, then no further testing is required. However,
if a reporting unit’s fair value were to be less than its carrying value, we would then determine the amount of the impairment
charge, if any, which would be the amount that the carrying value of the reporting unit’s goodwill exceeded its implied value.
 

66
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Contractual/territorial rights represent the
estimated fair value of rights to operate in certain territories acquired through the purchase of independent credit reporting
agencies in the U.S. and Canada. Our contractual/territorial rights are perpetual in nature and, therefore, the useful lives are
considered indefinite. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized. We are required to test indefinite-lived intangible
assets for impairment annually and whenever events and circumstances indicate that there may be an impairment of the asset value.
Our annual impairment test date is September 30. We perform the impairment test for our indefinite-lived intangible assets
by comparing the asset’s fair value to its carrying value. We estimate the fair value based on projected discounted future
cash flows. An impairment charge is recognized if the asset’s estimated fair value is less than its carrying value.
 
We completed our annual impairment testing for
goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, and we determined
that there was no impairment in any of these years.
 
Purchased Intangible Assets.   Purchased
intangible assets represent the estimated fair value of acquired intangible assets used in our business. Purchased data files represent
the estimated fair value of consumer credit files acquired primarily through the purchase of independent credit reporting agencies
in the U.S. and Canada. We expense the cost of modifying and updating credit files in the period such costs are incurred. We amortize
purchased data files, which primarily consist of acquired credit files, on a straight-line basis. Predominantly all of our other
purchased intangible assets are also amortized on a straight-line basis.
 


Asset
 
Useful Life

 
 
(in years)

Purchased data files
 
2 to 15

Acquired software and technology
 
1 to 10

Non-compete agreements
 
1 to 10

Proprietary database
 
6 to 10

Customer relationships
 
2 to 25

Trade names
 
5 to 15

 
Other Assets.   Other assets
on our Consolidated Balance Sheets primarily represents our investment in unconsolidated affiliates, interest rate swaps, assets
related to life insurance policies covering certain officers of the Company, employee benefit trust assets and data purchases,
net of related amortization.
 
Benefit Plans.   We sponsor
various pension and defined contribution plans. We also maintain certain healthcare and life insurance benefit plans for eligible
retired U.S. employees. Benefits under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans are generally based on age at retirement
and years of service and for some pension plans, benefits are also based on the employee’s annual earnings. The net periodic
cost of our pension and other postretirement plans is determined using several actuarial assumptions, the most significant of which
are the discount rate and the expected return on plan assets. Our Consolidated Balance Sheets reflect the funded status of the
pension and other postretirement plans.
 
Foreign Currency Translation.   The
functional currency of each of our foreign subsidiaries is that subsidiary’s local currency. We translate the assets and
liabilities of foreign subsidiaries at the year-end rate of exchange and revenue and expenses at the monthly average rates during
the year. We record the resulting translation adjustment in other comprehensive income, a component of shareholders’ equity.
We also record gains and losses resulting from the translation of intercompany balances of a long-term investment nature in accumulated
other comprehensive loss.
 
Financial Instruments.   Our
financial instruments consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, accounts and notes receivable, accounts payable and short-term
and long-term debt. The carrying amounts of these items, other than long-term debt, approximate their fair market values due to
the short-term nature of these instruments. The fair value of our fixed-rate debt is determined using quoted market prices for
publicly traded instruments, and for non-publicly traded instruments through valuation techniques depending on the specific characteristics
of the debt instrument, taking into account credit risk. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the fair value of our fixed-rate
debt was $1.09 billion and $1.05 billion, respectively, compared to its carrying value of $0.97 billion and $0.98 billion,
respectively, based on recent trading prices.
 

67
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Derivatives and Hedging Activities.   Although
derivative financial instruments are not utilized for speculative purposes or as the Company’s primary risk management tool,
derivatives have been used as a risk management tool to hedge the Company’s exposure to changes in interest rates and foreign
exchange rates. We have used interest rate swaps and interest rate lock agreements to manage interest rate risk associated with
our fixed and floating-rate borrowings. Forward contracts on various foreign currencies have been used to manage the foreign currency
exchange rate risk of certain firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. We recognize all derivatives on the balance sheet
at fair value. Derivative valuations reflect the value of the instrument including the value associated with any material counterparty
risk.
 
Fair Value Hedges.   In conjunction
with our fourth quarter 2009 sale of five-year Senior Notes, we entered into five-year interest rate swaps, designated as fair
value hedges, which convert the debt’s fixed interest rate to a variable rate. These swaps involve the receipt of fixed rate
amounts for floating interest rate payments over the life of the swaps without exchange of the underlying principal amount. Changes
in the fair value of the interest rate swaps offset changes in the fair value of the fixed-rate Senior Notes they hedge due to
changes in the designated benchmark interest rate and are recorded in interest expense. The full fair value of the interest rate
swap is classified as a non-current asset or liability as the remaining maturity of the fixed-rate Senior Notes they hedge is more
than twelve months.  There was no ineffectiveness on our fair value hedge that impacted current year earnings. The fair
value of these interest rate swaps at December 31, 2011 and 2010, was $14.8 million and $9.7 million, respectively, recorded
in other assets, net on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 
Cash Flow Hedges.   Changes
in the fair value of highly effective derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are initially recorded in accumulated other comprehensive
income and are reclassified into the line item in the Consolidated Statements of Income in which the hedged item is recorded in
the same period the hedged item impacts earnings. Any ineffective portion is recorded in current period earnings.  We
did not have any unsettled cash flow hedges outstanding as of December 31, 2011 and the fair value of our unsettled cash flow hedges
was not material at December 31, 2010.
 
Fair Value Measurements.   Fair
value is determined based on the assumptions marketplace participants use in pricing the asset or liability. We use a three level
fair value hierarchy to prioritize the inputs used in valuation techniques between observable inputs that reflect quoted prices
in active markets, inputs other than quoted prices with observable market data and unobservable data (e.g., a company’s
own data). The adoption of fair value guidance for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities on January 1, 2009 did
not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
The following table presents assets and liabilities
measured at fair value on a recurring basis:
 


  
   
Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using: 

  
   
   
Significant  
  

  
   
Quoted Prices in  
Other  
Significant 

  
   
Active Markets for  
Observable  
Unobservable 

  
Fair Value at  
Identical Assets  
Inputs  
Inputs 

Description 
December 31, 2011  
(Level 1)  
(Level 2)  
(Level 3) 

  
(In millions) 

Assets and Liabilities: 
    
    
    
   

Fair Value Interest Rate Swaps (1) 
$14.8  
$-  
$14.8  
$- 

Notes, due 2014 (1) 
 (289.8) 
 -  
 (289.8) 
 - 

Deferred Compensation Plan  (2) 
 (14.1) 
 -  
 (14.1) 
 - 

Total assets and liabilities 
$(289.1) 
$-  
$(289.1) 
$- 

 

(1)The fair value of our interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, and notes are based on the present value of expected
future cash flows using zero coupon rates and are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
 

68
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 

(2)We maintain deferred compensation plans that allow for certain management employees to defer the receipt of compensation (such
as salary, incentive compensation and commissions) until a later date based on the terms of the plans. The liability representing
benefits accrued for plan participants is valued at the quoted market prices of the participants’ investment elections.
 
Variable Interest Entities.   We
hold interests in certain entities, including credit data and information solutions ventures, that are considered variable interest
entities, or VIEs.  These variable interests relate to ownership interests that require financial support for these entities.  Our
investments related to these VIEs totaled $9.8 million at December 31, 2011, representing our maximum exposure to loss.  These
investments are classified in other assets, net on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  We are not the primary beneficiary
and are not required to consolidate any of these VIEs.
 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements.   
Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables.   In October 2009, the FASB issued revenue guidance for multiple-deliverable
arrangements which addresses how to separate deliverables and how to measure and allocate arrangement consideration. This guidance
requires vendors to develop the best estimate of selling price for each deliverable and to allocate arrangement consideration using
this selling price. The guidance is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in annual
periods beginning after June 15, 2010. The adoption of this guidance on January 1, 2011, did not have a material impact on
our Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Testing Goodwill for Impairment. In September
2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill
for Impairment (the revised standard). The revised standard is intended to reduce the cost and complexity of the annual goodwill
impairment test by providing entities an option to perform a “qualitative” assessment to determine whether further
impairment testing is necessary. If an entity believes, as a result of its qualitative assessment, that it is more-likely-than-not
that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the quantitative impairment test is required. Otherwise,
no further testing is required. The revised standard is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. We will implement the new standard in our 2012 annual goodwill impairment testing.
This guidance is not expected to have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations.
 
Comprehensive Income. In June 2011, the
FASB issued guidance which amended the requirements for the presentation of comprehensive income. The amended guidance requires
an entity to present components of net income and other comprehensive income in one continuous statement, referred to as the statement
of comprehensive income, or in two separate, but consecutive statements. The current option to report other comprehensive income
and its components in the statement of stockholders’ equity will be eliminated. This guidance is effective for fiscal years
and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2011, and is not expected to have a material effect on our financial condition
or results of operations, though it will change our financial statement presentation.
 
2. MERGER OF BRAZILIAN BUSINESS
 
On May 31, 2011, we completed the merger of
our Brazilian business with Boa Vista Serviços S.A. (“BVS”) in exchange for a 15% equity interest in BVS (the
“Brazilian Transaction”).  The transaction was accounted for as a sale of our Brazilian business, which was deconsolidated.
BVS, an unrelated third party whose results we do not consolidate, is the second largest consumer and commercial credit information
company in Brazil.  Our investment in BVS was valued at 130 million Brazilian Reais ($69.4 million and $82.3 million at December
31, 2011 and May 31, 2011, respectively) is recorded in other assets, net on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and is accounted for
using the cost method.   The initial fair value was determined by a third-party using income and market approaches. We
estimate the fair value of the investment at December 31, 2011 in local currency approximates the initial fair value of the investment
recorded. In accounting for the transaction, we wrote off $33.2 million of goodwill and $27.0 million of cumulative foreign currency
translation adjustments.  In addition, as part of the agreement with BVS, we have retained certain contingent liabilities. 
A pre-tax loss of $10.3 million was recognized during the second quarter of 2011 related to the Brazilian Transaction and is included
in other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  Tax expense of $17.5 million was also recorded in conjunction
with the Brazilian Transaction.
 
Equifax has committed to make certain additional
funding available to BVS.  Until May 31, 2015, BVS will have the right to borrow up to $55 million from Equifax for general
corporate purposes; any borrowings would be due and payable on May 31, 2015.  Payments for principal and interest on any borrowings
can be convertible, at Equifax’s option, into additional shares of BVS nonvoting preferred stock.  Preferred shares
issued as a result of any borrowings will be convertible to common shares under specific conditions. There were no borrowings outstanding
as of December 31, 2011.
 

69
 

 
3.  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
On April 23, 2010, we sold our APPRO loan origination
software business (“APPRO”), for approximately $72 million.  On July 1, 2010, we sold substantially all the
assets of our Direct Marketing Services division (“DMS”) for approximately $117 million.  Both of these businesses
had previously been reported in our U.S. Consumer Information Solutions segment.  The historical results of these operations
for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 are classified as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  Revenue
for these businesses for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was $42.1 million and $108.5 million, respectively.  
Pretax income was $65.4 million and $25.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009.  We recorded a gain
from the sale of APPRO in the second quarter of 2010 of $12.3 million, after tax, and a gain from the sale of DMS in the third
quarter of 2010 of $14.9 million, after tax, both of which were classified as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements
of Income.
 
During 2011, we settled various contingencies
related to past divestitures that resulted in $1.5 million of income from discontinued operations, net of tax.
 
4.  ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENTS
 
2011 Acquisitions and Investments.   On
August 1, 2011, to further enhance our market position, we acquired DataVision Resources, which provides data and business solutions
to the mortgage, insurance and financial services industries, for $50.0 million.  The results of this acquisition have
been included in our TALX Workforce Solutions segment subsequent to the date of acquisition.
 
To further broaden our product offerings, during
the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, we completed smaller acquisitions of information services businesses in the European
and Latin American regions of our International segment as well as our U.S. Consumer Information Solutions and TALX Workforce Solutions
segments for $82.4 million. The results of these acquisitions have been included in our operating results subsequent to the date
of acquisition and are not material.
 
2010 Acquisitions and Investments.   On
October 1, 2010, to broaden our portfolio of solutions, we acquired Anakam, Inc., a provider of large-scale, software-based, multi-factor
authentication solutions, for $64.3 million.  The results of this acquisition have been included in our U.S. Consumer
Information Solutions segment subsequent to the date of acquisition.
 
To further enhance our market share, during
the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, we completed four additional acquisitions totaling $12.3 million.  These transactions
were in our International segment and the results of these acquisitions have been included in our operating results subsequent
to the date of acquisition and are not material.
 

70
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
2009 Acquisitions and Investments.   On
December 23, 2009, as a part of our long-term growth strategy of expanding into emerging markets, we formed a joint venture,
Equifax Credit Information Services Private Limited, or ECIS, to provide a broad range of credit data and information solutions
in India. We paid cash consideration of $5.2 million for our 49 percent equity interest in ECIS.
 
On November 2, 2009, to further enhance
our income and identity verification service offerings, we acquired Rapid Reporting Verification Company, or Rapid, a provider
of IRS tax transcript information and social security number authentication services, for $72.5 million. The results of this
acquisition have been included in our TALX Workforce Solutions operating segment subsequent to the acquisition.
 
On October 27, 2009, we acquired IXI Corporation,
or IXI, a provider of consumer wealth and asset data, for $124.0 million. This acquisition enables us to offer more differentiated
and in-depth consumer income, wealth and other data to help our clients improve their marketing, collections, portfolio management
and customer management efforts across different product segments. The results of this acquisition have been included in our U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions operating segment subsequent to the acquisition date.
 
We financed these purchases through borrowings
under our Senior Credit Facility, which were subsequently refinanced through the issuance in November 2009 of our 4.45%, five-year
unsecured Senior Notes. The 4.45% Senior Notes are further described in Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
 
Purchase Price Allocation.   The
following table summarizes the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at the acquisition dates.
The 2011 allocations are considered final, except for the resolution of certain contingencies all of which existed at the acquisition
date, primarily related to sales tax exposures and income tax accounts, which will be resolved when final returns are filed related
to the acquired entities. Estimates for these items have been included in the purchase price allocations and will be finalized
prior to the one year anniversary date of the acquisitions.
 


  
December 31, 

  
2011  
2010 

  
(In millions) 

Current assets 
$14.1  
$6.0 

Property and equipment 
 4.2  
 0.3 

Other assets 
 0.1  
 0.6 

Identifiable intangible assets (1) 
 52.2  
 30.6 

Goodwill (2) 
 75.6  
 47.5 

Total assets acquired 
 146.2  
 85.0 

Total liabilities assumed 
 (13.8) 
 (8.0)

Non-controlling interest 
 -  
 (0.4)

Net assets acquired 
$132.4  
$76.6 

 

(1)Identifiable intangible assets are further disaggregated in the following table.
 

(2)Of the goodwill resulting from 2011 and 2010 acquisitions, $44.7 million and $4.4 million, respectively, is tax deductible.
 

71
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The primary reasons the purchase price of these
acquisitions exceeded the fair value of the net assets acquired, which resulted in the recognition of goodwill, were expanded growth
opportunities from new or enhanced product offerings, cost savings from the elimination of duplicative activities, and the acquisition
of an assembled workforce that are not recognized as assets apart from goodwill.
 


  
December 31, 

  
2011  
2010 

  
   
Weighted-  
   
Weighted- 

  
   
average useful  
   
average 

Intangible asset category 
Fair value  
life  
Fair value  
useful life 

  
(in millions)  
(in years)  
(in millions)  
(in years) 

Customer relationships 
$29.9  
 8.8  
$11.5  
 8.9 

Acquired software and technology 
 13.4  
 4.2  
 13.9  
 5.9 

Purchased data files 
 3.2  
 5.2  
 -  
 - 

Non-compete agreements 
 2.3  
 3.7  
 3.8  
 3.7 

Trade names and other intangible assets 
 3.4  
 5.5  
 1.4  
 5.8 

Total acquired intangibles 
$52.2  
 6.9  
$30.6  
 6.8 

 
The 2011 and 2010 acquisitions did not have
a material impact in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income.  The impact of the 2011 and 2010 acquisitions
would not have significantly changed our Consolidated Statements of Income if they had occurred at the beginning of the earliest
year presented.
 
5.  GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
Goodwill.   Goodwill
represents the cost in excess of the fair value of the net assets acquired in a business combination. As discussed in Note 1,
goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis and on an interim basis if an event occurs or
circumstances change that would reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. As a result of the merger of
our Brazilian business in the second quarter of 2011, we performed an interim impairment test on the Latin America reporting unit
excluding our Brazilian business which resulted in no impairment. We perform our annual goodwill impairment tests as of September 30
each year. The fair value estimates for our reporting units were determined using a combination of the income and market approaches
in accordance with the Company’s methodology. Our annual impairment tests as of September 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009 resulted
in no impairment of goodwill.
 
Changes in the amount of goodwill for the twelve
months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, are as follows:
 


  
U.S. Consumer  
   
TALX  
North America  
North America  
  

  
Information  
   
Workforce  
Personal  
Commercial  
  

(In millions) 
Solutions  
International  
Solutions  
Solutions  
Solutions  
Total 

Balance, December 31, 2009 
$667.8  
$335.7  
$900.6  
$1.8  
$37.3  
$1,943.2 

Acquisitions 
 41.0  
 6.5  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 47.5 

Adjustments to initial purchase price allocation 
 (0.8) 
 -  
 (0.7) 
 -  
 -  
 (1.5)

Foreign currency translation 
 -  
 4.7  
 -  
 -  
 0.3  
 5.0 

Businesses sold 
 (79.5) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (79.5)

Balance, December 31, 2010 
 628.5  
 346.9  
 899.9  
 1.8  
 37.6  
 1,914.7 

Acquisitions 
 10.1  
 30.9  
 34.6  
 -  
 -  
 75.6 

Adjustments to initial purchase price allocation 
 (0.2) 
 (0.1) 
 0.5  
 -  
 -  
 0.2 

Foreign currency translation 
 -  
 4.0  
 -  
 -  
 (0.1) 
 3.9 

Businesses sold 
 -  
 (33.2) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (33.2)

Balance, December 31, 2011 
$638.4  
$348.5  
$935.0  
$1.8  
$37.5  
$1,961.2 

 

72
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets.
  Indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of contractual/territorial rights representing the estimated fair value
of rights to operate in certain territories acquired through the purchase of independent credit reporting agencies in the U.S.
and Canada. Our contractual/territorial rights are perpetual in nature and, therefore, the useful lives are considered indefinite.
Indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized. As discussed in Note 1, we are required to test indefinite-lived intangible
assets for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate that there may be an impairment of the asset value.
We perform our annual indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment test as of September 30 each year. Our annual impairment
tests as of September 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009 resulted in no impairment of our indefinite-lived intangible assets. Our contractual/territorial
rights carrying amounts did not change materially during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 
Purchased Intangible Assets.   Purchased
intangible assets net, recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, are as follows:
 



  
December 31, 2011  
December 31, 2010 

  
   
Accumulated  
   
   
Accumulated  
  

  
Gross  
Amortization  
Net  
Gross  
Amortization  
Net 

  
(In millions) 

Definite-lived intangible assets: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Purchased data files 
$316.2  
$(240.5) 
$75.7  
$339.2  
$(240.7) 
$98.5 

Acquired software and technology 
 68.3  
 (41.1) 
 27.2  
 55.0  
 (33.3) 
 21.7 

Customer relationships 
 518.2  
 (130.3) 
 387.9  
 489.2  
 (97.1) 
 392.1 

Proprietary database 
 125.0  
 (95.5) 
 29.5  
 125.0  
 (74.4) 
 50.6 

Non-compete agreements 
 9.0  
 (3.1) 
 5.9  
 7.2  
 (1.4) 
 5.8 

Trade names and other intangible assets 
 40.7  
 (16.7) 
 24.0  
 37.4  
 (12.2) 
 25.2 

Total definite-lived intangible assets 
$1,077.4  
$(527.2) 
$550.2  
$1,053.0  
$(459.1) 
$593.9 

 
Amortization expense related to purchased intangible
assets was $90.5 million, $90.0 million, and $80.3 million during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009,
respectively.
 
Estimated future amortization expense related
to definite-lived purchased intangible assets at December 31, 2011 is as follows:
 


Years ending December 31, 
Amount 

  
(In millions) 

2012 
$85.9 

2013 
 68.3 

2014 
 56.0 

2015 
 51.7 

2016 
 38.9 

Thereafter 
 249.4 

  
$550.2 

 

73
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
6.  DEBT
 
Debt outstanding at December 31, 2011 and
2010 was as follows:
 


  
December 31, 

  
2011  
2010 

  
(In millions) 

Commercial paper ("CP") 
$30.0  
$- 

Note, 4.25%, due in installments through May 2012 
 -  
 4.7 

Notes, 7.34%, due in installments through May 2014 
 45.0  
 60.0 

Notes, 4.45%, due December 2014 
 275.0  
 275.0 

Notes, 6.30%, due July 2017 
 272.5  
 272.5 

Debentures, 6.90%, due July 2028 
 125.0  
 125.0 

Notes, 7.00%, due July 2037 
 250.0  
 250.0 

Capitalized lease obligation 
 1.1  
 2.0 

Other 
 0.6  
 1.0 

Total debt 
 999.2  
 990.2 

Less short-term debt and current maturities 
 (47.2) 
 (20.7)

Less unamortized discounts 
 (1.8) 
 (2.1)

Plus fair value adjustments 
 15.8  
 11.5 

Total long-term debt, net of discount 
$966.0  
$978.9 

 
Scheduled future maturities of debt at December 31,
2011, are as follows:
 


Years ending December 31, 
Amount 

  
(In millions) 

2012 
$46.6 

2013 
 15.1 

2014 
 290.0 

2015 
 - 

2016 
 - 

Thereafter 
 647.5 

Total debt 
$999.2 

 
Senior Credit Facility.   
During the first quarter of 2011, we extended the maturity date and reduced the borrowing limits of our existing unsecured revolving
credit facility, which we refer to as the Senior Credit Facility, by entering into a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
dated as of February 18, 2011 (the “Amended Agreement”).  The Senior Credit Facility had been scheduled to expire
on July 24, 2011, and provided $850.0 million of borrowing capacity.  The Amended Agreement provides for a maturity date of
February 18, 2015.  We elected to reduce the size of the facility to $500.0 million in line with our liquidity needs and current
credit market conditions, including higher upfront fees and fees for unused borrowing availability.  The Amended Agreement
also provides an accordion feature that allows us to request an increase in the total commitment to $750.0 million should we so
choose.  We added certain of our international subsidiaries as co-borrowers in addition to the Company to provide additional
flexibility as to the place of borrowing.  Borrowings may be used for general corporate purposes, including working capital,
capital expenditures, acquisitions and share repurchase programs. Availability of the Senior Credit Facility for borrowings is
reduced by the outstanding face amount of any letters of credit issued under the facility and, pursuant to our existing Board of
Directors authorization, by the outstanding principal amount of our CP notes.
 

74
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Under our Senior Credit Facility, we must comply
with various financial and non-financial covenants. The financial covenants require us to maintain a maximum leverage ratio, defined
as consolidated funded debt divided by consolidated EBITDA (as set forth in the Senior Credit Facility) for the preceding four
quarters, of not more than 3.5 to 1.0. Compliance with this financial covenant is tested quarterly. The non-financial covenants
include limitations on liens, cross defaults, subsidiary debt, mergers, liquidations, asset dispositions and acquisitions. As of
December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with our covenants under the Senior Credit Facility. Our borrowings under this facility,
which have not been guaranteed by any of our subsidiaries, are unsecured and will rank on parity in right of payment with all of
our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness from time to time outstanding.
 
At December 31, 2011, interest was payable
on borrowings under the existing credit facility at the base rate or London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, plus a specified
margin. The annual facility fee, which we pay regardless of borrowings, and interest rate are subject to adjustment based on our
debt ratings. As of December 31, 2011, $468.6 million was available for borrowings and there were no outstanding borrowings
under the Senior Credit Facility, which is included in long-term debt on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 
While the underlying final maturity date of
this facility is February 2015, it is structured to provide borrowings under short-term loans. Because these borrowings primarily
have a maturity of thirty days, the borrowings and repayments are presented on a net basis within the financing activities portion
of our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as net (repayments) borrowings under long-term revolving credit facilities.
 
CP Program.   During
the first quarter of 2011, we reduced the size of our CP program from $850.0 million to $500.0 million. Our CP program has been
established through the private placement of CP notes from time to time, in which borrowings bear interest at either a variable
rate (based on LIBOR or other benchmarks) or a fixed rate, with the applicable rate and margin. Maturities of CP can range from
overnight to 397 days. Because the CP program is backstopped by our Senior Credit Facility, the amount of CP which may be
issued under the program is reduced by the outstanding face amount of any letters of credit issued under the facility and, pursuant
to our existing Board of Directors authorization, by the outstanding borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility. At December 31,
2011, $30.0 million in CP notes was outstanding, all with maturities of less than 90 days.
 
4.25% Note.   Upon our
July 26, 2007 acquisition of our Atlanta, Georgia, data center, we assumed a $12.5 million mortgage obligation from the
prior owner of the building. The mortgage obligation has a fixed rate of interest of 4.25% per annum and the final payment on the
obligation was made in 2011.
 
TALX Debt.   At the
closing of the TALX acquisition in May 2007, we assumed $75.0 million in 7.34% Senior Guaranteed Notes, or TALX Notes, privately
placed by TALX with several institutional investors in May 2006 and $96.6 million outstanding under TALX’s revolving
credit facility. Subsequent to the TALX acquisition, we repaid and terminated the TALX revolving credit facility with borrowings
under our Senior Credit Facility. We are required to repay the principal amount of the TALX Notes in five equal annual installments
commencing on May 25, 2010 with a final maturity date of May 25, 2014. We may prepay the TALX Notes subject to certain
restrictions and the payment of a make-whole amount. Under certain circumstances, we may be required to use proceeds of certain
asset dispositions to prepay a portion of the TALX Notes. Interest on the TALX Notes is payable semi-annually until the principal
becomes due and payable. We identified a fair value adjustment related to the TALX Notes in applying purchase accounting; this
amount is being amortized against interest expense over the remainder of the term of the TALX Notes. At December 31, 2011,
the remaining balance of this adjustment is $1.0 million and is included in long-term debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 
4.45% Senior Notes.   On
November 4, 2009, we issued $275.0 million principal amount of 4.45%, five-year senior notes in an underwritten public
offering. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on December 1 and June 1 of each year. We used the net proceeds
from the sale of the senior notes to repay outstanding borrowings under our CP program, a portion of which was used to finance
our fourth quarter 2009 acquisitions. The senior notes are unsecured and rank equally with all of our other unsecured and unsubordinated
indebtedness. In conjunction with the senior notes, we entered into five-year interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges,
which convert the fixed interest rate to a variable rate. The long-term debt fair value adjustment related to these interest rate
swaps was an increase of $14.8 million at December 31, 2011.
 

75
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
6.3% and 7.0% Senior Notes.   On
June 28, 2007, we issued $300.0 million principal amount of 6.3%, ten-year senior notes and $250.0 million principal
amount of 7.0%, thirty-year senior notes in underwritten public offerings. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on January 1
and July 1 of each year. The net proceeds of the financing were used to repay short-term indebtedness, a substantial portion
of which was incurred in connection with our acquisition of TALX. We must comply with various non-financial covenants, including
certain limitations on liens, additional debt and mortgages, mergers, asset dispositions and sale-leaseback arrangements. The senior
notes are unsecured and rank equally with all of our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. During 2009, we purchased
an additional $7.5 million principal amount of the ten-year senior notes for $6.3 million.
 
6.9% Debentures.   We
have $125 million of debentures outstanding with a maturity date of 2028.  The debentures are unsecured and rank equally
with all of our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.  During 2009, we purchased $25.0 million principal
amount of the debentures for $25.1 million.
 
Canadian Credit Facility.   We
had a 364-day revolving credit agreement with a Canadian bank (our Canadian Credit Facility) which permitted us to borrow up to
C$10.0 million (denominated in Canadian dollars).  The Canadian Credit Facility was scheduled to terminate in June
2011. We cancelled this agreement at the end of the first quarter of 2011 and there were no outstanding borrowings under this agreement
at the time of cancellation.
 
Cash paid for interest was $54.0 million,
$55.6 million and $56.7 million during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
7.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
Leases.   Our operating leases
principally involve office space and office equipment. Rental expense for operating leases, which is recognized on a straight-line
basis over the lease term, was $22.0 million, $20.5 million and $20.9 million for the twelve months ended December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our headquarters building ground lease has purchase options exercisable beginning in 2019, renewal
options exercisable in 2048 and escalation clauses that began in 2009. Expected future minimum payment obligations for non-cancelable
operating leases exceeding one year are as follows as of December 31, 2011:
 


Years ending December 31, 
Amount 

  
(In millions) 

2012 
$18.6 

2013 
 14.6 

2014 
 10.2 

2015 
 7.9 

2016 
 6.0 

Thereafter 
 34.9 

  
$92.2 

 
We have no material sublease agreements and
as a result, expected sublease income is not reflected as a reduction in the total minimum rental obligations under operating leases
in the table above.
 

76
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Data Processing, Outsourcing Services and
Other Agreements.   We have separate agreements with IBM, Acxiom, TCS and others to outsource portions of our computer
data processing operations, applications development, maintenance and related functions and to provide certain other administrative
and operational services. The agreements expire between 2012 and 2018. The estimated aggregate minimum contractual obligation remaining
under these agreements is approximately $70 million as of December 31, 2011, with no future year’s minimum contractual
obligation expected to exceed approximately $30 million. Annual payment obligations in regard to these agreements vary due
to factors such as the volume of data processed; changes in our servicing needs as a result of new product offerings, acquisitions
or divestitures; the introduction of significant new technologies; foreign currency; or the general rate of inflation. In certain
circumstances (e.g., a change in control or for our convenience), we may terminate these data processing and outsourcing agreements,
and, in doing so, certain of these agreements require us to pay a significant penalty.
 
During 2011, we amended our operations support
services agreement in North America with IBM. The amended agreement extends the term one year through December 2014 and changes
certain variable cost to fixed cost intended to provide financial savings to the Company. During 2010, we amended our data processing
outsourcing agreement with IBM in the U.K. The amended agreement extends the term three years through December 2016 and allows
for a reduction in the scope of services provided by IBM, as well as financial savings to the Company. Under our agreement with
IBM (which also covers our operations in North America, Europe and Chile), we have outsourced our mainframe and midrange operations,
help desk service and desktop support functions, and the operation of our voice and data networks. The scope of such services varies
by location. The estimated future minimum contractual obligation under the revised agreement is approximately $55 million
for the remaining term, with no individual year’s minimum expected to exceed approximately $20 million. We may terminate
certain portions of this agreement without penalty in the event that IBM is in material breach of the terms of the agreement. During
2011, 2010 and 2009, we paid $79.7 million, $61.1 million and $87.3 million, respectively, for these services.
 
Agreement with Computer Sciences Corporation.
  We have an agreement with Computer Sciences Corporation, or CSC, and certain of its affiliates, collectively CSC, under
which CSC-owned credit reporting agencies utilize our computerized credit database services. CSC retains ownership of its credit
files and the revenues generated by its credit reporting activities. We receive a processing fee for maintaining the database and
for each report supplied. The agreement will expire on July 31, 2018 and is renewable at the option of CSC for successive
ten-year periods. The agreement provides us with an option to purchase CSC’s credit reporting business if it does not elect
to renew the agreement or if there is a change in control of CSC while the agreement is in effect. Under the agreement CSC also
has an option, exercisable at any time, to sell its credit reporting business to us. The option expires in 2013. The option exercise
price will be determined by a third-party appraisal process and would be due in cash within 180 days after the exercise of
the option. We estimate that if the option were exercised at December 31, 2011, the price range would approximate $650 million
to $750 million. This estimate is based solely on our internal analysis of the value of the business, current market conditions
and other factors, all of which are subject to constant change. Therefore, the actual option exercise price could be materially
higher or lower than the estimated amount.
 
Change in Control Agreements.   We
have entered into change in control severance agreements with certain key executives. The agreements provide for, among other things,
certain payments and benefits in the event of a qualifying termination of employment (i.e., termination of employment by the
executive for “good reason” or termination of employment by the Company without “cause,” each as defined
in the agreements) following a change in control of the Company. In the event of a qualifying termination, the executive will become
entitled to continuation of group health, dental, vision, life, disability, 401(k) and similar benefits for three years, as well
as a lump sum severance payment, all of which differs by executive.
 

77
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The change in control agreements have a three-year
term and automatically renew for another three years unless we elect not to renew the agreements. Change in control events potentially
triggering benefits under the agreements would occur, subject to certain exceptions, if (1) any person acquires 20% or more
of our voting stock; (2) upon a merger or other business combination, our shareholders receive less than two-thirds of the
common stock and combined voting power of the new company; (3) we sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of
our assets; or (4) we liquidate or dissolve.
 
If these change in control agreements had been
triggered as of December 31, 2011, payments of approximately $46.1 million would have been made (excluding tax gross-up
amounts of $19.3 million). Under the Company’s existing director and employee stock benefit plans, a change in control
generally would result in the immediate vesting of all outstanding stock options and satisfaction of the restrictions on any outstanding
nonvested stock awards.
 
Guarantees.   We will from
time to time issue standby letters of credit, performance bonds or other guarantees in the normal course of business. The aggregate
notional amount of all performance bonds and standby letters of credit is not material at December 31, 2011, and all have
a remaining maturity of one year or less. The maximum potential future payments we could be required to make under the guarantees
is not material at December 31, 2011.
 
General Indemnifications.   We
are the lessee under many real estate leases. It is common in these commercial lease transactions for us, as the lessee, to agree
to indemnify the lessor and other related third parties for tort, environmental and other liabilities that arise out of or relate
to our use or occupancy of the leased premises. This type of indemnity would typically make us responsible to indemnified parties
for liabilities arising out of the conduct of, among others, contractors, licensees and invitees at or in connection with the use
or occupancy of the leased premises. This indemnity often extends to related liabilities arising from the negligence of the indemnified
parties, but usually excludes any liabilities caused by either their sole or gross negligence and their willful misconduct.
 
Certain of our credit agreements include provisions
which require us to make payments to preserve an expected economic return to the lenders if that economic return is diminished
due to certain changes in law or regulations. In certain of these credit agreements, we also bear the risk of certain changes in
tax laws that would subject payments to non-U.S. lenders to withholding taxes.
 
In conjunction with certain transactions, such
as sales or purchases of operating assets or services in the ordinary course of business, or the disposition of certain assets
or businesses, we sometimes provide routine indemnifications, the terms of which range in duration and sometimes are not limited.
 
The Company has entered into indemnification
agreements with its directors and executive officers. Under these agreements, the Company has agreed to indemnify such individuals
to the fullest extent permitted by law against liabilities that arise by reason of their status as directors or officers and to
advance expenses incurred by such individuals in connection with the related legal proceedings. The Company maintains directors
and officers liability insurance coverage to reduce its exposure to such obligations.
 
We cannot reasonably estimate our potential
future payments under the indemnities and related provisions described above because we cannot predict when and under what circumstances
these provisions may be triggered. We have no accrual related to indemnifications on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31,
2011 and 2010.
 
Subsidiary Dividend and Fund Transfer Limitations.
  The ability of some of our subsidiaries and associated companies to transfer funds to us is limited, in some cases,
by certain restrictions imposed by foreign governments, which do not, individually or in the aggregate, materially limit our ability
to service our indebtedness, meet our current obligations or pay dividends.
 
Contingencies.   We are involved
in legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. We periodically assess our exposure related
to these matters based on the information which is available. We have recorded accruals in our Consolidated Financial Statements
for those matters in which it is probable that we have incurred a loss and the amount of the loss, or range of loss, can be reasonably
estimated.
 

78
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
For other legal proceedings, claims and litigation,
we have recorded loss contingencies that are immaterial, or we cannot reasonably estimate the potential loss because of uncertainties
about the outcome of the matter and the amount of the loss or range of loss. We also accrue for unpaid legal fees for services
performed to date. Although the final outcome of these other matters cannot be predicted with certainty, any possible adverse outcome
arising from these matters is not expected to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements, either individually
or in the aggregate. However, our evaluation of the likely impact of these matters may change in the future.
 
Tax Matters.    In 2003, the
Canada Revenue Agency, or CRA, issued Notices of Reassessment, asserting that Acrofax, Inc., a wholly-owned Canadian subsidiary
of Equifax, was liable for additional tax for the 1995 through 2000 tax years, related to certain intercompany capital contributions
and loans. Subsequently in 2003, we made a statutorily-required deposit for a portion of the claim. On May 31, 2011, we settled
this CRA claim for $1.1 million (1.1 million in Canadian dollars) and received a net refund of the deposit and accrued interest
in the amount of $9.9 million (9.7 million in Canadian dollars).
  
8.  INCOME TAXES
 
The provision for income taxes from continuing
operations consisted of the following:
 



  
Twelve Months Ended December 31, 

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
(In millions) 

Current: 
    
    
   

 Federal 
$113.3  
$74.2  
$65.8 

 State 
 10.5  
 8.2  
 6.9 

 Foreign 
 44.2  
 41.3  
 38.8 

  
 168.0  
 123.7  
 111.5 

Deferred: 
    
    
   

 Federal 
 (1.5) 
 15.3  
 (5.0)

 State 
 0.5  
 (4.1) 
 0.1 

 Foreign 
 1.0  
 (3.0) 
 - 

  
 -  
 8.2  
 (4.9)

Provision for income taxes 
$168.0  
$131.9  
$106.6 

 

The provision for income taxes from discontinued
operations was $0.5 million, $33.9 million, and $9.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Domestic and foreign income from continuing
operations before income taxes was as follows:
 


  
Twelve Months Ended December 31, 

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
(In millions) 

U.S. 
$275.5  
$203.3  
$166.5 

Foreign 
 132.7  
 171.9  
 164.5 

  
$408.2  
$375.2  
$331.0 

 

79
 



 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The provision for income taxes reconciles
with the U.S. federal statutory rate, as follows:
 


  
Twelve Months Ended December 31, 

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
(In millions) 

Federal statutory rate 
 35.0% 
 35.0% 
 35.0%

  
    
    
   

Provision computed at federal statutory rate 
$142.8  
$131.3  
$115.9 

State and local taxes, net of federal tax benefit 
 5.9  
 2.9  
 4.8 

Foreign 
 3.1  
 2.4  
 (3.2)

Valuation Allowance(1) 
 (0.6) 
 (3.2) 
 (8.3)

Tax reserves 
 (1.1) 
 0.8  
 1.0 

Currency and other tax effects of Brazil transaction 
 20.5  
 -  
 - 

Other(2) 
 (2.6) 
 (2.3) 
 (3.6)

Provision for income taxes 
$168.0  
$131.9  
$106.6 

  
    
    
   

Effective income tax rate 
 41.2% 
 35.1% 
 32.2%

 


(1)
During the fourth quarter of 2009, we recognized a $7.3 million income tax benefit related to our ability to utilize foreign tax credits beyond 2009. This reduced our 2009 effective tax rate by 2.1%.

 


(2)
Includes the benefit related to an investment loss in a subsidiary recognized during the third quarter of 2009.

  
We record deferred income taxes using
enacted tax laws and rates for the years in which the taxes are expected to be paid. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities
are recorded based on the differences between the financial reporting and income tax bases of assets and liabilities. For additional
information about our income tax policy, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

80
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Components of the deferred income tax
assets and liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010, were as follows:
 


  
December 31, 

  
2011  
2010 

  
(In millions) 

Deferred income tax assets: 
    
   

Employee pension benefits 
$172.1  
$138.6 

Net operating and capital loss carryforwards 
 102.0  
 104.0 

Foreign tax credits 
 53.8  
 55.2 

Employee compensation programs 
 49.4  
 43.8 

Reserves and accrued expenses 
 8.9  
 12.8 

Deferred revenue 
 8.7  
 5.8 

Other 
 5.8  
 8.8 

Gross deferred income tax assets 
 400.7  
 369.0 

Valuation allowance 
 (92.8) 
 (87.2)

Total deferred income tax assets, net 
$307.9  
$281.8 

  
    
   

Deferred income tax liabilities: 
    
   

Goodwill and intangible assets 
 (322.1) 
 (366.6)

Pension expense 
 (122.1) 
 (109.4)

Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries 
 (44.8) 
 (27.4)

Depreciation 
 (17.5) 
 (6.4)

Other 
 (21.1) 
 (5.5)

Total deferred income tax liability 
 (527.6) 
 (515.3)

Net deferred income tax liability 
$(219.7) 
$(233.5)

 
Our deferred income tax assets, included
in other current assets, and deferred income tax liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010, are included in the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets as follows:
 


  
December 31, 

  
2011  
2010 

  
(In millions) 

Current deferred income tax assets, included in other current assets 
$8.1  
$14.6 

Long-term deferred income tax liabilities 
 (227.8) 
 (248.1)

Net deferred income tax liability 
$(219.7) 
$(233.5)

 
We record deferred income taxes on the
temporary differences of our foreign subsidiaries and branches, except for the temporary differences related to undistributed earnings
of subsidiaries which we consider indefinitely invested. We have indefinitely invested $85.7 million attributable to pre-2004
undistributed earnings of our Canadian and Chilean subsidiaries. If the pre-2004 earnings were not considered indefinitely invested,
$6.9 million of deferred U.S. income taxes would have been provided.
 

81
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
At December 31, 2011, we had U.S.
federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of $75.6 million which will expire at various times between 2012 and 2029.
We also had foreign net operating loss carryforwards totaling $311.8 million of which $29.0 million will expire between 2012
and 2029 and the remaining $282.8 million will carryforward indefinitely. Foreign capital loss carryforwards of $19.2 million
may be carried forward indefinitely. The deferred tax asset related to the net operating loss and capital loss carryforwards is
$102.0 million of which $92.1 million has been fully reserved in the deferred tax valuation allowance. Additionally, we had foreign
tax credit carryforwards of $54.0 million which will be available to be utilized upon repatriation of foreign earnings. We
also had state credit carryforwards of $0.9 million which will begin expiring in 2017.
 
Cash paid for income taxes, net of amounts
refunded, was $127.5 million, $163.7 million and $103.2 million during the twelve months ended December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
We recognize interest and penalties accrued
related to unrecognized tax benefits in the provision for income taxes on our Consolidated Statements of Income.
 
A reconciliation of the beginning and
ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:
 


  
2011  
2010 

  
(In millions) 

Beginning balance (January 1) 
$20.5  
$19.4 

Increases related to prior year tax positions 
 2.8  
 3.6 

Decreases related to prior year tax positions 
 (0.3) 
 (0.5)

Increases related to current year tax positions 
 3.3  
 2.7 

Decreases related to settlements 
 (3.9) 
 (3.4)

Expiration of the statute of limitations for the assessment of taxes 
 (2.0) 
 (1.6)

Currency translation adjustment 
 (0.5) 
 0.3 

Ending balance (December 31) 
$19.9  
$20.5 

 
We recorded liabilities of $25.1 million
and $27.9 million for unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which included interest
and penalties of $5.2 million and $7.4 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the total amount of unrecognized
benefits that, if recognized, would have affected the effective tax rate was $18.9 million and $19.7 million, respectively,
which included interest and penalties of $4.5 million and $5.5 million, respectively. The accruals for potential interest
and penalties during 2011 and 2010 were not material.
 
Equifax and its subsidiaries are subject
to U.S. federal, state and international income taxes. We are generally no longer subject to federal, state or international income
tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 2006. Due to the potential for resolution of state and foreign examinations,
and the expiration of various statutes of limitations, it is reasonably possible that Equifax’s gross unrecognized tax benefit
balance may change within the next twelve months by a range of zero to $4.6 million.
 
9.  STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION
 
We have one active share-based award
plan, the 2008 Omnibus Incentive Plan which was approved by our shareholders in 2008, that provides our directors, officers and
certain employees with stock options and nonvested stock. The plan is described below. We expect to issue common shares held by
treasury stock upon the exercise of stock options or once nonvested shares vest. Total stock-based compensation expense in our
Consolidated Statements of Income during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, was as follows:
 

82
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 


  
Twelve Months Ended December 31, 

(in millions) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Cost of services 
$3.6  
$3.6  
$2.6 

Selling, general and administrative expenses 
 20.8  
 18.2  
 17.0 

Stock-based compensation expense, before income taxes 
$24.4  
$21.8  
$19.6 

 
The total income tax benefit recognized
for stock-based compensation expense was $8.7 million, $7.8 million and $6.9 million for the twelve months ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Benefits of tax deductions in excess
of recognized compensation cost are reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow. This requirement
reduced operating cash flows and increased financing cash flows by $1.2 million, $3.5 million and $1.3 million during
the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Stock Options.   The
2008 Omnibus Incentive Plan provides that qualified and nonqualified stock options may be granted to officers and other employees.
In conjunction with our acquisition of TALX, we assumed options outstanding under the legacy TALX stock option plan, which was
approved by TALX shareholders. In addition, stock options remain outstanding under three shareholder-approved plans and three non-shareholder-approved
plans from which no new grants may be made. The 2008 Omnibus Incentive Plan requires that stock options be granted at exercise
prices not less than market value on the date of grant. Generally, stock options are subject to graded vesting for periods of up
to three years based on service, with 33% vesting for each year of completed service, and expire ten years from the grant date.
 
We use the binomial model to calculate
the fair value of stock options granted on or after January 1, 2006. The binomial model incorporates assumptions regarding
anticipated employee exercise behavior, expected stock price volatility, dividend yield and risk-free interest rate. Anticipated
employee exercise behavior and expected post-vesting cancellations over the contractual term used in the binomial model were primarily
based on historical exercise patterns. These historical exercise patterns indicated there was not significantly different exercise
behavior between employee groups. For our expected stock price volatility assumption, we weighted historical volatility and implied
volatility. We used daily observations for historical volatility, while our implied volatility assumption was based on actively
traded options related to our common stock. The expected term is derived from the binomial model, based on assumptions incorporated
into the binomial model as described above.
 
The fair value for stock options granted
during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, was estimated at the date of grant, using the binomial model
with the following weighted-average assumptions:
 


  
Twelve Months Ended December 31, 

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Dividend yield 
 1.8% 
 0.5% 
 0.6%

Expected volatility 
 32.7% 
 29.9% 
 32.3%

Risk-free interest rate 
 1.2% 
 1.6% 
 2.0%

Expected term (in years) 
 4.8  
 4.6  
 4.6 

Weighted-average fair value of stock options granted 
$7.85  
$8.28  
$7.90 

 

83
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The following table
summarizes changes in outstanding stock options during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, as well as stock options
that are vested and expected to vest and stock options exercisable at December 31, 2011: 
 


  
   
   
Weighted-Average  
  

  
   
Weighted-Average  
Remaining  
Aggregate 

  
Shares  
Exercise Price  
Contractual Term  
Intrinsic Value 

  
(in thousands)  
   
(in years)  
(in millions) 

Outstanding at December 31, 2010 
 6,526  
$30.63  
    
   

Granted (all at market price) 
 1,298  
$32.94  
    
   

Exercised 
 (947) 
$25.02  
    
   

Forfeited and cancelled 
 (162) 
$32.99  
    
   

Outstanding at December 31, 2011 
 6,715  
$31.82  
 6.3  
$47.9 

Vested and expected to vest at December 31, 2011 
 6,472  
$31.86  
 6.2  
$46.0 

Exercisable at December 31, 2011 
 4,289  
$31.71  
 4.8  
$31.6 

 
The aggregate intrinsic value amounts
in the table above represent the difference between the closing price of Equifax’s common stock on December 31, 2011
and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money stock options as of the same date. This represents the value that
would have been received by the stock option holders if they had all exercised their stock options on December 31, 2011. In
future periods, this amount will change depending on fluctuations in Equifax’s stock price. The total intrinsic value of
stock options exercised during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, was $9.9 million, $14.7 million
and $5.1 million, respectively. At December 31, 2011, our total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options
was $7.7 million with a weighted-average recognition period of 1.5 years.
 
The following table summarizes changes
in outstanding options and the related weighted-average exercise price per share for the twelve months ended December 31,
2010 and 2009:
 


  
December 31, 

  
2010  
2009 

  
Shares  
Weighted-
Average Price  
Shares  
Weighted- Average Price 

  
(Shares in thousands)  
(Shares in thousands) 

Outstanding at the beginning of the year 
 6,845  
$28.68  
 6,422  
$27.84 

Granted (all at market price) 
 1,216  
$32.02  
 1,198  
$28.49 

Exercised 
 (1,358) 
$21.58  
 (589) 
$17.35 

Forfeited and cancelled 
 (177) 
$34.04  
 (186) 
$33.70 

Outstanding at the end of the year 
 6,526  
$30.63  
 6,845  
$28.68 

  
    
    
    
   

Exercisable at end of year 
 4,248  
$30.28  
 4,780  
$27.21 

 
Nonvested Stock.   Our
2008 Omnibus Incentive Plan also provides for awards of nonvested shares of our common stock that can be granted to executive officers,
employees and directors. Nonvested stock awards are generally subject to cliff vesting over a period between one to three years
based on service.
 
The fair value of nonvested stock is
based on the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. However, since our nonvested stock does not pay dividends
during the vesting period, the fair value on the date of grant is reduced by the present value of the expected dividends over the
requisite service period (discounted using the appropriate risk-free interest rate).
 

84
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The following table summarizes changes
in our nonvested stock during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and the related weighted-average grant
date fair value:
 


  
   
Weighted-Average 

  
   
Grant Date 

  
Shares  
Fair Value 

  
(in thousands)  
  

Nonvested at December 31, 2008 
 850  
$36.33 

Granted 
 536  
$28.41 

Vested 
 (230) 
$34.40 

Forfeited 
 (46) 
$31.75 

Nonvested at December 31, 2009 
 1,110  
$33.10 

Granted 
 553  
$33.27 

Vested 
 (317) 
$38.08 

Forfeited 
 (36) 
$33.20 

Nonvested at December 31, 2010 
 1,310  
$31.54 

Granted 
 513  
$34.07 

Vested 
 (340) 
$34.34 

Forfeited 
 (52) 
$30.70 

Nonvested at December 31, 2011 
 1,431  
$31.79 

 
The total fair value of nonvested stock
that vested during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, was $12.1 million, $10.3 million and
$6.5 million, respectively, based on the weighted-average fair value on the vesting date, and $11.7 million, $12.1 million
and $7.9 million, respectively, based on the weighted-average fair value on the date of grant. At December 31, 2011,
our total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested stock was $17.1 million with a weighted-average recognition
period of 1.9 years.
 

85
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
10.  SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN
 
Our Board of Directors has adopted a
shareholder rights plan designed to protect our shareholders against abusive takeover attempts and tactics. The rights plan operates
to dilute the interests of any person or group attempting to take control of the Company if the attempt is not deemed by our Board
of Directors to be in the best interests of our shareholders. Under the rights agreement, as originally adopted in October 1995
and amended and restated in October 2005, holders of our common stock were granted one right to purchase common stock, or Right,
for each outstanding share of common stock held of record on November 24, 1995. All newly issued shares of common stock since
that date have been accompanied by a Right. The Rights will become exercisable and trade independently from our common stock if
a person or group acquires or obtains the right to acquire 20% or more of Equifax’s outstanding shares of common stock, or
commences a tender or exchange offer that would result in that person or group acquiring 20% or more of the outstanding common
stock, in each case without the consent of our Board. In the event the Rights become exercisable, each holder (other than the acquiring
person or group) will be entitled to purchase that number of shares of securities or other property of Equifax having a market
value equal to two times the exercise price of the Right. If Equifax were acquired in a merger or other business combination, each
Right would entitle its holder to purchase the number of the acquiring company’s common stock having a market value of two
times the exercise price of the Right. In either case, our Board may choose to redeem the Rights for $0.01 per Right before they
become exercisable. The Rights will expire on November 6, 2015, unless earlier redeemed, exchanged or amended by the Board.
 
11.  BENEFIT PLANS
 
We have defined benefit pension plans
and defined contribution plans. We also maintain certain healthcare and life insurance benefit plans for eligible retired employees.
The measurement date for our defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans is December 31 of each year.
 
Pension Benefits.   Pension
benefits are provided through U.S. and Canadian defined benefit pension plans and two supplemental executive defined benefit pension
plans.
 
U.S. and Canadian Retirement Plans.
  Prior to December 31, 2009, we had one non-contributory qualified retirement plan covering most U.S. salaried
employees (the Equifax Inc. Pension Plan, or EIPP), a qualified retirement plan that covered U.S. salaried employees (the
U.S. Retirement Income Plan, or USRIP) who terminated or retired before January 1, 2005 and a defined benefit plan for most
salaried and hourly employees in Canada (the Canadian Retirement Income Plan, or CRIP). On December 31, 2009, the plan assets
and obligations of the EIPP were merged with the USRIP. The USRIP remained as the sole U.S. qualified retirement plan. There were
no other plan amendments as a result of this merger. Benefits from these plans are primarily a function of salary and years of
service.
 
On September 14, 2011, the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors approved a redesign of our retirement plans for our currently active Canadian employees, effective
January 1, 2013, and for our new hires hired on or after October 1, 2011. The changes to our retirement plan will freeze the Canadian
Retirement Income Plan, or CRIP, a qualified defined benefit pension plan, for employees who do not meet retirement-eligibility
status under the CRIP as of December 31, 2012 (“Non-Grandfathered” participants). Under the plan amendments, the service
credit for Non-Grandfathered participants will freeze, but these participants will continue to receive credit for salary increases
and vesting service. Additionally, Non-Grandfathered employees and certain other employees not eligible to participate in the CRIP
(i.e., new hires on or after October 1, 2011) will be able to participate in an enhanced defined contribution component of the
CRIP.
 
We assessed the plan amendment’s
potential impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with ASC 715 as of September 14, 2011. Factors considered
during our assessment included the materiality of the CRIP’s assets and liabilities, the CRIP’s funded status and discussion
with the plan’s actuaries regarding the range of possible fluctuation in valuation inputs from December 31, 2010 to September
14, 2011. Based on our assessment, we determined that a remeasurement was not necessary as the effect of the plan amendments was
immaterial.
 
During the twelve months ended December 31,
2011, we made contributions of $40.0 million to the USRIP and $2.6 million to the CRIP. During the twelve months ended
December 31, 2010, we made contributions of $50.0 million to the USRIP and $1.6 million to the CRIP. At December 31,
2011, the USRIP met or exceeded ERISA’s minimum funding requirements.
 

86
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The annual report produced by our consulting
actuaries specifies the funding requirements for our plans, based on projected benefits for plan participants, historical investment
results on plan assets, current discount rates for liabilities, assumptions for future demographic developments and recent changes
in statutory requirements. We may elect to make additional discretionary contributions to our plans in excess of minimum funding
requirements, subject to statutory limitations.
 
Supplemental Retirement Plans.
  We maintain two supplemental executive retirement programs for certain key employees. The plans, which are unfunded,
provide supplemental retirement payments, based on salary and years of service. 
 
Other Benefits.   We
maintain certain healthcare and life insurance benefit plans for eligible retired employees. Substantially all of our U.S. employees
may become eligible for the healthcare benefits if they reach retirement age while working for us and satisfy certain years of
service requirements. The retiree life insurance program covers employees who retired on or before December 31, 2003. We accrue
the cost of providing healthcare benefits over the active service period of the employee.
 
Obligations and Funded Status.
  A reconciliation of the projected benefit obligations, plan assets and funded status of the plans is as follows:
 


  
Pension Benefits  
Other Benefits 

  
2011  
2010  
2011  
2010 

  
(In millions) 

Change in projected benefit obligation 
    
    
    
   

Benefit obligation at January 1, 
$678.0  
$624.2  
$33.6  
$33.5 

Service cost 
 6.4  
 6.4  
 0.6  
 0.5 

Interest cost 
 34.5  
 34.9  
 1.6  
 1.7 

Plan participants' contributions 
 -  
 -  
 1.1  
 1.1 

Amendments 
 -  
 0.6  
 -  
 - 

Actuarial loss (gain) 
 70.0  
 50.5  
 (3.0) 
 1.2 

Foreign currency exchange rate changes 
 (1.2) 
 1.8  
 -  
 - 

Benefits paid 
 (41.6) 
 (40.4) 
 (4.0) 
 (4.5)

Projected benefit obligation at December 31, 
 746.1  
 678.0  
 29.9  
 33.5 

Change in plan assets 
    
    
    
   

Fair value of plan assets at January 1, 
 569.9  
 505.4  
 18.9  
 17.3 

Actual return on plan assets 
 9.2  
 47.5  
 0.4  
 1.6 

Employer contributions 
 46.6  
 55.4  
 2.9  
 3.4 

Plan participants' contributions 
 -  
 -  
 1.1  
 1.1 

Foreign currency exchange rate changes 
 (1.1) 
 2.0  
 -  
 - 

Benefits paid 
 (41.6) 
 (40.4) 
 (4.0) 
 (4.5)

Fair value of plan assets at December 31, 
 583.0  
 569.9  
 19.3  
 18.9 

Funded status of plan 
$(163.1) 
$(108.1) 
$(10.6) 
$(14.6)

 
The accumulated benefit obligation for
the USRIP, CRIP and Supplemental Retirement Plans was $710.3 million at December 31, 2011. The accumulated benefit obligation
for the USRIP, CRIP and Supplemental Retirement Plans was $646.3 million at December 31, 2010.
 
At December 31, 2011, the USRIP
and Supplemental Retirement Plans had projected benefit obligations and accumulated benefit obligations in excess of those plans’
respective assets. The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for these plans
in the aggregate were $697.4 million, $669.1 million and $535.8 million, respectively, at December 31, 2011.
The CRIP plan assets exceeded the accumulated benefit obligation at December 31, 2011. The projected benefit obligation, accumulated
benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for the CRIP were $48.7 million, $41.2 million and $47.2 million, respectively,
at December 31, 2011.
 

87
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
At December 31, 2010, the USRIP
and Supplemental Retirement Plans had projected benefit obligations and accumulated benefit obligations in excess of those plans’
respective assets. The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for these plans
in the aggregate were $631.3 million, $605.6 million and $519.2 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010.
At December 31, 2010, the CRIP plan assets were in excess of the projected benefit obligation and accumulated benefit obligation.
The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for the CRIP were $46.7 million,
$40.7 million and $50.7 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010.
 
The following table represents the net
amounts recognized, or the funded status of our pension and other postretirement benefit plans, in our Consolidated Balance Sheets
at December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 


  
Pension Benefits  
Other Benefits 

(In millions) 
2011  
2010  
2011  
2010 

Amounts recognized in the statements of financial position consist of: 
    
    
    
   

Prepaid pension asset 
$-  
$4.0  
$-  
$- 

Current liabilities 
 (3.8) 
 (3.8) 
 -  
 - 

Long-term liabilities 
 (159.3) 
 (108.3) 
 (10.6) 
 (14.6)

Net amount recognized 
$(163.1) 
$(108.1) 
$(10.6) 
$(14.6)

 
Included in accumulated other comprehensive
loss at December 31, 2011 and 2010, were the following amounts that have not yet been recognized in net periodic pension cost:
 


  
Pension Benefits  
Other Benefits 

(In millions) 
2011  
2010  
2011  
2010 

Prior service cost, net of accumulated taxes of $0.9 and $1.3 in 2011 and 2010, respectively, for pension benefits and $(0.4) in 2011 and 2010 for other benefits 
$1.8  
$2.2  
$(0.6) 
$(0.8)

Net actuarial loss, net of accumulated taxes of $165.6 and $130.6 in 2011 and 2010, respectively, for pension benefits and $6.0 and $7.1 in 2011 and 2010, respectively, for other benefits 
 288.6  
 227.5  
 10.5  
 12.4 

Accumulated other comprehensive loss 
$290.4  
$229.7  
$9.9  
$11.6 

 
The following indicates amounts recognized
in other comprehensive income (loss) during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 

88
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 


  
Pension Benefits  
Other Benefits 

(In millions) 
2011  
2010  
2011  
2010 

Amounts arising during the period: 
    
    
    
   

Net actuarial loss (gain), net of taxes of $39.2 and $17.2 in 2011 and 2010, respectively, for pension benefits and $(0.6) and $0.4 in 2011 and 2010, respectively, for other benefits 
$68.9  
$31.0  
$(1.0) 
$0.8 

Foreign currency exchange rate (gain) loss, net of taxes of $(0.0) and $(0.1) in 2011 and 2010, respectively, for pension benefits 
 (0.1) 
 (0.1) 
 -  
 - 

Prior service (credit) cost, net of taxes of $0.2 for pension benefits in 2010 
 -  
 0.4  
 -  
 - 

  
    
    
    
   

Amounts recognized in net periodic benefit cost during the period: 
    
    
    
   

Recognized actuarial loss, net of taxes of $(4.4) and $(3.4) in 2011 and 2010, respectively, for pension benefits and $(0.5) and $(0.4) in 2011 and 2010, respectively, for other benefits 
 (7.6) 
 (5.8) 
 (0.8) 
 (0.8)

Amortization of prior service cost, net of taxes of $(0.3) in 2011 and 2010 for pension benefits and $0.1 in 2011 and 2010 for other benefits 
 (0.5) 
 (0.5) 
 0.1  
 0.1 

Total recognized in other comprehensive income 
$60.7  
$25.0  
$(1.7) 
$0.1 

 
Components of Net Periodic Benefit
Cost.
 


  
Pension Benefits  
Other Benefits 

  
2011  
2010  
2009  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
(In millions) 

Service cost 
$6.4  
$6.4  
$5.3  
$0.6  
$0.5  
$0.5 

Interest cost 
 34.5  
 34.9  
 35.1  
 1.6  
 1.7  
 1.8 

Expected return on plan assets 
 (46.6) 
 (44.8) 
 (44.8) 
 (1.7) 
 (1.5) 
 (1.5)

Amortization of prior service cost 
 0.8  
 0.8  
 0.8  
 (0.2) 
 (0.2) 
 (0.2)

Recognized actuarial loss 
 12.0  
 9.2  
 8.7  
 1.3  
 1.2  
 1.1 

Special termination benefit 
 -  
 -  
 0.1  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Total net periodic benefit cost 
$7.1  
$6.5  
$5.2  
$1.6  
$1.7  
$1.7 

 
The following represents the amount of
prior service cost and actuarial loss included in accumulated other comprehensive loss that is expected to be recognized in net
periodic benefit cost during the twelve months ending December 31, 2012:
 


  
Pension  
Other 

(In millions) 
Benefits  
Benefits 

Actuarial loss, net of taxes of $5.8 for pension benefits and and $0.4 for other benefits 
$10.2  
$0.6 

Prior service cost, net of taxes of $0.3 for pension benefits and and $(0.1) for other benefits 
$0.5  
$(0.1)

 
Weighted-Average Assumptions.
 


Weighted-average assumptions used to determine 
Pension Benefits  
Other Benefits 

benefit obligations at December 31, 
2011  
2010  
2011  
2010 

Discount rate 
 4.60% 
 5.24% 
 4.29% 
 4.90%

Rate of compensation increase 
 4.41% 
 4.37% 
 N/A  
 N/A 

 


Weighted-average assumptions used to determine 
Pension Benefits  
Other Benefits 

net periodic benefit cost at December 31, 
2011  
2010  
2009  
2011  
2010  
2009 

Discount rate 
 5.24% 
 5.77% 
 6.27% 
 4.90% 
 5.45% 
 6.22%

Expected return on plan assets 
 7.73% 
 7.73% 
 8.02% 
 7.75% 
 7.75% 
 8.00%

Rate of compensation increase 
 4.37% 
 4.37% 
 4.38% 
 N/A  
 N/A  
 N/A 

 

89
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Discount Rates.   We
determine our discount rates primarily based on high-quality, fixed-income investments and yield-to-maturity analyses specific
to our estimated future benefit payments available as of the measurement date. Discount rates are reset annually on the measurement
date to reflect current market conditions. We use a third-party yield curve updated monthly to develop our discount rates. The
yield curve provides discount rates related to a dedicated high-quality bond portfolio whose cash flows extend beyond the current
period, from which we choose a rate matched to the expected benefit payments required for each plan.
 
Expected Return on Plan Assets.
  The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on both our historical returns and forecasted future investment
returns by asset class, as provided by our external investment advisor. Prior to 2008, the U.S. Pension Plans investment returns
were 10.9%, 13.0% and 7.5% over three, five and ten years, respectively. The returns exceeded the S&P 500 returns for
similar periods of time primarily due to an asset allocation strategy where large allocations to alternative asset classes (hedge
fund of funds, private equity, real estate and real assets) provided consistently higher returns with a low correlation to equity
market returns. These returns historically demonstrate a long-term record of producing returns at or above the expected rate of
return. However, the dramatic adverse market conditions in 2008 skewed the traditional measures of long-term performance, such
as the ten-year average return. The severity of the 2008 losses, approximately negative 20%, makes the historical ten-year average
return a less accurate predictor of future return expectations. In 2009, the investment returns were approximately 16%, reflecting
a partial recovery of the 2008 losses. Our weighted-average expected rate of return for 2012 is 7.73% which is the same as the
expected rate of return in 2011 and 2010.
 
The calculation of the net periodic benefit
cost for the USRIP and CRIP utilizes a market-related value of assets. The market-related value of assets recognizes the difference
between actual returns and expected returns over five years at a rate of 20% per year.
 
Healthcare Costs.   An
initial 7.0% annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered healthcare benefits was assumed for 2012 for pre-Medicare
coverage. The rate was assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 5.0% by 2016. An initial 7.0% annual rate of increase
in the per capita cost of covered healthcare benefits was assumed for 2012 for post-Medicare coverage. The rate was assumed to
decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 5.0% by 2016.  Assumed healthcare cost trend rates have a significant effect
on the amounts reported for the healthcare plan. A one-percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates at December 31,
2011 would have had the following effects:
 


  
1-Percentage  
1-Percentage 

(In millions) 
Point Increase  
Point Decrease 

Effect on total service and interest cost components 
$0.2  
$(0.2)

Effect on accumulated postretirement benefit obligation 
$3.0  
$(2.6)

 
We estimate that the future benefits
payable for our retirement and postretirement plans are as follows at December 31, 2011:
 


  
U.S. Defined  
Non-U.S. Defined  
Other 

Years ending December 31, 
Benefit Plans  
Benefit Plans  
Benefit Plans 

  
(In millions) 

2012 
$40.8  
$2.5  
$2.7 

2013 
$41.5  
$2.5  
$2.5 

2014 
$41.4  
$2.6  
$2.5 

2015 
$41.4  
$2.6  
$2.4 

2016 
$41.8  
$2.6  
$2.2 

Next five fiscal years to December 31, 2021 
$210.1  
$14.7  
$10.3 

 

90
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Fair Value of Plan Assets.   The
fair value of the pension assets at December 31, 2011, is as follows:
 


  
   
   
Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using: 

Description 
   
Fair Value at
December 31, 2011  
Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1)  
Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level 2)  
Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) 

  
   
(In millions) 

Large-Cap Equity 
 (1) (2)  
$76.4  
$73.9  
$2.5  
$- 

Small and Mid-Cap Equity 
 (1) 
 7.2  
 7.2  
 -  
 - 

International Equity 
 (1) (2)  
 78.2  
 44.6  
 33.6  
 - 

Fixed Income 
 (1) (2)  
 210.2  
 14.5  
 195.7  
 - 

Private Equity 
 (3) 
 33.0  
 -  
 -  
 33.0 

Hedge Funds 
 (4) 
 92.9  
 -  
 -  
 92.9 

Real Assets 
 (1) (5)  
 27.6  
 17.8  
 -  
 9.8 

Cash 
 (1) 
 57.5  
 57.5  
 -  
 - 

Total 
    
$583.0  
$215.5  
$231.8  
$135.7 

 


(1)
Fair value is based on observable market prices for the assets.

 


(2)
For the portion of this asset class categorized as Level 2, fair value is determined using dealer and broker quotations, certain pricing models, bid prices, quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data.

 
 

(3)
Private equity investments are initially valued at cost. Fund managers periodically review the valuations utilizing subsequent company- specific transactions or deterioration in the company’s financial performance to determine if fair value adjustments are necessary. Private equity investments are typically viewed as long term, less liquid investments with return of capital coming via cash distributions from the sale of underlying fund assets. The Plan intends to hold these investments through each fund’s normal life cycle and wind down period.  As of December 31, 2011, we had $23.9 million of remaining commitments related to these private equity investments.

 


(4)
Fair value is reported by the fund manager based on observable market prices for actively traded assets within the funds, as well as financial models, comparable financial transactions or other factors relevant to the specific asset for assets with no observable market.  These investments are redeemable quarterly with a range of 30 – 90 days notice.

 


(5)
For the portion of this asset class categorized as Level 3, fair value is reported by the fund manager based on a combination of the following valuation approaches: current replacement cost less deterioration and obsolescence, a discounted cash flow model of income streams and comparable market sales. As of December 31, 2011, we had $4.1 million of remaining commitments related to the real asset investments.

 
The following table shows a reconciliation
of the beginning and ending balances for assets valued using significant unobservable inputs:
 


  
Private Equity  
Hedge Funds  
Real Assets 

  
(In millions) 

Balance at December 31, 2010 
$31.8  
$93.2  
$8.0 

Return on plan assets: 
    
    
   

Unrealized 
 3.2  
 (4.7) 
 0.9 

Realized 
 -  
 0.1  
 0.3 

Purchases 
 4.1  
 8.7  
 0.9 

Sales 
 (6.1) 
 (4.4) 
 (0.3)

Level 3 transfers, net 
 -  
 -  
 - 

Balance at December 31, 2011 
$33.0  
$92.9  
$9.8 

 

91
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The fair value of the postretirement
assets at December 31, 2011, is as follows:
 


  
   
   
Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using: 

Description 
   
Fair Value at  December 31, 2011  
Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1)  
Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level 2)  
Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) 

  
   
(In millions) 

Large-Cap Equity 
 (1) 
$2.7  
$2.7  
$-  
$- 

Small and Mid-Cap Equity 
 (1) 
 0.3  
 0.3  
 -  
 - 

International Equity 
 (1) (2)  
 2.1  
 1.6  
 0.5  
 - 

Fixed Income 
 (1) (2)  
 6.6  
 0.5  
 6.1  
 - 

Private Equity 
 (3) 
 1.2  
 -  
 -  
 1.2 

Hedge Funds 
 (4) 
 3.3  
 -  
 -  
 3.3 

Real Assets 
 (1) (5)  
 1.0  
 0.6  
 -  
 0.4 

Cash 
 (1) 
 2.1  
 2.1  
 -  
 - 

Total 
    
$19.3  
$7.8  
$6.6  
$4.9 

 


(1)
Fair value is based on observable market prices for the assets.

 


(2)
For the portion of this asset class categorized as Level 2, fair value is determined using dealer and broker quotations, certain pricing models, bid prices, quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data.

 
 

(3)
Private equity investments are initially valued at cost. Fund managers periodically review the valuations utilizing subsequent company- specific transactions or deterioration in the company’s financial performance to determine if fair value adjustments are necessary. Private equity investments are typically viewed as long term, less liquid investments with return of capital coming via cash distributions from the sale of underlying fund assets. The Plan intends to hold these investments through each fund’s normal life cycle and wind down period.

 


(4)
Fair value is reported by the fund manager based on observable market prices for actively traded assets within the funds, as well as financial models, comparable financial transactions or other factors relevant to the specific asset for assets with no observable market. These investments are redeemable quarterly with a range of 30 – 90 days notice.

 


(5)
For the portion of this asset class categorized as Level 3, fair value is reported by the fund manager based on a combination of the following valuation approaches: current replacement cost less deterioration and obsolescence, a discounted cash flow model of income streams and comparable market sales.

 
Gross realized and unrealized gains and
losses, purchases and sales for Level 3 postretirement assets were not material for the twelve months ended December 31,
2011.
 
USRIP, or the Plan, Investment and
Asset Allocation Strategies.   The primary goal of the asset allocation strategy of the Plan is to produce a total
investment return which will satisfy future annual cash benefit payments to participants and minimize future contributions from
the Company. Additionally, this strategy will diversify the plan assets to minimize nonsystemic risk and provide reasonable assurance
that no single security or class of security will have a disproportionate impact on the Plan. Investment managers are required
to abide by the provisions of ERISA. Standards of performance for each manager include an expected return versus an assigned benchmark,
a measure of volatility, and a time period of evaluation.
 
The asset allocation strategy is determined
by our external advisor forecasting investment returns by asset class and providing allocation guidelines to maximize returns while
minimizing the volatility and correlation of those returns. Investment recommendations are made by our external advisor, working
in conjunction with our in-house Investment Officer. The asset allocation and ranges are approved by in-house Plan Administrators,
who are Named Fiduciaries under ERISA.
 

92
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The Plan, in an effort to meet asset
allocation objectives, utilizes a variety of asset classes which has historically produced returns which are relatively uncorrelated
to those of the S&P 500 in most environments. Asset classes included in this category of alternative assets include hedge
funds, private equity (including secondary private equity) and real assets (real estate, funds of hard asset securities and private
equity funds focused on real assets). The primary benefits of using these types of asset classes are: (1) their non-correlated
returns reduce the overall volatility of the Plan’s portfolio of assets, and (2) their ability to produce superior risk-adjusted
returns. This has allowed the Plan’s average annual investment return to exceed the S&P 500 index return over the
last ten years. Additionally, the Plan allows certain of their managers, subject to specific risk constraints, to utilize derivative
instruments, in order to enhance asset return, reduce volatility or both. Derivatives are primarily employed by the Plans in their
fixed income portfolios and in the hedge fund-of-funds area. Derivatives can be used for hedging purposes to reduce risk.
 
The Plan is prohibited from investing
additional amounts in Equifax stock once the market value of stock held by each plan exceeds 10% of the total market value of each
plan. In 2011, all shares of Equifax common stock directly owned by the USRIP were sold and none were directly owned by the Plan
at December 31, 2011.  At December 31, 2010, the USRIP’s assets included 0.4 million shares of Equifax
common stock, with a market value of $13.7 million. Not more than 5% of the portfolio (at cost) shall be invested in the securities
of any one issuer, with the exceptions of Equifax common stock or other securities, and U.S. Treasury and government agency securities.
 
The following asset allocation ranges
and actual allocations were in effect as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 


  
   
Actual 

USRIP 
Range  
2011  
2010 

Large-Cap Equity 
 10%-35%  
 13.9% 
 16.6%

Small- and Mid-Cap Equity 
 0%-15%  
 1.3% 
 5.2%

International Equity 
 10%-30%  
 10.7% 
 13.7%

Private Equity 
 2%-10%  
 6.2% 
 6.1%

Hedge Funds 
 10%-30%  
 17.3% 
 18.0%

Real Assets 
 2%-10%  
 5.2% 
 6.3%

Fixed Income 
 15%-40%  
 34.8% 
 33.1%

Cash 
 0%-15%  
 10.6% 
 1.0%


 
CRIP Investment and Asset Allocation
Strategies.   The primary goal of the asset allocation strategy of the Plan is to produce a total investment return
which will satisfy future annual cash benefit payments to participants and minimize future contributions from the Company. Additionally,
this strategy will diversify the plan assets to minimize nonsystemic risk and provide reasonable assurance that no single security
or class of security will have a disproportionate impact on the Plan. The Pension Committee of the CRIP has retained an investment
manager who has the discretion to invest in various asset classes with the care, skill, and diligence expected of professional
prudence. The CRIP has a separate custodian of those assets, which are held in various segregated pooled funds. The Pension Committee
maintains an investment policy for the CRIP, which imposes certain limitations and restrictions regarding allowable types of investments.
The current investment policy imposes those restrictions on investments or transactions such as (1) Equifax common stock or
securities, except as might be incidental to any pooled funds which the plan may have, (2) commodities or loans, (3) short
sales and the use of margin accounts, (4) put and call options, (5) private placements, and (6) transactions which
are “related-party” in nature as specified by the Canadian Pension Benefits Standards Act and its regulations.
 

93
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The following specifies the asset allocation
ranges and actual allocation as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 


  
   
Actual 

CRIP 
Range  
2011  
2010 

Canadian Equities 
 25%-50%  
 34.8% 
 35.3%

U.S. Equities 
 0%-19%  
 5.2% 
 4.9%

International Equities 
 0%-19%  
 8.9% 
 8.9%

Fixed Income 
 30%-70%  
 50.5% 
 50.3%

Money Market 
 0%-10%  
 0.6% 
 0.6%

 
Equifax Retirement Savings Plans.
  Equifax sponsors a tax qualified defined contribution plan, the Equifax Inc. 401(k) Plan, or the Plan. We provide
a discretionary match of participants’ contributions, up to four or six percent of employee eligible pay depending on certain
eligibility rules under the Plan. We also provide a discretionary direct contribution to certain eligible employees, the percentage
of which is based upon an employee’s years of service. Company contributions for the Plan during the twelve months ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $15.6 million, $14.6 million and $13.8 million, respectively.
 
Foreign Retirement Plans.   We
also maintain defined contribution plans for certain employees in the U.K., Ireland and Canada. For the years ended December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009, our expenses related to these plans were not material.
 
Deferred Compensation Plans.   We
maintain deferred compensation plans that allow for certain management employees and the Board of Directors to defer the receipt
of compensation (such as salary, incentive compensation, commissions or vested restricted stock units) until a later date based
on the terms of the plans. The benefits under our deferred compensation plans are guaranteed by the assets of a grantor trust which,
through our funding, purchased variable life insurance policies on certain consenting individuals, with this trust as beneficiary.
The purpose of this trust is to ensure the distribution of benefits accrued by participants of the deferred compensation plans
in case of a change in control, as defined in the trust agreement.
 
Long-Term Incentive Plan.   We
have a shareholder-approved Key Management Incentive Plan (Annual Incentive Plan) for certain key officers that provides for annual
or long-term cash awards at the end of various measurement periods, based on the earnings per share and/or various other criteria
over the measurement period. Our total accrued incentive compensation for all incentive plans included in accrued salaries and
bonuses on our Consolidated Balance Sheets was $66.5 million and $61.9 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 

94
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Employee Benefit Trusts.   We
maintain employee benefit trusts for the purpose of satisfying obligations under certain benefit plans. These trusts held 0.6 million
and 2.1 million shares of Equifax stock with a value, at cost, of $5.9 million and $41.2 million at December 31,
2011 and 2010, respectively, as well as cash, which was not material for both periods presented. The employee benefits trusts are
as follows:
 


•
The Executive Life and Supplemental Retirement Benefit Plan Grantor Trust is used to ensure that the insurance premiums due under the Executive Life and Supplemental Retirement Benefit Plan are paid in case we fail to make scheduled payments following a change in control, as defined in this trust agreement.

 


•
The Supplemental Executive Retirement Plans Grantor Trust’s assets are dedicated to ensure the payment of benefits accrued under our Supplemental Executive Retirement Plans in case of a change in control, as defined in this trust agreement.

 
The assets in these plans which are recorded
on our Consolidated Balance Sheets are subject to creditors claims in case of insolvency of Equifax Inc.
 
12.  RESTRUCTURING CHARGES
 
2009 Restructuring Charges.   In
the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded a $16.4 million restructuring charge ($10.4 million, net of tax) in selling,
general and administrative expenses on our Consolidated Statements of Income primarily related to headcount reductions of approximately
400 positions. This charge resulted from our continuing efforts to align our business to better support our strategic objectives.
Generally, severance benefits for our U.S. employees are paid through monthly payroll according to the number of weeks of severance
benefit provided to the employee, while our international employees receive a lump sum severance payment for their benefit. Payments
related to this charge were not material during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and all payments have been substantially
completed as of December 31, 2011.  
 
During the first quarter of 2009, we
recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income an $8.4 million restructuring
charge ($5.4 million, net of tax) associated with headcount reductions of approximately 300 positions. This charge resulted
from our efforts to reduce and manage our expenses and to maintain our financial results in the face of a weak global economy and
reduced revenues. Payments related to this charge were not material during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and all
payments have been substantially completed as of December 31, 2011.  
 
Restructuring charges are recorded in
general corporate expense.  Restructuring charges related to discontinued operations were $4.1 million during 2009.
 

95
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
 
13.  SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
Reportable Segments.   We
manage our business and report our financial results through the following five reportable segments, which are the same as our
operating segments:
 


•
U.S. Consumer Information Solutions

 


•
TALX Workforce Solutions

 


•
International

 


•
North America Personal Solutions

 


•
North America Commercial Solutions

 
The accounting policies of the reportable
segments are the same as those described in our summary of significant accounting policies (see Note 1). We evaluate the performance
of these reportable segments based on their operating revenues, operating income and operating margins, excluding any unusual or
infrequent items, if any. Inter-segment sales and transfers are not material for all periods presented. The measurement criteria
for segment profit or loss and segment assets are substantially the same for each reportable segment. All transactions between
segments are accounted for at cost, and no timing differences occur between segments.
 
A summary of segment products and services
is as follows:
 
U.S. Consumer Information Solutions.
  This segment includes consumer information services (such as credit information and credit scoring, credit modeling
services, locate services, fraud detection and prevention services, identity verification services and other consulting services);
mortgage loan origination information, appraisal, title and closing services; consumer financial marketing services; and identity
management.
 
TALX Workforce Solutions.
  This segment includes employment, income and social security number verification services (known as The Work Number)
and employment tax and talent management services.
 
International.   This
segment includes information services products, which includes consumer and commercial services (such as credit and financial information,
credit scoring and credit modeling services), credit and other marketing products and services, and products and services sold
directly to consumers.
 
North America Personal Solutions.
  This segment includes credit information, credit monitoring and identity theft protection products sold directly to
consumers via the Internet and in various hard-copy formats.
 
North America Commercial Solutions.
  This segment includes commercial products and services such as business credit and demographic information, credit
scores and portfolio analytics (decisioning tools), which are derived from our databases of business credit, financial and demographic
information.
 

96
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Segment information
for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 is as follows:
 


  
Twelve Months Ended 

(in millions) 
December 31, 

Operating revenue: 
2011  
2010  
2009 

U.S. Consumer Information Solutions 
$792.6  
$743.0  
$712.2 

International 
 492.9  
 482.8  
 438.6 

TALX Workforce Solutions  
 404.3  
 395.6  
 346.4 

North America Personal Solutions 
 180.7  
 157.6  
 149.0 

North America Commercial Solutions 
 89.3  
 80.5  
 69.8 

Total operating revenue 
$1,959.8  
$1,859.5  
$1,716.0 

 


  
Twelve Months Ended 

(in millions) 
December 31, 

Operating income: 
2011  
2010  
2009 

U.S. Consumer Information Solutions 
$287.3  
$269.8  
$259.4 

International 
 132.2  
 119.4  
 118.9 

TALX Workforce Solutions 
 90.7  
 92.1  
 75.4 

North America Personal Solutions 
 54.1  
 44.6  
 34.3 

North America Commercial Solutions 
 23.6  
 19.5  
 15.1 

General Corporate Expense 
 (116.9) 
 (115.4) 
 (121.3)

Total operating income 
$471.0  
$430.0  
$381.8 

 


  
December 31, 

(in millions) 
2011  
2010 

Total assets: 
    
   

U.S. Consumer Information Solutions 
$1,025.6  
$1,022.5 

International 
 682.1  
 632.2 

TALX Workforce Solutions 
 1,425.8  
 1,403.4 

North America Personal Solutions 
 22.9  
 21.2 

North America Commercial Solutions 
 65.3  
 66.7 

General Corporate 
 286.9  
 291.5 

Total assets 
$3,508.6  
$3,437.5 

 

97
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 


  
Twelve Months Ended 

(in millions) 
December 31, 

Depreciation and amortization expense: 
2011  
2010  
2009 

U.S. Consumer Information Solutions 
$44.1  
$41.4  
$35.4 

International 
 26.9  
 25.6  
 23.2 

TALX Workforce Solutions 
 66.6  
 67.9  
 62.6 

North America Personal Solutions 
 6.0  
 5.4  
 4.8 

North America Commercial Solutions 
 5.1  
 6.2  
 5.8 

General Corporate 
 16.8  
 15.7  
 13.4 

Total depreciation and amortization expense 
$165.5  
$162.2  
$145.2 

 


  
Twelve Months Ended 

(in millions) 
December 31, 

Capital expenditures: 
2011  
2010  
2009 

U.S. Consumer Information Solutions 
$13.5  
$13.8  
$16.8 

International 
 15.8  
 12.4  
 11.9 

TALX Workforce Solutions 
 23.4  
 16.5  
 13.5 

North America Personal Solutions 
 5.4  
 4.9  
 5.1 

North America Commercial Solutions 
 2.2  
 2.4  
 2.6 

General Corporate 
 14.7  
 49.8  
 20.8 

Total capital expenditures 
$75.0  
$99.8  
$70.7 

 
Financial information by geographic area
is as follows:
 


  
Twelve Months Ended 

(in millions) 
December 31, 

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

Operating revenue (based on location of customer): 
Amount  
%  
Amount  
%  
Amount  
% 

U.S. 
$1,440.9  
 74% 
$1,352.2  
 73% 
$1,254.6  
 73%

Canada 
 151.3  
 8% 
 138.4  
 7% 
 122.6  
 7%

U.K. 
 124.1  
 6% 
 104.7  
 6% 
 104.9  
 6%

Brazil 
 35.4  
 2% 
 84.1  
 4% 
 82.3  
 5%

Other 
 208.1  
 10% 
 180.1  
 10% 
 151.6  
 9%

Total operating revenue 
$1,959.8  
 100% 
$1,859.5  
 100% 
$1,716.0  
 100%

 


(in millions) 
December 31, 

  
2011  
2010 

Long-lived assets: 
Amount  
%  
Amount  
% 

U.S. 
$2,538.2  
 83% 
$2,535.2  
 84%

U.K. 
 121.5  
 4% 
 93.2  
 3%

Brazil 
 77.2  
 3% 
 170.9  
 6%

Canada 
 70.7  
 2% 
 93.1  
 3%

Other 
 248.7  
 8% 
 112.0  
 4%

Total long-lived assets 
$3,056.3  
 100% 
$3,004.4  
 100%

 

98
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
14.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL
DATA (UNAUDITED)
 
Quarterly financial data for 2011 and
2010 was as follows:
 


  
Three Months Ended 

2011 
March 31,  
June 30,  
September 30,  
December 31, 

  
(In millions, except per share data) 

Operating revenue 
$472.6  
$487.1  
$490.4  
$509.7 

Operating income 
$109.1  
$114.6  
$121.6  
$125.7 

Consolidated income from continuing operations 
$59.3  
$37.1  
$69.3  
$74.5 

Discontinued operations, net of tax 
$-  
$-  
$-  
$1.5 

Consolidated net income 
$59.3  
$37.1  
$69.3  
$76.0 

Net income attributable to Equifax 
$57.3  
$34.5  
$66.7  
$74.4 

Basic earnings per common share* 
    
    
    
   

Net income from continuing operations attributable to Equifax 
$0.47  
$0.28  
$0.55  
$0.61 

Discontinued operations attributable to Equifax 
$-  
$-  
$-  
$0.01 

Net income attributable to Equifax 
$0.47  
$0.28  
$0.55  
$0.62 

Diluted earnings per common share* 
    
    
    
   

Net income from continuing operations attributable to Equifax 
$0.46  
$0.28  
$0.54  
$0.60 

Discontinued operations attributable to Equifax 
$-  
$-  
$-  
$0.01 

Net income attributable to Equifax 
$0.46  
$0.28  
$0.54  
$0.61 

 


  
Three Months Ended 

2010 
March 31,  
June 30,  
September 30,  
December 31, 

  
(In millions, except per share data) 

Operating revenue 
$443.0  
$460.7  
$473.8  
$482.0 

Operating income 
$104.3  
$105.8  
$110.2  
$109.7 

Consolidated income from continuing operations 
$55.9  
$59.8  
$63.6  
$64.0 

Discontinued operations, net of tax 
$2.7  
$13.6  
$15.2  
$- 

Consolidated net income 
$58.6  
$73.4  
$78.8  
$64.0 

Net income attributable to Equifax 
$56.7  
$71.3  
$76.5  
$62.2 

Basic earnings per common share* 
    
    
    
   

Net income from continuing operations attributable to Equifax 
$0.43  
$0.46  
$0.50  
$0.51 

Discontinued operations attributable to Equifax 
$0.02  
$0.11  
$0.12  
$- 

Net income attributable to Equifax 
$0.45  
$0.57  
$0.62  
$0.51 

Diluted earnings per common share* 
    
    
    
   

Net income from continuing operations attributable to Equifax 
$0.42  
$0.45  
$0.49  
$0.50 

Discontinued operations attributable to Equifax 
$0.02  
$0.11  
$0.12  
$- 

Net income attributable to Equifax 
$0.44  
$0.56  
$0.61  
$0.50 

 


*
The sum of the quarterly EPS does not equal the annual EPS due to changes in the weighted-average shares between periods.

 

99
 

 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The comparability of our quarterly financial
results during 2011 and 2010 was impacted by certain events, as follows:
 


•

During 2011 and 2010, we made several acquisitions, including
        DataVision Resources during the third quarter of 2011, and Anakam, Inc. during the fourth quarter of 2010. For additional information
        about our acquisitions, see Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

•

During the second quarter of 2011, we completed the merger
        of our Brazilian business with Boa Vista Serviços S.A. (“BVS”) in exchange for a 15% equity interest in BVS,
        which was accounted for as a sale and deconsolidated (the “Brazilian Transaction”). For additional information about
        the merger, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

•
During the second quarter of 2010, we sold our APPRO loan origination software business (“APPRO”) for approximately $72 million.  During the third quarter of 2010, we sold the assets of our Direct Marketing Services division (“DMS”) for approximately $117 million.  Both of these were previously reported in our U.S. Consumer Information Solutions segment.  We have presented the APPRO and DMS operations as discontinued operations for all periods presented. For additional information about these divestitures, see Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

 

100
 

 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
None.
 
ITEM 9A.   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
 
Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.
 
Our management, with the participation
of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of Equifax’s disclosure
controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, our Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by
this report (i) were appropriately designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and (ii) were
effective and provided reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed by Equifax in reports filed under the
Exchange Act is (a) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules
and forms and (b) accumulated and communicated to Equifax’s management, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
 
Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting.
 
Our management is responsible for establishing
and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer and effected by our Board of Directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that:
 


 
•
pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of our assets;

 
•
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors; and

 
•
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

 
Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness
to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
Our management assessed the effectiveness
of Equifax’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 using the criteria set forth by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework. Based on this assessment
using those criteria, our management concluded that, as of December 31, 2011, Equifax’s internal control over financial
reporting was effective. The effectiveness of Equifax’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011
has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, Equifax’s independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report,
which appears under Item 8 on page 55.
 
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.
 
No change in our
internal control over financial reporting occurred during Equifax’s fourth quarter ended December 31, 2011 that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Equifax’s internal control over financial reporting.
 

101
 

 
PART III
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 
Information required by Item 10
of Part III regarding our directors, nominees, and audit committee financial experts is included in the sections captioned
“Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance” in our definitive Proxy Statement, or 2012 Proxy Statement, relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to
be held on May 3, 2012, to be filed with the SEC within 120 days after December 31, 2011, and is incorporated herein
by reference.
 
Information regarding our Executive Officers
required by Item 10 of Part III is set forth in Item 1 of Part I “Business — Executive Officers
of the Registrant.”
 
Information regarding compliance with
Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is included in the section of our 2012 Proxy Statement captioned “Section 16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,” and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Equifax has adopted codes of ethics and
business conduct applicable to all directors, officers and employees, available at www.equifax.com/about_equifax/corporate_governance/en_us,
or in print upon request to the Corporate Secretary, Equifax Inc., P.O. Box 4081, Atlanta, Georgia, 30302.
We will post any amendments to the code of ethics and business conduct, and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the
rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange on our Internet site.
 
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
Information required by Item 11
of Part III is included in the sections of our 2012 Proxy Statement captioned “Compensation Discussion and Analysis,”
“Executive Compensation Tables,” “Director Compensation,” “Compensation Committee Interlocks and
Insider Participation,” and “Compensation Committee Report” and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL
OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
Information required by
Item 12 of Part III is included in the section of our 2012 Proxy Statement captioned “Securities Owned by
Certain Beneficial Owners” and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation
Plans
 
Information required by Item 12
regarding the securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans is included in the section captioned “Equity
Compensation Plan Information” in our 2012 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
 
Information required by Item 13
of Part III is included in the sections of our 2012 Proxy Statement captioned “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
Governance,” and “Review, Approval or Ratification of Transactions with Related Persons” and is incorporated
herein by reference.
 
ITEM 14.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
 
Information required by Item 14
of Part III is included in the section of our 2012 Proxy Statement captioned “Fees Paid to Auditor” and “Policy
on Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Non-Audit Services Performed by the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm”and
is incorporated herein by reference.
 

102
 

 
PART IV
 
ITEM 15.  EXHIBITS AND
FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 


(a)
List of Documents Filed as a Part of This Report:

 


 
(1)
Financial Statements. The following financial statements are included in Item 8 of Part II:

 


 
•
Consolidated Balance Sheets — December 31, 2011 and 2010;

 


 
•
Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009;

 


 
•
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009;

 


 
•
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009; and

 


 
•
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

 


 
(2)
Financial Statement Schedules.

 


 
•
Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

 
All other schedules for which provision
is made in the applicable accounting regulation of the SEC are not required under the related instructions or are inapplicable
and, therefore, have been omitted.
 


 
(3)
Exhibits. A list of the exhibits required to be filed as part of this Report by Item 601 of Regulation S-K is set forth in the Exhibit Index on page 104 of this report, which immediately precedes such exhibits, and is incorporated herein by reference.

 


(b)
Exhibits. See Item 15(a)(3).

 


(c)
Financial Statement Schedules. See Item 15(a)(2).

 

103
 

 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized, on February 23, 2012.
 


 
 
EQUIFAX INC.
 

 
 
(Registrant)
 

 
 
 
 

 
By:
/s/ RICHARD F. SMITH
 

 
 
Richard F. Smith
 

 
 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 

 
We, the undersigned directors and executive officers of Equifax Inc.,
hereby severally constitute and appoint Lee Adrean, Nuala M. King and Chad R. Meyer, and each of them singly, our true and lawful
attorneys with full power to them and each of them to sign for us, and in our names in the capacities indicated below, any and
all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, hereby ratifying and confirming our signatures as they
may be signed by our said attorneys to any and all amendments to said Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated
on February 23, 2012.
 


/s/ RICHARD F. SMITH
 

Richard F. Smith
 

Director, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 

(Principal Executive Officer)
 

 
 

/s/ LEE ADREAN
 

Lee Adrean
 

Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 

(Principal Financial Officer)
 

 
 

/s/ NUALA M. KING
 

Nuala M. King
 

Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller
 

(Principal Accounting Officer)
 

 
 

/s/ JAMES E. COPELAND, JR.
 

James E. Copeland, Jr.
 

Director
 

 

104
 

 


/s/ ROBERT D. DALEO
 

Robert D. Daleo
 

Director
 

 
 

/s/ WALTER W. DRIVER, JR.
 

Walter W. Driver, Jr.
 

Director
 

 
 

/s/ MARK L. FEIDLER
 

Mark L. Feidler
 

Director
 

 
 

/s/ L. PHILLIP HUMANN
 

L. Phillip Humann
 

Director
 

 
 

/s/ SIRI S. MARSHALL
 

Siri S. Marshall
 

Director
 

 
 

/s/ JOHN A. MCKINLEY
 

John A. McKinley
 

Director
 

 
 

/s/ MARK B. TEMPLETON
 

Mark B. Templeton
 

Director
 

 

105
 

 
2011 Form 10-K
EXHIBIT INDEX
 



Exhibit
Number
 
Description

 
 
 

 
 
Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws

3.1
 
Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Equifax Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Equifax's Form 8-K filed May 14, 2009).

3.2
 
Amended and Restated Bylaws of Equifax Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Equifax's Form 8-K filed December 1, 2010).

 
 
 

 
 
Instruments Defining the Rights of Security Holders, Including Indentures

4.1
 
Amended and Restated Rights Agreement dated as of October 14, 2005, between Equifax Inc. and SunTrust Bank, as Rights Agent, which includes as Exhibit A the form of Rights Certificate and as Exhibit B the Summary of Rights (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Equifax's Form 8-K filed on October 18, 2005).

4.2
 
Indenture dated as of June 29, 1998, between Equifax Inc. and The First National Bank of Chicago, Trustee (the “1998 Indenture”)(under which Equifax's 6.9% Debentures due 2028 were issued) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Equifax's Form 10-K filed March 31, 1999).

4.3
 
First Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 28, 2007, between Equifax Inc. and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (under which Equifax's 6.30% Senior Notes due 2017 were issued), to the 1998 Indenture (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Equifax's Form 8-K filed June 29, 2007).

4.4
 
Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 28, 2007, between Equifax Inc. and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (under which Equifax's 7.00% Senior Notes due 2037 were issued), to the 1998 Indenture (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Equifax's Form 8-K filed June 29, 2007).

4.5
 
Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 9, 2009, between Equifax Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (under which Equifax’s 4.450% Senior Notes due 2014 were issued), to the 1998 Indenture (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Equifax's Form 8-K filed November 5, 2009).

4.6
 
Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of February 18, 2011, among Equifax Inc., Equifax Limited, Equifax Canada Inc., Equifax Luxembourg S.A.R.L., the Lenders named therein and Bank of America, N.A. as Administrative Agent.

4.7
 
Note Purchase Agreement dated as of May 25, 2006, among TALX Corporation and the Purchasers named therein (the “TALX Note Purchase Agreement”)(TALX Corporation Senior Guaranteed Notes due 2014) (including as Exhibit 1 the form of Senior Guaranteed Note due 2014) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Equifax's Form 10-Q filed August 1, 2007).

4.8
 
Amendment Agreement dated as of May 15, 2007, among Equifax Inc., TALX Corporation and the Purchasers named therein (including form of Equifax Inc. parent guaranty), to the TALX Note Purchase Agreement (TALX Corporation Senior Guaranteed Notes due 2014) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Equifax's Form 10-Q filed August 1, 2007).

 
 
 

 
 
Except as set forth in the preceding Exhibits 4.1 through 4.8, instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt securities of Equifax have been omitted where the total amount of securities authorized does not exceed 10% of the total assets of Equifax and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Equifax agrees to furnish to the SEC, upon request, a copy of such instruments with respect to issuances of long-term debt of Equifax and its subsidiaries.

 

106
 

 


 
 
Management Contracts and Compensatory Plans or Arrangements

10.1
 
Form of Director/Executive Officer Indemnification Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Equifax’s Form 8-K dated May 14, 2009).

10.2
 
Form of New Change in Control Agreement (Tier I or Tier II) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Equifax’s Form 8-K filed September 26, 2008).

10.3
 
Equifax Inc. 2008 Omnibus Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Equifax’s Form 10-Q filed July 29, 2008).

10.4
 
Equifax Inc. Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan and Form of Non-Employee Director Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to Equifax’s Form 10-K filed March 31, 1999).

10.5
 
Equifax Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to Equifax’s Form 10-K filed March 29, 2001).

10.6(a)
 
Supplemental Retirement Plan for Executives of Equifax Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Equifax’s Form 8-K filed November 15, 2004).

10.6(b)
**
Trust Agreement for Supplemental Retirement Plan for Executives of Equifax Inc. dated as of
    September 16, 2011, between Equifax Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.

10.7
 
Equifax Inc. Executive Life and Supplemental Retirement Benefit Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Equifax’s Form 10-K filed March 29, 2001).

10.8
 
Equifax Inc. Key Management Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2006 (incorporated by reference to Appendix A to Equifax’s definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A filed April 12, 2006).

10.9
 
Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement under the Equifax Inc. 2008 Omnibus Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Equifax’s Form 10-K filed February 26, 2009).

10.10
 
Form of Deferred Share Award Agreement (restricted stock units) under the Equifax Inc. 2008 Omnibus Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Equifax’s Form 10-K filed February 26, 2009).

10.11
 
Equifax Inc. 2008 Omnibus Incentive Plan (U.K. Sub-Plan for U.K. Participants) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to Equifax’s Form 10-K filed February 26, 2009).

10.12
 
Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement under the Equifax Inc. 2008 Omnibus Incentive Plan (U.K. approved option version) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to Equifax’s Form 10-K filed February 26, 2009).

10.13
 
Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement under the Equifax Inc. 2008 Omnibus Incentive Plan (U.K. unapproved option version) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to Equifax’s Form 10-K filed February 26, 2009).

10.14
 
Equifax Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended through December 31, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to Equifax’s Form 10-K filed February 26, 2009).

10.15
 
Equifax Inc. Director Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended through December 31, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to Equifax’s Form 10-K filed February 26, 2009).

10.16
 
Equifax Grantor Trust dated as of January 1, 2003, between Equifax Inc. and Wachovia Bank, N.A., Trustee, relating to supplemental deferred compensation and phantom stock benefits (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to Equifax’s Form 10-K filed March 28, 2003).

10.17
 
Equifax Inc. Director and Executive Stock Deferral Plan, as amended through December 31, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to Equifax’s Form 10-K filed February 26, 2009).

10.18
 
Form of Director Deferred Share Award Agreement, as amended through December 31, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to Equifax’s Form 10-K filed February 26, 2009).

10.19
 
Summary of Annual Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to Equifax’s Form 10-K filed on March 16, 2005).

10.20
 **
Summary of Non-Employee Director Compensation. 

10.21
 
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of September 23, 2008, between Equifax Inc. and Richard F. Smith (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Equifax’s Form 8-K filed September 26, 2008).

 

107
 

 


10.22
 
Deferred Share Award Agreement dated as of September 19, 2005, between Equifax Inc. and Richard F. Smith (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Equifax’s Form 10-Q filed November 7, 2005).

10.23
**
Revised Form of TSR Performance Share Award Agreement under the Equifax Inc. 2008 Omnibus
    Incentive Plan.

10.24
 
Form of Qualified Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement  under the Equifax Inc. 2008 Omnibus
    Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Equifax’s Form 8-K filed February 15, 2012).

10.25
 
Form of Employee Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement  under the Equifax Inc. 2008 Omnibus
    Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Equifax’s Form 8-K filed February 15, 2012).

 
 
 

 
 
Material Contracts

10.26
 
Agreement for Computerized Credit Reporting Services and Options to Purchase and Sell Assets dated as of August 1, 1988, among The Credit Bureau, Incorporated of Georgia, Equifax Inc., Computer Sciences Corporation, CSC Credit Services, Inc., Credit Bureau of Greater Cincinnati, Inc., Credit Bureau of Greater Kansas City, Inc., Johns Holding Company, CSC Credit Services of Minnesota, Inc. and CSC Accounts Management, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to Equifax’s Form 10-K filed March 30, 2000).

10.27
 
First through Third Amendments dated as of December 28, 1990, 1991 and September 27, 1991, respectively, to Agreement for Computerized Credit Reporting Services and Options to Purchase and Sell Assets (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to Equifax’s Form 10-K filed March 31, 1997).

10.28
 
Fourth Amendment dated as of December 31, 1992 to Agreement for Computerized Services and Options to Purchase and Sell Assets (incorporated by reference to pages 8 through 16 and Exhibit 4.1 to Amendment No. 1 to Form S-3, Registration Statement No. 33-62820 filed June 17, 1993).

10.29
 
Fifth Amendment dated as of September 7, 1993 to Agreement for Computerized Credit Reporting Services and Options to Purchase and Sell Assets (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to Equifax’s Form 10-K filed March 30, 2000).

10.30
 
Sixth Amendment dated as of 1994 to Agreement for Computerized Credit Reporting Services and Options to Purchase and Sell Assets (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.25 to Equifax’s Form 10-K filed March 30, 1995).

10.31
*
Agreement for Operations Support dated as of July 1, 2003, between International Business Machines Corporation and Equifax Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Equifax’s Form 10-Q/A filed April 29, 2004).

10.32
 
Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement dated May 22, 2007, between Equifax Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Equifax’s Form 8-K filed May 23, 2007).

10.33
 
Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement dated May 22, 2007, between Equifax Inc. and SunTrust Capital Markets Securities, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Equifax’s Form 8-K filed May 23, 2007).

 
 
 

 
 
Other Exhibits and Certifications

11.1
 
Calculation of earnings per share. (The calculation of earnings per share is in Part II, Item 8, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and is omitted in accordance with Section (b)(11) of Item 601 of the Notes to Regulation S-K).

 

108
 

 


14.1
**
Code of Ethics (The Equifax Business Ethics and Compliance Program).

21.1
**
Subsidiaries of Equifax Inc.

23.1
**
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

24.1
**
Powers of Attorney (included on signature page).

31.1
**
Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer.

31.2
**
Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer.

32.1
**
Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer.

32.2
**
Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer.

101.
INS
XBRL Instance Document.

101.
SCH
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.

101.
CAL
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase.

101.
LAB
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.

101.
PRE
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase.

101.
DEF
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase.

 
*  Document omits information pursuant
to a Request for Confidential Treatment under Rule 406 of the Securities Act of 1933 which has been granted by the SEC. Omitted
portions have been filed separately with the SEC.
 
** Filed herewith.
 

109
 

 
SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
2011
 


Column A 
Column B  
Column C  
Column D  
Column E 

  
   
Additions  
   
  

  
Balance at  
Charged to  
Charged to  
   
Balance at 

  
Beginning  
Costs and  
Other  
   
End of 

Description 
of Period  
Expenses  
Accounts  
Deductions  
Period 

  
(In millions) 

Reserves deducted in the balance sheet from the assets to which they apply: 
    
    
    
    
   

Trade accounts receivable 
$7.5  
$2.8  
$-  
$(4.4) 
$5.9 

Deferred income tax asset valuation allowance 
 87.2  
 9.6  
 (1.2) 
 (2.8) 
 92.8 

  
$94.7  
$12.4  
$(1.2) 
$(7.2) 
$98.7 

 
2010
 


Column A 
Column B  
Column C  
Column D  
Column E 

  
   
Additions  
   
  

  
Balance at  
Charged to  
Charged to  
   
Balance at 

  
Beginning  
Costs and  
Other  
   
End of 

Description 
of Period  
Expenses  
Accounts  
Deductions  
Period 

  
(In millions) 

Reserves deducted in the balance sheet from the assets to which they apply: 
    
    
    
    
   

Trade accounts receivable 
$15.1  
$(0.4) 
$-  
$(7.2) 
$7.5 

Deferred income tax asset valuation allowance 
 31.7  
 1.2  
 59.8  
 (5.5) 
 87.2 

  
$46.8  
$0.8  
$59.8  
$(12.7) 
$94.7 

 
2009
 


Column A 
Column B  
Column C  
Column D  
Column E 

  
   
Additions  
   
  

  
Balance at  
Charged to  
Charged to  
   
Balance at 

  
Beginning  
Costs and  
Other  
   
End of 

Description 
of Period  
Expenses  
Accounts  
Deductions  
Period 

  
(In millions) 

Reserves deducted in the balance sheet from the assets to which they apply: 
    
    
    
    
   

Trade accounts receivable 
$14.5  
$7.6  
$-  
$(7.0) 
$15.1 

Deferred income tax asset valuation allowance 
 37.8  
 2.0  
 6.8  
 (14.9) 
 31.7 

  
$52.3  
$9.6  
$6.8  
$(21.9) 
$46.8 

 

110

 




