
10-K
1
d266350d10k.htm
UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES INC--FORM 10-K


Universal Health Services Inc--Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549   
  FORM 10-K
    
(MARK ONE) 


x
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 
OR   


¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the transition period
from                     to                    
 Commission File No. 1-10765  UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC.  (Exact name of registrant as specified
in its charter)     
 






Delaware
 
23-2077891

 (State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
 
(I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)




UNIVERSAL CORPORATE CENTER
 
19406-0958

367 South Gulph Road
 
(Zip Code)

 P.O. Box 61558 King of Prussia, Pennsylvania
 


(Address of principal executive offices)
 

 Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (610) 768-3300 
   
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
 






 Title of each Class
 
 Name of each exchange on which registered

Class B Common Stock, $.01 par value
 
New York Stock Exchange
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
Class D Common Stock, $.01 par value  (Title of each Class)   
  Indicate by
check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes  x    No  ¨  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant
to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange
Act.    Yes  ¨    No  x 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes  x    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes  x    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.  x  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act (check one):   











Large accelerated filer  x
  
Accelerated filer  ¨
  
Non-accelerated filer  ¨
  
Smaller reporting company  ¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).    Yes  ¨    No  x 
The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates at June 30, 2011 was $4.61 billion. (For the purpose of this
calculation, it was assumed that Class A, Class C, and Class D Common Stock, which are not traded but are convertible share-for-share into Class B Common Stock, have the same market value as Class B Common Stock. Also, for purposes of this
calculation only, all directors, officers subject to Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and 10% stockholders are deemed to be affiliates.)  The number of shares of the registrant’s Class A Common Stock, $.01 par value, Class B Common Stock, $.01 par value, Class C Common Stock, $.01 par value, and Class D Common Stock, $.01 par
value, outstanding as of January 31, 2012, were 6,625,708, 89,408,941, 664,000 and 33,084, respectively.  DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:  Portions of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2011 (incorporated by reference under Part III).   
   


Table of Contents
UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. 
2011 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT  TABLE OF CONTENTS   










PART I
  




 Item 1
  
 Business
  
 
1
  

 Item 1A
  
 Risk Factors
  
 
15
  

 Item 1B
  
 Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
28
  

 Item 2
  
 Properties
  
 
28
  

 Item 3
  
 Legal Proceedings
  
 
34
  

 Item 4
  
 Mine Safety Disclosure 
  
 
36
  




PART II
  




 Item 5
  
 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

  
 
37
  

 Item 6
  
 Selected Financial Data
  
 
40
  

 Item 7
  
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
  
 
41
  

 Item 7A
  
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
  
 
80
  

 Item 8
  
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
82
  

 Item 9
  
 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure
  
 
82
  

 Item 9A
  
 Controls and Procedures
  
 
83
  

 Item 9B
  
 Other Information
  
 
83
  




PART III
  




 Item 10
  
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
84
  

 Item 11
  
 Executive Compensation
  
 
84
  

 Item 12
  
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters
  
 
84
  

 Item 13
  
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
84
  

 Item 14
  
 Principal Accountant Fees and Services
  
 
84
  




PART IV
  




 Item 15
  
 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 
  
 
85
  

 SIGNATURES 
  
 
90
  
 Exhibit Index  This Annual Report on Form 10-K is for the year ended December 31, 2011. This Annual Report modifies and supersedes documents filed prior to this Annual Report. Information that we file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) in the future will automatically update and supersede information contained in this Annual Report.  In this Annual Report, “we,” “us,” “our” and the “Company” refer to Universal Health Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries. UHS is a registered trademark of UHS of
Delaware, Inc., the management company for, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Universal Health Services, Inc. Universal Health Services, Inc. is a holding company and operates through its subsidiaries including its management company, UHS of
Delaware, Inc. All healthcare and management operations are conducted by subsidiaries of Universal Health Services, Inc. To the extent any reference to “UHS” or “UHS facilities” in this report including letters, narratives or
other forms contained herein relates to our healthcare or management operations it is referring to Universal Health Services, Inc.’s subsidiaries including UHS of Delaware, Inc. Further, the terms “we,” “us,” “our”
or the “Company” in such context similarly refer to the operations of Universal Health Services Inc.’s subsidiaries including UHS of Delaware, Inc. Any reference to employees or employment contained herein refers to employment with or
employees of the subsidiaries of Universal Health Services, Inc. including UHS of Delaware, Inc. 
  1 


Table of Contents
PART I 
 


ITEM 1.
Business  
Our principal business is owning and operating, through our subsidiaries, acute care hospitals, behavioral health centers, surgical
hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers and radiation oncology centers. As of February 24, 2012, we owned and/or operated 25 acute care hospitals and 198 behavioral health centers located in 36 states, Washington, D.C., Puerto Rico and the U.S.
Virgin Islands. As part of our ambulatory treatment centers division, we manage and/or own outright or in partnerships with physicians, 6 surgical hospitals and surgery and radiation oncology centers located in 4 states and Puerto Rico. 
In November, 2010, we acquired Psychiatric Solutions, Inc. (“PSI”). PSI was formerly the largest operator of freestanding
inpatient behavioral health care facilities operating a total of 105 inpatient and outpatient facilities in 32 states, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.  Net revenues from our acute care hospitals, surgical hospitals, surgery centers and radiation oncology centers accounted for 55% of our consolidated net revenues in 2011, 70% in 2010 and 74% in 2009. Net
revenues from our behavioral health care facilities accounted for 45% of our consolidated net revenues during 2011, 30% during 2010 and 25% during 2009. Approximately 1% of our consolidated net revenues in 2009 were recorded in connection with two
construction management contracts pursuant to the terms of which we built newly constructed acute care hospitals for an unrelated third party.  Services provided by our hospitals include general and specialty surgery, internal medicine, obstetrics, emergency room care, radiology, oncology, diagnostic care, coronary care, pediatric services,
pharmacy services and/or behavioral health services. We provide capital resources as well as a variety of management services to our facilities, including central purchasing, information services, finance and control systems, facilities planning,
physician recruitment services, administrative personnel management, marketing and public relations.  We are a Delaware
corporation that was organized in 1979. Our principal executive offices are located at Universal Corporate Center, 367 South Gulph Road, P.O. Box 61558, King of Prussia, PA 19406. Our telephone number is (610) 768-3300. 
Available Information  Our website is located at http://www.uhsinc.com. Copies of our annual, quarterly and current reports that we file with the SEC, and any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge on our
website. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report. Our Board of Directors’ committee charters (Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating & Governance Committee), Code of Business
Conduct and Corporate Standards applicable to all employees, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, Corporate Governance Guidelines and our Healthcare Code of Conduct, Corporate Compliance Manual and Compliance Policies and Procedures are
available free of charge on our website. Copies of such reports and charters are available in print to any stockholder who makes a request. Such requests should be made to our Secretary at our King of Prussia, PA corporate headquarters. We intend to
satisfy the disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K relating to amendments to or waivers of any provision of our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers by promptly posting this information on our website. 
In accordance with Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual, we submitted our CEO’s
certification to the New York Stock Exchange in 2011. Additionally, contained in Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are our CEO’s and CFO’s certifications regarding the quality of our public disclosures under
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
  1 


Table of Contents
Our Mission 
Our mission and objective is to provide superior healthcare services that patients recommend to families and friends, physicians prefer
for their patients, purchasers select for their clients, employees are proud of, and investors seek for long-term results. To achieve this, we have a commitment to:   


 
•
 
 service excellence   


 
•
 
 continuous improvement in measurable ways   


 
•
 
 employee development   


 
•
 
 ethical and fair treatment   


 
•
 
 teamwork   


 
•
 
 compassion   


 
•
 
 innovation in service delivery  Business Strategy  We believe community-based hospitals will remain
the focal point of the healthcare delivery network and we are committed to a philosophy of self-determination for both the company and our hospitals.  Acquisition of Additional Hospitals. We selectively seek opportunities to expand our base of operations by acquiring, constructing or leasing additional hospital facilities. We are committed
to a program of rational growth around our core businesses, while retaining the missions of the hospitals we manage and the communities we serve. Such expansion may provide us with access to new markets and new healthcare delivery capabilities. We
also continue to examine our facilities and consider divestiture of those facilities that we believe do not have the potential to contribute to our growth or operating strategy. 
Improvement of Operations of Existing Hospitals and Services. We also seek to increase the operating revenues and
profitability of owned hospitals by the introduction of new services, improvement of existing services, physician recruitment and the application of financial and operational controls. 
We are involved in continual development activities for the benefit of our existing facilities. Applications to state health planning
agencies to add new services in existing hospitals are currently on file in states which require certificates of need, or CONs. Although we expect that some of these applications will result in the addition of new facilities or services to our
operations, no assurances can be made for ultimate success by us in these efforts.  Quality and Efficiency of
Services. Pressures to contain healthcare costs and technological developments allowing more procedures to be performed on an outpatient basis have led payors to demand a shift to ambulatory or outpatient care wherever possible. We are
responding to this trend by emphasizing the expansion of outpatient services. In addition, in response to cost containment pressures, we continue to implement programs at our facilities designed to improve financial performance and efficiency while
continuing to provide quality care, including more efficient use of professional and paraprofessional staff, monitoring and adjusting staffing levels and equipment usage, improving patient management and reporting procedures and implementing more
efficient billing and collection procedures. In addition, we will continue to emphasize innovation in our response to the rapid changes in regulatory trends and market conditions while fulfilling our commitment to patients, physicians, employees,
communities and our stockholders.  In addition, our aggressive recruiting of highly qualified physicians and developing
provider networks help to establish our facilities as an important source of quality healthcare in their respective communities. 
  2 


Table of Contents
Acquisition and Divestiture Activity: 
Acquisitions:  During 2011, we paid approximately $29 million, excluding the assumption of $17 million of third-party debt, to: (i) acquire the real property of administrative/office buildings located in
Pennsylvania, Tennessee and Washington, D.C.; (ii) fund a deposit in connection with execution of a definitive agreement, which is subject to regulatory approvals and closing conditions, to acquire the Knapp Medical Center, including a 226-bed
acute care hospital, a surgery center, physician practices and other related assets located in Weslaco, Texas, and; (iii) purchase a cardiology practice in Texas.  Divestitures:  During 2011 and January of 2012, we received
aggregate net cash proceeds of approximately $118 million for the sale of:   


 
•
 
 Hospital San Juan Capestrano, a 108-bed behavioral health facility located in Puerto Rico. The sale of this facility, which was completed in January,
2012, was made pursuant to our agreement with the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) in connection with our acquisition of PSI;   


 
•
 
 Montevista Hospital (101-bed) and Red Rock Hospital (21-bed) located in Las Vegas, Nevada. The sales of these behavioral health facilities, which were
completed during the fourth quarter of 2011, were made pursuant to our agreement with the FTC in connection with our acquisition of PSI;   


 
•
 
 Meadowood Behavioral Health System, a 58-bed behavioral health facility located in New Castle, Delaware. The sale of this facility, which was completed
during the third quarter of 2011, was made pursuant to our agreement with the FTC in connection with our acquisition of PSI, and;   


 
•
 
 other dispositions during 2011 including the real property of a closed acute care hospital and the sale of our majority ownership interest in a
radiation oncology center located in Nevada.  The aggregate net pre-tax gain on the above-mentioned
divestitures (excluding the Hospital San Juan Capestrano which was divested in January, 2012) did not have a material impact on our 2011 consolidated results of operations. The pre-tax gain on the divestiture of the Hospital San Juan Capestrano,
which will not have a material impact on our 2012 consolidated results of operations, will be reflected in our consolidated results of operations during the first quarter of 2012. The assets and liabilities for the Hospital San Juan Capestrano are
reflected as “held for sale” on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2011.  The PSI
Acquisition  In November, 2010, we acquired Psychiatric Solutions, Inc. for a total purchase price of $3.04 billion
consisting of $1.96 billion in cash plus the assumption of approximately $1.08 billion of PSI’s debt, the majority of which has since been refinanced. PSI was formerly the largest operator of freestanding inpatient behavioral health care
facilities operating a total of 105 inpatient and outpatient facilities in 32 states, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. 
The facilities acquired by us, with an aggregate of approximately 11,500 licensed beds at the time of acqusition, offer an extensive
continuum of behavioral health programs to critically ill children, adolescents and adults. We also acquired management contracts to manage freestanding behavioral health care inpatient facilities for government agencies and behavioral health units
within certain medical/surgical hospitals owned by third-parties.  Combined with our previously existing behavioral health
care operations located throughout the U.S., we believe this acquisition makes us the largest facility-based provider in the behavioral health care sector. Our increased operating scale may allow us to operate more efficiently and enhance our
presence within certain 
  3 


Table of Contents

markets. We also achieved planned operating expense reductions during 2011 primarily through the elimination of PSI-related corporate overhead. This acquisition also helps diminish our geographic
concentration in certain markets thereby diversifying our overall portfolio and reducing our reliance on one hospital or a cluster of hospitals in a certain market.  Hospital Utilization  We believe that the most important factors
relating to the overall utilization of a hospital include the quality and market position of the hospital and the number, quality and specialties of physicians providing patient care within the facility. Generally, we believe that the ability of a
hospital to meet the health care needs of its community is determined by its breadth of services, level of technology, emphasis on quality of care and convenience for patients and physicians. Other factors that affect utilization include general and
local economic conditions, market penetration of managed care programs, the degree of outpatient use, the availability of reimbursement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, and demographic changes such as the growth in local populations.
Utilization across the industry also is being affected by improvements in clinical practice, medical technology and pharmacology. Current industry trends in utilization and occupancy have been significantly affected by changes in reimbursement
policies of third party payors. We are also unable to predict the extent to which these industry trends will continue or accelerate. In addition, hospital operations are subject to certain seasonal fluctuations, such as higher patient volumes and
net patient service revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year.  The following table sets forth certain operating
statistics for hospitals operated by us for the years indicated. Accordingly, information related to hospitals acquired during the five-year period has been included from the respective dates of acquisition, and information related to hospitals
divested during the five year period has been included up to the respective dates of divestiture. Information related to the behavioral health care facilities acquired by us in connection with our acquisition of PSI is included for the period of
November 16, 2010 through December 31, 2011, excluding the 3 former PSI facilities that are reflected as discontinued operations, as discussed herein. The licensed and available beds for those facilities are included in 2010 on a weighted
average basis for the period owned.   
























 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Average Licensed Beds:
  



 



 



 



 




 Acute Care Hospitals (1)
  
 
5,726
  
 
 
5,689
  
 
 
5,484
  
 
 
6,101
  
 
 
5,962
  

 Behavioral Health Centers
  
 
19,280
  
 
 
9,427
  
 
 
7,921
  
 
 
7,658
  
 
 
7,348
  

 Average Available Beds (2):
  



 



 



 



 




 Acute Care Hospitals (1)
  
 
5,424
  
 
 
5,383
  
 
 
5,128
  
 
 
5,249
  
 
 
5,110
  

 Behavioral Health Centers
  
 
19,262
  
 
 
9,409
  
 
 
7,901
  
 
 
7,629
  
 
 
7,315
  

 Admissions:
  



 



 



 



 




 Acute Care Hospitals (1)
  
 
258,754
  
 
 
264,470
  
 
 
265,244
  
 
 
268,207
  
 
 
262,147
  

 Behavioral Health Centers
  
 
352,208
  
 
 
166,434
  
 
 
136,639
  
 
 
129,553
  
 
 
119,730
  

 Average Length of Stay (Days):
  



 



 



 



 




 Acute Care Hospitals (1)
  
 
4.4
  
 
 
4.4
  
 
 
4.4
  
 
 
4.5
  
 
 
4.5
  

 Behavioral Health Centers
  
 
14.6
  
 
 
15.1
  
 
 
15.4
  
 
 
16.1
  
 
 
16.8
  

 Patient Days (3):
  



 



 



 



 




 Acute Care Hospitals (1)
  
 
1,151,183
  
 
 
1,155,984
  
 
 
1,166,704
  
 
 
1,200,672
  
 
 
1,172,130
  

 Behavioral Health Centers
  
 
5,157,454
  
 
 
2,507,046
  
 
 
2,105,625
  
 
 
2,085,114
  
 
 
2,007,119
  

 Occupancy Rate-Licensed Beds (4):
  



 



 



 



 




 Acute Care Hospitals (1)
  
 
55
% 
 
 
56
% 
 
 
58
% 
 
 
54
% 
 
 
54
% 

 Behavioral Health Centers
  
 
73
% 
 
 
73
% 
 
 
73
% 
 
 
74
% 
 
 
75
% 

 Occupancy Rate-Available Beds (4):
  



 



 



 



 




 Acute Care Hospitals (1)
  
 
58
% 
 
 
59
% 
 
 
62
% 
 
 
62
% 
 
 
63
% 

 Behavioral Health Centers
  
 
73
% 
 
 
73
% 
 
 
73
% 
 
 
75
% 
 
 
75
% 
  


(1)
Central Montgomery Medical Center located in Pennsylvania was divested during the fourth quarter of 2008. The statistical information for this facility is included in
the above information through the divestiture date. 
  4 


Table of Contents


(2)
“Average Available Beds” is the number of beds which are actually in service at any given time for immediate patient use with the necessary equipment and
staff available for patient care. A hospital may have appropriate licenses for more beds than are in service for a number of reasons, including lack of demand, incomplete construction, and anticipation of future needs 


(3)
“Patient Days” is the sum of all patients for the number of days that hospital care is provided to each patient. 


(4)
“Occupancy Rate” is calculated by dividing average patient days (total patient days divided by the total number of days in the period) by the number of
average beds, either available or licensed.  Sources of Revenue 
We receive payments for services rendered from private insurers, including managed care plans, the federal government under the Medicare
program, state governments under their respective Medicaid programs and directly from patients. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Sources of Revenue for additional
disclosure. Other information related to our revenues, income and other operating information for each reporting segment of our business is provided in Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, Segment Reporting.  
Regulation and Other Factors  Overview: The healthcare industry is subject to numerous laws, regulations and rules including, among others, those related to government healthcare participation requirements, various licensure
and accreditations, reimbursement for patient services, health information privacy and security rules, and Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse provisions (including, but not limited to, federal statutes and regulations prohibiting kickbacks and
other illegal inducements to potential referral sources, false claims submitted to federal health care programs and self-referrals by physicians). Providers that are found to have violated any of these laws and regulations may be excluded from
participating in government healthcare programs, subjected to significant fines or penalties and/or required to repay amounts received from the government for previously billed patient services. Although we believe our policies, procedures and
practices comply with governmental regulations, no assurance can be given that we will not be subjected to additional governmental inquiries or actions, or that we would not be faced with sanctions, fines or penalties if so subjected. Even if we
were to ultimately prevail, a significant governmental inquiry or action under one of the above laws, regulations or rules could have a material adverse impact on us.  Licensing, Certification and Accreditation: All of our hospitals are subject to compliance with various federal, state and local statutes and regulations and receive periodic inspection by
state licensing agencies to review standards of medical care, equipment and cleanliness. Our hospitals must also comply with the conditions of participation and licensing requirements of federal, state and local health agencies, as well as the
requirements of municipal building codes, health codes and local fire departments. Various other licenses and permits are also required in order to dispense narcotics, operate pharmacies, handle radioactive materials and operate certain equipment.
 All of our eligible hospitals have been accredited by the Joint Commission. All of our acute care hospitals and most of our
behavioral health centers are certified as providers of Medicare and Medicaid services by the appropriate governmental authorities.  If any of our facilities were to lose its Joint Commission accreditation or otherwise lose its certification under the Medicare and Medicaid programs, the facility may be unable to receive reimbursement
from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and other payors. We believe our facilities are in substantial compliance with current applicable federal, state, local and independent review body regulations and standards. The requirements for
licensure, certification and accreditation are subject to change and, in order to remain qualified, it may become necessary for us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel and services in the future, which could have a material
adverse impact on operations. 
  5 


Table of Contents
Certificates of Need: Many of the states in which we operate hospitals have
enacted certificates of need (“CON”) laws as a condition prior to hospital capital expenditures, construction, expansion, modernization or initiation of major new services. Failure to obtain necessary state approval can result in our
inability to complete an acquisition, expansion or replacement, the imposition of civil or, in some cases, criminal sanctions, the inability to receive Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement or the revocation of a facility’s license, which could
harm our business. In addition, significant CON reforms have been proposed in a number of states that would increase the capital spending thresholds and provide exemptions of various services from review requirements. In the past, we have not
experienced any material adverse effects from those requirements, but we cannot predict the impact of these changes upon our operations.  Conversion Legislation: Many states have enacted or are considering enacting laws affecting the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. These laws generally
require prior approval from the attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. In addition, attorneys general in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise discretionary authority over these transactions. Although
the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction in which a not-for-profit entity sells a health care facility to a for-profit
entity. The adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation and the increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions may limit our ability to grow through acquisitions of not-for-profit hospitals. 
Utilization Review: Federal regulations require that admissions and utilization of facilities by Medicare and Medicaid
patients must be reviewed in order to ensure efficient utilization of facilities and services. The law and regulations require Peer Review Organizations (“PROs”) to review the appropriateness of Medicare and Medicaid patient admissions and
discharges, the quality of care provided, the validity of diagnosis related group (“DRG”) classifications and the appropriateness of cases of extraordinary length of stay. PROs may deny payment for services provided, assess fines and also
have the authority to recommend to the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) that a provider that is in substantial non-compliance with the standards of the PRO be excluded from participating in the Medicare program. We have
contracted with PROs in each state where we do business to perform the required reviews.  Audits: Most hospitals
are subject to federal audits to validate the accuracy of Medicare and Medicaid program submitted claims. If these audits identify overpayments, we could be required to pay a substantial rebate of prior years’ payments subject to various
administrative appeal rights. The federal government contracts with third-party “recovery audit contractors” (“RACs”) and “Medicaid integrity contractors” (“MICs”), on a contingent fee basis, to audit the
propriety of payments to Medicare and Medicaid providers. Permanent RAC audits were created by Section 302 of the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 and required the secretary to expand the program to all 50 states by no later than 2010.
Similarly, Medicare zone program integrity contractors (“ZPICs”) target claims for potential fraud and abuse. Additionally, Medicare administrative contractors (“MACs”) must ensure they pay the right amount for covered and
correctly coded services rendered to eligible beneficiaries by legitimate providers. We have undergone claims audits related to our receipt of federal healthcare payments during the last three years, the results of which have not required material
adjustments to our consolidated results of operations. However, potential liability from future federal or state audits could ultimately exceed established reserves, and any excess could potentially be substantial. Further, Medicare and
Medicaid regulations also provide for withholding Medicare and Medicaid overpayments in certain circumstances, which could adversely affect our cash flow.  Self-Referral and Anti-Kickback Legislation  The Stark
Law: The Social Security Act includes a provision commonly known as the “Stark Law.” This law prohibits physicians from referring Medicare and Medicaid patients to entities with which they or any of their immediate family members
have a financial relationship, unless an exception is met. These types of referrals are known as “self-referrals.” Sanctions for violating the Stark Law include civil penalties up to $15,000

  6 


Table of Contents

for each violation, up to $100,000 for sham arrangements, up to $10,000 for each day an entity fails to report required information and exclusion from the federal health care programs. There are
a number of exceptions to the self-referral prohibition, including an exception for a physician’s ownership interest in an entire hospital as opposed to an ownership interest in a hospital department unit, service or subpart. However, federal
laws and regulations now limit the ability of hospitals relying on this exception to expand aggregate physician ownership interest or to expand certain hospital facilities. There are also exceptions for many of the customary financial arrangements
between physicians and providers, including employment contracts, leases and recruitment agreements that adhere to certain enumerated requirements.  We monitor all aspects of our business and have developed a comprehensive ethics and compliance program that is designed to meet or exceed applicable federal guidelines and industry standards.
Nonetheless, because the law in this area is complex and constantly evolving, there can be no assurance that federal regulatory authorities will not determine that any of our arrangements with physicians violate the Stark Law. 
Anti-kickback Statute: A provision of the Social Security Act known as the “anti-kickback statute” prohibits
healthcare providers and others from directly or indirectly soliciting, receiving, offering or paying money or other remuneration to other individuals and entities in return for using, referring, ordering, recommending or arranging for such
referrals or orders of services or other items covered by a federal or state health care program. However, recent changes to the anti-kickback statute have reduced the intent required for violation; one is no longer required to “have actual
knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation of” the anti-kickback statute in order to be found guilty of violating such law.  The anti-kickback statute contains certain exceptions, and the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (“OIG”) has issued regulations that provide for
“safe harbors,” from the federal anti-kickback statute for various activities. These activities, which must meet certain requirements, include (but are not limited to) the following: investment interests, space rental, equipment rental,
practitioner recruitment, personnel services and management contracts, sale of practice, referral services, warranties, discounts, employees, group purchasing organizations, waiver of beneficiary coinsurance and deductible amounts, managed care
arrangements, obstetrical malpractice insurance subsidies, investments in group practices, freestanding surgery centers, donation of technology for electronic health records and referral agreements for specialty services. The fact that conduct or a
business arrangement does not fall within a safe harbor or exception does not automatically render the conduct or business arrangement illegal under the anti-kickback statute. However, such conduct and business arrangements may lead to increased
scrutiny by government enforcement authorities.  Although we believe that our arrangements with physicians and other referral
sources have been structured to comply with current law and available interpretations, there can be no assurance that all arrangements comply with an available safe harbor or that regulatory authorities enforcing these laws will determine these
financial arrangements do not violate the anti-kickback statute or other applicable laws. Violations of the anti-kickback statute may be punished by a criminal fine of up to $25,000 for each violation or imprisonment, however, under 18 U.S.C.
Section 3571, this fine may be increased to $250,000 for individuals and $500,000 for organizations. Civil money penalties may include fines of up to $50,000 per violation and damages of up to three times the total amount of the
remuneration and/or exclusion from participation in Medicare and Medicaid.  Similar State Laws: Many of the states
in which we operate have adopted laws that prohibit payments to physicians in exchange for referrals similar to the anti-kickback statute and the Stark Law, some of which apply regardless of the source of payment for care. These statutes typically
provide criminal and civil penalties as well as loss of licensure. In many instances, the state statutes provide that any arrangement falling in a federal safe harbor will be immune from scrutiny under the state statutes. However, in most cases,
little precedent exists for the interpretation or enforcement of these state laws.  These laws and regulations are extremely
complex and, in many cases, we don’t have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. It is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to
allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require 
  7 


Table of Contents

us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. A determination that we have violated one or more of these laws, or the
public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of one or more of these laws (see “Legal Proceedings”), could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and our
business reputation could suffer significantly. In addition, we cannot predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or what their impact on us may
be.  If we are deemed to have failed to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the Stark Law or other applicable laws and
regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the Medicare,
Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. The imposition of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 
Federal False Claims Act and Similar State Regulations: A current trend affecting the health care industry is the increased
use of the federal False Claims Act, and, in particular, actions being brought by individuals on the government’s behalf under the False Claims Act’s qui tam, or whistleblower, provisions. Whistleblower provisions allow private individuals
to bring actions on behalf of the government by alleging that the defendant has defrauded the Federal government.  When a
defendant is determined by a court of law to have violated the False Claims Act, the defendant may be liable for up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $5,500 to $11,000 for each
separate false claim. There are many potential bases for liability under the False Claims Act. Liability often arises when an entity knowingly submits a false claim for reimbursement to the federal government. The Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act
of 2009 (“FERA”) has expanded the number of actions for which liability may attach under the False Claims Act, eliminating requirements that false claims be presented to federal officials or directly involve federal funds. FERA also
clarifies that a false claim violation occurs upon the knowing retention, as well as the receipt, of overpayments. In addition, recent changes to the anti-kickback statute have made violations of that law punishable under the civil False Claims Act.
Further, a number of states have adopted their own false claims provisions as well as their own whistleblower provisions whereby a private party may file a civil lawsuit on behalf of the state in state court. 
Other Fraud and Abuse Provisions: The Social Security Act also imposes criminal and civil penalties for submitting false
claims to Medicare and Medicaid. False claims include, but are not limited to, billing for services not rendered, billing for services without prescribed documentation, misrepresenting actual services rendered in order to obtain higher reimbursement
and cost report fraud. Like the anti-kickback statute, these provisions are very broad.  Further, the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) broadened the scope of the fraud and abuse laws by adding several criminal provisions for health care fraud offenses that apply to all health benefit programs, whether or not payments
under such programs are paid pursuant to federal programs. HIPAA also introduced enforcement mechanisms to prevent fraud and abuse in Medicare. There are civil penalties for prohibited conduct, including, but not limited to billing for medically
unnecessary products or services.  HIPAA Administrative Simplification and Privacy Requirements: The
administrative simplification provisions of HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH”), require the use of uniform electronic data transmission standards for health care claims
and payment transactions submitted or received electronically. These provisions are intended to encourage electronic commerce in the health care industry. HIPAA also established federal rules protecting the privacy and security of personal health
information. The privacy and security regulations address the use and disclosure of individual health care information and the rights of patients to understand and control how such information is used and disclosed. Violations of HIPAA can result in
both criminal and civil fines and penalties. 
  8 


Table of Contents
Compliance with the electronic data transmission standards became mandatory in October 2003.
However, during the following year, HHS agreed to allow providers and other electronic billers to continue to submit pre-HIPAA format electronic claims for periods after October 16, 2003, provided they can show good faith efforts to become
HIPAA compliant. Since this exception expired, we believe that we have been in compliance with the electronic data transmission standards.  We were required to comply with the privacy requirements of HIPAA by April 14, 2003. We believe that we were in material compliance with the privacy regulations by that date and remain so, as we
continue to develop training and revise procedures to address ongoing compliance. The HIPAA security regulations require health care providers to implement administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect the confidentiality, integrity
and availability of patient information. HITECH has since strengthened certain HIPAA rules regarding the use and disclosure of protected health information, extended certain HIPAA provisions to business associates, and created new security breach
notification requirements. HITECH has also extended the ability to impose civil money penalties on providers not knowing that a HIPAA violation has occurred. We were required to comply with the security regulations by April 20, 2005 and believe
that we have been in substantial compliance with HIPAA and HITECH requirements to date.  Red Flags Rule: In addition,
the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) Red Flags Rule requires financial institutions and businesses maintaining accounts to address the risk of identity theft. The Red Flag Program Clarification Act of 2010, signed on December 18,
2010, appears to exclude certain healthcare providers from the Red Flags Rule, but permits the FTC or relevant agencies to designate additional creditors subject to the Red Flags Rule through future rulemaking if the agencies determine that the
person in question maintains accounts subject to foreseeable risk of identity theft. Compliance with any such future rulemaking may require additional expenditures in the future. 
Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005: On July 29, 2005, the Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005
was enacted, which has the goal of reducing medical errors and increasing patient safety. This legislation establishes a confidential reporting structure in which providers can voluntarily report “Patient Safety Work Product”
(“PSWP”) to “Patient Safety Organizations” (“PSOs”). Under the system, PSWP is made privileged, confidential and legally protected from disclosure. PSWP does not include medical, discharge or billing records or any
other original patient or provider records but does include information gathered specifically in connection with the reporting of medical errors and improving patient safety. This legislation does not preempt state or federal mandatory disclosure
laws concerning information that does not constitute PSWP. PSOs are certified by the Secretary of the HHS for three-year periods and analyze PSWP, provide feedback to providers and may report non-identifiable PSWP to a database. In addition, PSOs
are expected to generate patient safety improvement strategies.  Environmental Regulations: Our healthcare
operations generate medical waste that must be disposed of in compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws, rules and regulations. Infectious waste generators, including hospitals, face substantial penalties for improper disposal of
medical waste, including civil penalties of up to $25,000 per day of noncompliance, criminal penalties of up to $50,000 per day, imprisonment, and remedial costs. In addition, our operations, as well as our purchases and sales of facilities are
subject to various other environmental laws, rules and regulations. We believe that our disposal of such wastes is in material compliance with all state and federal laws.  Corporate Practice of Medicine: Several states, including Florida, Nevada, California and Texas, have laws and/or regulations that prohibit corporations and other entities from employing
physicians and practicing medicine for a profit or that prohibit certain direct and indirect payments or fee-splitting arrangements between health care providers that are designed to induce or encourage the referral of patients to, or the
recommendation of, particular providers for medical products and services. Possible sanctions for violation of these restrictions include loss of license and civil and criminal penalties. In addition, agreements between the corporation and the
physician may be considered void and unenforceable. These statutes and/or regulations vary from state to state, 
  9 


Table of Contents

are often vague and have seldom been interpreted by the courts or regulatory agencies. We do not expect these state corporate practice of medicine proscriptions to significantly affect our
operations. Many states have laws and regulations which prohibit payments for referral of patients and fee-splitting with physicians. We do not make any such payments or have any such arrangements. 
EMTALA: All of our hospitals are subject to the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act (“EMTALA”). This
federal law generally requires hospitals that are certified providers under Medicare to conduct a medical screening examination of every person who visits the hospital’s emergency room for treatment and, if the patient is suffering from a
medical emergency, to either stabilize the patient’s condition or transfer the patient to a facility that can better handle the condition. Our obligation to screen and stabilize emergency medical conditions exists regardless of a patient’s
ability to pay for treatment. There are severe penalties under EMTALA if a hospital fails to screen or appropriately stabilize or transfer a patient or if the hospital delays appropriate treatment in order to first inquire about the patient’s
ability to pay. Penalties for violations of EMTALA include civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare program. In addition to any liabilities that a hospital may incur under EMTALA, an injured patient, the
patient’s family or a medical facility that suffers a financial loss as a direct result of another hospital’s violation of the law can bring a civil suit against the hospital unrelated to the rights granted under that statute. 
The federal government broadly interprets EMTALA to cover situations in which patients do not actually present to a hospital’s
emergency room, but present for emergency examination or treatment to the hospital’s campus, generally, or to a hospital-based clinic that treats emergency medical conditions or are transported in a hospital-owned ambulance, subject to certain
exceptions. EMTALA does not generally apply to patients admitted for inpatient services; however, CMS has recently sought industry comments on the potential applicability of EMTALA to hospital inpatients and the responsibilities of hospitals with
specialized capabilities, respectively. The government also has expressed its intent to investigate and enforce EMTALA violations actively in the future. We believe that we operate in substantial compliance with EMTALA. 
Health Care Industry Investigations: We are subject to claims and suits in the ordinary course of business, including those
arising from care and treatment afforded by our hospitals and are party to various government investigations and litigation. Please see Item 3. Legal Proceedings included herein for additional disclosure. In addition, currently, and from
time to time, some of our facilities are subjected to inquiries and/or actions and receive notices of potential non-compliance of laws and regulations from various federal and state agencies. Providers that are found to have violated these laws and
regulations may be excluded from participating in government healthcare programs, subjected to potential licensure, certification, and/or accreditation revocation, subjected to fines or penalties or required to repay amounts received from the
government for previously billed patient services.  We monitor all aspects of our business and have developed a comprehensive
ethics and compliance program that is designed to meet or exceed applicable federal guidelines and industry standards. Because the law in this area is complex and constantly evolving, governmental investigation or litigation may result in
interpretations that are inconsistent with industry practices, including ours. Although we believe our policies, procedures and practices comply with governmental regulations, no assurance can be given that we will not be subjected to inquiries or
actions, or that we will not be faced with sanctions, fines or penalties in connection with the investigations. Even if we were to ultimately prevail, the government’s inquiry and/or action in connection with these matters could have a material
adverse effect on our future operating results.  Our substantial Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental billings may result
in heightened scrutiny of our operations. It is possible that governmental entities could initiate additional investigations or litigation in the future and that such matters could result in significant penalties as well as adverse publicity. It is
also possible that our executives and/or managers could be included as targets or witnesses in governmental investigations or litigation and/or named as defendants in private litigation. 
  10 


Table of Contents
Revenue Rulings 98-15 and 2004-51: In March 1998 and May 2004, the IRS
issued guidance regarding the tax consequences of joint ventures between for-profit and not-for-profit hospitals. As a result of the tax rulings, the IRS has proposed, and may in the future propose, to revoke the tax-exempt or public charity status
of certain not-for-profit entities which participate in such joint ventures or to treat joint venture income as unrelated business taxable income to them. The tax rulings have limited development of joint ventures and any adverse determination by
the IRS or the courts regarding the tax-exempt or public charity status of a not-for-profit partner or the characterization of joint venture income as unrelated business taxable income could further limit joint venture development with
not-for-profit hospitals, and/or require the restructuring of certain existing joint ventures with not-for-profits.  State
Rate Review: Some states where we operate hospitals have adopted legislation mandating rate or budget review for hospitals or have adopted taxes on hospital revenues, assessments or licensure fees to fund indigent health care within the
state. In the aggregate, state rate reviews and indigent tax provisions have not materially, adversely affected our results of operations.  Medical Malpractice Tort Law Reform: Medical malpractice tort law has historically been maintained at the state level. All states have laws governing medical liability lawsuits. Over half of the
states have limits on damages awards. Almost all states have eliminated joint and several liability in malpractice lawsuits, and many states have established limits on attorney fees. Recently, many states had bills introduced in their legislative
sessions to address medical malpractice tort reform. Proposed solutions include enacting limits on non-economic damages, malpractice insurance reform, and gathering lawsuit claims data from malpractice insurance companies and the courts for the
purpose of assessing the connection between malpractice settlements and premium rates. Reform legislation has also been proposed, but not adopted, at the federal level that could preempt additional state legislation in this area. 
Compliance Program: Our company-wide compliance program has been in place since 1998. Currently, the program’s elements
include a Code of Conduct, risk area specific policies and procedures, employee education and training, an internal system for reporting concerns, auditing and monitoring programs, and a means for enforcing the program’s policies. 
Since its initial adoption, the compliance program continues to be expanded and developed to meet the industry’s expectations and
our needs. Specific written policies, procedures, training and educational materials and programs, as well as auditing and monitoring activities have been prepared and implemented to address the functional and operational aspects of our business.
Specific areas identified through regulatory interpretation and enforcement activities have also been addressed in our program. Claims preparation and submission, including coding, billing, and cost reports, comprise the bulk of these areas.
Financial arrangements with physicians and other referral sources, including compliance with anti-kickback and Stark laws and emergency department treatment and transfer requirements are also the focus of policy and training, standardized
documentation requirements, and review and audit.  Medical Staff and Employees 
Our facilities had approximately 65,400 employees on December 31, 2011, of whom approximately 46,500 were employed full-time. Our
hospitals are staffed by licensed physicians who have been admitted to the medical staff of individual hospitals. Typically, physicians are not employees of our hospitals and in a number of our markets may have admitting privileges at other
hospitals in addition to ours. Within our acute care division, approximately 100 physicians are employed either directly by certain of our facilities or affiliated by group practices structured as 501A corporations. Members of the medical staffs of
our hospitals also serve on the medical staffs of hospitals not owned by us and may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. In addition, we employ approximately 350 psychiatrists within our behavioral health division. Each of our
hospitals are managed on a day-to-day basis by a managing director employed by us. In addition, a Board of Governors, including members of the hospital’s medical staff, governs the medical, professional and ethical practices at each hospital.

  11 


Table of Contents
Approximately 2,100 of our employees at seven of our hospitals are unionized. At Valley
Hospital Medical Center, unionized employees belong to the Culinary Workers and Bartenders Union, the International Union of Operating Engineers and the Service Employees International Union (“SEIU”). Nurses and technicians at Desert
Springs Hospital are represented by the SEIU. Registered nurses at Auburn Regional Medical Center located in Washington are represented by the United Staff Nurses Union, the technical employees are represented by the United Food and Commercial
Workers, and the service employees are represented by the SEIU. At The George Washington University Hospital, unionized employees are represented by the SEIU or the Hospital Police Association. Registered Nurses, Licensed Practical Nurses, certain
technicians and therapists, pharmacy assistants, and some clerical employees at HRI Hospital in Boston are represented by the SEIU. At Brooke Glen Behavioral Hospital, unionized employees are represented by the Teamsters and the Northwestern Nurses
Association/Pennsylvania Association of Staff Nurses and Allied Professionals. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory.  Competition  The health care industry is highly competitive. In
recent years, competition among healthcare providers for patients has intensified in the United States due to, among other things, regulatory and technological changes, increasing use of managed care payment systems, cost containment pressures and a
shift toward outpatient treatment. In all of the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. In addition, some of our competitors include hospitals that are
owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit corporations and may be supported by endowments and charitable contributions and exempt from property, sale and income taxes. Such exemptions and support are not available to us.
 In some markets, certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources, be better equipped and offer a broader
range of services than us. Certain hospitals that are located in the areas served by our facilities are specialty or large hospitals that provide medical, surgical and behavioral health services, facilities and equipment that are not available at
our hospitals. The increase in outpatient treatment and diagnostic facilities, outpatient surgical centers and freestanding ambulatory surgical also increases competition for us. 
The number and quality of the physicians on a hospital’s staff are important factors in determining a hospital’s success and
competitive advantage. Typically, physicians are responsible for making hospital admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment. We believe that physicians refer patients to a hospital primarily on the basis of the
patient’s needs, the quality of other physicians on the medical staff, the location of the hospital and the breadth and scope of services offered at the hospital’s facilities. We strive to retain and attract qualified doctors by
maintaining high ethical and professional standards and providing adequate support personnel, technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians. 
In addition, we depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and
lab technicians and other health care professionals. We compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. Our acute care and behavioral health care facilities are
experiencing the effects of a shortage of skilled nursing staff nationwide, which has caused and may continue to cause an increase in salaries, wages and benefits expense in excess of the inflation rate. In addition, in some markets like California,
there are requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing levels. To the extent we cannot meet those levels, we may by required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net
operating revenues.  Many states in which we operate hospitals have CON laws. The application process for approval of
additional covered services, new facilities, changes in operations and capital expenditures is, therefore, highly competitive in these states. In those states that do not have CON laws or which set relatively high levels of expenditures before they
become reviewable by state authorities, competition in the form of new services, facilities and capital spending is more prevalent. See “Regulation and Other Factors.” 
  12 


Table of Contents
Our ability to negotiate favorable service contracts with purchasers of group health care
services also affects our competitive position and significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. Managed care plans attempt to direct and control the use of hospital services and to demand that we accept lower rates of
payment. In addition, employers and traditional health insurers are increasingly interested in containing costs through negotiations with hospitals for managed care programs and discounts from established charges. In return, hospitals secure
commitments for a larger number of potential patients. Generally, hospitals compete for service contracts with group health care service purchasers on the basis of price, market reputation, geographic location, quality and range of services, quality
of the medical staff and convenience. The importance of obtaining contracts with managed care organizations varies from market to market depending on the market strength of such organizations. 
A key element of our growth strategy is expansion through the acquisition of additional hospitals in select markets. The competition to
acquire hospitals is significant. We face competition for acquisition candidates primarily from other for-profit health care companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. We intend to
selectively seek opportunities to expand our base of operations by adhering to our disciplined program of rational growth, but may not be successful in accomplishing acquisitions on favorable terms. 
Relationship with Universal Health Realty Income Trust 
At December 31, 2011, we held approximately 6.2% of the outstanding shares of Universal Health Realty Income Trust (the
“Trust”). We serve as Advisor to the Trust under an annually renewable advisory agreement pursuant to the terms of which we conduct the Trust’s day-to-day affairs, provide administrative services and present investment opportunities.
In addition, certain of our officers and directors are also officers and/or directors of the Trust. Management believes that it has the ability to exercise significant influence over the Trust, therefore we account for our investment in the Trust
using the equity method of accounting. We earned an advisory fee from the Trust, which is included in net revenues in the accompanying consolidated statements of income, of approximately $2.0 million during 2011, $1.8 million during 2010 and $1.6
million during 2009.  Our pre-tax share of income from the Trust was $4.6 million during 2011, $1.0 million during 2010 and
$1.1 million during 2009, and is included in net revenues in the accompanying consolidated statements of income for each year. Included in our share of the Trust’s income for 2011 was approximately $3.7 million related to our share of the
following: (i) an aggregate gain realized by the Trust during 2011 in connection with the sale of medical office buildings by various limited liability companies (“LLCs”) in which the Trust formerly held noncontrolling, majority
ownership interests; (ii) an aggregate gain recorded by the Trust during 2011 in connection with its purchases of third-party minority ownership interests in various LLCs in which the Trust formerly held noncontrolling majority ownership
interests (the Trust now owns 100% of each of these entities), partially offset by; (iii) a provision for asset impairment recorded by the Trust during 2011 in connection with a medical office building located in Atlanta, Georgia. 
The carrying value of our investment in the Trust was $9.9 million and $7.3 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and
is included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The market value of our investment in the Trust was $30.7 million at December 31, 2011 and $28.8 million at December 31, 2010, based on the closing price of the
Trust’s stock on the respective dates.  Total rent expense under the operating leases on the four hospital facilities
with the Trust (as discussed below) was $16.3 million during 2011, $16.2 million during 2010 and $16.3 million during 2009. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are tenants in several medical office buildings owned by limited liability companies
in which the Trust holds either 100% of the ownership interest or various noncontrolling, majority ownership interests.  The
Trust commenced operations in 1986 by purchasing certain properties from us and immediately leasing the properties back to our respective subsidiaries. Most of the leases were entered into at the time the Trust commenced operations and provided for
initial terms of 13 to 15 years with up to six additional 5-year renewal 
  13 


Table of Contents

terms. Each lease also provided for additional or bonus rental, as discussed below. The base rents are paid monthly and the bonus rents are computed and paid on a quarterly basis, based upon a
computation that compares current quarter revenue to a corresponding quarter in the base year. The leases with our subsidiaries are unconditionally guaranteed by us and are cross-defaulted with one another. 
Pursuant to the terms of the leases with the Trust, we have the option to renew the leases at the lease terms described above by
providing notice to the Trust at least 90 days prior to the termination of the then current term. In addition, we have rights of first refusal to: (i) purchase the respective leased facilities during and for 180 days after the lease terms at
the same price, terms and conditions of any third-party offer, or; (ii) renew the lease on the respective leased facility at the end of, and for 180 days after, the lease term at the same terms and conditions pursuant to any third-party offer.
We also have the right to purchase the respective leased facilities at the end of the lease terms or any renewal terms at their appraised fair market value as well as purchase any or all of the four leased hospital properties at their appraised fair
market value upon one month’s notice should a change of control of the Trust occur.  On May 19, 2011, certain of our
subsidiaries provided the required notice to the Trust exercising the 5-year renewal options on McAllen Medical Center, Wellington Regional Medical Center and Southwest Healthcare System, Inland Valley Campus which extended the lease terms to
December, 2016.  The table below details the renewal options and terms for each of our four hospital facilities leased from
the Trust, giving effect to the above-mentioned renewals:   


















 Hospital Name
  
Type of Facility
  
AnnualMinimumRent
 
  
End of Lease Term
 
  
RenewalTerm(years)
 

 McAllen Medical Center
  
Acute Care
  
$
5,485,000
  
  
 
December, 2016
  
  
 
15
(a) 

 Wellington Regional Medical Center
  
Acute Care
  
$
3,030,000
  
  
 
December, 2016
  
  
 
15
(b) 

 Southwest Healthcare System, Inland Valley Campus
  
Acute Care
  
$
2,648,000
  
  
 
December, 2016
  
  
 
15
(b) 

 The Bridgeway
  
Behavioral Health
  
$
930,000
  
  
 
December, 2014
  
  
 
10
(c) 
  


(a)
We have three 5-year renewal options at existing lease rates (through 2031). 


(b)
We have one 5-year renewal options at existing lease rates (through 2021) and two 5-year renewal options at fair market value lease rates (2022 through 2031).



(c)
We have two 5-year renewal options at fair market value lease rates (2015 through 2024). 
Executive Officers of the Registrant  The executive officers, whose terms will expire at such time as their successors are elected, are as follows:   






 Name and Age
  
 Present Position with the Company

 Alan B. Miller (74)
  
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer




 Marc D. Miller (41)
  
President and Director




 Steve G. Filton (54)
  
 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary




 Debra K. Osteen (56)
  
Senior Vice President, President of Behavioral Health Care Division




 Marvin G. Pember (58)
  
Senior Vice President, President of Acute Care Division
 Mr. Alan B. Miller has been Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer since inception
and also served as President from inception until May, 2009. Prior thereto, he was President, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of American Medicorp, Inc. He currently serves as Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and
President of Universal Health Realty Income Trust. Mr. Miller also serves as a Director of Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company. He is the father of Marc D. Miller, President and Director. 
  14 


Table of Contents
Mr. Marc D. Miller was elected President in May, 2009 and prior thereto served as
Senior Vice President and co-head of our Acute Care Hospitals since 2007. He was elected a Director in May, 2006 and Vice President in 2005. He has served in various capacities related to our acute care division since 2000. He was elected to the
Board of Trustees of Universal Health Realty Income Trust in December, 2008. He is the son of Alan B. Miller, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.  Mr. Filton was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 2003 and he was elected Secretary in 1999. He had served as Vice President and Controller since 1991 and Director of
Corporate Accounting since 1985.  Ms. Osteen was elected Senior Vice President in 2005 and serves as President of our
Behavioral Health Care Division. She was elected Vice President in 2000 and has served in various capacities related to our Behavioral Health Care facilities since 1984.  Mr. Pember commenced employment with us in August, 2011 and serves as President of our Acute Care Division. He was formerly employed for 12 years at Indiana University Health, Inc. (formerly known as
Clarian Health Partners, Inc.), a nonprofit hospital system that operates 16 facilities in Indiana, where he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. 
 


ITEM 1A.
Risk Factors   We are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Any of the events described below could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, could also impact our business and results of operations. 
A significant portion of our revenue is produced by facilities located in Nevada, Texas and California. 
Nevada: We own 6 acute care hospitals and 4 behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in Item 2. Properties (we owned
two additional behavioral health facilities which were acquired by us from PSI in November, 2010 before the facilities were divested during the third and fourth quarters of 2011 pursuant to our agreement with the Federal Trade Commission, as
discussed herein). On a combined basis, these facilities contributed 18% in 2011, 23% in 2010 and 24% in 2009 of our consolidated net revenues. On a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities
generated 11% in 2011, 15% in 2010 and 14% in 2009 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest.  Texas: We own 8 acute care hospitals and 14 behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in Item 2. Properties. On a combined basis, these facilities contributed 18% in 2011, 19% in 2010
and 20% in 2009 of our consolidated net revenues. On a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 14% in 2011, 15% in 2010 and 16% in 2009 of our income from operations after net income
attributable to noncontrolling interest.  California: We own 4 acute care hospitals and 15 behavioral healthcare
facilities as listed in Item 2. Properties. On a combined basis, these facilities contributed 10% of our consolidated net revenues during each of 2011, 2010 and 2009. On a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate
overhead expense, these facilities generated 5% in 2011, 4% in 2010 and 5% in 2009 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest.  The significant portion of our revenues and earnings derived from these facilities makes us particularly sensitive to legislative, regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in Nevada,
Texas and California. Any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. 
  15 


Table of Contents
Our revenues and results of operations are significantly affected by payments received
from the government and other third party payors.  We derive a significant portion of our revenue from third-party
payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Changes in these government programs in recent years have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for healthcare services. Payments from
federal and state government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could
materially increase or decrease program payments, as well as affect the cost of providing service to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. We are unable to predict the effect of recent and future policy changes on our operations. In
addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon federal and state governments as a result of, among other things, the substantial deterioration in general economic conditions and the funding requirements from the federal healthcare reform
legislation, may affect the availability of taxpayer funds for Medicare and Medicaid programs. If the rates paid or the scope of services covered by government payors are reduced, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial
position and results of operations.  We receive Medicaid revenues in excess of $100 million annually from each of Texas,
Pennsylvania, Virginia, Illinois and Washington, D.C., making us particularly sensitive to reductions in Medicaid and other state based revenue programs (which have been implemented in various forms with respect to our areas of operation in the
respective 2012 state fiscal years) as well as regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states. In the states in which we operate, based upon the state budgets for the 2012 fiscal year (which generally began at various
times during the second half of 2011), we estimate that, on a blended basis, our aggregate Medicaid rates have been reduced by approximately 3% to 4% (or approximately $45 million to $55 million annually) from the average rates in effect during the
states’ 2011 fiscal years (which generally ended during the third quarter of 2011). Our consolidated results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 include the pro rata portion of these Medicaid rate reductions. We can
provide no assurance that further reductions to Medicaid revenues (which have been proposed in certain states for fiscal year 2013), particularly in the above-mentioned states, will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of
operations.  In addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with
private payors, including managed care providers, significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. Private payors, including managed care providers, increasingly are demanding that we accept lower rates of payment.
 We expect continued third-party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. Reductions in
reimbursement amounts received from third-party payors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations.  A worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the United States could materially affect our business and future results of operations. 
Our patient volumes, revenues and financial results depend significantly on the universe of patients with health insurance, which to a
large extent is dependent on the employment status of individuals in our markets. A continuation or worsening of economic conditions may result in a continued increase in the unemployment rate which will likely increase the number of individuals
without health insurance. As a result, our facilities may experience a decrease in patient volumes, particularly in less intense, more elective service lines, or a significant increase in services provided to uninsured patients. These factors could
have a material unfavorable impact on our future patient volumes, revenues and operating results.  Our patient revenues and
payor mix during the last few years were adversely affected by economic conditions, particularly in certain markets, such as Nevada, Texas and California, where a significant portion of our revenues are concentrated and unemployment rates remain
high. In our acute care business, we experienced net revenue pressures caused primarily by declining commercial payor utilization and an increase in the number 
  16 


Table of Contents

of uninsured and underinsured patients treated at our facilities. We can provide no assurance that these trends will not continue. During 2011, our revenues and payor mix within our acute care
operations have been volatile making it difficult to predict the results for 2012 or thereafter.  In addition, we recorded
approximately $1.92 billion of goodwill as a result of our acquisition of PSI in November, 2010, and, as of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $2.63 billion of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. Should the revenues and
financial results of our acute care and/or behavioral health care facilities be materially, unfavorably impacted due to, among other things, a worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the United States that could negatively impact our
patient volumes and reimbursement rates, a continued rise in the unemployment rate and continued increases in the number of uninsured patients treated at our facilities, we may incur future charges to recognize impairment in the carrying value of
our goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 
Reductions or changes in Medicare funding could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations.
 On August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the “2011 Act”) was enacted into law. The 2011 Act
imposed annual spending limits for most federal agencies and programs aimed at reducing budget deficits by $917 billion between 2012 and 2021, according to a report released by the Congressional Budget Office. The 2011 Act provides for new spending
on program integrity initiatives intended to reduce fraud and abuse under the Medicare program. Among its other provisions, the law established a bipartisan Congressional committee, known as the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction (the
“Joint Committee”), which was tasked with making recommendations aimed at reducing future federal budget deficits by an additional $1.5 trillion over 10 years. The Joint Committee was unable to reach an agreement by the November 23, 2011
deadline and, as a result, across-the-board cuts to discretionary, national defense and Medicare spending were implemented which, if triggered, would result in Medicare payment reductions of up to 2% per fiscal year with a uniform percentage
reduction across all Medicare programs starting in 2013. We cannot predict whether Congress will attempt to suspend or restructure the automatic budget cuts or what other deficit reduction initiatives may be proposed by Congress. 
We are subject to uncertainties regarding health care reform. 
On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “PPACA”). The
Healthcare and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the “Reconciliation Act”), which contains a number of amendments to the PPACA, was signed into law on March 30, 2010. Two primary goals of the PPACA, combined with the
Reconciliation Act (collectively referred to as the “Legislation”), are to provide for increased access to coverage for healthcare and to reduce healthcare-related expenses. 
Although it is expected that as a result of the Legislation there may be a reduction in uninsured patients, which should reduce our
expense from uncollectible accounts receivable, the Legislation makes a number of other changes to Medicare and Medicaid which we believe may have an adverse impact on us. The Legislation revises reimbursement under the Medicare and Medicaid
programs to emphasize the efficient delivery of high quality care and contains a number of incentives and penalties under these programs to achieve these goals. The Legislation provides for decreases in the annual market basket update for federal
fiscal years 2010 through 2019, a productivity offset to the market basket update beginning October 1, 2011 for Medicare Part B reimbursable items and services and beginning October 1, 2012 for Medicare inpatient hospital services. The
Legislation will reduce Medicare and Medicaid disproportionate share payments beginning in 2014, which would adversely impact the reimbursement we receive under these programs. The Legislation implements a value-based purchasing program, which will
reward the delivery of efficient care. Conversely, certain facilities will receive reduced reimbursement for failing to meet quality parameters; such hospitals may include those with excessive readmission or hospital-acquired condition rates.

  17 


Table of Contents
The various provisions in the Legislation that directly or indirectly affect reimbursement
are scheduled to take effect over a number of years. Legislation provisions are likely to be affected by the incomplete nature of implementing regulations or expected forthcoming interpretive guidance, gradual implementation, future legislation, and
possible judicial nullification of all or certain provisions of the Legislation. Further Legislation provisions, such as those creating the Medicare Shared Savings Program and the Independent Payment Advisory Board, create certain flexibilities in
how healthcare may be reimbursed by federal programs in the future. Thus, we cannot predict the impact of the Legislation on our future reimbursement at this time.  The Legislation also contains provisions aimed at reducing fraud and abuse in healthcare. The Legislation amends several existing laws, including the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the False Claims
Act, making it easier for government agencies and private plaintiffs to prevail in lawsuits brought against healthcare providers. While Congress had previously revised the intent requirement of the Anti-Kickback Statute to provide that a person is
not required to “have actual knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation of” the Anti-Kickback Statute in order to be found guilty of violating such law, the Legislation also provides that any claims for items or services that
violate the Anti-Kickback Statute are also considered false claims for purposes of the federal civil False Claims Act. The Legislation provides that a healthcare provider that retains an overpayment in excess of 60 days is subject to the federal
civil False Claims Act. The Legislation also expands the Recovery Audit Contractor program to Medicaid. These amendments also make it easier for severe fines and penalties to be imposed on healthcare providers that violate applicable laws and
regulations.  We have partnered with local physicians in the ownership of certain of our facilities. These investments have
been permitted under an exception to the physician self-referral law. The Legislation permits existing physician investments in a hospital to continue under a “grandfather” clause if the arrangement satisfies certain requirements and
restrictions, but physicians are prohibited, effective immediately, from increasing the aggregate percentage of their ownership in the hospital. The Legislation also imposes certain compliance and disclosure requirements upon existing
physician-owned hospitals and restricts the ability of physician-owned hospitals to expand the capacity of their facilities. 
The impact of the Legislation on each of our hospitals may vary. Because Legislation provisions are effective at various times over the
next several years, we anticipate that many of the provisions in the Legislation may be subject to further revision or judicial nullification. Moreover, a number of state attorneys general are challenging the legality of certain aspects of the
Legislation. Currently, rulings in separate Federal District Courts regarding the constitutionality of the Legislation have been split. These decisions are in the process of being appealed to the United States Supreme Court. We cannot predict the
impact the Legislation may have on our business, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity, the ultimate outcome of the judicial rulings or whether we will be able to successfully adapt to the changes required by the
Legislation.  We are required to treat patients with emergency medical conditions regardless of ability to pay.
 In accordance with our internal policies and procedures, as well as the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor
Act, or EMTALA, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless
of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. If it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide such further medical examination and treatment as is required to stabilize the
patient’s medical condition, within the facility’s capability, or arrange for transfer of such individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital’s written procedures. Our obligations
under EMTALA may increase substantially going forward; CMS has recently sought stakeholder comments concerning the potential applicability of EMTALA to hospital inpatients and the responsibilities of hospitals with specialized capabilities,
respectively. If the number of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, or if regulations expanding our obligations to inpatients under EMTALA is proposed and adopted, our results of
operations will be harmed. 
  18 


Table of Contents
If we are not able to provide high quality medical care at a reasonable price,
patients may choose to receive their health care from our competitors.  In recent years, the number of quality measures
that hospitals are required to report publicly has increased. CMS publishes performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys that hospitals submit in connection with the Medicare program. Federal law provides for
the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. Additionally, the Legislation requires all hospitals to annually establish, update and make public a list of their standard charges for products and services. If any of
our hospitals achieve poor results on the quality measures or patient satisfaction surveys (or results that are lower than our competitors) or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, our patient volume could decline because patients
may elect to use competing hospitals or other health care providers that have better metrics and pricing. This circumstance could harm our business and results of operations.  An increase in uninsured and underinsured patients in our acute care facilities or the deterioration in the collectability of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations.
 Collection of receivables from third-party payors and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our
operating performance. Our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill that is the patient’s responsibility, which primarily includes co-payments and deductibles. However, we also have substantial
receivables due to us as of December 31, 2011 (a significant portion of which is past due) from certain state-based funding programs, most particularly Illinois. We estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as
payor mix, the agings of the receivables, historical collection experience and assessment of probability of future collections. We routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions that
might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. Significant changes in business office operations, payor mix, economic conditions or trends in federal and state governmental
health coverage could affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flow and results of operations. If we experience unexpected increases in the growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or in bad debt expenses, our results of operations
will be harmed.  Our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers.
 The healthcare industry is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals, and other healthcare providers for
patients and physicians has intensified in recent years. In all of the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. Some of our competitors include hospitals
that are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit corporations and may be supported by endowments and charitable contributions and exempt from property, sales and income taxes. Such exemptions and support are not available to us.
 In some markets, certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources, be better equipped and offer a broader
range of services than we. The number of inpatient facilities, as well as outpatient surgical and diagnostic centers, many of which are fully or partially owned by physicians, in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly.
As a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment.  If our competitors are better able to
attract patients, recruit physicians and other healthcare professionals, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volume and our business may be harmed. 
Our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. 
Typically, physicians are responsible for making hospital admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment. As a
result, the success and competitive advantage of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations
with those physicians. Physicians generally are not employees 
  19 


Table of Contents

of our hospitals, and, in a number of our markets, physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. They may terminate their affiliation with us at any time.
If we are unable to provide high ethical and professional standards, adequate support personnel and technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our
facilities and our results of operations may decline.  It may become difficult for us to attract and retain an adequate number
of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals are located. Our failure to recruit physicians to these communities or the loss of physicians in these communities could make it more difficult to attract
patients to our hospitals and thereby may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Generally, the top ten attending physicians within each of our facilities represent a large share of our inpatient revenues and admissions. The loss of one or more of these physicians, even if temporary,
could cause a material reduction in our revenues, which could take significant time to replace given the difficulty and cost associated with recruiting and retaining physicians. 
If we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment,
our ability to maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected.  The technology used in medical equipment
and related devices is constantly evolving and, as a result, manufacturers and distributors continue to offer new and upgraded products to health care providers. To compete effectively, we must continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade when
significant technological advances occur. If our facilities do not stay current with technological advances in the health care industry, patients may seek treatment from other providers and/or physicians may refer their patients to alternate
sources, which could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business.  If we fail to effectively and
timely implement electronic health record systems, our operations could be harmed.  As required by HITECH, we are in
the process of developing and implementing an incentive payment program for eligible hospitals and health care professionals that adopt and meaningfully use certified electronic health record technology. If our facilities or physicians are unable to
meet the requirements for participation in the incentive payment program, we will not be eligible to receive incentive payments that could offset some of the costs of implementing an electronic health record system. Further, beginning in federal
fiscal year 2015, eligible hospitals and professionals that fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified electronic health record technology will be subject to reduced payments from Medicare. Any failure by us to effectively implement an
electronic health record system in a timely manner could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  Our
performance depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and medical support staff and we face competition for staffing that may increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations. 
We depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab
technicians and other healthcare professionals. We compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. 
The nationwide shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue facing us and other
healthcare providers. This shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. In addition, in some markets like California,
there are requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing levels. To the extent we cannot meet those levels, we may be required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets, which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net
operating revenues.  We cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of
attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. If our general labor and related expenses increase, we may not be able to 
  20 


Table of Contents

raise our rates correspondingly. Our failure to either recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm our
results of operations.  If we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer civil or
criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations that could reduce our revenue and profitability.  The healthcare industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: hospital billing practices
and prices for services; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; adequacy of medical care and quality of medical equipment and services; ownership of facilities; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality,
maintenance, privacy and security issues associated with health-related information and patient medical records; the screening, stabilization and transfer of patients who have emergency medical conditions; certification, licensure and accreditation
of our facilities; operating policies and procedures, and; construction or expansion of facilities and services.  Among these
laws are the federal False Claims Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, the federal anti-kickback statute and the provision of the Social Security Act commonly known as the “Stark Law.” These laws,
and particularly the anti-kickback statute and the Stark Law, impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and other referral sources. We have a variety of financial relationships with physicians who refer patients to our facilities,
including employment contracts, leases and professional service agreements. We also provide financial incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit physicians into communities served by our hospitals. The Office of the Inspector
General of the Department of Health and Human Services, or OIG, has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. A number of our current arrangements, including
financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources, may not qualify for safe harbor protection under the anti-kickback statute. Failure to meet a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback
statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. We cannot assure that practices that are outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. CMS recently published a Medicare self-referral disclosure
protocol, which is intended to allow providers to self-disclose actual or potential violations of the Stark law. Because there are only a few judicial decisions interpreting the Stark law, there can be no assurance that our hospitals will not be
found in violation of the Stark law or that self-disclosure of a potential violation would result in reduced penalties. 
Federal regulations issued under HIPAA contain provisions that require us to implement and, in the future, may require us to implement
additional costly electronic media security systems and to adopt new business practices designed to protect the privacy and security of each of our patient’s health and related financial information. Such privacy and security regulations impose
extensive administrative, physical and technical requirements on us, restrict our use and disclosure of certain patient health and financial information, provide patients with rights with respect to their health information and require us to enter
into contracts extending many of the privacy and security regulatory requirements to third parties that perform duties on our behalf.  These laws and regulations are extremely complex, and, in many cases, we do not have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. In the future, it is possible that different interpretations or
enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and
operating expenses. A determination that we have violated one or more of these laws (see Item 3-Legal Proceedings), or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of one or more of these laws, could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and our business reputation could suffer significantly. In addition, we cannot predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state
level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or what their impact on us may be. See Item 1 Business—Self-Referral and Anti-Kickback Legislation. 
If we are deemed to have failed to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the Stark Law or other applicable laws and regulations, we
could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from

  21 


Table of Contents

participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. The imposition of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition
or results of operations.  We may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities.
 We are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits, class action lawsuits and other legal
actions in the ordinary course of business. Some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs. We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits or the effect that findings in such lawsuits may have on us. All
professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. We believe that, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, our insurance coverage is adequate considering the claims arising from the operations
of our hospitals. While we continuously monitor our coverage, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates. If such policy limitations should be partially or fully exhausted
in the future, or payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations.  We may be subject to governmental investigations, regulatory actions and whistleblower lawsuits  The federal False Claims Act permits private parties to bring qui tam, or whistleblower, lawsuits against companies. Whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the
government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government. Because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in one or more such lawsuits of which we are not aware. 
If any of our existing health care facilities lose their accreditation or any of our new facilities fail to receive accreditation,
such facilities could become ineligible to receive reimbursement under Medicare or Medicaid.  The construction and
operation of healthcare facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting and
compliance with building codes and environmental protection. Additionally, such facilities are subject to periodic inspection by government authorities to assure their continued compliance with these various standards. 
All of our hospitals are deemed certified, meaning that they are accredited, properly licensed under the relevant state laws and
regulations and certified under the Medicare program. The effect of maintaining certified facilities is to allow such facilities to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We believe that all of our healthcare facilities are in material
compliance with applicable federal, state, local and other relevant regulations and standards. However, should any of our healthcare facilities lose their deemed certified status and thereby lose certification under the Medicare or Medicaid
programs, such facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from either of those programs and our business could be materially adversely effected.  Our level of indebtedness that we incurred in connection with the acquisition of PSI could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react
to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the agreements relating to our indebtedness.  Our level of indebtedness that we incurred in connection with the acquisition of PSI could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to
changes in the economy or our industry and could potentially prevent us from meeting our obligations under the agreements relating to our indebtedness.  In connection with the consummation of our acquisition of PSI, in addition to previously existing outstanding debt commitments and undertaking a $250 million offering of notes in September, 2010, we
obtained a debt financing commitment of $3.45 billion under a senior credit facility consisting of an $800 million revolving credit facility, a $1.05 billion term loan A facility and a $1.6 billion term loan B facility. The senior credit facility
became effective upon closing of the acquisition of PSI, which occurred in November, 2010. We also obtained an amended $240 million accounts receivable securitization facility during 2010 (increased from $200 million). 
As of December 31, 2011, after giving effect to the use of proceeds from the various debt financing sources mentioned above, and
after giving effect to our 2011 consolidated results of operations and cash flows, our total 
  22 


Table of Contents

debt was $3.65 billion and we had $482 million of unused borrowing capacity under our senior credit and accounts receivable securitization facilities, after taking into account $69 million of
outstanding letters of credit and $9 million of outstanding borrowings pursuant to our short-term, on-demand note.  Subject to
the limits contained in the credit agreement governing our senior credit facility, the indenture that governs the notes and our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital,
capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. Our leverage could result in unfavorable impact on us, including the following: 
 


 
•
 
 it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements,
acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes;   


 
•
 
 a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be
available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;   


 
•
 
 some of our borrowings, including borrowings under the credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased
interest rates;   


 
•
 
 it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less
debt, and;   


 
•
 
 we may be vulnerable in a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, or we may be unable to carry out capital spending that is
important to our operations.  Our growth strategy depends, in part, on acquisitions, and we may not be
able to continue to acquire hospitals that meet our target criteria. We may also have difficulties acquiring hospitals from not-for-profit entities due to regulatory scrutiny. 
Acquisitions of hospitals in select markets are a key element of our growth strategy. We face competition for acquisition candidates
primarily from other for-profit healthcare companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. Also, suitable acquisitions may not be accomplished due to unfavorable terms. 
In addition, many states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that affect the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals
to for-profit entities. These laws generally require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. In addition, attorneys general in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise
discretionary authority over such transactions. Although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction in which a
not-for-profit entity sells a healthcare facility to a for-profit entity. The adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation, increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions or our inability to effectively compete against other potential
purchasers could make it more difficult for us to acquire additional hospitals, increase our acquisition costs or make it difficult for us to acquire hospitals that meet our target acquisition criteria, any of which could adversely affect our growth
strategy and results of operations.  Further, the cost of an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of
operations, depending on various factors, including the amount paid for the acquisition, the acquired hospital’s results of operations, allocation of the purchase price, effects of subsequent legislation and limits on rate increases.
 We may fail to improve or integrate the operations of the hospitals we acquire, which could harm our results of
operations and adversely affect our growth strategy.  We may be unable to timely and effectively integrate the
hospitals that we acquire with our ongoing operations. We may experience delays in implementing operating procedures and systems in newly acquired 
  23 


Table of Contents

hospitals. Integrating a new hospital could be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel. In
addition, acquisition activity requires transitions from, and the integration of, operations and, usually, information systems that are used by acquired hospitals. In addition, some of the hospitals we acquire had significantly lower operating
margins than the hospitals we operate prior to the time of our acquisition. If we fail to improve the operating margins of the hospitals we acquire, operate such hospitals profitably or effectively integrate the operations of acquired hospitals, our
results of operations could be harmed.  If we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become
liable for material obligations.  Hospitals that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including, but
not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. Although we typically attempt to exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers of such hospitals
for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations or we could incur material liabilities for the past activities of hospitals we acquire. Such liabilities and related legal or other costs and/or resulting damage to a
facility’s reputation could harm our business.  Our subsidiary, PSI, and its subsidiaries, are subject to pending
legal actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions.  Our subsidiary, PSI, and its subsidiaries, are
subject to pending legal actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions (see Item 3-Legal Proceedings).  State efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand.  Many of the states in which we operate hospitals have enacted Certificates of Need, or CON, laws as a condition prior to hospital capital expenditures, construction, expansion, modernization or initiation
of major new services. Our failure to obtain necessary state approval could result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement, make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the Medicare or
Medicaid programs, result in the revocation of a facility’s license or impose civil or criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business.  In addition, significant CON reforms have been proposed in a number of states that would increase the capital spending thresholds and provide exemptions of various services from review requirements. In
the past, we have not experienced any material adverse effects from those requirements, but we cannot predict the impact of these changes upon our operations.  Controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues.  Controls imposed by third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as “utilization review,” have affected and are expected to continue to affect our
facilities. Utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required
preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. Efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue.
Although we cannot predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and
results of operations. 
  24 


Table of Contents
Fluctuations in our operating results, quarter to quarter earnings and other factors
may result in decreases in the price of our common stock.  The stock markets have experienced volatility that has often
been unrelated to operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and, as a result, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. If we are unable to
operate our hospitals as profitably as we have in the past or as our stockholders expect us to in the future, the market price of our common stock will likely decline as stockholders could sell shares of our common stock when it becomes apparent
that the market expectations may not be realized.  In addition to our operating results, many economic and seasonal factors
outside of our control could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and increase fluctuations in our quarterly earnings. These factors include certain of the risks discussed herein, demographic changes, operating results of other
hospital companies, changes in our financial estimates or recommendations of securities analysts, speculation in the press or investment community, the possible effects of war, terrorist and other hostilities, adverse weather conditions, the level
of seasonal illnesses, managed care contract negotiations and terminations, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, or other developments affecting the health care industry. 
We are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with all applicable regulations could
subject us to liability or negatively affect our stock price.  As a publicly traded company, we are subject to a
significant body of regulation, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices in corporate governance and continue to update
this program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot provide assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable corporate regulations. For example, we cannot provide assurance that,
in the future, our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We also cannot provide assurance that we
could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to state that
such assessment will have been fairly stated in our Annual Report on Form 10-K or state that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations,
we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines or other sanctions or litigation. If we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price could decline. 
A cyber security incident could cause a violation of HIPAA, breach of member privacy, or other negative impacts.
 A cyber-attack that bypasses our information technology (“IT”) security systems causing an IT security
breach, loss of protected health information or other data subject to privacy laws, loss of proprietary business information, or a material disruption of our IT business systems, could have a material adverse impact on our business and result of
operations. In addition, our future results of operations, as well as our reputation, could be adversely impacted by theft, destruction, loss, or misappropriation of public health information, other confidential data or proprietary business
information.  Different interpretations of accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations or financial condition.  Generally accepted accounting principles are complex, continually evolving and may
be subject to varied interpretation by us, our independent registered public accounting firm and the SEC. Such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. Differences in interpretation of
generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 
  25 


Table of Contents
We continue to see rising costs in construction materials and labor. Such increased
costs could have an adverse effect on the cash flow return on investment relating to our capital projects.  The cost of
construction materials and labor has significantly increased. As we continue to invest in modern technologies, emergency rooms and operating room expansions, the construction of medical office buildings for physician expansion and reconfiguring the
flow of patient care, we spend large amounts of money generated from our operating cash flow or borrowed funds. In addition, we have a commitment with an unrelated third party to build a newly constructed facility with a specified minimum number of
beds and services. Although we evaluate the financial feasibility of such projects by determining whether the projected cash flow return on investment exceeds our cost of capital, such returns may not be achieved if the cost of construction
continues to rise significantly or the expected patient volumes are not attained.  The deterioration of credit and
capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding and we cannot be certain of the availability and terms of capital to fund the growth of our business when needed. 
We require substantial capital resources to fund our acquisition growth strategy and our ongoing capital expenditure programs for
renovation, expansion, construction and addition of medical equipment and technology. We believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. We cannot predict, however, whether financing for
our growth plans and capital expenditure programs will be available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, which could harm our business.  To fund all or a portion of our future financing needs, we rely on borrowings from various sources including fixed rate, long-term debt as well as borrowings pursuant to our revolving credit facility and
accounts receivable securitization program. If any of the lenders were unable to fulfill their future commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could have a material unfavorable impact our results of operations and financial condition.
 In addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility that has tightened access to capital markets and other
sources of funding. In the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. Our inability to obtain
financing on terms acceptable to us could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  We depend heavily on key management personnel and the departure of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business.
 The expertise and efforts of our senior executives and key members of our local hospital management personnel are
critical to the success of our business. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or of a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could significantly undermine our management expertise and our ability
to provide efficient, quality healthcare services at our facilities, which could harm our business.  The number of
outstanding shares of our Class B Common Stock is subject to potential increases or decreases.  At December 31,
2011, 31.2 million shares of Class B Common Stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of shares of Class A, C and D Common Stock outstanding, for issuance upon exercise of options to purchase Class B Common Stock and for issuance of
stock under other incentive plans. Class A, C and D Common Stock are convertible on a share for share basis into Class B Common Stock. To the extent that these shares were converted into or exercised for shares of Class B Common Stock, the
number of shares of Class B Common Stock available for trading in the public market place would increase substantially and the holders of Class B Common Stock would own a smaller percentage of that class. 
  26 


Table of Contents
In addition, from time-to-time our Board of Directors approve stock repurchase programs
authorizing us to purchase shares of our Class B Common Stock on the open market at prevailing market prices or in negotiated transactions off the market. Such repurchases decrease the number of outstanding shares of our Class B Common Stock.
Conversely, as a potential means of generating additional funds to operate and expand our business, we may from time-to-time issue equity through the sale of stock which would increase the number of outstanding shares of our Class B Common Stock.
Based upon factors such as, but not limited to, the market price of our stock, interest rate on borrowings and uses or potential uses for cash, repurchase or issuance of our stock could have a dilutive effect on our future basic and diluted earnings
per share.  The right to elect the majority of our Board of Directors and the majority of the general shareholder voting
power resides with the holders of Class A and C Common Stock, the majority of which is owned by Alan B. Miller, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors. 
Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that, with respect to the election of directors, holders of Class A Common Stock
vote as a class with the holders of Class C Common Stock, and holders of Class B Common Stock vote as a class with holders of Class D Common Stock, with holders of all classes of our Common Stock entitled to one vote per share. 
As of March 31, 2011, the shares of Class A and Class C Common Stock constituted 7.5% of the aggregate outstanding shares of
our Common Stock, had the right to elect six members of the Board of Directors and constituted 87.2% of our general voting power. As of March 31, 2011, the shares of Class B and Class D Common Stock (excluding shares issuable upon exercise of
options) constituted 92.5% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock, had the right to elect two members of the Board of Directors and constituted 12.8% of our general voting power. 
As to matters other than the election of directors, our Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that holders of Class A,
Class B, Class C and Class D Common Stock all vote together as a single class, except as otherwise provided by law.  Each
share of Class A Common Stock entitles the holder thereof to one vote; each share of Class B Common Stock entitles the holder thereof to one-tenth of a vote; each share of Class C Common Stock entitles the holder thereof to 100 votes (provided
the holder of Class C Common Stock holds a number of shares of Class A Common Stock equal to ten times the number of shares of Class C Common Stock that holder holds); and each share of Class D Common Stock entitles the holder thereof to ten
votes (provided the holder of Class D Common Stock holds a number of shares of Class B Common Stock equal to ten times the number of shares of Class D Common Stock that holder holds). 
In the event a holder of Class C or Class D Common Stock holds a number of shares of Class A or Class B Common Stock, respectively,
less than ten times the number of shares of Class C or Class D Common Stock that holder holds, then that holder will be entitled to only one vote for every share of Class C Common Stock, or one-tenth of a vote for every share of Class D Common
Stock, which that holder holds in excess of one-tenth the number of shares of Class A or Class B Common Stock, respectively, held by that holder. The Board of Directors, in its discretion, may require beneficial owners to provide satisfactory
evidence that such owner holds ten times as many shares of Class A or Class B Common Stock as Class C or Class D Common Stock, respectively, if such facts are not apparent from our stock records. 
Since a substantial majority of the Class A shares and Class C shares are controlled by Mr. Alan B. Miller and members of
his family who are also directors and officers of our company, and they can elect a majority of our company’s directors and effect or reject most actions requiring approval by stockholders without the vote of any other stockholders, there are
potential conflicts of interest in overseeing the management of our company.  In addition, because this concentrated control
could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our businesses, our business and prospects and the trading price of our securities could be adversely
affected. 
  27 


Table of Contents


ITEM 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments   None.   


ITEM 2.
Properties  
Executive and Administrative Offices  We own office buildings in King of Prussia and Wayne, Pennsylvania and Brentwood, Tennessee.  Facilities  The following tables set forth the name, location, type
of facility and, for acute care hospitals and behavioral health care facilities, the number of licensed beds:  Acute Care
Hospitals   














 Name of Facility
  
 Location
  
Numberof Beds
 
  
RealPropertyOwnershipInterest
 

 Aiken Regional Medical Centers
  
Aiken, South Carolina
  
 
183
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Aurora Pavilion
  
Aiken, South Carolina
  
 
59
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Auburn Regional Medical Center
  
Auburn, Washington
  
 
159
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Centennial Hills Hospital Medical Center (1)
  
Las Vegas, Nevada
  
 
171
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Corona Regional Medical Center
  
Corona, California
  
 
240
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Desert Springs Hospital (1)
  
Las Vegas, Nevada
  
 
293
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Doctors’ Hospital of Laredo (9)
  
Laredo, Texas
  
 
180
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Fort Duncan Regional Medical Center
  
Eagle Pass, Texas
  
 
101
  
  
 
Owned
  

 The George Washington University Hospital (2)
  
Washington, D.C.
  
 
371
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Lakewood Ranch Medical Center
  
Bradenton, Florida
  
 
120
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Manatee Memorial Hospital
  
Bradenton, Florida
  
 
319
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Northern Nevada Medical Center
  
Sparks, Nevada
  
 
100
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Northwest Texas Healthcare System
  
Amarillo, Texas
  
 
404
  
  
 
Owned
  

 The Pavilion at Northwest Texas Healthcare System
  
Amarillo, Texas
  
 
85
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Palmdale Regional Medical Center
  
Palmdale, California
  
 
157
  
  
 
Owned
  

 South Texas Health System (4)
  

  



  




 Edinburg Regional Medical Center
  
Edinburg, Texas
  
 
127
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Edinburg Children’s Hospital
  
Edinburg, Texas
  
 
86
  
  
 
Owned
  

 McAllen Medical Center (3)
  
McAllen, Texas
  
 
441
  
  
 
Leased
  

 McAllen Heart Hospital
  
McAllen, Texas
  
 
60
  
  
 
Owned
  

 South Texas Behavioral Health Center
  
McAllen, Texas
  
 
134
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Southwest Healthcare System
  

  



  




 Inland Valley Campus (3)
  
Wildomar, California
  
 
130
  
  
 
Leased
  

 Rancho Springs Campus
  
Murrieta, California
  
 
122
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Spring Valley Hospital Medical Center (1)
  
Las Vegas, Nevada
  
 
231
  
  
 
Owned
  

 St. Mary’s Regional Medical Center
  
Enid, Oklahoma
  
 
245
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Summerlin Hospital Medical Center (1)
  
Las Vegas, Nevada
  
 
454
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Texoma Medical Center
  
Denison, Texas
  
 
191
  
  
 
Owned
  

 TMC Behavioral Health Center
  
Denison, Texas
  
 
60
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Valley Hospital Medical Center (1)
  
Las Vegas, Nevada
  
 
404
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Wellington Regional Medical Center (3)
  
West Palm Beach, Florida
  
 
158
  
  
 
Leased
  

  28 


Table of Contents
Behavioral Health Care Facilities 
 














 Name of Facility
  
 Location
  
Numberof Beds
 
  
RealPropertyOwnershipInterest
 

 Alabama Clinical Schools
  
Birmingham, Alabama
  
 
80
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Alhambra Hospital (10)
  
Rosemead, California
  
 
103
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Alliance Health Center (10)
  
Meridian, Mississippi
  
 
214
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Anchor Hospital
  
Atlanta, Georgia
  
 
111
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Arbour Counseling Services
  
Rockland, Massachusetts
  
 
—  
  
  
 
Owned
  

 The Arbour Hospital
  
Boston, Massachusetts
  
 
118
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Arbour Senior Care
  
Rockland, Massachusetts
  
 
—  
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Arbour-Fuller Hospital
  
South Attleboro, Massachusetts
  
 
103
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Arbour-HRI Hospital
  
Brookline, Massachusetts
  
 
68
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Arrowhead Behavioral Health (10)
  
Maumee, Ohio
  
 
52
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Atlantic Shores Hospital (10)
  
Fort Lauderdale, Florida
  
 
72
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Austin Lakes Hospital (10)
  
Austin, Texas
  
 
54
  
  
 
Leased
  

 Behavioral Educational Services (10)
  
Riverdale, Florida
  
 
—  
  
  
 
Leased
  

 Belmont Pines Hospital (10)
  
Youngstown, Ohio
  
 
102
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Benchmark Behavioral Health System (10)
  
Woods Cross, Utah
  
 
84
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Bloomington Meadows Hospital (10)
  
Bloomington, Indiana
  
 
78
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Blue Mountain Academy
  
Grand Terrace, California
  
 
—  
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Boulder Creek Academy
  
Bonners Ferry, Idaho
  
 
100
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Brentwood Behavioral Health of Mississippi (10)
  
Flowood, Mississippi
  
 
105
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Brentwood Hospital (10)
  
Shreveport, Louisiana
  
 
200
  
  
 
Owned
  

 The Bridgeway (3)
  
North Little Rock, Arkansas
  
 
103
  
  
 
Leased
  

 Bristol Youth Academy
  
Bristol, Florida
  
 
60
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Brook Hospital—Dupont (10)
  
Louisville, Kentucky
  
 
86
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Brook Hospital—KMI (10)
  
Louisville, Kentucky
  
 
106
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Brooke Glen Behavioral Hospital (10)
  
Fort Washington, Pennsylvania
  
 
146
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Brynn Marr Hospital (10)
  
Jacksonville, North Carolina
  
 
100
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Calvary Addiction Recovery Center (10)
  
Phoenix, Arizona
  
 
50
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Canyon Ridge Hospital (10)
  
Chino, California
  
 
106
  
  
 
Owned
  

 The Carolina Center for Behavioral Health
  
Greer, South Carolina
  
 
112
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Cedar Grove Residential Treatment Center
  
Murfreesboro, Tennessee
  
 
36
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Cedar Ridge
  
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
  
 
60
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Cedar Ridge Residential Treatment Center
  
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
  
 
56
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Cedar Springs Behavioral Health (10)
  
Colorado Springs, Colorado
  
 
110
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Centennial Peaks
  
Louisville, Colorado
  
 
72
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Center for Change
  
Orem, Utah
  
 
58
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Central Florida Behavioral Hospital
  
Orlando, FL
  
 
120
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Chicago Children’s Center for Behavioral Health (10)
  
Chicago, Illinois
  
 
40
  
  
 
Leased
  

 Clarion Psychiatric Center
  
Clarion, Pennsylvania
  
 
74
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Coastal Harbor Behavioral Health
  
Savannah, Georgia
  
 
50
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Coastal Harbor Treatment Center
  
Savannah, Georgia
  
 
132
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Columbus Behavioral Center for Children and Adolescents
  
Columbus, Indiana
  
 
56
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Community Behavioral Health
  
Memphis, Tennessee
  
 
50
  
  
 
Leased
  

 Community Cornerstones (10)
  
Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico
  
 
—  
  
  
 
Leased
  

 Compass Intervention Center
  
Memphis, Tennessee
  
 
108
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Copper Hills Youth Center (10)
  
West Jordan, Utah
  
 
197
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Cottonwood Treatment Center
  
S. Salt Lake City, Utah
  
 
86
  
  
 
Leased
  
  29 


Table of Contents














 Name of Facility
  
 Location
  
Numberof Beds
 
  
RealPropertyOwnershipInterest
 

 Creekside Academy
  
Sacramento, California
  
 
—  
  
  
 
Leased
  

 Crescent Pines
  
Stockbridge, Georgia
  
 
50
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Cumberland Hall (10)
  
Hopkinsville, Kentucky
  
 
97
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Cumberland Hospital (10)
  
New Kent, Virginia
  
 
130
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Cypress Creek Hospital (10)
  
Houston, Texas
  
 
96
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Del Amo Hospital
  
Torrance, California
  
 
166
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Desert Valley Hope Academy
  
Hemet, California
  
 
—  
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Diamond Grove Center (10)
  
Louisville, Mississippi
  
 
55
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Dover Behavioral Health
  
Dover, Delaware
  
 
57
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Emerald Coast Behavioral Hospital (10)
  
Panama City, Florida
  
 
90
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Fairmount Behavioral Health System
  
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
  
 
239
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Fairfax Hospital (10)
  
Kirkland, Washington
  
 
157
  
  
 
Owned
  

 First Home Care (VA) (10)
  
Portsmouth, Virginia
  
 
—  
  
  
 
Leased
  

 First Hospital Panamericano—Cidra (10)
  
Cidra, Puerto Rico
  
 
165
  
  
 
Owned
  

 First Hospital Panamericano—San Juan (10)
  
San Juan, Puerto Rico
  
 
45
  
  
 
Owned
  

 First Hospital Panamericano—Ponce (10)
  
Ponce, Puerto Rico
  
 
30
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Forest View Hospital
  
Grand Rapids, Michigan
  
 
82
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Fort Lauderdale Hospital (10)
  
Fort Lauderdale, Florida
  
 
100
  
  
 
Leased
  

 Foundations Behavioral Health
  
Doylestown, Pennsylvania
  
 
118
  
  
 
Leased
  

 Foundations for Living
  
Mansfield, Ohio
  
 
84
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Fox Run Hospital (10)
  
St. Clairsville, Ohio
  
 
100
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Fremont Hospital (10)
  
Fremont, California
  
 
96
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Friends Hospital (10)
  
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
  
 
219
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Glen Oaks Hospital
  
Greenville, Texas
  
 
54
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Good Samaritan Counseling Center
  
Anchorage, Alaska
  
 
—  
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Gulf Coast Treatment Center (10)
  
Fort Walton Beach, Florida
  
 
144
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Gulf Coast Youth Academy (10)
  
Fort Walton Beach, Florida
  
 
24
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Hampton Behavioral Health Center
  
Westhampton, New Jersey
  
 
110
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Harbour Point (Pines) (10)
  
Portsmouth, Virginia
  
 
186
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Hartgrove Hospital
  
Chicago, Illinois
  
 
150
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Havenwyck Hospital (10)
  
Auburn Hills, Michigan
  
 
278
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Heartland Behavioral Health Services (10)
  
Nevada, Missouri
  
 
159
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Hermitage Hall
  
Nashville, Tennessee
  
 
112
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Heritage Oaks Hospital (10)
  
Sacramento, California
  
 
125
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Hickory Trail Hospital (10)
  
DeSoto, Texas
  
 
86
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Highlands Behavioral Health System
  
Highlands Ranch, Colorado
  
 
86
  
  
 
Owned
  

 High Point Treatment Center (10)
  
Cooper City, Florida
  
 
60
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Hill Crest Behavioral Health Services (10)
  
Birmingham, Alabama
  
 
205
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Holly Hill Hospital (10)
  
Raleigh, North Carolina
  
 
152
  
  
 
Owned
  

 The Horsham Clinic
  
Ambler, Pennsylvania
  
 
206
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Hughes Center (10)
  
Danville, Virginia
  
 
56
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Intermountain Hospital (10)
  
Boise, Idaho
  
 
155
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Jefferson Trail Treatment Center for Children (10)
  
Charlottesville, Virginia
  
 
50
  
  
 
Leased
  

 John Costigan Center (Streamwood RTC) (10)
  
Streamwood, Illinois
  
 
73
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Kempsville Center of Behavioral Health (10)
  
Norfolk, Virginia
  
 
82
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Keys of Carolina
  
Charlotte, North Carolina
  
 
60
  
  
 
Owned
  

 KeyStone Center
  
Wallingford, Pennsylvania
  
 
140
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Kingwood Pines Hospital (10)
  
Kingwood, Texas
  
 
116
  
  
 
Owned
  
  30 


Table of Contents














 Name of Facility
  
 Location
  
Numberof Beds
 
  
RealPropertyOwnershipInterest
 

 La Amistad Behavioral Health Services
  
Maitland, Florida
  
 
80
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Lakeside Behavioral Health System
  
Memphis, Tennessee
  
 
291
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Laurel Heights Hospital
  
Atlanta, Georgia
  
 
122
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Laurel Oaks Behavioral Health Center (10)
  
Dothan, Alabama
  
 
118
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Laurel Ridge Treatment Center (10)
  
San Antonio, Texas
  
 
250
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Liberty Point Behavioral Health (10)
  
Stauton, Virginia
  
 
50
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Lighthouse Care Center of Augusta (10)
  
Augusta, Georgia
  
 
106
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Lighthouse Care Center of Conway (10)
  
Conway, South Carolina
  
 
112
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Lincoln Prairie Behavioral Health Center (10)
  
Springfield, Illinois
  
 
88
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Lincoln Trail Behavioral Health System
  
Radcliff, Kentucky
  
 
140
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Macon Behavioral Health System (10)
  
Macon, Georgia
  
 
155
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Manatee Palms Group Homes (10)
  
Bradenton, Florida
  
 
60
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Manatee Palms Youth Services (10)
  
Bradenton, Florida
  
 
60
  
  
 
Owned
  

 McDowell Center for Children
  
Dyersburg, Tennessee
  
 
32
  
  
 
Owned
  

 The Meadows Psychiatric Center
  
Centre Hall, Pennsylvania
  
 
101
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Meridell Achievement Center
  
Austin, Texas
  
 
134
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Mesilla Valley Hospital (10)
  
Las Cruces, New Mexico
  
 
120
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Michiana Behavioral Health Center (10)
  
Plymouth, Indiana
  
 
80
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Midwest Center for Youth and Families
  
Kouts, Indiana
  
 
74
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Millwood Hospital (10)
  
Arlington, Texas
  
 
122
  
  
 
Leased
  

 Mission Bell Academy (Riverside NPS)
  
Riverside, California
  
 
—  
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Mojave Ridge Academy (Victorville NPS)
  
Victorville, California
  
 
—  
  
  
 
Leased
  

 Mountain Youth Academy
  
Mountain City, Tennessee
  
 
60
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Natchez Trace Youth Academy
  
Waverly, Tennessee
  
 
90
  
  
 
Owned
  

 National Deaf Academy
  
Mount Dora, Florida
  
 
132
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Newport News Behavioral Health Center
  
Newport News, Virginia
  
 
108
  
  
 
Owned
  

 North Spring Behavioral Healthcare (10)
  
Leesburg, Virginia
  
 
77
  
  
 
Leased
  

 North Star Hospital
  
Anchorage, Alaska
  
 
74
  
  
 
Owned
  

 North Star Bragaw
  
Anchorage, Alaska
  
 
36
  
  
 
Owned
  

 North Star DeBarr Residential Treatment Center
  
Anchorage, Alaska
  
 
60
  
  
 
Owned
  

 North Star Palmer Residential Treatment Center
  
Palmer, Alaska
  
 
30
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Northwest Academy
  
Bonners Perry, Idaho
  
 
120
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Oak Plains Academy
  
Ashland City, Tennessee
  
 
90
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Okaloosa Youth Academy (10)
  
Crestview, Florida
  
 
254
  
  
 
Leased
  

 Old Vineyard Behavioral Health
  
Winston-Salem, North Carolina
  
 
104
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Palmetto Lowcountry Behavioral Health (10)
  
North Charleston, South Carolina
  
 
112
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Palmetto Pee Dee Behavioral Health (10)
  
Florence, South Carolina
  
 
59
  
  
 
Leased
  

 Palmetto Summerville (10)
  
Summerville, South Carolina
  
 
60
  
  
 
Leased
  

 Parkwood Behavioral Health System
  
Olive Branch, Mississippi
  
 
128
  
  
 
Owned
  

 The Pavilion
  
Champaign, Illinois
  
 
77
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Peachford Behavioral Health System of Atlanta
  
Atlanta, Georgia
  
 
246
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Peak Behavioral Health Services (10)
  
Santa Teresa, New Mexico
  
 
104
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Pembroke Hospital
  
Pembroke, Massachusetts
  
 
115
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Pinnacle Pointe Hospital (10)
  
Little Rock, Arkansas
  
 
124
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Poplar Springs Hospital (10)
  
Petersburg, Virginia
  
 
199
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Prairie St John’s (10)
  
Fargo, North Dakota
  
 
131
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Pride Institute (10)
  
Eden Prairie, Minnesota
  
 
42
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Provo Canyon School
  
Provo, Utah
  
 
80
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Provo Canyon Behavioral Hospital
  
Orem, Utah
  
 
274
  
  
 
Owned
  
  31 


Table of Contents














 Name of Facility
  
 Location
  
Numberof Beds
 
  
RealPropertyOwnershipInterest
 

 Rancho Academy of Learning (Rancho Cucamonga NPS)
  
Rancho Cucamonga, California
  
 
—  
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Rancho San Diego Academy (Steele Canyon NPS)
  
El Cajon, California
  
 
—  
  
  
 
Leased
  

 The Ridge Behavioral Health System
  
Lexington, Kentucky
  
 
110
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Rivendell Behavioral Health Services of Arkansas
  
Benton, Arkansas
  
 
77
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Rivendell Behavioral Health Services of Kentucky
  
Bowling Green, Kentucky
  
 
125
  
  
 
Owned
  

 River Crest Hospital
  
San Angelo, Texas
  
 
80
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Riveredge Hospital (10)
  
Forest Park, Illinois
  
 
210
  
  
 
Owned
  

 River Oaks Hospital
  
New Orleans, Louisiana
  
 
126
  
  
 
Owned
  

 River Park Hospital (10)
  
Huntington, West Virginia
  
 
187
  
  
 
Owned
  

 River Point Behavioral Health (10)
  
Jacksonville, Florida
  
 
99
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Rockford Center
  
Newark, Delaware
  
 
118
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Rock River Residential Center (10)
  
Rockford, Illinois
  
 
59
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Rolling Hills Hospital (10)
  
Franklin, Tennessee
  
 
80
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Roxbury
  
Shippensburg, Pennsylvania
  
 
112
  
  
 
Owned
  

 San Marcos Treatment Center (10)
  
San Marcos, Texas
  
 
265
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Sandy Pines Hospital (10)
  
Tequesta, Florida
  
 
88
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Shadow Mountain Behavioral Health System (10)
  
Tulsa, Oklahoma
  
 
209
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Sierra Vista Hospital (10)
  
Sacramento, California
  
 
120
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Somerset Educational Services (10)
  
Riverside, California
  
 
—  
  
  
 
Owned
  

 St. Louis Behavioral Medicine Institute
  
St. Louis, Missouri
  
 
—  
  
  
 
Owned
  

 St. Simons by the Sea (10)
  
St. Simons, Georgia
  
 
101
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Spring Mountain Sahara
  
Las Vegas, Nevada
  
 
30
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Spring Mountain Treatment Center
  
Las Vegas, Nevada
  
 
82
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Springwoods
  
Fayetteville, Arkansas
  
 
80
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Stonington Institute
  
North Stonington, Connecticut
  
 
73
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Streamwood Behavioral Health (10)
  
Streamwood, Illinois
  
 
162
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Summit Oaks Hospital (10)
  
Summit, New Jersey
  
 
126
  
  
 
Owned
  

 SummitRidge
  
Lawrenceville, Georgia
  
 
76
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Talbott Recovery Campus
  
Atlanta, Georgia
  
 
—  
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Texas NeuroRehab Center (10)
  
Austin, Texas
  
 
151
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Three Rivers Behavioral Health (10)
  
West Columbia, South Carolina
  
 
118
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Three Rivers Residential Treatment-MidlandsCampus (10)
  
West Columbia, South Carolina
  
 
59
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Timberlawn Mental Health System
  
Dallas, Texas
  
 
144
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Turning Point Hospital
  
Moultrie, Georgia
  
 
59
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Turning Point Youth Center
  
St. Johns, Michigan
  
 
60
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Two Rivers Psychiatric Hospital
  
Kansas City, Missouri
  
 
105
  
  
 
Owned
  

 University Behavioral Center (10)
  
Orlando, Florida
  
 
112
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Upper East TN Juvenile Detention Facility
  
Johnson City, Tennessee
  
 
10
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Valle Vista Hospital (10)
  
Greenwood, Indiana
  
 
102
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Vines Hospital (10)
  
Ocala, Florida
  
 
98
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Virgin Islands Behavioral Services (10)
  
St. Croix, Virgin Islands
  
 
30
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Virginia Beach Psychiatric Center (10)
  
Virginia Beach, Virginia
  
 
100
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Wekiva Springs (10)
  
Jacksonville, Florida
  
 
68
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Wellstone Regional Hospital (10)
  
Jeffersonville, Indiana
  
 
100
  
  
 
Owned
  

 West Hills Hospital (10)
  
Reno, Nevada
  
 
95
  
  
 
Owned
  

 West Oaks Hospital (10)
  
Houston, Texas
  
 
160
  
  
 
Owned
  
  32 


Table of Contents














 Name of Facility
  
 Location
  
Numberof Beds
 
  
RealPropertyOwnershipInterest
 

 Westwood Lodge Hospital
  
Westwood, Massachusetts
  
 
133
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Willow Springs Center (10)
  
Reno, Nevada
  
 
116
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Windmoor Healthcare (10)
  
Clearwater, Florida
  
 
120
  
  
 
Owned
  

 Windsor—Laurelwood Center (10)
  
Willoughby, Ohio
  
 
160
  
  
 
Leased
  

 Wyoming Behavioral Institute
  
Casper, Wyoming
  
 
90
  
  
 
Owned
  
 Surgical Hospitals, Ambulatory Surgery Centers and Radiation Oncology Centers 
 










 Name of Facility
  
 Location
  
RealPropertyOwnershipInterest
 

 Cancer Care Institute of Carolina
  
Aiken, South Carolina
  
 
Owned
  

 Cornerstone Regional Hospital (5)
  
Edinburg, Texas
  
 
Leased
  

 OJOS/Eye Surgery Specialists of Puerto Rico (6)
  
Santurce, Puerto Rico
  
 
Leased
  

 Northwest Texas Surgery Center (6)
  
Amarillo, Texas
  
 
Leased
  

 Palms Westside Clinic ASC (8)
  
Royal Palm Beach, Florida
  
 
Leased
  

 Temecula Valley Day Surgery and Pain Therapy Center (7)
  
Murrieta, California
  
 
Leased
  
  


(1)
Desert Springs Hospital, Summerlin Hospital Medical Center, Valley Hospital Medical Center, Spring Valley Hospital Medical Center and Centennial Hills Hospital Medical
Center are owned by limited liability companies (“LLCs”) in which we hold controlling, majority ownership interests of approximately 72%. The remaining minority ownership interests in these facilities are held by unaffiliated
third-parties. All hospitals are managed by us. 


(2)
We hold an 80% ownership interest in this facility through a general partnership interest in a limited partnership. The remaining 20% ownership interest is held by an
unaffiliated third-party. 


(3)
Real property leased from Universal Health Realty Income Trust. 


(4)
In October, 2007, the licenses for Edinburg Regional Medical Center, Edinburg Children’s Hospital, McAllen Medical Center, McAllen Heart Hospital and South Texas
Behavioral Health Center were consolidated under one license operating as the South Texas Health System. 


(5)
We manage and own a noncontrolling interest of approximately 50% in the entity that operates this facility. 


(6)
We own a majority interest in an LLC that owns and operates this center. 


(7)
We own minority interests in an LLC that owns and operates this center which is managed by a third-party. 


(8)
We own a noncontrolling ownership interest of approximately 50% in the entity that operates this facility that is managed by a third-party. 


(9)
We hold an 89% ownership interest in this facility through both general and limited partnership interests. The remaining 11% ownership interest is held by unaffiliated
third parties. 


(10)
These facilities were acquired by us in November, 2010 in connection with our acquisition of PSI. 
We own or lease medical office buildings adjoining some of our hospitals. We believe that the leases on the facilities, medical office
buildings and other real estate leased or owned by us do not impose any material limitation on our operations. The aggregate lease payments on facilities leased by us were $55 million in 2011, $45 million in 2010 and $41 million in 2009. 
  33 


Table of Contents


ITEM 3.
Legal Proceedings   U.S. v. Marion and UHS:  In November, 2009, the United States Department of
Justice (“DOJ”) and the Virginia Attorney General intervened in a qui tam case that had been filed by former employees of Marion Youth Center under seal in 2007 against Universal Health Services, Inc. (“UHS”), and Keystone
Marion, LLC (“Marion”) and Keystone Education and Youth Services, LLC (“Keystone”). The intervention by the DOJ followed the issuance of a series of subpoenas from the Office of the Inspector General for the Department of Health
and Human Services seeking documents related to the treatment of Medicaid beneficiaries at Marion. The amended complaint filed by the DOJ and Virginia Attorney General alleged causes of action pursuant to the federal and state false claims acts and
the Virginia fraud statute. The former employees filed a separate amended complaint alleging employment and retaliation claims as well as false claim act violations. During the third quarter of 2011, we reached an agreement in principle to settle
all of the claims. We have established a reserve in connection with this matter which did not have a material impact on our results of operations for any of the periods presented herein. Should we be unable to finalize a definitive settlement
agreement in this matter, we will continue to defend ourselves vigorously against the government’s and the former employees’ allegations. There can be no assurance that we will prevail should this matter be litigated. 
Martin v. UHS of Delaware:  UHS of Delaware, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours, has been named as defendants in a state False Claim Act case in Sacramento County Superior Court. Plaintiffs are a former student and employees of
the Elmira School who claim that the UHS schools in California unlawfully retained public education funding from the state of California for the operation of these schools but failed to meet state requirements pertaining to the operation of
non-public schools. We deny liability and intend to defend this case vigorously. We have established a reserve in connection with this matter which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
Department of Justice ICD Investigation:  In September, 2010, we, along with many other companies in the healthcare industry, received a letter from the United States Department of Justice (“DOJ”) advising of a False Claim Act
investigation being conducted in connection with the implantation of implantable cardioverter defibrillators (“ICDs”) from 2003 to the present at several of our acute care facilities. The DOJ alleges that ICDs were implanted and billed by
our facilities in contravention of a National Claims Determination regarding these devices. We have established a reserve in connection with this matter which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
Two Rivers Psychiatric Hospital:  On April 11, 2011, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) issued notice of its decision terminating Two Rivers Psychiatric Hospital (“Two Rivers”) in Kansas City,
Missouri from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid program. The termination notice was issued as a result of surveys conducted which allegedly found Two Rivers to be out of compliance with the conditions of participation required for
participation in the Medicare program and for Two Rivers’ alleged failure to alleviate an “immediate jeopardy” situation. Two Rivers filed an administrative appeal with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Departmental
Appeal Board, Civil Remedies Division, seeking review and reversal of that decision. In addition, Two Rivers filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Missouri seeking a temporary restraining order and preliminary
injunction against CMS rescinding the termination action. On April 22, 2011, the District Court issued a temporary restraining order abating the termination action pending a preliminary injunction hearing or an agreement with CMS. On
May 17, 2011, Two Rivers and CMS entered into a settlement agreement which resulted in the rescission of the termination notice and actions by CMS. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, Two Rivers was required to submit an acceptable plan of
correction relative to the immediate jeopardy citation and engage independent experts in various disciplines to analyze and develop implementation plans for Two Rivers to meet the applicable Medicare conditions of participation. Both of these
actions have 
  34 


Table of Contents

occurred. CMS will conduct an initial survey of Two Rivers, expected to occur in early 2012, to determine if the Medicare conditions of participation have been met. During the term of this
agreement, Two Rivers remains eligible to receive reimbursements for services rendered to Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. Two Rivers remains fully committed to providing high-quality healthcare to their patients and the community it serves. We
therefore intend to work expeditiously and collaboratively with CMS in an effort to resolve these matters. We can provide no assurance that Two Rivers will not ultimately lose its Medicare certification. The operating results of Two Rivers did not
have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition for the years ended December 31, 2011 or 2010.  Matters Relating to PSI:  The following matters pertain to PSI or former
PSI facilities (owned by subsidiaries of Psychiatric Solutions, Inc.) for which we have assumed the defense as a result of our acquisition of PSI which was completed in November, 2010: 
Garden City Employees’ Retirement System v. PSI:  This is a purported shareholder class action lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee against PSI and the former directors in 2009 alleging violations of
federal securities laws. We intend to defend the case vigorously. Should we be deemed liable in this matter, we believe we would be entitled to commercial insurance recoveries for amounts paid by us, subject to certain limitations and deductibles.
Included in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2011, is an estimated reserve (current liability) and corresponding commercial insurance recovery (current asset) which did not have a material impact on our financial statements.
Although we believe the commercial insurance recoveries are adequate to satisfy potential liability in this matter, we can provide no assurance that the ultimate liability will not exceed the commercial insurance recoveries which would make us
liable for the excess.  Department of Justice Investigation of Sierra Vista: 
In 2009, Sierra Vista Hospital in Sacramento, California learned of an investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”)
relating to Medicare services provided by the facility. The DOJ ultimately notified the facility that with respect to partial hospitalization and outpatient services, the DOJ believed that the medical record documentation did not
adequately support the claims submitted for reimbursement by Medicare. We reached a tentative financial settlement with the DOJ which is subject to the negotiation of a definitive settlement agreement. As part of that agreement, the
facility will be subject to a corporate integrity agreement. The reserve established in connection with this matter did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
Department of Justice Investigation of Friends Hospital:  In October, 2010, Friends Hospital in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, received a subpoena from the DOJ requesting certain documents from the facility. The requested documents have been collected and provided
to the DOJ for review and examination. Another subpoena was issued to the facility in July 2011 requesting additional documents. Those documents are being collected and will be provided to the DOJ. At present, we are uncertain as to the focus, scope
or extent of the investigation, liability of the facility and/or potential financial exposure, if any, in connection with this matter.  Department of Justice Investigation of Riveredge Hospital:  In 2008,
Riveredge Hospital in Chicago, Illinois received a subpoena from the DOJ requesting certain information from the facility. Additional requests for documents were also received from the DOJ in 2009 and 2010. The requested documents have been provided
to the DOJ and we continue to cooperate with the DOJ with respect to this investigation. At present, we are uncertain as to the focus, scope or extent of the investigation, liability of the facility and/or potential financial exposure, if any, in
connection with this matter. 
  35 


Table of Contents
Virginia Department of Medical Assistance Services Recoupment Claims: 
The Virginia Department of Medical Assistance Services (“DMAS”) has conducted audits at seven former PSI Residential Treatment
Centers operated in the Commonwealth of Virginia to confirm compliance with provider rules under the state’s Medicaid Provider Services Manual (“Manual”). As a result of those audits, DMAS claims the facilities failed to comply with
the requirements of the Manual and has requested repayment of Medicaid payments to those facilities. PSI had previously filed appeals to repayment demands at each facility which are currently pending. The aggregate refund of Medicaid payments made
to those facilities, as requested by DMAS, and the corresponding reserve established on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, was not material to our consolidated financial position or results of
operations.  General:  The healthcare industry is subject to numerous laws and regulations which include, among other things, matters such as government healthcare participation requirements, various licensure, certifications,
and accreditations, reimbursement for patient services, and Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse. Government action has increased with respect to investigations and/or allegations concerning possible violations of fraud and abuse and false claims
statutes and/or regulations by healthcare providers. Currently, and from time to time, some of our facilities are subjected to inquiries and/or actions and receive notices of potential non-compliance of laws and regulations from various federal and
state agencies. Providers that are found to have violated these laws and regulations may be excluded from participating in government healthcare programs, subjected to potential licensure, certification, and/or accreditation revocation, subjected to
fines or penalties or required to repay amounts received from the government for previously billed patient services. We monitor all aspects of our business and have developed a comprehensive ethics and compliance program that is designed to meet or
exceed applicable federal guidelines and industry standards. Because the law in this area is complex and constantly evolving, governmental investigation or litigation may result in interpretations that are inconsistent with industry practices,
including ours. Although we believe our policies, procedures and practices comply with governmental regulations, there is no assurance that we will not be faced with sanctions, fines or penalties in connection with such inquiries or actions,
including with respect to the investigations and other matters discussed herein. Even if we were to ultimately prevail, such inquiries and/or actions could have a material adverse effect on us. 
The outcome of any current or future litigation or governmental or internal investigations, including the matters described above, cannot
be accurately predicted, nor can we predict any resulting penalties, fines or other sanctions that may be imposed at the discretion of federal or state regulatory authorities. We record accruals for such contingencies to the extent that we conclude
it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. No estimate of the possible loss or range of loss in excess of amounts accrued, if any, can be made at this time regarding the matters
specifically described above because the inherently unpredictable nature of legal proceedings may be exacerbated by various factors, including, but not limited to: (i) the damages sought in the proceedings are unsubstantiated or indeterminate; (ii)
discovery is not complete; (iii) the proceeding is in its early stages; (iv) the matters present legal uncertainties; (v) there are significant facts in dispute; (vi) there are a large number of parties, or; (vii) there is a wide range of potential
outcomes. It is possible that the outcome of these matters could have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial position, cash flows and, potentially, our reputation. 
In addition, various suits and claims arising against us in the ordinary course of business are pending. In the opinion of management,
the outcome of such claims and litigation will not materially affect our consolidated financial position or results of operations.   


ITEM 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures  Not applicable. 
  36 


Table of Contents
PART II 
 


ITEM 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
Our Class B Common Stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. Shares of our Class A, Class C and Class D Common Stock are not
traded in any public market, but are each convertible into shares of our Class B Common Stock on a share-for-share basis. In November, 2009, we declared a two-for-one stock split in the form of a 100% stock dividend which was paid on
December 15, 2009 to shareholders of record as of December 1, 2009. All classes of common stock participated on a pro rata basis and, as required, all references to share quantities and share prices for all periods presented have been
adjusted to reflect the two-for-one stock split.  The table below sets forth, for the quarters indicated, the high and low
reported closing sales prices per share reported on the New York Stock Exchange for our Class B Common Stock for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
High-Low Sales Price
 
  
High-Low Sales Price
 

 Quarter:
  



  





1st
  
$
49.41-$42.06
  
  
$
36.59-$25.75
  


2nd
  
$
56.41-$46.13
  
  
$
43.36-$34.86
  


3rd 
  
$
54.64-$34.00
  
  
$
39.15-$31.06
  


4th 
  
$
42.90-$31.91
  
  
$
43.74-$37.21
  
 The number of stockholders of record as of January 31, 2012 were as follows: 
 








 Class A Common
  
 
20
  

 Class B Common
  
 
315
  

 Class C Common
  
 
3
  

 Class D Common
  
 
130
  
 Stock Repurchase Programs 
In various prior years, our Board of Directors has approved stock repurchase programs authorizing us to purchase shares of our outstanding
Class B Common Stock on the open market at prevailing market prices or in negotiated transactions off the market. There is no expiration date for our stock repurchase programs. The most recent approval occurred during 2007 at which time our Board of
Directors authorized the purchase of up to 10 million shares, a portion of which (as reflected below) remains available for purchase as of December 31, 2011. The following schedule provides information related to our stock repurchase
programs for each of the three years ended December 31, 2011:   
































 
 
AdditionalShares AuthorizedFor Repurchase
 
 
Total numberof sharespurchased(a)
 
 
Averageprice paidper sharefor forfeitedrestrictedshares
 
 
Totalnumberof sharespurchasedas part
ofpubliclyannouncedprograms
 
 
Averageprice paidper sharefor sharespurchasedas part
ofpubliclyannouncedprogram
 
 
Aggregatepurchaseprice paid(in thousands)
 
 
Maximumnumber ofshares thatmay yet bepurchasedunder
theprogram
 

 Balance as of January 1, 2009
 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
4,713,548
  

 2009
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,574,209
  
 
$
0.01
  
 
 
2,561,209
  
 
$
24.71
  
 
$
63,288
  
 
 
2,152,339
  

 2010
 
 
—  
  
 
 
301,933
  
 
$
0.01
  
 
 
293,933
  
 
$
39.22
  
 
$
11,528
  
 
 
1,858,406
  

 2011
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,602,286
  
 
$
0.01
  
 
 
1,602,286
  
 
$
37.75
  
 
$
60,482
  
 
 
256,120
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total for three year period ended December 31, 2011
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,478,428
  
 
$
0.01
  
 
 
4,457,428
  
 
$
30.35
  
 
$
135,298
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




  37 


Table of Contents
 


(a)
During 2010 and 2009, there were 8,000 and 13,000, respectively, of restricted shares that were forfeited by former employees pursuant to the terms of our restricted
stock purchase plan which are included in the total number of shares purchased. No such forfeitures occurred during 2011.  During the period of October 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011, we repurchased the following shares:   






























 
  
AdditionalSharesAuthorizedForRepurchase
 
  
Totalnumber ofsharespurchased
 
  
Averageprice paidper sharefor forfeitedrestrictedshares
  
TotalNumberof sharespurchasedas part
ofpubliclyannouncedprograms
 
  
Averageprice paidper sharefor sharespurchasedas part
ofpubliclyannouncedprogram
 
  
Aggregatepurchaseprice paid(in thousands)
 
  
Maximumnumber ofshares thatmay yet bepurchasedunder
theprogram
 

 October, 2011
  
 
—  
  
  
 
423,919
  
  
N/A
  
 
423,919
  
  
$
34.16
  
  
$
14,482
  
  
 
293,264
  

 November, 2011
  
 
—  
  
  
 
16,029
  
  
N/A
  
 
16,029
  
  
$
38.99
  
  
$
625
  
  
 
277,235
  

 December, 2011
  
 
—  
  
  
 
21,115
  
  
N/A
  
 
21,115
  
  
$
39.88
  
  
$
842
  
  
 
256,120
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total October through December
  
 
—  
  
  
 
461,063
  
  
N/A
  
 
461,063
  
  
$
34.59
  
  
$
15,949
  
  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



 Dividends  During the two years ending December 31, 2011, dividends per share were declared and paid as follows:   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 First quarter
  
$
.05
  
  
$
.05
  

 Second quarter
  
$
.05
  
  
$
.05
  

 Third quarter
  
$
.05
  
  
$
.05
  

 Fourth quarter
  
$
.05
  
  
$
.05
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
.20
  
  
$
.20
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  38 


Table of Contents
Stock Price Performance Graph 
The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock with the cumulative total return on the stock
included in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and a Peer Group Index during the five year period ended December 31, 2011. The graph assumes an investment of $100 made in our common stock and each Index as of January 1, 2007 and
has been weighted based on market capitalization. Note that our common stock price performance shown below should not be viewed as being indicative of future performance.  Companies in the peer group, which consist of companies in the S&P 500 Index or S&P MidCap 400 Index (in which we are also included), are as follows: Community Health Systems, Inc., Health
Management Associates, LifePoint Hospitals, Inc., Tenet Healthcare Corporation and HCA Holdings, Inc. (included from March, 2011 at which time the company’s stock began publicly trading). 
COMPARISON OF FIVE YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN  (The Company, S&P 500 and Peer Group)    

  




























 Company Name / Index
  
2006
 
  
2007
 
  
2008
 
  
2009
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 

 Universal Health Services, Inc
  
$
100.00
  
  
$
92.90
  
  
$
68.59
  
  
$
112.03
  
  
$
160.38
  
  
$
144.17
  

 S&P 500 Index
  
$
100.00
  
  
$
105.49
  
  
$
66.46
  
  
$
84.05
  
  
$
96.71
  
  
$
98.76
  

 Peer Group
  
$
100.00
  
  
$
75.30
  
  
$
30.58
  
  
$
80.66
  
  
$
94.13
  
  
$
67.09
  

  39 


Table of Contents


ITEM 6.
Selected Financial Data   The following table contains our selected financial data for, or as of the end of, each of the five years ended December 31, 2011. You should read this table in conjunction with the consolidated
financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report and in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  
 
























 
  
Year Ended December 31
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010 (4)
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Summary of Operations (in thousands)
  



 



 



 



 




 Net revenues
  
$
7,500,198
  
 
$
5,568,185
  
 
$
5,202,379
  
 
$
5,022,417
  
 
$
4,683,150
  

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes
  
$
696,336
  
 
$
428,097
  
 
$
474,722
  
 
$
357,012
  
 
$
318,628
  

 Net income attributable to UHS
  
$
398,167
  
 
$
230,183
  
 
$
260,373
  
 
$
199,377
  
 
$
170,387
  

 Net margin
  
 
5.3
% 
 
 
4.1
% 
 
 
5.0
% 
 
 
4.0
% 
 
 
3.6
% 

 Return on average equity
  
 
18.1
% 
 
 
12.1
% 
 
 
15.4
% 
 
 
13.0
% 
 
 
11.3
% 

 Financial Data (in thousands)
  



 



 



 



 




 Cash provided by operating activities
  
$
718,251
  
 
$
501,344
  
 
$
541,262
  
 
$
494,187
  
 
$
381,446
  

 Capital expenditures, net (1)
  
$
285,682
  
 
$
239,274
  
 
$
379,748
  
 
$
354,537
  
 
$
339,813
  

 Total assets
  
$
7,665,245
  
 
$
7,527,936
  
 
$
3,964,463
  
 
$
3,742,462
  
 
$
3,608,657
  

 Long-term borrowings
  
$
3,651,428
  
 
$
3,912,102
  
 
$
956,429
  
 
$
990,661
  
 
$
1,008,786
  

 UHS’s common stockholders’ equity
  
$
2,296,352
  
 
$
1,978,772
  
 
$
1,751,071
  
 
$
1,543,850
  
 
$
1,517,199
  

 Percentage of total debt to total capitalization
  
 
61
% 
 
 
66
% 
 
 
35
% 
 
 
39
% 
 
 
40
% 

 Operating Data—Acute Care Hospitals (2)
  



 



 



 



 




 Average licensed beds
  
 
5,726
  
 
 
5,689
  
 
 
5,484
  
 
 
5,452
  
 
 
5,292
  

 Average available beds
  
 
5,424
  
 
 
5,383
  
 
 
5,128
  
 
 
5,145
  
 
 
4,985
  

 Inpatient admissions
  
 
258,754
  
 
 
264,470
  
 
 
265,244
  
 
 
263,536
  
 
 
256,681
  

 Average length of patient stay
  
 
4.4
  
 
 
4.4
  
 
 
4.4
  
 
 
4.5
  
 
 
4.5
  

 Patient days
  
 
1,151,183
  
 
 
1,155,984
  
 
 
1,166,704
  
 
 
1,182,894
  
 
 
1,149,399
  

 Occupancy rate for licensed beds
  
 
55
% 
 
 
56
% 
 
 
58
% 
 
 
59
% 
 
 
60
% 

 Occupancy rate for available beds
  
 
58
% 
 
 
59
% 
 
 
62
% 
 
 
63
% 
 
 
63
% 

 Operating Data—Behavioral Health Facilities
  



 



 



 



 




 Average licensed beds
  
 
19,280
  
 
 
9,427
  
 
 
7,921
  
 
 
7,658
  
 
 
7,348
  

 Average available beds
  
 
19,262
  
 
 
9,409
  
 
 
7,901
  
 
 
7,629
  
 
 
7,315
  

 Inpatient admissions
  
 
352,208
  
 
 
166,434
  
 
 
136,639
  
 
 
129,553
  
 
 
119,730
  

 Average length of patient stay
  
 
14.6
  
 
 
15.1
  
 
 
15.4
  
 
 
16.1
  
 
 
16.8
  

 Patient days
  
 
5,157,454
  
 
 
2,507,046
  
 
 
2,105,625
  
 
 
2,085,114
  
 
 
2,007,119
  

 Occupancy rate for licensed beds
  
 
73
% 
 
 
73
% 
 
 
73
% 
 
 
74
% 
 
 
75
% 

 Occupancy rate for available beds
  
 
73
% 
 
 
73
% 
 
 
73
% 
 
 
75
% 
 
 
75
% 

 Per Share Data (3)
  



 



 



 



 




 Income from continuing operations attributable to UHS—basic
  
$
4.09
  
 
$
2.37
  
 
$
2.65
  
 
$
1.90
  
 
$
1.59
  

 Income from continuing operations attributable to UHS—diluted
  
$
4.04
  
 
$
2.34
  
 
$
2.64
  
 
$
1.90
  
 
$
1.59
  

 Net income attributable to UHS—basic
  
$
4.09
  
 
$
2.37
  
 
$
2.65
  
 
$
1.96
  
 
$
1.59
  

 Net income attributable to UHS—diluted
  
$
4.04
  
 
$
2.34
  
 
$
2.64
  
 
$
1.96
  
 
$
1.59
  

 Dividends declared
  
$
0.20
  
 
$
0.20
  
 
$
0.17
  
 
$
0.16
  
 
$
0.16
  

 Other Information (3) (in thousands)
  



 



 



 



 




 Weighted average number of shares outstanding—basic
  
 
97,199
  
 
 
96,786
  
 
 
97,794
  
 
 
101,222
  
 
 
106,762
  

 Weighted average number of shares and share equivalents outstanding—diluted
  
 
98,537
  
 
 
97,973
  
 
 
98,275
  
 
 
101,418
  
 
 
106,878
  
  


(1)
Amounts exclude non-cash capital lease obligations, if any. 


(2)
Excludes statistical information related to divested facilities and facilities held for sale. 


(3)
All periods have been adjusted to reflect the two-for-one stock split in the form of a 100% stock dividend paid in December, 2009. 


(4)
Includes data for the facilities acquired from PSI on November 15, 2010 from the date of acquisition through December 31, 2010, excluding the data for the 3
former PSI facilities that were divested by us during the third and fourth quarters of 2011 and reflected as discontinued operations, as discussed herein.
  40 


Table of Contents


ITEM 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
Overview  Our principal business is owning and operating, through our subsidiaries, acute care hospitals, behavioral health centers, surgical hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers and radiation oncology centers. As
of February 24, 2012, we owned and/or operated 25 acute care hospitals and 198 behavioral health centers located in 36 states, Washington, D.C., Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. As part of our ambulatory treatment centers division, we
manage and/or own outright or in partnerships with physicians, 6 surgical hospitals and surgery and radiation oncology centers located in 4 states and Puerto Rico.  In November, 2010, we acquired Psychiatric Solutions, Inc. (“PSI”). PSI was formerly the largest operator of freestanding inpatient behavioral health care facilities operating a total of 105
inpatient and outpatient facilities in 32 states, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.  Net revenues from our acute care
hospitals, surgical hospitals, surgery centers and radiation oncology centers accounted for 55% of our consolidated net revenues in 2011, 70% in 2010 and 74% in 2009. Net revenues from our behavioral health care facilities accounted for 45% of our
consolidated net revenues during 2011, 30% during 2010 and 25% during 2009. Approximately 1% of our consolidated net revenues in 2009 were recorded in connection with two construction management contracts pursuant to the terms of which we built
newly constructed acute care hospitals for an unrelated third party.  Services provided by our hospitals include general and
specialty surgery, internal medicine, obstetrics, emergency room care, radiology, oncology, diagnostic care, coronary care, pediatric services, pharmacy services and/or behavioral health services. We provide capital resources as well as a variety of
management services to our facilities, including central purchasing, information services, finance and control systems, facilities planning, physician recruitment services, administrative personnel management, marketing and public relations.
 Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors 
This Annual Report contains “forward-looking statements” that reflect our current estimates, expectations and projections about
our future results, performance, prospects and opportunities. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, the information concerning our possible future results of operations, business and growth strategies, financing plans, expectations
that regulatory developments or other matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition, our competitive position and the effects of competition, the projected growth of the industry in which we operate, and the
benefits and synergies to be obtained from our completed and any future acquisitions, and statements of our goals and objectives, and other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts. Words such as “may,”
“will,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “predicts,” “potential,” “continue,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “future,” “intends,” “plans,”
“believes,” “estimates,” “appears,” “projects” and similar expressions, as well as statements in future tense, identify forward-looking statements. 
Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate
indications of the times at, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking information is based on information available at the time and/or our good faith belief with respect to future events, and is subject to risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements. Such factors include, among other things, the following: 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to comply with the existing laws and government regulations, and/or changes in laws and government regulations;
  


 
•
 
 an increasing number of legislative initiatives have recently been passed into law that may result in major changes in the health care delivery system
on a national or state level. No assurances can be given that the implementation of these new laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations; 
  41 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 possible unfavorable changes in the levels and terms of reimbursement for our charges by third party payors or government programs, including Medicare
or Medicaid;   


 
•
 
 an increase in the number of uninsured and self-pay patients treated at our acute care facilities that unfavorably impacts our ability to
satisfactorily and timely collect our self-pay patient accounts;   


 
•
 
 our ability to enter into managed care provider agreements on acceptable terms and the ability of our competitors to do the same, including contracts
with United/Sierra Healthcare in Las Vegas, Nevada;   


 
•
 
 the outcome of known and unknown litigation, government investigations, false claim act allegations, and liabilities and other claims asserted against
us, including matters as disclosed in Item 3. Legal Proceedings;   


 
•
 
 the potential unfavorable impact on our business of deterioration in national, regional and local economic and business conditions, including a
continuation or worsening of unfavorable credit market conditions;   


 
•
 
 competition from other healthcare providers (including physician owned facilities) in certain markets, including McAllen/Edinburg, Texas, the site of
one of our largest acute care facilities and Riverside County, California;   


 
•
 
 technological and pharmaceutical improvements that increase the cost of providing, or reduce the demand for healthcare; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, nurses, physicians and other healthcare professionals and the impact on our labor expenses
resulting from a shortage of nurses and other healthcare professionals;   


 
•
 
 demographic changes;   


 
•
 
 our acquisition of PSI which has substantially increased our level of indebtedness which could, among other things, adversely affect our ability to
raise additional capital to fund operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and could potentially prevent us from meeting our obligations under the agreements related to our indebtedness;
  


 
•
 
 our ability to successfully integrate and improve our recent acquisitions and the availability of suitable acquisitions and divestiture opportunities;
  


 
•
 
 we receive Medicaid revenues in excess of $100 million annually from each of Texas, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Illinois and Washington, D.C., making
us particularly sensitive to reductions in Medicaid and other state based revenue programs (which have been implemented in various forms with respect to our areas of operation in the respective 2012 state fiscal years) as well as regulatory,
economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states. In the states in which we operate, based upon the state budgets for the 2012 fiscal year (which generally began at various times during the second half of 2011), we estimate that, on a
blended basis, our aggregate Medicaid rates have been reduced by approximately 3% to 4% (or approximately $45 million to $55 million annually) from the average rates in effect during the states’ 2011 fiscal years (which generally ended during
the third quarter of 2011). Our consolidated results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 include the pro rata portion of these Medicaid rate reductions. We can provide no assurance that further reductions to Medicaid
revenues (which have been proposed in certain states for fiscal year 2013), particularly in the above-mentioned states, will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to continue to obtain capital on acceptable terms, including borrowed funds, to fund the future growth of our business;
  


 
•
 
 some of our acute care facilities continue to experience decreasing inpatient admission trends; 
 


 
•
 
 our financial statements reflect large amounts due from various commercial and private payors and there can be no assurance that failure of the payors
to remit amounts due to us will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations; 
  42 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) published final regulations in July, 2010 implementing the health information technology
(“HIT”) provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (referred to as the “HITECH Act”). The final regulation defines the “meaningful use” of Electronic Health Records (“EHR”) and establishes the
requirements for the Medicare and Medicaid EHR payment incentive programs. The implementation period for these new Medicare and Medicaid incentive payments started in federal fiscal year 2011 and can end as late as 2016 for Medicare and 2021 for the
state Medicaid programs. Our acute care hospitals may qualify for these EHR incentive payments upon implementation of the EHR application assuming they meet the “meaningful use criteria”. Certain of our acute care hospitals
implemented an EHR application in 2011 and we plan to continue the implementation at each of our acute care hospitals, on a facility-by-facility basis, during 2012 and 2013. However, there can be no assurance that we (our acute care hospitals) will
ultimately qualify for these incentive payments and, should we qualify, we are unable to quantify the amount of incentive payments we may receive since the amounts are dependent upon various factors including the implementation timing at each
hospital. Should we qualify for incentive payments, there may be timing differences in the recognition of the revenues and expenses recorded in connection with the implementation of the EHR application which may cause material period-to-period
changes in our future results of operations. Hospitals that do not qualify as a meaningful user of EHR by 2015 are subject to a reduced market basket update to the inpatient prospective payment system (“IPPS”) standardized amount in 2015
and each subsequent fiscal year. Although we believe that our acute care hospitals will be in compliance with the EHR standards by 2015, there can be no assurance that all of our facilities will be in compliance and therefore not subject to the
penalty provision of the HITECH Act;   


 
•
 
 in August, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the “2011 Act”) was enacted into law. The 2011 Act imposed annual spending limits for most
federal agencies and programs aimed at reducing budget deficits by $917 billion between 2012 and 2021, according to a report released by the Congressional Budget Office. Among its other provisions, the law established a bipartisan Congressional
committee, known as the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction (the “Joint Committee”), which was tasked with making recommendations aimed at reducing future federal budget deficits by an additional $1.5 trillion over 10 years. The
Joint Committee was unable to reach an agreement by the November 23, 2011 deadline and, as a result, across-the-board cuts to discretionary, national defense and Medicare spending were implemented which, if triggered, would result in Medicare
payment reductions of up to 2% per fiscal year with a uniform percentage reduction across all Medicare programs starting in 2013. We cannot predict whether Congress will attempt to suspend or restructure the automatic budget cuts or what other
deficit reduction initiatives may be proposed by Congress;   


 
•
 
 the ability to obtain adequate levels of general and professional liability insurance on current terms; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in our business strategies or development plans; 
 


 
•
 
 fluctuations in the value of our common stock, and;   


 
•
 
 other factors referenced herein or in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Given these uncertainties, risks and assumptions, as outlined above, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such
forward-looking statements. Our actual results and financial condition could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements are made. We
assume no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information, except as may be required by law. All forward-looking
statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement.  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.

  43 


Table of Contents
A summary of our significant accounting policies is outlined in Note 1 to the financial
statements. We consider our critical accounting policies to be those that require us to make significant judgments and estimates when we prepare our financial statements, including the following: 
Revenue recognition: We record revenues and related receivables for health care services at the time the services are
provided. Medicare and Medicaid revenues represented 37% of our net patient revenues during 2011 and 38% during each of 2010 and 2009. Revenues from managed care entities, including health maintenance organizations and managed Medicare and Medicaid
programs accounted for 43% of our net patient revenues during 2011 and 46% during each of 2010 and 2009.  We report net
patient service revenue at the estimated net realizable amounts from patients and third-party payors and others for services rendered. We have agreements with third-party payors that provide for payments to us at amounts different from our
established rates. Payment arrangements include prospectively determined rates per discharge, reimbursed costs, discounted charges and per diem payments. Estimates of contractual allowances under managed care plans are based upon the payment terms
specified in the related contractual agreements. We closely monitor our historical collection rates, as well as changes in applicable laws, rules and regulations and contract terms, to assure that provisions are made using the most accurate
information available. However, due to the complexities involved in these estimations, actual payments from payors may be different from the amounts we estimate and record.  We estimate our Medicare and Medicaid revenues using the latest available financial information, patient utilization data, government provided data and in accordance with applicable Medicare and Medicaid
payment rules and regulations. The laws and regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs are extremely complex and subject to interpretation and as a result, there is at least a reasonable possibility that recorded estimates will change
by material amounts in the near term. Certain types of payments by the Medicare program and state Medicaid programs (e.g. Medicare Disproportionate Share Hospital, Medicare Allowable Bad Debts and Inpatient Psychiatric Services) are subject to
retroactive adjustment in future periods as a result of administrative review and audit and our estimates may vary from the final settlements. Such amounts are included in accounts receivable, net, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The funding of
both federal Medicare and state Medicaid programs are subject to legislative and regulatory changes. As such, we cannot provide any assurance that future legislation and regulations, if enacted, will not have a material impact on our future Medicare
and Medicaid reimbursements. Adjustments related to the final settlement of these retrospectively determined amounts did not materially impact our results in 2011, 2010 or 2009. If it were to occur, each 1% adjustment to our estimated net Medicare
revenues that are subject to retrospective review and settlement as of December 31, 2011, would change our after-tax net income by approximately $2 million.  We provide care to patients who meet certain financial or economic criteria without charge or at amounts substantially less than our established rates. Because we do not pursue collection of amounts
determined to qualify as charity care, they are not reported in net revenues or in accounts receivable, net. Our acute care hospitals provided charity care and uninsured discounts, based on charges at established rates, amounting to $956 million,
$807 million and $671 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  A portion of the accounts receivable at our acute
care facilities are comprised of Medicaid accounts that are pending approval from third-party payers but we also have smaller amounts due from other miscellaneous payers such as county indigent programs in certain states. Our patient registration
process includes an interview of the patient or the patient’s responsible party at the time of registration. At that time, an insurance eligibility determination is made and an insurance plan code is assigned. There are various pre-established
insurance profiles in our patient accounting system which determine the expected insurance reimbursement for each patient based on the insurance plan code assigned and the services rendered. Certain patients may be classified as Medicaid pending at
registration based upon a screening evaluation if we are unable to definitively determine if they are currently Medicaid eligible. When a patient is registered as Medicaid eligible or Medicaid pending our patient accounting system records net
revenues for the services provided to that patient based upon the established Medicaid 
  44 


Table of Contents

reimbursement rates pending ultimate disposition of the patient’s Medicaid eligibility. Based on general factors as discussed below in Provision for Doubtful Accounts, our acute care
facilities make estimates at each financial reporting period to reserve for amounts that are deemed to be uncollectible. Such estimated uncollectible amounts related to Medicaid pending, as well as other accounts receivable payer classifications,
are considered when the overall individual facility and company-wide reserves are developed. Adjustments related to the final determination of these accounts did not materially impact our results of operations in 2011, 2010 or 2009. 
Provision for Doubtful Accounts: Collection of receivables from third-party payers and patients is our primary source of cash
and is critical to our operating performance. Our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill which is the patient’s responsibility, primarily co-payments and deductibles. We estimate our provisions for
doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payer mix, the agings of the receivables and historical collection experience. We routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions which
might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. At our acute care hospitals, third party liability accounts are pursued until all payment and adjustments are posted to the
patient account. For those accounts with a patient balance after third party liability is finalized or accounts for uninsured patients, the patient receives statements and collection letters. Patients that express an inability to pay are reviewed
for potential sources of financial assistance including our charity care policy. If the patient is deemed unwilling to pay, the account is written-off as bad debt and transferred to an outside collection agency for additional collection effort.
 Uninsured patients that do not qualify as charity patients are extended an uninsured discount of at least 20% of total
charges. During the collection process the hospital establishes a partial reserve in the allowance for doubtful accounts for self-pay balances outstanding for greater than 60 days from the date of discharge. All self-pay accounts at the hospital
level are fully reserved if they have been outstanding for greater than 90 days from the date of discharge. Third party liability accounts are fully reserved in the allowance for doubtful accounts when the balance ages past 180 days from the date of
discharge. Potential charity accounts are fully reserved when it is determined the patient may be unable to pay.  As of
December 31, 2011, our accounts receivable includes $54 million due from Illinois, the collection of which has been delayed due to budgetary and funding pressures experienced by the state. Although approximately $41 million of the receivables due
from Illinois have been outstanding in excess of 60 days (as of December 31, 2011), and a large portion will likely remain outstanding for the foreseeable future, we expect to eventually collect all amounts due to us and therefore no related
reserves have been established in our consolidated financial statements. However, we can provide no assurance that we will eventually collect all amounts due to us from Illinois. Failure to ultimately collect all outstanding amounts due from
Illinois would have an adverse impact on our future consolidated results of operations and cash flows.  On a consolidated
basis, we monitor our total self-pay receivables to ensure that the total allowance for doubtful accounts provides adequate coverage based on historical collection experience. Our accounts receivable are recorded net of allowance for doubtful
accounts of $253 million and $249 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
  45 


Table of Contents
Approximately 93% during 2011, 93% during 2010 and 94% during 2009, of our consolidated
provision for doubtful accounts, was incurred by our acute care hospitals. Shown below is our payer mix concentrations and related aging of our billed accounts receivable, net of contractual allowances, for our acute care hospitals as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010:  As of December 31, 2011: 
 




















(amounts in thousands)
  
0-60 days
 
  
61-120 days
 
  
121-180 days
 
  
Over 180 days
 

 Medicare
  
$
62,219
  
  
$
3,890
  
  
$
1,190
  
  
$
2,962
  

 Medicaid
  
 
27,891
  
  
 
15,622
  
  
 
9,288
  
  
 
24,847
  

 Commercial insurance and other
  
 
221,850
  
  
 
63,216
  
  
 
30,984
  
  
 
68,118
  

 Private pay
  
 
105,841
  
  
 
77,267
  
  
 
9,594
  
  
 
18,826
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
417,801
  
  
$
159,995
  
  
$
51,056
  
  
$
114,753
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 As of December 31, 2010:   




















(amounts in thousands)
  
0-60 days
 
  
61-120 days
 
  
121-180 days
 
  
Over 180 days
 

 Medicare
  
$
56,586
  
  
$
2,868
  
  
$
824
  
  
$
1,214
  

 Medicaid
  
 
29,166
  
  
 
13,280
  
  
 
6,865
  
  
 
19,135
  

 Commercial insurance and other
  
 
201,609
  
  
 
50,479
  
  
 
23,210
  
  
 
42,459
  

 Private pay
  
 
92,246
  
  
 
73,470
  
  
 
23,372
  
  
 
21,815
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
379,607
  
  
$
140,097
  
  
$
54,271
  
  
$
84,623
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Self-Insured Risks: We provide for self-insured risks, primarily general and professional
liability claims and workers’ compensation claims. Our estimated liability for self-insured professional and general liability claims is based on a number of factors including, among other things, the number of asserted claims and reported
incidents, estimates of losses for these claims based on recent and historical settlement amounts, estimate of incurred but not reported claims based on historical experience, and estimates of amounts recoverable under our commercial insurance
policies. All relevant information, including our own historical experience is used in estimating the expected amount of claims. While we continuously monitor these factors, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could
change materially from our current estimates due to inherent uncertainties involved in making this estimate. Our estimated self-insured reserves are reviewed and changed, if necessary, at each reporting date and changes are recognized currently as
additional expense or as a reduction of expense. Given our significant self-insured exposure for professional and general liability claims, there can be no assurance that a sharp increase in the number and/or severity of claims asserted against us
will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations.  Professional and General Liability
 Effective January 1, 2008, most of our subsidiaries became self-insured for professional and general liability
exposure up to $10 million per occurrence (as compared to $20 million per occurrence prior to 2008). Prior to our acquisition of PSI in November, 2010, our subsidiaries purchased several excess policies through commercial insurance carriers which
provide for coverage in excess of $10 million up to $200 million per occurrence and in the aggregate. However, we are liable for 10% of the claims paid pursuant to the commercially insured coverage in excess of $10 million up to $60 million per
occurrence and in the aggregate.  Prior to our acquisition in November, 2010, the PSI subsidiaries were commercially insured
for professional and general liability insurance claims in excess of a $3 million self-insured retention to a limit of $75 million. PSI utilized its captive insurance company and that captive insurance company remains in place after our
acquisition of PSI to manage the self-insured retention for all former PSI subsidiaries for claims incurred prior to 
  46 


Table of Contents

January 1, 2011. The captive insurance company also continues to manage the applicable self-insured retention for all professional and general liability claims, regardless of date incurred,
for the former PSI subsidiaries located in Florida and Puerto Rico.  Since our acquisition of PSI on November 15, 2010,
the former PSI subsidiaries are self-insured for professional and general liability exposure up to $3 million per occurrence and our legacy subsidiaries (which are not former PSI subsidiaries) are self-insured for professional and general liability
exposure up to $10 million per occurrence. Effective November, 2010, our subsidiaries (including the former PSI subsidiaries) were provided with several excess policies through commercial insurance carriers which provide for coverage in excess of
the applicable per occurrence self-insured retention (either $3 million or $10 million) up to $200 million per occurrence and in the aggregate. We remain liable for 10% of the claims paid pursuant to the commercially insured coverage in excess of
$10 million up to $60 million per occurrence and in the aggregate.  Our estimated liability for self-insured professional and
general liability claims is based on a number of factors including, among other things, the number of asserted claims and reported incidents, estimates of losses for these claims based on recent and historical settlement amounts, estimates of
incurred but not reported claims based on historical experience, and estimates of amounts recoverable under our commercial insurance policies. While we continuously monitor these factors, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability
claims could change materially from our current estimates due to inherent uncertainties involved in making this estimate. Given our significant self-insured exposure for professional and general liability claims, there can be no assurance that a
sharp increase in the number and/or severity of claims asserted against us will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations.  As of December 31, 2011, the total accrual for our professional and general liability claims, including the estimated claims related to the facilities acquired from PSI, was $292 million, of which
$60 million is included in current liabilities. As of December 31, 2010, the total accrual for our professional and general liability claims was $289 million, of which $60 million is included in other current liabilities. 
Based upon the results of reserve analyses, we recorded reductions to our professional and general liability self-insurance reserves
(relating to prior years) amounting to $11 million during 2011, $49 million during 2010 and $23 million during 2009. The favorable change recorded during 2011 consisted primarily of third-party recoveries and reserve reductions in connection with
PHICO–related claims which we became liable for upon PHICO’s (a former commercial insurance carrier) liquidation in 2002. The favorable changes in our estimated future claims payments recorded during 2010 and 2009 were due to: (i) an
increased weighting given to company-specific metrics (to 75% from 50%), and decreased general industry metrics (to 25% from 50%), related to projected incidents per exposure, historical claims experience and loss development factors;
(ii) historical data which measured the realized favorable impact of medical malpractice tort reform experienced in several states in which we operate, and; (iii) a decrease in claims related to certain higher risk specialties (such as
obstetrical) due to a continuation of the company-wide patient safety initiative undertaken during the last several years. As the number of our facilities and our patient volumes have increased, thereby providing for a statistically significant data
group, and taking into consideration our long-history of company-specific risk management programs and claims experience, our reserve analyses have included a greater emphasis on our historical professional and general liability experience which has
developed favorably as compared to general industry trends.  Based upon the results of workers’ compensation reserves
analyses, we recorded reductions to our prior year reserves for workers’ compensation claims amounting to $4 million during 2010 and $7 million during 2009. There were no such adjustments recorded during 2011. 
Although we are unable to predict whether or not our future financial statements will include adjustments to our prior year reserves for
self-insured general and professional and workers’ compensation claims, given the relatively unpredictable nature of the these potential liabilities and the factors impacting these reserves as discussed above, it is reasonably likely that our
future financial results may include material adjustments to prior period reserves. 
  47 


Table of Contents
Below is a schedule showing the changes in our general and professional liability and
workers’ compensation reserves during the three years ended December 31, 2011 (amount in thousands):   
















 
  
General andProfessionalLiability
 
 
Workers’Compensation
 
 
Total
 

 Balance at January 1, 2009
  
$
271,110
  
 
$
48,497
  
 
$
319,607
  

 Plus: accrued insurance expense, net of commercial premiums paid (a) (b)
  
 
34,963
  
 
 
9,351
  
 
 
44 314
  

 Less: Payments made in settlement of self-insured claims
  
 
(40,465
) 
 
 
(15,317
) 
 
 
(55,782
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at January 1, 2010
  
 
265,608
  
 
 
42,531
  
 
 
308,139
  

 Plus: accrued insurance expense, net of commercial premiums paid (a) (b)
  
 
4,742
  
 
 
14,997
  
 
 
19,739
  

 Less: Payments made in settlement of self-insured claims
  
 
(31,713
) 
 
 
(18,460
) 
 
 
(50,173
) 

 Plus: Liabilities assumed in the acquisition of PSI
  
 
50,800
  
 
 
31,956
  
 
 
82,756
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at January 1, 2011
  
 
289,437
  
 
 
71,024
  
 
 
360,461
  

 Plus: accrued insurance expense, net of commercial premiums paid (a)
  
 
50,865
  
 
 
32,747
  
 
 
83,612
  

 Less: Payments made in settlement of self-insured claims
  
 
(43,786
) 
 
 
(38,845
) 
 
 
(82,631
) 

 Less: Adjustments to liabilities assumed in the acquisition of PSI
  
 
(4,467
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4,467
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
292,049
  
 
$
64,926
  
 
$
356,975
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(a)
General and professional liability amounts are net of adjustments recorded during each year, as discussed above. 


(b)
Workers’ compensation amounts for 2009 and 2010 are net of adjustments recorded during each year as discussed above. 
In addition, we also maintain self-insured employee benefits programs for employee healthcare and dental claims. The ultimate costs
related to these programs include expenses for claims incurred and paid in addition to an accrual for the estimated expenses incurred in connection with claims incurred but not yet reported. 
Property Insurance:  We have commercial property insurance policies covering catastrophic losses, including windstorm damage, up to a $1 billion policy limit per occurrence, subject to a $250,000 deductible. Losses resulting
from named windstorms are subject to deductibles between 3% and 5% of the declared total insurable value of the property. In addition, we have commercial property insurance policies covering catastrophic losses resulting from earthquake and flood
damage, each subject to aggregated loss limits (as opposed to per occurrence losses). Our earthquake limit is $250 million, subject to a deductible of $250,000, except for facilities located within documented fault zones. Earthquake losses that
affect facilities located in fault zones within the United States are subject to a $100 million limit and will have applied deductibles ranging from 1% to 5% of the declared total insurable value of the property. The earthquake limit in Puerto Rico
is $25 million. Flood losses have either a $250,000 or $500,000 deductible, based upon the location of the facility.  Our
property insurance coverage is scheduled for renewal on June 1, 2012. Due to an increase in property losses experienced nationwide in recent years, the cost of commercial property insurance has increased. As a result, catastrophic coverage for
earthquake and flood has been limited to annual aggregate losses (as opposed to per occurrence losses). Given these insurance market conditions, there can be no assurance that a continuation of these unfavorable trends, or a sharp increase in
uninsured property losses sustained by us, will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. 
  48 


Table of Contents
Long-Lived Assets: We review our long-lived assets, including amortizable
intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. The assessment of possible impairment is based on our ability to recover the carrying value of our asset
based on our estimate of its undiscounted future cash flow. If the analysis indicates that the carrying value is not recoverable from future cash flows, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value and an impairment loss is recognized. Fair
values are determined based on estimated future cash flows using appropriate discount rates. 
Goodwill: Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis or sooner if
the indicators of impairment arise. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on market conditions and operational performance of each reporting unit. We have designated September 1st as our annual impairment assessment date and performed an impairment
assessment as of September 1, 2011 which indicated no impairment of goodwill. Future changes in the estimates used to conduct the impairment review, including profitability and market value projections, could indicate impairment in future
periods potentially resulting in a write-off of a portion or all of our goodwill.  Income Taxes: Deferred tax
assets and liabilities are recognized for the amount of taxes payable or deductible in future years as a result of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements. We believe that
future income will enable us to realize our deferred tax assets net of recorded valuation allowances relating to state net operating loss carry-forwards.  We operate in multiple jurisdictions with varying tax laws. We are subject to audits by any of these taxing authorities. Our tax returns have been examined by the Internal Revenue Service
(“IRS”) through the year ended December 31, 2006. We believe that adequate accruals have been provided for federal, foreign and state taxes.  See Provision for Income Taxes and Effective Tax Rates below for discussion of our effective tax rates during each of the last three years. 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements: For a summary of recent accounting pronouncements, please see Note 1 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements as included in this Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. 
  49 


Table of Contents
Results of Operations 
The following table summarizes our results of operations, and is used in the discussion below, for the years ended December 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009 (dollar amounts in thousands):   




























 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

  
2011
 
  
 
 
 
2010
 
  
 
 
 
2009
 
  
 
 

 Net revenues
  
$
7,500,198
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
5,568,185
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
5,202,379
  
  
 
100.0
% 

 Operating charges:
  



  



 



  



 



  




 Salaries, wages and benefits
  
 
3,394,967
  
  
 
45.2
% 
 
 
2,423,102
  
  
 
43.5
% 
 
 
2,204,422
  
  
 
42.4
% 

 Other operating expenses
  
 
1,385,680
  
  
 
18.6
% 
 
 
1,005,288
  
  
 
18.1
% 
 
 
994,923
  
  
 
19.1
% 

 Supplies expense
  
 
821,811
  
  
 
11.0
% 
 
 
733,093
  
  
 
13.2
% 
 
 
699,249
  
  
 
13.4
% 

 Provision for doubtful accounts
  
 
613,619
  
  
 
8.2
% 
 
 
546,909
  
  
 
9.8
% 
 
 
508,603
  
  
 
9.8
% 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
295,228
  
  
 
3.9
% 
 
 
223,915
  
  
 
4.0
% 
 
 
204,703
  
  
 
3.9
% 

 Lease and rental expense
  
 
91,765
  
  
 
1.2
% 
 
 
76,961
  
  
 
1.4
% 
 
 
69,947
  
  
 
1.3
% 

 Transaction costs
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
53,220
  
  
 
1.0
% 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
6,603,070
  
  
 
88.0
% 
 
 
5,062,488
  
  
 
90.9
% 
 
 
4,681,847
  
  
 
90.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
897,128
  
  
 
12.0
% 
 
 
505,697
  
  
 
9.1
% 
 
 
520,532
  
  
 
10.0
% 

 Interest expense, net
  
 
200,792
  
  
 
2.7
% 
 
 
77,600
  
  
 
1.4
% 
 
 
45,810
  
  
 
0.9
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
 
696,336
  
  
 
9.3
% 
 
 
428,097
  
  
 
7.7
% 
 
 
474,722
  
  
 
9.1
% 

 Provision for income taxes
  
 
247,466
  
  
 
3.3
% 
 
 
152,302
  
  
 
2.7
% 
 
 
170,475
  
  
 
3.3
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income
  
 
448,870
  
  
 
6.0
% 
 
 
275,795
  
  
 
5.0
% 
 
 
304,247
  
  
 
5.8
% 

 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
50,703
  
  
 
0.7
% 
 
 
45,612
  
  
 
0.9
% 
 
 
43,874
  
  
 
0.8
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to UHS
  
$
398,167
  
  
 
5.3
% 
 
$
230,183
  
  
 
4.1
% 
 
$
260,373
  
  
 
5.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Year Ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the Year Ended December 31,
2010: Net revenues increased 35% or $1.93 billion to $7.50 billion during 2011 as compared to $5.57 billion during
2010. The increase was primarily attributable to:   


 
•
 
 a $267 million or 5% increase in net revenues generated at our acute care hospitals and behavioral health care facilities owned during both periods
(which we refer to as “same facility”, and includes change in revenues for the facilities acquired by us from PSI for the month of December, 2011 as compared to December, 2010), and; 
 


 
•
 
 $1.68 billion increase in revenues at the facilities acquired by us from PSI (includes the period of January through November of 2011 as compared to
November 15th through November 30th of 2010).
 Income before income taxes (before deduction for income attributable to noncontrolling interests) increased
$268 million to $696 million during 2011 as compared to $428 million during 2010. Included in our income before income taxes during 2011, as compared to 2010, was the following: 
 


 
•
 
 an increase of $14 million at our acute care facilities, as discussed below in Acute Care Hospital Services, exclusive of: (i) the $32
million net unfavorable change in the reductions recorded during 2011 and 2010 to our professional and general liability reserves, as discussed above in Self-Insured Risks (the amounts attributable to our acute care hospitals were $10 million
in 2011 and $42 million in 2010), and; (ii) the favorable change caused by the $7 million charge recorded during 2010 to write-off certain costs related to an acute care hospital construction project; 
 


 
•
 
 an increase of $385 million at our behavioral health care facilities, as discussed below in Behavioral Health Services, exclusive of the $6
million net unfavorable change in the reductions recorded during 
  50 


Table of Contents


 
 
2011 and 2010 to our professional and general liability reserves, as discussed above in Self-Insured Risks (the amounts attributable to our behavioral health care facilities were $1
million in 2011 and $7 million in 2010);   


 
•
 
 a decrease of $123 million due to an increase in interest expense resulting primarily from the cost of borrowings utilized to finance the acquisition
of PSI in November, 2010;   


 
•
 
 a net decrease of $38 million resulting from the reductions recorded during 2011 and 2010 to our professional and general liability reserves, as
discussed above in Self-Insured Risks ($11 million reduction recorded during 2011 and $49 million reduction during 2010);   


 
•
 
 an increase of $53 million resulting from the transaction fees incurred during 2010 in connection with our acquisition of PSI, and;
  


 
•
 
 a net decrease of $23 million from other combined net unfavorable changes consisting of: (i) a $9 million increase resulting from the charge
incurred during 2010 in connection with split-dollar life insurance agreements entered into during 2010 on the lives of our chief executive officer and his wife; (ii) a $7 million increase resulting from the charge recorded during 2010 to
write-off certain costs related to an acute care hospital construction project, and; (iii) a net decrease of $39 million from other combined net unfavorable changes including the corporate overhead expenses incurred in connection with the
behavioral health care facilities acquired from PSI.  Net income attributable to UHS increased $168 million
to $398 million during 2011 as compared to $230 million during 2010. The increase consisted of:   


 
•
 
 an increase of $268 million in income before income taxes, as discussed above; 
 


 
•
 
 a decrease of $5 million resulting from an increase in income attributable to noncontrolling interests, and; 
 


 
•
 
 a decrease of $95 million resulting from an increase in the provision for income taxes resulting primarily from: (i) a net increase in pre-tax
income of $263 million ($268 million increase in income before income taxes net of the $5 million increase in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests), and; (ii) a $4 million favorable discrete tax item recorded during the third
quarter of 2010.  Year Ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the Year Ended December 31,
2009:  Net revenues increased 7% or $366 million to $5.57 billion during 2010 as compared to $5.20 billion
during 2009. The increase was attributable to:   


 
•
 
 a $169 million or 3% increase in net revenues generated at our acute care hospitals and behavioral health care facilities, on a same facility basis;
  


 
•
 
 $227 million of combined behavioral health revenues generated during the period of November 16, 2010 to December 31, 2010 at the facilities
acquired by us from PSI, and;   


 
•
 
 $30 million of other combined net decreases in revenues resulting primarily from decreased revenues earned during 2010 in connection with construction
management contract pursuant to the terms of which we built a newly constructed acute care hospital for an unrelated third party that was completed during the fourth quarter of 2009. 
Income from continuing operations before income taxes decreased $47 million to $428 million during 2010 as compared to $475 million
during 2009 due to the following:   


 
•
 
 a decrease of $33 million at our acute care facilities, as discussed below in Acute Care Hospital Services, exclusive of: (i) the $22
million net favorable effect of the reductions recorded during 2010 and 2009 to our professional and general liability reserves, as discussed above in Self-Insured Risks (the amounts attributable to our acute care hospitals were $42 million
in 2010 and $20 million in 
  51 


Table of Contents
2009); (ii) the $5 million net unfavorable effect of the reduction to our workers’
compensation self insurance reserves recorded during 2009 that related to years prior to 2009, and; (iii) the unfavorable effect of the $7 million charge recorded during 2010 to write-off certain costs related to an acute care hospital
construction project;   


 
•
 
 an increase of $62 million at our behavioral health care facilities as discussed below in Behavioral Health Services exclusive of: (i) the
$4 million net favorable effect of the reductions recorded during 2010 and 2009 to our professional and general liability reserves, as discussed above in Self-Insured Risks (the amounts attributable to our behavioral health care facilities
were $7 million in 2010 and $3 million in 2009), and; (ii) the $2 million unfavorable effect of the reduction to our workers’ compensation self insurance reserves recorded during 2009 that related to years prior to 2009;
  


 
•
 
 a decrease of $53 million resulting from the transaction fees incurred during 2010 in connection with our acquisition of PSI;
  


 
•
 
 a decrease of $32 million resulting from an increase in interest expense resulting primarily from the cost of borrowings incurred to finance the
acquisition of PSI;   


 
•
 
 a net increase of $26 million resulting from the reductions recorded during 2010 and 2009 to our professional and general liability reserves, as
discussed above in Self-Insured Risks ($49 million reduction recorded during 2010 and $23 million reduction during 2009), and;   


 
•
 
 a net decrease of $17 million from other combined net unfavorable changes consisting of: (i) a $9 million decrease resulting from the charge
incurred during 2010 in connection with the previously disclosed split-dollar life insurance agreements entered into during 2010 on the lives of our chief executive officer and his wife; (ii) a $7 million decrease resulting from the charge
recorded during 2010 to write-off certain costs related to an acute care hospital construction project; (iii) a $7 million decrease resulting from a reduction to our workers’ compensation self insurance reserves recorded during 2009 that
related to years prior to 2009, and; (iv) a net increase of $6 million from other combined net favorable changes.  Net income attributable to UHS decreased $30 million to $230 million during 2010 as compared to $260 million during 2009 due to the following: 
 


 
•
 
 the $47 million decrease in income from continuing operations before income taxes, as discussed above; 
 


 
•
 
 an unfavorable change of $2 million in the net income attributable to noncontrolling interests; 
 


 
•
 
 a favorable change of $19 million resulting from a decrease in the provision for income taxes resulting from the $49 million decrease in pre-tax income
($47 million decrease income from continuing operations and $2 million increase in income attributable to noncontrolling interests) and certain other nondeductible items as discussed below in Provision for Income Taxes and Effective Tax
Rates. 
  52 


Table of Contents
Acute Care Hospital Services 
Year Ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2010: 
The following table summarizes the results of operations for our acute care facilities on a same facility basis and is used in the
discussions below for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (dollar amounts in thousands):   




















 
  
Year EndedDecember 31, 2011
 
 
Year EndedDecember 31, 2010
 

 Acute Care Hospitals—Same Facility Basis
  
Amount
 
  
% ofRevenues
 
 
Amount
 
  
% ofRevenues
 

 Net revenues
  
$
4,071,570
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,901,815
  
  
 
100.0
% 

 Operating charges:
  



  



 



  




 Salaries, wages and benefits
  
 
1,569,780
  
  
 
38.6
% 
 
 
1,489,335
  
  
 
38.2
% 

 Other operating expenses
  
 
730,977
  
  
 
18.0
% 
 
 
697,703
  
  
 
17.9
% 

 Supplies expense
  
 
637,549
  
  
 
15.7
% 
 
 
640,451
  
  
 
16.4
% 

 Provision for doubtful accounts
  
 
535,367
  
  
 
13.1
% 
 
 
509,681
  
  
 
13.1
% 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
198,038
  
  
 
4.9
% 
 
 
178,634
  
  
 
4.6
% 

 Lease and rental expense
  
 
54,209
  
  
 
1.3
% 
 
 
54,867
  
  
 
1.4
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
3,725,920
  
  
 
91.5
% 
 
 
3,570,671
  
  
 
91.5
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
345,650
  
  
 
8.5
% 
 
 
331,144
  
  
 
8.5
% 

 Interest expense, net
  
 
3,903
  
  
 
0.1
% 
 
 
3,411
  
  
 
0.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
$
341,747
  
  
 
8.4
% 
 
$
327,733
  
  
 
8.5
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 On a same facility basis during 2011, as compared to 2010, net revenues at our acute care hospitals
increased $170 million or 4%. Income before income taxes increased $14 million or 4% to $342 million or 8.4% of net revenues during 2011 as compared to $328 million or 8.5% of net revenues during 2010. 
Inpatient admissions to these facilities decreased 2.2% during 2011, as compared to 2010, while patient days decreased 0.4%. Adjusted
admissions (adjusted for outpatient activity) decreased 0.1% and adjusted patient days increased 1.7% during 2011, as compared to 2010. The average length of inpatient stay at these facilities was 4.4 days during each of 2011 and 2010. The occupancy
rate, based on the average available beds at these facilities, was 58% during 2011 and 59% during 2010.  On a same facility
basis, net revenue per adjusted admission at these facilities increased 4.5% during 2011, as compared to 2010, and net revenue per adjusted patient day increased 2.6% during 2011, as compared to 2010. 
The increase in income before income taxes at our acute care hospitals during 2011, as compared to 2010, was due primarily to favorable
operating trends experienced during the first six months of 2011 (a favorable change in payor mix and acuity of patients treated at our hospitals, a stabilization of our uninsured patient volumes and a reduction in our supplies expense). These
favorable operating trends moderated during the second half of 2011.  A significant portion of the patients treated throughout
our portfolio of acute care hospitals are uninsured patients which, in part, has resulted from an increase in the number of patients who are employed but do not have health insurance or who have policies with relatively high deductibles. We provide
care to patients who meet certain financial or economic criteria without charge or at amounts substantially less than our established rates. Because we do not pursue collection of amounts that qualify as charity care, they are not reported in net
revenues or in accounts receivable, net. Our acute care hospitals provided charity care and uninsured discounts, based on charges at established rates, amounting to $956 million during 2011 and $807 million during 2010. 
  53 


Table of Contents
The estimated cost of providing the charity services was $173 million during 2011 and $158
million during 2010. The estimated costs were based on a calculation which multiplied the percentage of operating expenses for our acute care hospitals to gross charges for those hospitals by the above-mentioned gross charity care and uninsured
discount amounts. The percentage of cost to gross charges is calculated based on the total operating expenses for our acute care facilities (excluding provision for doubtful accounts) divided by gross patient service revenue for those facilities. An
increase in the level of uninsured patients to our facilities and the resulting adverse trends in the provision for doubtful accounts and charity care provided could have a material unfavorable impact on our future operating results. 
The following table summarizes the results of operations for all our acute care operations during 2011 and 2010. Included in these
results, in addition to the same facility results shown above, is: (i) the favorable effect of $10 million recorded during 2011 and $42 million recorded during 2010 resulting from reductions to our professional and general liability self
insurance reserves, as discussed above in Self-Insured Risks, and; (ii) the unfavorable effect of $7 million recorded during 2010 to write-off certain costs related to an acute care hospital construction project (dollar amounts in
thousands):   




















 
  
Year EndedDecember 31, 2011
 
 
Year EndedDecember 31, 2010
 

 All Acute Care Hospitals
  
Amount
 
  
% ofRevenues
 
 
Amount
 
  
% ofRevenues
 

 Net revenues
  
$
4,071,570
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,901,815
  
  
 
100.0
% 

 Operating charges:
  



  



 



  




 Salaries, wages and benefits
  
 
1,569,780
  
  
 
38.6
% 
 
 
1,489,335
  
  
 
38.2
% 

 Other operating expenses
  
 
720,807
  
  
 
17.7
% 
 
 
662,009
  
  
 
17.0
% 

 Supplies expense
  
 
637,549
  
  
 
15.7
% 
 
 
640,451
  
  
 
16.4
% 

 Provision for doubtful accounts
  
 
535,367
  
  
 
13.1
% 
 
 
509,681
  
  
 
13.1
% 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
198,038
  
  
 
4.9
% 
 
 
178,634
  
  
 
4.6
% 

 Lease and rental expense
  
 
54,209
  
  
 
1.3
% 
 
 
54,867
  
  
 
1.4
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
3,715,750
  
  
 
91.3
% 
 
 
3,534,977
  
  
 
90.6
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
355,820
  
  
 
8.7
% 
 
 
366,838
  
  
 
9.4
% 

 Interest expense, net
  
 
3,903
  
  
 
0.1
% 
 
 
3,411
  
  
 
0.1
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
$
351,917
  
  
 
8.6
% 
 
$
363,427
  
  
 
9.3
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 During 2011, as compared to 2010, net revenues at our acute care hospitals increased 4% or $170 million
to $4.07 billion due to an increase in same facility revenues, as discussed above.  Income before income taxes decreased $11
million to $352 million or 8.6% of net revenues during 2011 as compared to $363 million or 9.3% of net revenues during 2010. The decrease in income before income taxes at our acute care facilities resulted from: 
 


 
•
 
 a $14 million increase at our acute care facilities on a same facility basis, as discussed above; 
 


 
•
 
 a decrease of $32 million resulting from the reductions recorded during 2011 ($10 million) and 2010 ($42 million) to our professional and general
liability self-insurance reserves, as discussed above in Self-Insured Risks, and;   


 
•
 
 an increase of $7 million resulting from the write-off of certain costs during 2010 related to an acute care hospital construction project.

  54 


Table of Contents
Year Ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the Year Ended December 31,
2009:  The following table summarizes the results of operations for our acute care facilities on a same facility basis
and is used in the discussions below for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (dollar amounts in thousands):   




















 
  
Year EndedDecember 31, 2010
 
 
Year EndedDecember 31, 2009
 

 Acute Care Hospitals—Same Facility Basis
  
Amount
 
  
% ofRevenues
 
 
Amount
 
  
% ofRevenues
 

 Net revenues
  
$
3,901,815
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,810,828
  
  
 
100.0
% 

 Operating charges:
  



  



 



  




 Salaries, wages and benefits
  
 
1,489,335
  
  
 
38.2
% 
 
 
1,449,183
  
  
 
38.0
% 

 Other operating expenses
  
 
697,703
  
  
 
17.9
% 
 
 
685,529
  
  
 
18.0
% 

 Supplies expense
  
 
640,451
  
  
 
16.4
% 
 
 
618,321
  
  
 
16.2
% 

 Provision for doubtful accounts
  
 
509,681
  
  
 
13.1
% 
 
 
476,408
  
  
 
12.5
% 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
178,634
  
  
 
4.6
% 
 
 
165,967
  
  
 
4.4
% 

 Lease and rental expense
  
 
54,867
  
  
 
1.4
% 
 
 
51,035
  
  
 
1.3
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
3,570,671
  
  
 
91.5
% 
 
 
3,446,443
  
  
 
90.4
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
331,144
  
  
 
8.5
% 
 
 
364,385
  
  
 
9.6
% 

 Interest expense, net
  
 
3,411
  
  
 
0.1
% 
 
 
3,719
  
  
 
0.1
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
$
327,733
  
  
 
8.4
% 
 
$
360,666
  
  
 
9.5
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 On a same facility basis during 2010, as compared to 2009, net revenues at our acute care hospitals
increased $91 million or 2%. Income before income taxes decreased $33 million or 9% to $328 million or 8.4% of net revenues during 2010 as compared to $361 million or 9.5% of net revenues during 2009. 
Inpatient admissions to these facilities decreased 0.3% during 2010, as compared to 2009, while patient days decreased 0.9%. Adjusted
admissions (adjusted for outpatient activity) increased 1.3% and adjusted patient days increased 0.7% during 2010, as compared to 2009. The average length of inpatient stay at these facilities was 4.4 days during each of 2010 and 2009. The occupancy
rate, based on the average available beds at these facilities, was 59% during 2010 and 62% during 2009.  On a same facility
basis, net revenue per adjusted admission at these facilities increased 1.0% during 2010, as compared to 2009, and net revenue per adjusted patient day increased 1.7% during 2010, as compared to 2009. 
The decrease in income before income taxes at our acute care hospitals during 2010, as compared to 2009, was due primarily to net revenue
pressures experienced throughout our portfolio of acute care hospitals. The revenue pressures were caused primarily by declining commercial payor utilization and an increase in the number of uninsured and underinsured patients treated at our
facilities. Our acute care facilities located in Texas were also unfavorably impacted by reductions in Medicaid revenues. Also contributing to the decline in income before income taxes at our acute care facilities were increases in salaries, wages
and benefits expense and supplies expense which increased beyond the rate of increase of our acute care revenues.  Our acute
care hospitals provided charity care and uninsured discounts, based on charges at established rates, amounting to $807 million during 2010 and $671 million during 2009. 
  55 


Table of Contents
The following table summarizes the results of operations for all our acute care operations
during 2010 and 2009. Included in these results, in addition to the same facility results shown above, is: (i) the favorable effect of $42 million recorded during 2010 and $20 million recorded during 2009 resulting from reductions to our
professional and general liability self insurance reserves, as discussed above in Self-Insured Risks; (ii) the unfavorable effect of $7 million recorded during 2010 to write-off certain costs related to an acute care hospital
construction project, and; (iii) the favorable effect of $5 million recorded during 2009 resulting from a reduction to our workers’ compensation self insurance reserves (dollar amounts in thousands): 
 




















 
  
Year EndedDecember 31, 2010
 
 
Year EndedDecember 31, 2009
 

 All Acute Care Hospitals
  
Amount
 
  
% ofRevenues
 
 
Amount
 
  
% ofRevenues
 

 Net revenues
  
$
3,901,815
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,810,828
  
  
 
100.0
% 

 Operating charges:
  



  



 



  




 Salaries, wages and benefits
  
 
1,489,335
  
  
 
38.2
% 
 
 
1,443,933
  
  
 
37.9
% 

 Other operating expenses
  
 
662,009
  
  
 
17.0
% 
 
 
665,237
  
  
 
17.5
% 

 Supplies expense
  
 
640,451
  
  
 
16.4
% 
 
 
618,321
  
  
 
16.2
% 

 Provision for doubtful accounts
  
 
509,681
  
  
 
13.1
% 
 
 
476,408
  
  
 
12.5
% 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
178,634
  
  
 
4.6
% 
 
 
165,967
  
  
 
4.4
% 

 Lease and rental expense
  
 
54,867
  
  
 
1.4
% 
 
 
51,035
  
  
 
1.3
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
3,534,977
  
  
 
90.6
% 
 
 
3,420,901
  
  
 
89.8
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
366,838
  
  
 
9.4
% 
 
 
389,927
  
  
 
10.2
% 

 Interest expense, net
  
 
3,411
  
  
 
0.1
% 
 
 
3,719
  
  
 
0.1
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
$
363,427
  
  
 
9.3
% 
 
$
386,208
  
  
 
10.1
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 During 2010, as compared to 2009, net revenues at our acute care hospitals increased 2% or $91 million to
$3.90 billion due to an increase in same facility revenues, as discussed above.  Income before income taxes decreased $23
million to $363 million or 9.3% of net revenues during 2010 as compared to $386 million or 10.1% of net revenues during 2009. The decrease in income before income taxes at our acute care facilities resulted from: 
 


 
•
 
 a $33 million decrease at our acute care facilities on a same facility basis, as discussed above; 
 


 
•
 
 an increase of $22 million resulting from the reductions recorded during 2010 ($42 million) and 2009 ($20 million) to our professional and general
liability self-insurance reserves, as discussed above in Self-Insured Risks;   


 
•
 
 a decrease of $7 million resulting from the write-off of certain costs during 2010 related to an acute care hospital construction project, and;
  


 
•
 
 a decrease of $5 million resulting from a reduction to our workers’ compensation reserves recorded during 2009 that related to years prior to
2009. 
  56 


Table of Contents
Behavioral Health Care Services 
Year Ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2010 
The following table summarizes the results of operations for our behavioral health care facilities, on a same facility basis, and is used
in the discussions below for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. On November 15, 2010, we acquired PSI which was formerly the largest operator of freestanding inpatient behavioral health care facilities operating inpatient and
outpatient facilities in 32 states, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Since the former PSI facilities were acquired by us in mid-November, 2010, for accurate comparability purposes, we have included the patient statistics and financial
results for these facilities in our same facility results provided below beginning on December 1st of 2011 and 2010 (dollar amounts in thousands):   




















 
  
Year EndedDecember 31, 2011
 
 
Year EndedDecember 31, 2010
 

 Behavioral Health Care Facilities—Same Facility Basis
  
Amount
 
  
% ofRevenues
 
 
Amount
 
  
% ofRevenues
 

 Net revenues
  
$
1,644,421
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,544,945
  
  
 
100.0
% 

 Operating charges:
  



  



 



  




 Salaries, wages and benefits
  
 
795,285
  
  
 
48.4
% 
 
 
758,451
  
  
 
49.1
% 

 Other operating expenses
  
 
296,500
  
  
 
18.0
% 
 
 
278,063
  
  
 
18.0
% 

 Supplies expense
  
 
87,850
  
  
 
5.3
% 
 
 
82,606
  
  
 
5.3
% 

 Provision for doubtful accounts
  
 
39,873
  
  
 
2.4
% 
 
 
35,044
  
  
 
2.3
% 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
40,854
  
  
 
2.5
% 
 
 
36,426
  
  
 
2.4
% 

 Lease and rental expense
  
 
17,401
  
  
 
1.1
% 
 
 
17,495
  
  
 
1.1
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
1,277,763
  
  
 
77.7
% 
 
 
1,208,085
  
  
 
78.2
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
366,658
  
  
 
22.3
% 
 
 
336,860
  
  
 
21.8
% 

 Interest expense, net
  
 
180
  
  
 
0.0
% 
 
 
299
  
  
 
0.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
$
366,478
  
  
 
22.3
% 
 
$
336,561
  
  
 
21.8
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 On a same facility basis during 2011, as compared to 2010, net revenues at our behavioral health care
facilities increased 6% or $99 million to $1.64 billion during 2011 as compared to $1.54 billion during 2010. Income before income taxes increased $30 million or 9% to $366 million or 22.3% of net revenues during 2011 as compared to $337 million or
21.8% of net revenues during 2010.  Inpatient admissions to these facilities increased 7.7% during 2011, as compared to 2010,
while patient days increased 3.4%. Adjusted admissions increased 7.6% and adjusted patient days increased 3.3% during 2011, as compared to 2010. The average length of patient stay at these facilities was 14.2 days during 2011 and 14.8 days during
2010. The occupancy rate, based on the average available beds at these facilities, was 74% during each of 2011 and 2010.  On a
same facility basis, net revenue per adjusted admission at these facilities decreased 0.8% during 2011, as compared to 2010, and net revenue per adjusted patient day increased 3.3% during 2011, as compared to 2010. 
  57 


Table of Contents
The following table summarizes the results of operations for all our behavioral health care
facilities for 2011and 2010 including newly acquired or recently opened facilities and the favorable effect resulting from reductions to our professional and general liability and workers’ compensation self insurance reserves as discussed in
Self-Insured Risks. The operating results for the PSI facilities are included in the following table for the eleven-month period ended November 30, 2011 and the period of November 15, 2010 (date of acquisition) through
December 31, 2010 (dollar amounts in thousands):   




















 
  
Year EndedDecember 31, 2011
 
 
Year EndedDecember 31, 2010
 

 All Behavioral Health Care Facilities
  
Amount
 
  
% ofRevenues
 
 
Amount
 
  
% ofRevenues
 

 Net revenues
  
$
3,401,118
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,635,455
  
  
 
100.0
% 

 Operating charges:
  



  



 



  




 Salaries, wages and benefits
  
 
1,677,928
  
  
 
49.3
% 
 
 
806,837
  
  
 
49.3
% 

 Other operating expenses
  
 
607,991
  
  
 
17.9
% 
 
 
291,825
  
  
 
17.8
% 

 Supplies expense
  
 
179,077
  
  
 
5.3
% 
 
 
87,375
  
  
 
5.3
% 

 Provision for doubtful accounts
  
 
78,145
  
  
 
2.3
% 
 
 
36,950
  
  
 
2.3
% 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
89,295
  
  
 
2.6
% 
 
 
39,058
  
  
 
2.4
% 

 Lease and rental expense
  
 
34,230
  
  
 
1.0
% 
 
 
19,810
  
  
 
1.2
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
2,666,666
  
  
 
78.4
% 
 
 
1,281,855
  
  
 
78.4
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
734,452
  
  
 
21.6
% 
 
 
353,600
  
  
 
21.6
% 

 Interest expense, net
  
 
1,778
  
  
 
0.1
% 
 
 
397
  
  
 
0.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
$
732,674
  
  
 
21.5
% 
 
$
353,203
  
  
 
21.6
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 During 2011, as compared to 2010, net revenues at our behavioral health care facilities increased 108% or
$1.77 billion to $3.40 billion during 2011 as compared to $1.64 billion during 2010. The increase in net revenues was attributable to:   


 
•
 
 a $97 million increase in same facility revenues, as discussed above, and; 
 


 
•
 
 a $1.67 billion increase resulting primarily from the revenues generated at the facilities acquired by us from PSI (represents the increase in revenues
for the period of January through November, 2011 as compared to November 15, 2010 to November 30, 2010).  Income before income taxes increased $379 million or 107% to $733 million or 21.5% of net revenues during 2011, as compared to $353 million or 21.6% of net revenues during 2010. The increase in income
before income taxes at our behavioral health facilities was attributable to:   


 
•
 
 a $30 million increase at our behavioral health facilities on a same facility basis, as discussed above, and; 
 


 
•
 
 a $349 million of other combined net increases, consisting primarily of the income generated at the PSI facilities acquired by us in November, 2010
(represents the increase in income before income taxes generated at these facilities for the period of January through November, 2011 as compared to November 15, 2010 to November 30, 2010). 
  58 


Table of Contents
Year Ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the Year Ended December 31,
2009:  The following table summarizes the results of operations for our behavioral health care facilities, on a same
facility basis, and is used in the discussions below for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (dollar amounts in thousands):   




















 
  
Year EndedDecember 31, 2010
 
 
Year EndedDecember 31, 2009
 

 Behavioral Health Care Facilities—Same Facility Basis
  
Amount
 
  
% ofRevenues
 
 
Amount
 
  
% ofRevenues
 

 Net revenues
  
$
1,393,095
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,314,749
  
  
 
100.0
% 

 Operating charges:
  



  



 



  




 Salaries, wages and benefits
  
 
675,490
  
  
 
48.5
% 
 
 
642,761
  
  
 
48.9
% 

 Other operating expenses
  
 
251,507
  
  
 
18.1
% 
 
 
238,635
  
  
 
18.2
% 

 Supplies expense
  
 
74,280
  
  
 
5.3
% 
 
 
73,549
  
  
 
5.6
% 

 Provision for doubtful accounts
  
 
29,966
  
  
 
2.2
% 
 
 
31,939
  
  
 
2.4
% 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
31,967
  
  
 
2.3
% 
 
 
31,598
  
  
 
2.4
% 

 Lease and rental expense
  
 
15,385
  
  
 
1.1
% 
 
 
15,915
  
  
 
1.2
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
1,078,595
  
  
 
77.4
% 
 
 
1,034,397
  
  
 
78.7
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
314,500
  
  
 
22.6
% 
 
 
280,352
  
  
 
21.3
% 

 Interest expense, net
  
 
11
  
  
 
0.0
% 
 
 
209
  
  
 
0.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
$
314,489
  
  
 
22.6
% 
 
$
280,143
  
  
 
21.3
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 On a same facility basis during 2010, as compared to 2009, net revenues at our behavioral health care
facilities increased 6% or $78 million to $1.39 billion during 2010 as compared to $1.31 billion during 2009. Income before income taxes increased $34 million or 12% to $314 million or 22.6% of net revenues during 2010 as compared to $280 million or
21.3% of net revenues during 2009.  Inpatient admissions to these facilities increased 4.3% during 2010, as compared to 2009,
while patient days increased 1.8%. Adjusted admissions increased 4.2% and adjusted patient days increased 1.7% during 2010, as compared to 2009. The average length of patient stay at these facilities was 15.0 days during 2010 and 15.3 days during
2009. The occupancy rate, based on the average available beds at these facilities, was 75% during 2010 and 74% during 2009. 
On a same facility basis, net revenue per adjusted admission at these facilities increased 1.4% during 2010, as compared to 2009, and net
revenue per adjusted patient day increased 3.9% during 2010, as compared to 2009. 
  59 


Table of Contents
The following table summarizes the results of operations for all our behavioral health care
facilities for 2010 and 2009, including newly acquired or recently opened facilities and the favorable effect resulting from reductions to our professional and general liability and workers’ compensation self insurance reserves as discussed in
Self-Insured Risks (dollar amounts in thousands):   




















 
  
Year EndedDecember 31, 2010
 
 
Year EndedDecember 31, 2009
 

 All Behavioral Health Care Facilities
  
Amount
 
  
% ofRevenues
 
 
Amount
 
  
% ofRevenues
 

 Net revenues
  
$
1,635,455
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,315,029
  
  
 
100.0
% 

 Operating charges:
  



  



 



  




 Salaries, wages and benefits
  
 
806,837
  
  
 
49.3
% 
 
 
641,920
  
  
 
48.8
% 

 Other operating expenses
  
 
291,825
  
  
 
17.8
% 
 
 
237,378
  
  
 
18.1
% 

 Supplies expense
  
 
87,375
  
  
 
5.3
% 
 
 
73,715
  
  
 
5.6
% 

 Provision for doubtful accounts
  
 
36,950
  
  
 
2.3
% 
 
 
31,948
  
  
 
2.4
% 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
39,058
  
  
 
2.4
% 
 
 
31,717
  
  
 
2.4
% 

 Lease and rental expense
  
 
19,810
  
  
 
1.2
% 
 
 
16,601
  
  
 
1.3
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
1,281,855
  
  
 
78.4
% 
 
 
1,033,279
  
  
 
78.6
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
353,600
  
  
 
21.6
% 
 
 
281,750
  
  
 
21.4
% 

 Interest expense, net
  
 
397
  
  
 
0.0
% 
 
 
209
  
  
 
0.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
$
353,203
  
  
 
21.6
% 
 
$
281,541
  
  
 
21.4
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 During 2010, as compared to 2009, net revenues at our behavioral health care facilities (including the
facilities formerly owned by PSI which were acquired by us in November, 2010, and other newly acquired and recently opened facilities), increased 24% or $320 million to $1.64 billion during 2010 as compared to $1.32 billion during 2009. The increase
in net revenues was attributable to:   


 
•
 
 a $78 million increase in same facility revenues, as discussed above, and; 
 


 
•
 
 a $242 million increase resulting from the revenues generated at the PSI facilities acquired by us in November, 2010 and other acquired or opened
facilities.  Income before income taxes increased $72 million or 25% to $353 million or 21.6% of net
revenues during 2010, as compared to $281 million or 21.4% of net revenues during 2009. The increase in income from continuing operations before income taxes at our behavioral health facilities was attributable to: 
 


 
•
 
 a $34 million increase at our behavioral health facilities on a same facility basis, as discussed above, and; 
 


 
•
 
 a $38 million increase resulting from the income, net of losses, generated at the former PSI facilities and other acquired or opened facilities.
 Sources of Revenue  Overview: We receive payments for services rendered from private insurers, including managed care plans, the federal government under the Medicare program, state governments under their respective
Medicaid programs and directly from patients.  Hospital revenues depend upon inpatient occupancy levels, the medical and
ancillary services and therapy programs ordered by physicians and provided to patients, the volume of outpatient procedures and the charges or negotiated payment rates for such services. Charges and reimbursement rates for inpatient routine services
vary depending on the type of services provided (e.g., medical/surgical, intensive care or behavioral health) and the geographic location of the hospital. Inpatient occupancy levels fluctuate for various reasons, many of which are beyond our
control. The percentage of patient service revenue attributable to outpatient services has generally 
  60 


Table of Contents

increased in recent years, primarily as a result of advances in medical technology that allow more services to be provided on an outpatient basis, as well as increased pressure from Medicare,
Medicaid and private insurers to reduce hospital stays and provide services, where possible, on a less expensive outpatient basis. We believe that our experience with respect to our increased outpatient levels mirrors the general trend occurring in
the health care industry and we are unable to predict the rate of growth and resulting impact on our future revenues. 
Patients are generally not responsible for any difference between customary hospital charges and amounts reimbursed for such services
under Medicare, Medicaid, some private insurance plans, and managed care plans, but are responsible for services not covered by such plans, exclusions, deductibles or co-insurance features of their coverage. The amount of such exclusions,
deductibles and co-insurance has generally been increasing each year. Indications from recent federal and state legislation are that this trend will continue. Collection of amounts due from individuals is typically more difficult than from
governmental or business payors and we continue to experience an increase in uninsured and self-pay patients which unfavorably impacts the collectability of our patient accounts thereby increasing our provision for doubtful accounts and charity care
provided.  Since a significant portion of our revenues are derived from facilities located in Nevada, Texas and California, we
are particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in those states. Any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in those states could
have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results.  The following tables show the approximate percentages of net
patient revenue during the past three years (excludes sources of revenues for all periods presented for divested facilities which are reflected as discontinued operations in our Consolidated Financial Statements) for: (i) our Acute Care and
Behavioral Health Care Facilities Combined; (ii) our Acute Care Facilities, and; (iii) our Behavioral Health Care Facilities. Net patient revenue is defined as revenue from all sources after deducting contractual allowances and discounts
from established billing rates, which we derived from various sources of payment for the years indicated.   
















 
  
Percentage of NetPatient Revenues
 

 Acute Care and Behavioral Health Care Facilities Combined
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Third Party Payors:
  



 



 




 Medicare
  
 
22
% 
 
 
24
% 
 
 
24
% 

 Medicaid
  
 
15
% 
 
 
14
% 
 
 
14
% 

 Managed Care (HMO and PPOs)
  
 
43
% 
 
 
46
% 
 
 
46
% 

 Other Sources
  
 
20
% 
 
 
16
% 
 
 
16
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
















 
  
Percentage of NetPatient Revenues
 

 Acute Care Facilities
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Third Party Payors:
  



 



 




 Medicare
  
 
25
% 
 
 
27
% 
 
 
27
% 

 Medicaid
  
 
8
% 
 
 
9
% 
 
 
10
% 

 Managed Care (HMO and PPOs)
  
 
47
% 
 
 
46
% 
 
 
47
% 

 Other Sources
  
 
20
% 
 
 
18
% 
 
 
16
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  61 


Table of Contents
















 
  
Percentage of NetPatient Revenues
 

 Behavioral Health Care Facilities
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Third Party Payors:
  



 



 




 Medicare
  
 
17
% 
 
 
18
% 
 
 
17
% 

 Medicaid
  
 
24
% 
 
 
25
% 
 
 
26
% 

 Managed Care (HMO and PPOs)
  
 
38
% 
 
 
45
% 
 
 
43
% 

 Other Sources
  
 
21
% 
 
 
12
% 
 
 
14
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Medicare: Medicare is a federal program that provides certain hospital and medical insurance
benefits to persons aged 65 and over, some disabled persons and persons with end-stage renal disease. All of our acute care hospitals and many of our behavioral health centers are certified as providers of Medicare services by the appropriate
governmental authorities. Amounts received under the Medicare program are generally significantly less than a hospital’s customary charges for services provided. Since a substantial portion of our revenues will come from patients under the
Medicare program, our ability to operate our business successfully in the future will depend in large measure on our ability to adapt to changes in this program.  Under the Medicare program, for inpatient services, our general acute care hospitals receive reimbursement under the inpatient prospective payment system (“IPPS”). Under the IPPS, hospitals are
paid a predetermined fixed payment amount for each hospital discharge. The fixed payment amount is based upon each patient’s Medicare severity diagnosis related group (“MS-DRG”). Every MS-DRG is assigned a payment rate based upon the
estimated intensity of hospital resources necessary to treat the average patient with that particular diagnosis. The MS-DRG payment rates are based upon historical national average costs and do not consider the actual costs incurred by a hospital in
providing care. This MS-DRG assignment also affects the predetermined capital rate paid with each MS-DRG. The MS-DRG and capital payment rates are adjusted annually by the predetermined geographic adjustment factor for the geographic region in which
a particular hospital is located and are weighted based upon a statistically normal distribution of severity. While we generally will not receive payment from Medicare for inpatient services, other than the MS-DRG payment, a hospital may qualify for
an “outlier” payment if a particular patient’s treatment costs are extraordinarily high and exceed a specified threshold.  MS-DRG rates are adjusted by an update factor each federal fiscal year, which begins on October 1. The index used to adjust the MS-DRG rates, known as the “hospital market basket index,”
gives consideration to the inflation experienced by hospitals in purchasing goods and services. Generally, however, the percentage increases in the MS-DRG payments have been lower than the projected increase in the cost of goods and services
purchased by hospitals.  In July, 2010, CMS published its final IPPS 2011 payment rule which provided for a 2.6% market basket
increase to the base Medicare MS-DRG blended rate. When statutorily mandated budget neutrality factors and annual geographic wage index updates and the documenting and coding adjustments were considered, our overall decrease from the federal fiscal
year 2011 rule was 1.1%. In addition, as outlined in the Sources of Revenues and Health Care Reform discussion below, CMS was also required by federal law to reduce the update factor by 0.25% in federal fiscal year 2011. 
In August, 2011, CMS published its final IPPS 2012 payment rule which provided for a 3.0% market basket increase to the base Medicare
MS-DRG blended rate. When statutorily mandated budget neutrality factors, annual geographic wage index updates, documenting and coding adjustments and Health Care Reform productivity adjustments are considered, we estimate our overall increase from
the final federal fiscal year 2012 rule will approximate 0.6%. CMS also includes a 2.0% market basket reduction related to prior year documentation and coding adjustments as well as a 1.1% increase related to the correction of a prior year wage
index budget neutrality adjustment. In addition, as outlined in the Sources of Revenues and Health Care Reform discussion below, CMS was also required by federal law to reduce the update factor by 0.10% in federal fiscal year 2012. The projected
impact from this IPPS rule noted above reflects all of the adjustments described in this paragraph. 
  62 


Table of Contents
In September, 2007, the “TMA, Abstinence Education, and QI Programs Extension Act of
2007” legislation took effect and scaled back cuts in hospital reimbursement that CMS was set to impose. In federal fiscal years 2010 to 2012, the new law requires CMS to make adjustments to the Medicare standardized amounts in these years to
reflect the removal of actual aggregate payment increases or decreases for documentation and coding adjustments that occurred during federal fiscal years 2008 and 2009 as compared to the initial CMS estimates. In federal fiscal year 2010, CMS made
its initial statutory mandated adjustment under this legislation and will continue to do so in subsequent fiscal years to ensure the implementation of MS-DRGs was budget neutral among all affected hospitals. In July, 2010, the IPPS 2011 proposed
payment rule applied a 2.9% reduction to the 2011 market basket update and indicated another 2.9% reduction would also be applied in 2012 for documenting and coding. In this same rule, CMS indicated a remaining documenting and coding adjustment of
3.9% reduction is still required to be made to future IPPS updates. In the 2012 IPPS final rule, CMS offset 2.0% of this remaining reduction and indicated that the remaining 1.9% may be offset in the IPPS 2013 payment rule. 
On January 1, 2005, CMS implemented a new Psychiatric Prospective Payment System (“Psych PPS”) for inpatient services
furnished by psychiatric hospitals under the Medicare program. This system replaced the cost-based reimbursement guidelines with a per diem Psych PPS with adjustments to account for certain facility and patient characteristics. The Psych PPS also
contained provisions for outlier payments and an adjustment to a psychiatric hospital’s base payment if it maintains a full-service emergency department. According to the May, 2009 CMS notice, the market basket increase was 2.1% for the period
of July 1, 2009 through June 30, 2010. According to the April, 2010 CMS notice, the market basket increase was 2.4% for the period of July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011. In April, 2011 CMS published its final Psych PPS rule for
the fifteen month period July 1, 2011 to September 30, 2012. The market basket increase for this time period is scheduled to be 2.95%, which includes a 0.25% reduction required by the federal Health Care Reform legislation enacted in 2010.
 In October 2009, CMS published its annual final Medicare Outpatient Prospective Payment System (“OPPS”) rule for
2010. The final market basket increase to the OPPS base rate is 2.1%. When other statutorily required adjustments are considered the overall Medicare OPPS payment increase for 2010 is estimated to be 1.9%. 
In November 2010, CMS published its annual final Medicare OPPS rule for 2011. The final market basket increase to the OPPS base rate is
2.46%. In addition, as outlined in the Sources of Revenues and Health Care Reform discussion below, CMS is also required by federal law to reduce the update factor by 0.25% in federal fiscal year 2011. When other statutorily required adjustments and
hospital patient service mix are considered, the overall Medicare OPPS payment increase for 2011 is estimated to be 3.2%.  In
November, 2011, CMS published its annual final Medicare OPPS rule for 2012. The market basket increase to the OPPS base rate is 3.0%. In addition, as outlined in the Sources of Revenues and Health Care Reform discussion below, CMS is also required
by federal law to reduce the update factor by 0.1% in federal fiscal year 2012 and to reduce the annual update by a productivity adjustment which is 1.1%. In the final rule, CMS is also implementing a significant decrease in the 2012 Medicare rates
for both hospital-based and community mental health center (CMHC) partial hospitalization programs. When other statutorily required adjustments, hospital patient service mix and the aforementioned partial hospitalization rates are considered, our
overall Medicare OPPS payment decrease for 2012 is estimated to be 0.7%. Excluding the behavioral health division partial hospitalization rate impact, our Medicare OPPS payment increase for 2012 is estimated to be 2.1%. 
In July 2010, the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) published final regulations implementing the health
information technology (“HIT”) provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (referred to as the “HITECH Act”). The final regulation defines the “meaningful use” of Electronic Health Records (“EHR”)
and establishes the requirements for the Medicare and Medicaid EHR payment incentive programs. The final rule established an initial set of standards and certification criteria. 
The implementation period for these new Medicare and Medicaid incentive payments started in federal fiscal year 2011 and can end as late
as 2016 for Medicare and 2021 for the state Medicaid programs. State Medicaid program participation in this federally funded incentive program is voluntary but we expect that all of 
  63 


Table of Contents

the states in which our eligible hospitals operate will ultimately choose to participate. Our acute care hospitals may qualify for these EHR incentive payments upon implementation of the EHR
application assuming they meet the “meaningful use criteria”. The government’s ultimate goal is to promote more effective (quality) and efficient healthcare delivery through the use of technology to reduce the total cost of healthcare
for all Americans and utilizing the cost savings to expand access to the healthcare system. Our acute care facilities have begun implementing an EHR application, on a facility-by-facility basis, beginning in 2011. The implementation is scheduled to
be completed in 2013. However, there can be no assurance that we will ultimately qualify for these incentive payments and, should we qualify, the amount of incentive payments received is dependent upon various factors including the implementation
timing at each facility. Should we qualify for incentive payments, there may be timing differences in the recognition of the revenues and expenses recorded in connection with the implementation of the EHR application which may cause material
period-to-period changes in our future results of operations. Approximately $11 million of these incentive payments, which relate to state Medicaid programs, were received during 2011 (in the fourth quarter). These payments have been reflected as
deferred revenue on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2011 (included in other current liabilities) and will be recorded as revenue in our consolidated statements of income in the periods in which the applicable hospitals are
deemed to have met the meaningful use criteria. Also, if our hospitals meet the meaningful use criteria, we may become entitled to additional Medicaid incentive payments in future periods. Hospitals that do not qualify as a meaningful user of EHR by
2015 are subject to a reduced market basket update to the IPPS standardized amount in 2015 and each subsequent fiscal year. Although we believe that our acute care hospitals will be in compliance with the EHR standards by 2015, there can be no
assurance that all of our facilities will be in compliance and therefore not subject to the penalty provision of the HITECH Act.  In August, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the “2011 Act”) was enacted into law. Included in this law are the imposition of annual spending limits for most federal agencies and programs
aimed at reducing budget deficits by $917 billion between 2012 and 2021, according to a report released by the Congressional Budget Office. Among its other provisions, the law established a bipartisan Congressional committee, known as the Joint
Committee, which was responsible for developing recommendations aimed at reducing future federal budget deficits by an additional $1.5 trillion over 10 years. The Joint Committee was unable to reach an agreement by the November 23, 2011 deadline
and, as a result, across-the-board cuts to discretionary, national defense and Medicare spending were implemented which, if triggered, would result in Medicare payment reductions of up to 2% per fiscal year with a uniform percentage reduction across
all Medicare programs starting in 2013. We cannot predict whether Congress will attempt to suspend or restructure the automatic budget cuts or what other deficit reduction initiatives may be proposed by Congress. 
Medicaid: Medicaid is a joint federal-state funded health care benefit program that is administered by the states to provide
benefits to qualifying individuals who are unable to afford care. Most state Medicaid payments are made under a PPS-like system, or under programs that negotiate payment levels with individual hospitals. Amounts received under the Medicaid program
are generally significantly less than a hospital’s customary charges for services provided. In addition to revenues received pursuant to the Medicare program, we receive a large portion of our revenues either directly from Medicaid programs or
from managed care companies managing Medicaid. All of our acute care hospitals and most of our behavioral health centers are certified as providers of Medicaid services by the appropriate governmental authorities. 
We receive Medicaid revenues in excess of $100 million annually from each of Texas, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Illinois and Washington,
D.C., making us particularly sensitive to reductions in Medicaid and other state based revenue programs (which have been implemented in various forms with respect to our areas of operation in the respective 2012 state fiscal years) as well as
regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states. In the states in which we operate, based upon the state budgets for the 2012 fiscal year (which generally began at various times during the second half of 2011), we
estimate that, on a blended basis, our aggregate Medicaid rates have been reduced by approximately 3% to 4% (or approximately $45 million to $55 million annually) from the average rates in effect during the states’ 2011 fiscal years (which
generally ended during the third quarter of 2011). Our consolidated results of operations for the year ended 
  64 


Table of Contents

December 31, 2011 include the pro rata portion of these Medicaid rate reductions. We can provide no assurance that further reductions to Medicaid revenues (which have been proposed in
certain states for fiscal year 2013), particularly in the above-mentioned states, will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations.  Certain of our acute care hospitals located in various counties of Texas (Hildalgo, Maverick, Potter and Webb) participate in CMS-approved private Medicaid supplemental payment (“UPL”) programs.
These hospitals also have affiliation agreements with third-party hospitals to provide free hospital and physician care to qualifying indigent residents of these counties. Our hospitals receive both UPL payments from the Medicaid program and
indigent care payments from third-party, affiliated hospitals. The UPL payments are contingent on the county or hospital district making an Inter-Governmental Transfer (“IGT”) to the state Medicaid program while the indigent care payment
is contingent on a transfer of funds from the applicable affiliated hospitals. We received $33 million during 2011, $38 million during 2010 and $48 million during 2009, of aggregate, net UPL and affiliated hospital indigent care payments. For state
fiscal year 2012, Texas Medicaid will operate under a CMS-approved Section 1115 five-year Medicaid waiver demonstration program. During the first five years of this program, the Texas Health and Human Services Commission (“THHSC”)
will transition away from UPL payments to new waiver incentive payment programs. During the first year of transition, which commenced on October 1, 2011, THHSC will make payments to Medicaid UPL recipient providers that received payments during
the state’s prior fiscal year. During transition years two through five, THHSC will make incentive payments under the program after certain qualifying criteria are met by hospitals. If during 2012 the applicable hospital district or county
makes IGTs consistent with 2011 levels, we believe we would be entitled to aggregate net payments pursuant to these programs of approximately $24 million (during calendar year 2012). 
We incur health-care related taxes (“Provider Taxes”) imposed by states in the form of a licensing fee, assessment or other
mandatory payment which are related to: (i) healthcare items or services; (ii) the provision of, or the authority to provide, the health care items of services, or; (iii) the payment for the health care items or services. Such
Provider Taxes are subject to various federal regulations that limit the scope and amount of the taxes that can be levied by states in order to secure federal matching dollars as part of their respective state Medicaid programs. We derive a related
Medicaid reimbursement benefit from assessed Provider Taxes in the form of Medicaid claims based payment increases and/or lump sum Medicaid supplemental payments. We earned an aggregate net benefit of approximately $22 million during 2011 from
Medicaid supplemental payments, after assessed Provider Taxes were considered (exclusive of our hospitals located in Oklahoma). We estimate that our aggregate net benefit from Provider Tax programs will approximate $19 million during 2012. The
aggregate net benefit is earned from multiple states and therefore no particular state’s portion is individually material to our consolidated financial statements. However, Provider Taxes are governed by both federal and state laws and are
subject to future legislative changes that, if reduced from current rates in several states, could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated future results of operations. 
In January, 2012, the state of Oklahoma was granted federal approval by CMS for the Supplemental Hospital Offset Payment Program
(“SHOPP”) which grants the Oklahoma Health Care Authority (“OHCA”) the authority to assess a 2.5% fee on certain Oklahoma hospitals and to make Medicaid UPL payments to hospitals through December 31, 2014, retroactive to
July 1, 2011. The state is expected to finalize the initial supplemental payment program amounts during the first quarter of 2012. If the SHOPP program is implemented pursuant to its current preliminary terms and conditions, we estimate that we
may be entitled to net annual reimbursements which would have a favorable impact on our future results of operations.  In
July, 2011 in accordance with the state 2012-2013 General Appropriations Act (the “Act”), the Texas Health and Human Services Commission (“THHSC”) published a proposed rule that changes the reimbursement methodology for inpatient
services by establishing a statewide base standard dollar amount (“SDA”) rate along with certain hospital specific SDA rate adjustments for geographic location, trauma level designation and teaching hospital status. The new SDA payment
methodology became effective September 1, 2011. Similarly, THHSC also incorporated changes in conformance with the Act which results in reductions to various categories 
  65 


Table of Contents

of Medicaid hospital outpatient services. The expected reduction to our annual Medicaid inpatient reimbursement resulting from the proposed inpatient SDA payment methodology has been factored
into the fiscal year 2012 Medicaid reductions (3% to 4%), as mentioned above.  The THHSC has indicated an intention to expand
state Medicaid managed care programs in future state fiscal years starting in the state’s 2012 fiscal year. Although we are unable to determine the impact of the managed care expansion on future Medicaid reimbursement or its impact on Medicaid
UPL payments, depending on the actual structure of the actual managed care expansion, this change could have a material adverse impact on our Medicaid UPL payments.  Managed Care: A significant portion of our net patient revenues are generated from managed care companies, which include health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations and
managed Medicare (referred to as Medicare Part C or Medicare Advantage) and Medicaid programs. In general, we expect the percentage of our business from managed care programs to continue to grow. The consequent growth in managed care networks and
the resulting impact of these networks on the operating results of our facilities vary among the markets in which we operate. Typically, we receive lower payments per patient from managed care payors than we do from traditional indemnity insurers,
however, during the past few years we have secured price increases from many of our commercial payors including managed care companies.  Commercial Insurance: Our hospitals also provide services to individuals covered by private health care insurance. Private insurance carriers typically make direct payments to hospitals or, in
some cases, reimburse their policy holders, based upon the particular hospital’s established charges and the particular coverage provided in the insurance policy. Private insurance reimbursement varies among payors and states and is generally
based on contracts negotiated between the hospital and the payor.  Commercial insurers are continuing efforts to limit the
payments for hospital services by adopting discounted payment mechanisms, including predetermined payment or DRG-based payment systems, for more inpatient and outpatient services. To the extent that such efforts are successful and reduce the
insurers’ reimbursement to hospitals and the costs of providing services to their beneficiaries, such reduced levels of reimbursement may have a negative impact on the operating results of our hospitals. 
Other Sources: Our hospitals provide services to individuals that do not have any form of health care coverage. Such patients
are evaluated, at the time of service or shortly thereafter, for their ability to pay based upon federal and state poverty guidelines, qualifications for Medicaid or other state assistance programs, as well as our local hospitals’ indigent and
charity care policy. Patients without health care coverage who do not qualify for Medicaid or indigent care write-offs are offered substantial discounts in an effort to settle their outstanding account balances. 
State Medicaid Disproportionate Share Hospital Payments: Hospitals that have an unusually large number of low-income patients
(i.e., those with a Medicaid utilization rate of at least one standard deviation above the mean Medicaid utilization, or having a low income patient utilization rate exceeding 25%) are eligible to receive a disproportionate share hospital
(“DSH”) adjustment. Congress established a national limit on DSH adjustments. Although this legislation and the resulting state broad-based provider taxes have affected the payments we receive under the Medicaid program, to date the net
impact has not been materially adverse.  Upon meeting certain conditions and serving a disproportionately high share of
Texas’ and South Carolina’s low income patients, five of our facilities located in Texas and one facility located in South Carolina received additional reimbursement from each state’s DSH fund. The Texas and South Carolina programs
have been renewed for each state’s 2012 fiscal years (covering the period of October 1, 2011 through September 30, 2012 for each state). In connection with these DSH programs, included in our financial results was an aggregate of $45
million during 2011, $54 million during 2010 and $56 million during 2009. Assuming that the Texas and South Carolina programs are renewed for each state’s 2013 fiscal years, at amounts similar to the 2012 fiscal year

  66 


Table of Contents

amounts, we estimate our aggregate reimbursements pursuant to these programs to be approximately $45 million during 2012. Failure to renew these DSH programs beyond their scheduled termination
dates, failure of the public hospitals to provide the necessary IGTs for the states’ share of the DSH programs, failure of our hospitals that currently receive DSH payments to qualify for future DSH funds under these programs, or reductions in
reimbursements, could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations.  Sources of Revenues and Health
Care Reform: Given increasing budget deficits, the federal government and many states are currently considering additional ways to limit increases in levels of Medicare and Medicaid funding, which could also adversely affect future payments
received by our hospitals. In addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon the federal government as a result of, among other things, the War on Terrorism, economic recovery stimulus packages, responses to natural disasters, the
expansion of a Medicare drug benefit and the federal budget deficit in general may affect the availability of federal funds to provide additional relief in the future. We are unable to predict the effect of future policy changes on our operations.
 In March, 2010, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (H.R. 4872, P.L. 111-152), (the “Reconciliation
Act”) and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (P.L. 111-148), (the “Affordable Care Act”), were enacted into law and created significant changes to health insurance coverage for U.S. citizens as well as material revisions
to the federal Medicare and state Medicaid programs. Medicare, Medicaid and other health care industry changes which are scheduled to be implemented at various times during this decade are noted below. 
Immediate Medicare Reductions:  The Reconciliation Act reduced the market basket update for inpatient and outpatient hospitals and inpatient behavioral health facilities by 0.25% in each of 2010 and 2011 and by 0.10% in 2012. Further,
the Affordable Care Act implements certain reforms to Medicare Advantage payments, effective in 2011.  Future Medicare
Reductions:  Future changes to the Medicare program include: 
 


 
•
 
 A Medicare shared savings program (effective 2012)   


 
•
 
 A hospital readmissions reduction program (effective 2012) 
 


 
•
 
 A national pilot program on payment bundling (effective 2013) 
 


 
•
 
 A value-based purchasing program for hospitals (effective 2012) 
 


 
•
 
 Reduction to Medicare disproportionate share hospital (“DSH”) payments (effective 2014) 
Medicaid Revisions:   


 
•
 
 Expanded Medicaid eligibility and related special federal payments (effective 2014) 
 


 
•
 
 Reduction to Medicaid DSH (effective 2014)  Health Insurance Revisions:   


 
•
 
 Large employer insurance reforms (effective 2014)   


 
•
 
 Individual insurance mandate and related federal subsidies (effective 2014) 
 


 
•
 
 Federally mandated insurance coverage reforms (2010 and forward) 
Although the above-mentioned Medicare market basket reductions implemented in 2010 did not have a material impact on our results of
operations to date, we are unable to estimate the future impact of the other legislative changes as outlined above. 
  67 


Table of Contents
In addition to statutory and regulatory changes to the Medicare and each of the state
Medicaid programs, our operations and reimbursement may be affected by administrative rulings, new or novel interpretations and determinations of existing laws and regulations, post-payment audits, requirements for utilization review and new
governmental funding restrictions, all of which may materially increase or decrease program payments as well as affect the cost of providing services and the timing of payments to our facilities. The final determination of amounts we receive under
the Medicare and Medicaid programs often takes many years, because of audits by the program representatives, providers’ rights of appeal and the application of numerous technical reimbursement provisions. We believe that we have made adequate
provisions for such potential adjustments. Nevertheless, until final adjustments are made, certain issues remain unresolved and previously determined allowances could become either inadequate or more than ultimately required. 
Finally, we expect continued third-party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. Reductions in
reimbursement amounts received from third-party payors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations.  Other Operating Results  Combined revenues from our surgical
hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers and radiation oncology centers were $15 million during 2011, $17 million during 2010 and $24 million during 2009. In connection with construction management contracts pursuant to the terms of which we are
building/have built newly constructed acute care hospitals for an unrelated third party, we earned revenues of $42 million during 2009. The revenues and income before income taxes earned in connection with the construction management contracts did
not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements during 2011 or 2010. Combined income before income taxes earned in connection with the revenues mentioned above was $2 million during 2011, $5 million during 2010 and $13 million
during 2009.  Interest Expense  Below is a schedule of our interest expense during 2011, 2010 and 2009 (amounts in thousands):   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Revolving credit & demand notes
  
$
6,675
  
 
$
3,813
  
 
$
4,101
  

 $200 million, 6.75% Senior Notes due 2011 (a.)
  
 
11,822
  
 
 
13,510
  
 
 
13,510
  

 $400 million, 7.125% Senior Notes due 2016
  
 
28,496
  
 
 
28,496
  
 
 
28,496
  

 $250 million, 7.00% Senior Notes due 2018
  
 
17,500
  
 
 
4,472
  
 
 
—  
  

 Term loan facility A
  
 
27,176
  
 
 
4,939
  
 
 
—  
  

 Term loan facility B
  
 
64,588
  
 
 
11,548
  
 
 
—  
  

 Accounts receivable securitization program
  
 
2,728
  
 
 
864
  
 
 
704
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal-revolving credit, demand notes, Senior Notes, term loan facilities and accounts receivable securitization
program
  
 
158,985
  
 
 
67,642
  
 
 
46,811
  

 Interest rate swap expense/(income), net
  
 
8,255
  
 
 
5,956
  
 
 
5,263
  

 Amortization of financing fees
  
 
28,255
  
 
 
3,729
  
 
 
1,135
  

 Other combined interest expense
  
 
5,908
  
 
 
4,495
  
 
 
4,553
  

 $590 million, 7.75% Notes from PSI (b.)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
3,810
  
 
 
5,688
  

 Capitalized interest on major construction projects
  
 
(447
) 
 
 
(7,641
) 
 
 
(11,565
) 

 Interest income
  
 
(164
) 
 
 
(391
) 
 
 
(387
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Interest expense, net
  
$
200,792
  
 
$
77,600
  
 
$
45,810
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(a.)
The $200 million, 6.75% Senior Notes matured on November 15, 2011 and were repaid utilizing funds borrowed under our revolving credit facility.



(b.)
Pursuant to the terms of these notes, which were assumed by us in connection with the acquisition of PSI, notice of redemption was provided by us as of the acquisition
date and the indenture was satisfied and discharged and these notes were subsequently redeemed on December 15, 2010 utilizing borrowed funds which were held in escrow from November 15, 2010 to the date of redemption.

  68 


Table of Contents
Interest expense increased $123 million during 2011 to $201 million as compared to $78
million during 2010. This increase was due primarily to: (i) the increased average outstanding borrowings resulting from the borrowed funds utilized to finance our purchase of PSI in November, 2010 (as discussed below); (ii) the increased
interest expense incurred during 2011 on the $250 million, 7.00% senior notes issued in September, 2010, and; (iii) the increased expense resulting from the amortization of deferred financing costs incurred on the various debt facilities
utilized to finance the purchase of PSI.  During 2011, the aggregate average outstanding borrowings under our credit agreement
(consisting of the revolving credit, Term Loan A and Term Loan B facilities), demand notes and accounts receivable securitization program were $2.9 billion as compared to $610 million during 2010. The average effective interest rate on these
facilities, including the amortization of deferred financing costs and original issue discounts and designated interest rate swap expense was 4.6% during 2011 and 5.0% during 2010. The average effective interest rate on these facilities, excluding
the amortization of deferred financing costs and original issue discounts and designated interest rate swap expense was 3.4% during each of 2011 and 2010.  Interest expense increased $32 million during 2010 to $78 million as compared to $46 million during 2009. This increase was due primarily to: (i) the increased borrowings utilized to finance our
acquisition of PSI in November, 2010, and an increase in the average effective interest rate (as discussed below); (ii) the interest expense incurred during 2010 on the $250 million, 7.00% senior notes issued in September, 2010, and;
(iii) the interest expense incurred during 2010 on the $590 million, 7.75% notes assumed in connection with the acquisition of PSI in November, 2010 (these notes were redeemed on December 15, 2010). 
During 2010, the aggregate average outstanding borrowings under our credit agreement (consisting of the revolving credit, Term Loan A and
Term Loan B facilities), demand notes and accounts receivable securitization program was $610 million as compared to $287 million during 2009. The average effective interest rate on these facilities, including the amortization of deferred financing
costs and original issue discounts and designated interest rate swap expense was 5.0% during 2010 and 3.9% during 2009. The average effective interest rate on these facilities, excluding the amortization of deferred financing costs and original
issue discounts and designated interest rate swap expense was 3.4% during 2010 and 1.7% during 2009.  Transaction costs
incurred in connection with acquisition of PSI  During 2010, we incurred $53 million of transaction costs in connection
with our acquisition of PSI in November, 2010, consisting of the following:   








 
  
Amount(000s)
 

 Severance and related expenses for PSI senior executives and other former employees
  
$
24,381
  

 Legal and consulting fees
  
 
14,287
  

 Investment banking fees
  
 
9,154
  

 Other combined transaction costs
  
 
5,398
  


  
  
  
 

 Total transaction costs
  
$
53,220
  


  
  
  
 
 Provision for Income Taxes and Effective Tax Rates 
The effective tax rates, as calculated by dividing the provision for income taxes by income before income taxes, were as follows for each
of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (dollar amounts in thousands):   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Provision for income taxes
  
$
247,466
  
 
$
152,302
  
 
$
170,475
  

 Income before income taxes
  
 
696,336
  
 
 
428,097
  
 
 
474,722
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effective tax rate
  
 
35.5
% 
 
 
35.6
% 
 
 
35.9
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  69 


Table of Contents
Outside owners hold various noncontrolling, minority ownership interests in seven of our
acute care facilities and one behavioral health care facility. Each of these facilities are owned and operated by limited liability companies (“LLC”) or limited partnerships (“LP”). As a result, since there is no income tax
liability incurred at the LLC/LP level (since it passes through to the members/partners), the net income attributable to noncontrolling interests does not include any income tax provision/benefit. When computing the provision for income taxes, as
reflected on our consolidated statements of income, the net income attributable to noncontrolling interests is deducted from income before income taxes since it represents the third-party members’/partners’ share of the income generated by
the joint-venture entities. In addition to providing the effective tax rates, as indicated above (as calculated from dividing the provision for income taxes by the income before income taxes as reflected on the consolidated statements of income), we
believe it is helpful to our investors that we also provide our effective tax rate as calculated after giving effect to the portion of our pre-tax income that is attributable to the third-party members/partners. 
The effective tax rates, as calculated by dividing the provision for income taxes by the difference in income before income taxes, minus
net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, were as follows for each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (dollar amounts in thousands):   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Provision for income taxes
  
$
247,466
  
 
$
152,302
  
 
$
170,475
  

 Income before income taxes
  
 
696,336
  
 
 
428,097
  
 
 
474,722
  

 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
(50,703
) 
 
 
(45,612
) 
 
 
(43,874
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes and after net income attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
645,633
  
 
 
382,485
  
 
 
430,848
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effective tax rate
  
 
38.3
% 
 
 
39.8
% 
 
 
39.6
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Impacting the effective tax rates during 2011 was approximately $1 million favorable discrete tax item
recorded to adjust the estimated liabilities for uncertain tax positions. Impacting the effective tax rates during 2010 were the following items: (i) $5 million unfavorable discrete tax item recorded to adjust the non-deductible portion of
certain transaction costs incurred during 2010 in connection with our acquisition of PSI; (ii) a $4 million unfavorable discrete tax item recorded to adjust for the non-deductible, $9 million charge incurred from split-dollar life insurance
agreements entered into during 2010 on the lives of our chief executive officer and his wife, partially offset by; (iii) a $4 million favorable discrete tax item recorded during 2010 to adjust the estimated non-deductible portion of the
previously disclosed South Texas Health System settlement with the government based upon the final agreement. Impacting the effective tax rates during 2009 was a $4 million unfavorable discrete tax item related to the estimated non-deductible
portion of the South Texas Health System settlement.  Discontinued Operations 
In connection with the receipt of antitrust clearance from the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) in connection with our
acquisition of PSI in November, 2010, we agreed to divest three former PSI facilities as well as one of our legacy behavioral health facilities in Puerto Rico. Pursuant to the terms of our agreement with the FTC, we divested: 
 


 
•
 
 in July, 2011, the Meadowood Behavioral Health System, a 58-bed facility located in New Castle, Delaware; 
 


 
•
 
 in December, 2011, the Montevista Hospital (101-bed) and Red Rock Hospital (21-bed), both of which are located in Las Vegas, Nevada, and;
  


 
•
 
 in January, 2012, the Hospital San Juan Capestrano, a 108-bed facility located in Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico. 
The operating results for the three former PSI facilities located in Delaware and Nevada are reflected as
discontinued operations during 2011 and 2010 (from the November 15th dates of acquisition). Since the aggregate 
  70 


Table of Contents

income from discontinued operations before income tax expense for these facilities is not material to our 2011 or 2010 consolidated financial statements, it is included as a reduction to other
operating expenses. The aggregate pre-tax net gain on the divestitures of the above-mentioned facilities located in Delaware and Nevada did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations. The assets and liabilities for the
Hospital San Juan Capestrano (sold in January, 2012) are reflected as “held for sale” on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2011. The pre-tax gain on the divestiture of the Hospital San Juan Capestrano, which will not
have a material impact on our 2012 consolidated results of operations, will be reflected in our consolidated results of operations during the first quarter of 2012. The assets and liabilities for each of the above-mentioned facilities are reflected
as “held for sale” on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2010.  The following table shows the
results of operations for the former PSI facilities located in Delaware and Nevada, on a combined basis, which are reflected as discontinued operations (amounts in thousands): 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net revenues
  
$
33,884
  
 
$
4,155
  
 
$
—  
  

 Income from discontinued operations
  
 
7,904
  
 
 
859
  
 
 
—  
  

 Gain on divestiture
  
 
442
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from discontinued operations, before income tax expense
  
 
8,346
  
 
 
859
  
 
 
—  
  

 Income tax expense
  
 
(3,160
) 
 
 
(318
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from discontinued operations, net of income tax expense
  
$
5,186
  
 
$
541
  
 
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Effects of Inflation and Seasonality 
Seasonality—Our acute care services business is typically seasonal, with higher patient volumes and net patient service
revenue in the first and fourth quarters of the year. This seasonality occurs because, generally, more people become ill during the winter months, which results in significant increases in the number of patients treated in our hospitals during those
months.  Inflation—Inflation has not had a material impact on our results of operations over the last three years.
However, since the healthcare industry is very labor intensive and salaries and benefits are subject to inflationary pressures, as are supply and other costs, we cannot predict the impact that future economic conditions may have on our ability to
contain future expense increases. Our ability to pass on increased costs associated with providing healthcare to Medicare and Medicaid patients is limited due to various federal, state and local laws which have been enacted that, in certain cases,
limit our ability to increase prices. We believe, however, that through adherence to cost containment policies, labor management and reasonable price increases, the effects of inflation on future operating margins should be manageable. 
Liquidity  Year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to December 31, 2010:  Net cash provided by operating activities  Net cash provided by
operating activities was $718 million during 2011 as compared to $501 million during 2010. The net increase of $217 million was primarily attributable to the following:   


 
•
 
 a favorable change of $247 million due to an increase in net income plus depreciation and amortization expense and stock-based compensation less gains
on sales of assets;   


 
•
 
 a $158 million unfavorable change in accounts receivable, as discussed below; 
 


 
•
 
 an $86 million favorable change in accrued and deferred income taxes due primarily to reductions to the 2011 federal and state income tax payments
resulting from income tax overpayments relating to 2010; 
  71 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 a $31 million favorable change in accrued insurance expense, net of commercial premiums paid, due primarily to the above-mentioned reductions to our
professional and general liability self-insurance reserves recorded during 2011 and 2010 ($11 million recorded during 2011 as compared to $49 million recorded during 2010); 
 


 
•
 
 a $26 million favorable change in other assets and deferred charges; 
 


 
•
 
 a $12 million unfavorable change in accrued interest, and; 
 


 
•
 
 $3 million of other combined net unfavorable changes.  Days sales outstanding (“DSO”): Our DSO are calculated by dividing our net revenue by the number of days in the year. The result is divided into the accounts receivable
balance the end of the year. Our DSO were 47 days at December 31, 2011, 43 days at December 31, 2010 and 42 days at December 31, 2009.  Our net accounts receivable balance as of December 31, 2011 increased approximately $135 million over the balance as of December 31, 2010 (excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures).
The increase was due primarily to: (i) increased revenues experienced by both our acute care and behavioral health care facilities during 2011 as a result of increases in adjusted patient days (adjusted for outpatient activity) and revenue per
adjusted day, and; (ii) an increase in other receivables including state-based revenue program receivables in certain states, most particularly Illinois, which has $54 million of receivables outstanding as of December 31, 2011 resulting
from state budgetary and funding pressures. Although approximately $41 million of the receivables due from Illinois have been outstanding in excess of 60 days (as of December 31, 2011), and a large portion will likely remain outstanding for the
foreseeable future, we expect to eventually collect all amounts due to us and therefore no related reserves have been established in our consolidated financial statements. However, we can provide no assurance that we will eventually collect all
amounts due to us from Illinois. Failure to ultimately collect all outstanding amounts due from Illinois would have an adverse impact on our future consolidated results of operations and cash flows. Excluding the $41 million of receivables from
Illinois that have been outstanding in excess of 60 days (as of December 31, 2011), our DSO were 45 days at December 31, 2011.  Net cash used in investing activities  Net cash used in investing
activities was $286 million during 2011 as compared to $2.19 billion during 2010.  2011: 
The $286 million of net cash used in investing activities during 2011 consisted of $286 million spent on capital expenditures, $29 million
spent on acquisitions, $68 million received from the sale of assets and businesses and $38 million spent in connection with the purchase and implementation of an electronic health records application (“EHR”). Please see
Item 7-Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Medicare for additional disclosure related to the EHR application. 
2011 Capital Expenditures:  During 2011, we spent $286 million to finance capital expenditures, including the following:   


 
•
 
 construction costs related to multiple projects at various existing acute care hospitals and behavioral health facilities including capacity expansion;
  


 
•
 
 construction costs related to the newly constructed Temecula Valley Hospital, a 140-bed acute care hospital located in Temecula, California which is
scheduled to be completed and opened in mid-2013, and;   


 
•
 
 capital expenditures for equipment at various existing facilities. 
  72 


Table of Contents
2011 Acquisitions of Assets and Businesses: 
 


 
•
 
 we spent $29 million during 2011, excluding the assumption of $17 million of third-party debt, to: (i) acquire the real property of
administrative/office buildings located in Pennsylvania, Tennessee and Washington, D.C.; (ii) fund a deposit in connection with execution of a definitive agreement, which is subject to regulatory approvals and closing conditions, to acquire the
Knapp Medical Center, including a 226-bed acute care hospital, a surgery center, physician practices and other related assets located in Weslaco, Texas, and; (iii) purchase a cardiology practice in Texas. 
2011 Divestiture of Assets and Businesses:  During 2011, we received $68 million from the divestiture of assets and businesses, including the following:   


 
•
 
 the divestitures of three behavioral health facilities located in Delaware and Nevada (Meadowood Behavioral Health System, Montevista Hospital and Red
Rock Hospital) which were divested pursuant to our above-mentioned agreement with the Federal Trade Commission in connection with our acquisition of PSI in November, 2010, and; 
 


 
•
 
 the sale of the real property of a closed acute care hospital and our ownership interest in a radiation oncology center joint-venture.
 2010:  The $2.19 billion of net cash used in investing activities during 2010 consisted of $1.96 billion spent on the acquisition of PSI in November, 2010, $239 million spent on capital expenditures, $21 million
received from the sale of assets and businesses and $18 million spent in connection with the purchase and implementation of an EHR application.  2010 Acquisitions of Assets and Businesses:   


 
•
 
 we spent $1.96 billion in November, 2010, excluding the assumption of $1.08 billion of PSI’s debt, to acquire 105 inpatient and outpatient
behavioral health facilities located in 32 states, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. In connection with this transaction, $1.05 billion of PSI’s outstanding borrowings were repaid utilizing funds borrowed under our $3.45 billion credit
agreement, as discussed herein.  2010 Capital Expenditures: 
During 2010, we spent $239 million to finance capital expenditures, including the following: 
 


 
•
 
 construction costs related to the newly constructed Palmdale Regional Medical Center, a 121-bed acute care hospital located in Palmdale, California
which was completed and opened in December, 2010;   


 
•
 
 construction costs related to multiple projects in process to add capacity to our busiest behavioral health facilities, and;
  


 
•
 
 capital expenditures for equipment, renovations and new projects at various existing facilities. 
2010 Divestiture of Assets and Businesses:  During 2010, we received $21 million from the divestiture of assets and businesses, including the following:   


 
•
 
 the divestiture of our minority ownership interest in a healthcare technology company and sale of a portion of our ownership interest in an outpatient
surgery center, and;   


 
•
 
 the sale of the real property of Methodist Hospital located in Louisiana that was severely damaged and closed in 2005 as a result of Hurrican Katrina.

  73 


Table of Contents
Net cash used in/provided by financing activities 
Net cash used in financing activities was $421 million during 2011 as compared to $1.71 billion of net cash provided by financing
activities during 2010.  2011:  The $421 million of net cash used in financing activities consisted of the following:   


 
•
 
 spent $382 million on debt repayments consisting primarily of $200 million paid to extinguish 6.75% senior notes upon their maturity in November, 2011,
$141 million paid to repay a portion of outstanding borrowing under our Term Loan B facility, $26 million paid to repay a portion of outstanding borrowings under our Term Loan A facility, and $15 million paid to reduced outstanding borrowings of
other combined debt;   


 
•
 
 generated $98 million of proceeds from additional net borrowings made pursuant to our revolving credit and demand notes and accounts receivable
securitization program;   


 
•
 
 spent $60 million to repurchase 1.6 million shares of our Class B Common Stock; 
 


 
•
 
 spent $38 million to fund profit distributions to noncontrolling interests; 
 


 
•
 
 spent $24 million on financing costs in connection with an amendment to our credit agreement (which includes our revolving credit agreement, Term Loan
A and Term Loan B facilities) which was completed in March, 2011;   


 
•
 
 spent $19 million to pay a $.05 per share quarterly dividend, and; 
 


 
•
 
 generated $5 million from the issuance of shares of our Class B Common Stock pursuant to the terms of employee stock purchase plans.
 2010:  The $1.71 billion of net cash provided by financing activities consisted of the following:   


 
•
 
 generated $2.803 billion of proceeds from borrowings pursuant to our $3.45 billion credit agreement (net of $32 million of original issue discounts);
  


 
•
 
 generated $204 million of proceeds from borrowings pursuant to our accounts receivable securitization program; 
 


 
•
 
 generated $250 million of proceeds from the issuance of $250 million of 7.00% senior notes that mature in October, 2018; 
 


 
•
 
 generated $9 million of proceeds from other combined new borrowings; 
 


 
•
 
 spent $1.392 billion on debt repayments consisting primarily of $1.05 billion paid to extinguish debt acquired in connection with our acquisition of
PSI and $339 million paid to repay outstanding borrowings under our previously existing revolving credit facility and accounts receivable securitization program; 
 


 
•
 
 spent $101 million on financing costs on the various new debt facilities mentioned above; 
 


 
•
 
 spent $12 million to repurchase 294,000 shares of our Class B Common Stock; 
 


 
•
 
 spent $19 million to pay a $.05 per share quarterly dividend; 
 


 
•
 
 spent $32 million to fund profit distributions to noncontrolling interests, and; 
 


 
•
 
 generated $13 million from the issuance of shares of our Class B Common Stock pursuant to the terms of employee stock purchase plans.

  74 


Table of Contents
Year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to December 31, 2009:
 Net cash provided by operating activities 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $501 million during 2010 as compared to $541 million during 2009. The net decrease of $40
million, or 7%, was primarily attributable to the following:   


 
•
 
 an unfavorable net change of $7 million due to an decrease in net income, plus or minus the adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by
operating activities (depreciation and amortization, gains on sales of businesses and assets and stock-based compensation expense);   


 
•
 
 a favorable change of $24 million in accounts receivable; 
 


 
•
 
 an unfavorable change of $30 million in construction management and other receivable which includes $10 million of cash proceeds received during the
first quarter of 2009 from the estate liquidation of a commercial insurer (related receivable was recorded during fourth quarter of 2008);   


 
•
 
 an unfavorable change of $15 million in accrued and deferred income taxes; 
 


 
•
 
 an unfavorable change of $25 million in accrued insurance expense, net of commercial premium paid, resulting primarily from the reductions recorded
during 2010 and 2009 to our professional and general liability self-insurance reserves (as discussed above in Self-Insured Risks);    


 
•
 
 a favorable change of $8 million in accrued interest, and; 
 


 
•
 
 $5 million of other combined net favorable changes.  Net cash used in investing activities  Net cash used in investing
activities was $2.19 billion during 2010 as compared to $390 million during 2009. The factors contributing to the $2.19 billion of net cash used in investing activities during 2010 are detailed above. 
2009: 
The $390 million of net cash used in investing activities during 2009 consisted of $380 million spent on capital expenditures, $10 million
received from the sale of assets and businesses, $12 million spent on the acquisition of assets and businesses and $8 million spent in connection with the purchase and implementation of an EHR application. 
2009 Capital Expenditures:  During 2009, we spent $380 million to finance capital expenditures, including the following:   


 
•
 
 construction costs related to the newly constructed Palmdale Regional Medical Center which was completed and opened in December, 2010;
  


 
•
 
 construction costs related to a major expansion of the emergency, imaging and women’s services at our Southwest Healthcare System hospitals
located in Riverside County, California;   


 
•
 
 construction costs related to a newly constructed Texoma Medical Center, a 220-bed replacement acute care hospital in Denison, Texas that was completed
and opened in late December, 2009;   


 
•
 
 construction costs related to a new patient tower at Summerlin Hospital Medical Center located in Las Vegas, Nevada that was completed and opened in
December, 2009;   


 
•
 
 construction costs related to multiple projects in process to add capacity to our busiest behavioral health facilities, and;
  


 
•
 
 capital expenditures for equipment, renovations and new projects at various existing facilities. 
  75 


Table of Contents
2009 Divestiture of Assets and Businesses: 
During 2009, we received $10 million from the divestiture of assets and businesses, including the following: 
 


 
•
 
 the sale of the real property assets of a medical office building on the campus of a previously divested acute care facility located in Pennsylvania,
and;   


 
•
 
 the sale of our ownership interest in an outpatient surgery center. 
2009 Acquisitions of Assets and Businesses:  During 2009, we spent $12 million on the acquisition of businesses and real property, including the following:   


 
•
 
 the acquisition of a 72-bed behavioral health care facility located in Louisville, Colorado, and; 
 


 
•
 
 the acquisition of the real property assets of a medical office building located on the campus of one of our acute care hospitals located in Texas.
 Net cash provided by/used in financing activities 
Net cash provided by financing activities was $1.71 billion during 2010 as compared to $147 million of net cash used in financing
activities during 2009. The factors contributing to the $1.71 billion of net cash provided by financing activities during 2010 is detailed above.  2009:  The $147 million of net cash used in financing activities consisted
of the following:   


 
•
 
 generated $26 million of proceeds primarily from additional borrowings pursuant to our previously existing revolving credit agreement;
  


 
•
 
 spent $66 million for debt repayments consisting primarily of repayments pursuant to our previously existing accounts receivable securitization
program;   


 
•
 
 spent $63 million to repurchase 2.56 million shares of our Class B Common Stock; 
 


 
•
 
 spent $17 million to pay a quarterly dividend (of $.04 per share during each of the first three quarter of 2009 and $.05 during the fourth quarter of
2009);   


 
•
 
 spent $30 million to fund profit distributions to noncontrolling interests, and; 
 


 
•
 
 generated $3 million from the issuance of shares of our Class B Common Stock pursuant to the terms of employee stock purchase plans.
 2012 Expected Capital Expenditures: 
During 2012, we expect to spend approximately $350 million to $375 million on capital expenditures which includes expenditures for capital
equipment, renovations, new projects at existing hospitals and construction of new facilities. Approximately $165 million of our 2012 expected capital expenditures relates to completion of projects that are in progress as of December 31, 2011.
We believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. We expect to finance all capital expenditures and acquisitions with internally generated funds and/or additional funds, as discussed
below. 
  76 


Table of Contents
Capital Resources 
Credit Facilities and Outstanding Debt Securities  On November 15, 2010, we entered into a credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with various financial institutions. The Credit Agreement is a senior secured facility which provided an
initial aggregate commitment amount of $3.45 billion, comprised of a new $800 million revolving credit facility, a $1.05 billion Term Loan A facility and a $1.6 billion Term Loan B facility. Prior to the effectiveness of the Credit Agreement
Amendment in March, 2011 (as discussed below), we prepaid the principal amount and permanently reduced the Term Loan B commitment by $125 million. During 2011, we made scheduled principal payments of $16 million on the Term Loan B and $26 million on
the Term Loan A. The revolving credit facility and the Term Loan A mature on November 15, 2015 and the Term Loan B matures on November 15, 2016. The revolving credit facility includes a $125 million sub-limit for letters of credit. The
Credit Agreement is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company and our material subsidiaries and guaranteed by our material subsidiaries.  On March 15, 2011, we entered into a first amendment to the Credit Agreement (the “Amendment”) which became effective immediately and provides, among other things, for a reduction in the
interest rates payable in connection with borrowings under the Credit Agreement. Upon the effectiveness of the Amendment, borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at the ABR rate which is defined as the rate per annum equal to, at our
election (1) the greatest of (a) the lender’s prime rate, (b) the weighted average of the federal funds rate, plus 0.5% and (c) one month Eurodollar rate plus 1%, in each case, plus an applicable margin based upon our
consolidated leverage ratio at the end of each quarter ranging from 0.50% to 1.25% for revolving credit and Term Loan A borrowings and 1.75% to 2.00% for Term Loan B borrowings or (2) the one, two, three or six month Eurodollar rate (at our
election), plus an applicable margin based upon our consolidated leverage ratio at the end of each quarter ranging from 1.50% to 2.25% for revolving credit and Term Loan A borrowings and ranging from 2.75% to 3.00% for Term Loan B borrowings. The
current applicable margins are 0.75% for ABR-based loans, 1.75% for Eurodollar-based loans under the revolving credit and Term Loan A facilities and 2.75% under the Term Loan B facility. Upon the effectiveness of the Amendment, the minimum
Eurodollar rate for the Term Loan B facility was reduced from 1.50% to 1.00%. In connection with the Amendment, we paid a fee of 1.00% of the amounts outstanding under the Term Loan B in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement. 
In October, 2010, we amended our accounts receivable securitization program (“Securitization”) with a group of conduit lenders
and liquidity banks. We increased the size of the Securitization to $240 million (the “Commitments”), from $200 million, and extended the maturity date to October 25, 2013. Substantially all of the patient-related accounts receivable
of our acute care hospitals (“Receivables”) serve as collateral for the outstanding borrowings. The interest rate on the borrowings is based on the commercial paper rate plus a spread of 0.475% and there is a facility fee of 0.375%
required on 102% on the Commitments. We have accounted for this Securitization as borrowings. We maintain effective control over the Receivables since, pursuant to the terms of the Securitization, the Receivables are sold from certain of our
subsidiaries to special purpose entities that are wholly-owned by us. The Receivables, however, are owned by the special purpose entities, can be used only to satisfy the debts of the wholly-owned special purpose entities, and thus are not available
to us except through our ownership interest in the special purpose entities. The wholly-owned special purpose entities use the Receivables to collateralize the loans obtained from the group of third-party conduit lenders and liquidity banks. The
group of third-party conduit lenders and liquidity banks do not have recourse to us beyond the assets of the wholly-owned special purpose entities that securitize the loans. At December 31, 2011, we had $240 million of outstanding borrowings
and no additional capacity pursuant to the terms of our accounts receivable securitization program.  As of December 31,
2011, we had $9 million outstanding borrowings under a short-term, on-demand credit facility. Outstanding borrowings, if any, pursuant to this facility are classified as long-term debt on our Consolidated Balance Sheet since they can be refinanced
through available borrowings under the terms of our Credit Agreement.  As of December 31, 2011, we had an aggregate of
$482 million of available borrowing capacity pursuant to the terms of our Credit Agreement and Securitization, net of $69 million of outstanding letters of credit and $9 million of outstanding borrowings under a short-term, on-demand credit
facility. 
  77 


Table of Contents
On September 29, 2010, we issued $250 million of 7.00% senior unsecured notes (the
“Unsecured Notes”) which are scheduled to mature on October 1, 2018. The Unsecured Notes were registered in April, 2011. Interest on the Unsecured Note is payable semiannually in arrears on April 1st and October 1st of each
year. The Unsecured Notes can be redeemed in whole at anytime subject to a make-whole call at treasury rate plus 50 basis points prior to October 1, 2014. They are also redeemable in whole or in part at a price of: (i) 103.5% on or after
October 1, 2014; (ii) 101.75% on or after October 1, 2015, and; (iii) 100% on or after October 1, 2016. These Unsecured Notes are guaranteed by a group of subsidiaries (each of which is a 100% directly owned subsidiary of
Universal Health Services, Inc.) which fully and unconditionally guarantee the Unsecured Notes on a joint and several basis, subject to certain customary automatic release provisions. 
On June 30, 2006, we issued $250 million of senior notes which have a 7.125% coupon rate and mature on June 30, 2016 (the
“7.125% Notes”). Interest on the 7.125% Notes is payable semiannually in arrears on June 30th and December 30th of each year. In June, 2008, we issued an additional $150 million of 7.125% Notes which formed a single series with
the original 7.125% Notes issued in June, 2006. Other than their date of issuance and initial price to the public, the terms of the 7.125% Notes issued in June, 2008 are identical to and trade interchangeably with, the 7.125% Notes which were
originally issued in June, 2006.  During 2001, we issued $200 million of senior notes which have a 6.75% coupon rate and which
matured and were paid in full on November 15, 2011 (the “6.75% Notes”). The interest on the 6.75% Notes was paid semiannually in arrears on May 15th and November 15th of each year. 
In connection with the entering into of the Credit Agreement on November 15, 2010, and in accordance with the Indenture dated
January 20, 2000 governing the rights of our existing notes, we entered into a supplemental indenture pursuant to which our 7.125% Notes (due in 2015) and our 6.75% Notes (which matured in November, 2011) were equally and ratably secured with
the lenders under the Credit Agreement with respect to the collateral for so long as the lenders under the Credit Agreement are so secured.  The average amounts outstanding during 2011, 2010, and 2009 are under the current and prior Credit Agreements, demand notes and accounts receivable securitization programs were $2.9 billion, $610 million
and $287 million, respectively, with corresponding interest rates of 3.4%, 3.4%, and 1.7% including commitment and facility fees. The maximum amounts outstanding at any month-end were $3.03 billion in 2011, $3.11 billion in 2010, and $356 million in
2009. The effective interest rate on our current and prior Credit Agreements, accounts receivable securitization programs, and demand notes, which includes the respective interest expense, commitment and facility fees, designated interest rate swaps
expense and amortization of deferred financing costs and original issue discounts, was 4.6% in 2011, 5.0% in 2010 and 3.9% in 2009.  Our Credit Agreement includes a material adverse change clause that must be represented at each draw. The Credit Agreement contains covenants that include a limitation on sales of assets, mergers, change
of ownership, liens and indebtedness, transactions with affiliates and dividends; and requires compliance with financial covenants including maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios. We are in compliance with all required covenants as
of December 31, 2011.  The carrying values of our debt at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were approximately $3.65
billion and $3.92 billion, respectively. The fair values of our debt at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $3.70 billion and $3.96, respectively. The fair values of our debt were computed based upon quotes received from financial institutions.
 Our total debt as a percentage of total capitalization was 61% at December 31, 2011 and 66% at December 31, 2010.
 We expect to finance all capital expenditures and acquisitions, pay dividends and potentially repurchase shares of our common
stock utilizing internally generated and additional funds. Additional funds may be obtained through: (i) the issuance of equity; (ii) borrowings under our existing revolving credit facility or through refinancing the

  78 


Table of Contents

existing revolving credit agreement, and/or; (iii) the issuance of other long-term debt. We believe that our operating cash flows, cash and cash equivalents, available borrowing capacity
under our $800 million revolving credit facility and access to the capital markets provide us with sufficient capital resources to fund our operating, investing and financing requirements for the next twelve months. However, in the event we need to
access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. Our inability to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us could have a
material unfavorable impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  Contractual Obligations
and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  As of December 31, 2011 we were party to certain off balance sheet
arrangements consisting of standby letters of credit and surety bonds. Our outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds as of December 31, 2011 totaled $79 million consisting of: (i) $62 million related to our self-insurance programs,
and; (ii) $17 million of other debt and public utility guarantees.  Obligations under operating leases for real property,
real property master leases and equipment amount to $206 million as of December 31, 2011. The real property master leases are leases for buildings on or near hospital property for which we guarantee a certain level of rental income. We sublease
space in these buildings and any amounts received from these subleases are offset against the expense. In addition, we lease four hospital facilities from the Trust with terms expiring in 2014 and 2016. These leases contain up to three 5-year
renewal options. We also lease the real property of certain facilities acquired by us in connection with the acquisition of PSI in November, 2010.  The following represents the scheduled maturities of our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2011:   
























 
  
Payments Due by Period (dollars in thousands)
 

 Contractual Obligation
  
Total
 
  
Less than1 year
 
  
2-3years
 
  
4-5years
 
  
After5 years
 

 Long-term debt obligations (a)
  
$
3,653,907
  
  
$
2,479
  
  
$
246,608
  
  
$
3,130,778
  
  
$
274,042
  

 Estimated future interest payments on debt outstanding as of December 31, 2011 (b)
  
 
744,755
  
  
 
165,745
  
  
 
300,907
  
  
 
215,488
  
  
 
62,615
  

 Purchase and other obligations (c)
  
 
129,935
  
  
 
62,734
  
  
 
55,851
  
  
 
11,350
  
  
 
—  
  

 Operating leases (d)
  
 
206,428
  
  
 
58,388
  
  
 
75,494
  
  
 
48,493
  
  
 
24,053
  

 Estimated future payments for defined benefit pension plan, and other retirement plan (e)
  
 
226,534
  
  
 
8,056
  
  
 
11,822
  
  
 
13,941
  
  
 
192,715
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total contractual cash obligations
  
$
4,961,559
  
  
$
297,402
  
  
$
690,682
  
  
$
3,420,050
  
  
$
553,425
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(a)
Reflects borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2011 as discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 


(b)
Assumes that all debt outstanding as of December 31, 2011, including borrowings under our revolving credit agreement, Term Loan A, Term Loan B, demand note and
accounts receivable securitization program, remain outstanding until the final maturity of the debt agreements at the same interest rates (some of which are floating) which were in effect as of December 31, 2011. We have the right to repay
borrowings upon short notice and without penalty, pursuant to the terms of the revolving credit agreement, demand note, Term Loan A facility and accounts receivable securitization program. Also includes the impact of various interest rate swap and
cap agreements in effect as of December 31, 2011, as calculated to maturity dates utilizing the applicable floating interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2011. 


(c)
Consists of: (i) $58 million related to long-term contracts with third-parties consisting primarily of certain revenue cycle data processing services for our acute
care facilities; (ii) $66 million related to the expected costs to be paid to a third-party vendor in connection with the purchase and implementation of an electronic health records application (“EHR”) for each of our acute care
facilities (excludes expected internal costs to be incurred, please see Item 7-Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Medicare for additional disclosure), and; (iii) a $6 million
liability for physician commitments expected to be paid in the future. 
  79 


Table of Contents


(d)
Reflects our future minimum operating lease payment obligations related to our operating lease agreements outstanding as of December 31, 2011 as discussed in Note
7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Some of the lease agreements provide us with the option to renew the lease and our future lease obligations would change if we exercised these renewal options. 


(e)
Consists of $212 million of estimated future payments related to our non-contributory, defined benefit pension plan (estimated through 2088), as disclosed in Note 8
to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and $15 million of estimated future payments related to another retirement plan liability. Included in our other non-current liabilities as of December 31, 2011 was a $21 million liability recorded
in connection with the non-contributory, defined benefit pension plan and an $11 million liability recorded in connection with the other retirement plan.  As of December 31, 2011, the total accrual for our professional and general liability claims was $292 million, of which $60 million is included in other current liabilities and $232 million is
included in other non-current liabilities. We exclude the $292 million for professional and general liability claims from the contractual obligations table because there are no significant contractual obligations associated with these liabilities
and because of the uncertainty of the dollar amounts to be ultimately paid as well as the timing of such payments. Please see Self-Insured Risks above for additional disclosure related to our professional and general liability claims and
reserves.  In connection with five acute care facilities located in Las Vegas, Nevada, the minority ownership interests of
which are reflected as redeemable noncontrolling interests on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, the outside owners have certain “put rights”, that are currently exercisable, that if exercised, require us to purchase the minority
member’s interests at fair market value. The put rights are exercisable upon the occurrence of: (i) certain specified financial conditions falling below established thresholds; (ii) breach of the management contract by the managing
member (a subsidiary of ours), or; (iii) if the minority member’s ownership percentage is reduced to less than certain thresholds. In connection with a behavioral health care facility located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and acquired by
us as part of the PSI acquisition, the minority ownership interest of which is also reflected as redeemable noncontrolling interests on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, the outside owner has a “put option” to put its entire ownership
interest to us at any time. If exercised, the put option requires us to purchase the minority member’s interest at fair market value. As of December 31, 2011, we believe the fair market value of the minority ownership interests in these
facilities approximates the $218 million aggregate book value of the redeemable noncontrolling interests. We exclude the approximate amount that we may be required to pay to repurchase these minority ownership interests from the contractual
obligations table because of the uncertainty as to: (i) whether or not the put rights will actually be exercised; (ii) the dollar amounts that would be paid if the put rights were exercised, and; (iii) the timing of such payments.
 Additionally, the table above does not include $7 million of the total unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions
as of December 31, 2011. Due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of potential cash flows, we cannot reasonably estimate the settlement periods for which the amounts may be utilized. 
 


ITEM 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   We manage our ratio of fixed and floating rate debt with the objective of achieving a mix that management believes is appropriate. To manage this risk in a cost-effective manner, we, from time to time,
enter into interest rate swap agreements in which we agree to exchange various combinations of fixed and/or variable interest rates based on agreed upon notional amounts. We account for our derivative and hedging activities using the Financial
Accounting Standard Board’s (“FASB”) guidance which requires all derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, to be carried at fair value on the balance sheet. For derivative
transactions designated as hedges, we formally document all relationships between the hedging instrument and the related hedged item, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking each hedge transaction. 
Derivative instruments designated in a hedge relationship to mitigate exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other
types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. Cash flow hedges 
  80 


Table of Contents

are accounted for by recording the fair value of the derivative instrument on the balance sheet as either an asset or liability, with a corresponding amount recorded in accumulated other
comprehensive income (“AOCI”) within shareholders’ equity. Amounts are reclassified from AOCI to the income statement in the period or periods the hedged transaction affects earnings. We use interest rate derivatives in our cash flow
hedge transactions. Such derivatives are designed to be highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows related to the hedged liability. For derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the ineffective portion of the change in
expected cash flows of the hedged item are recognized currently in the income statement.  For hedge transactions that do not
qualify for the short-cut method, at the hedge’s inception and on a regular basis thereafter, a formal assessment is performed to determine whether changes in the fair values or cash flows of the derivative instruments have been highly
effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items and whether they are expected to be highly effective in the future.  The fair value of interest rate swap agreements approximates the amount at which they could be settled, based on estimates obtained from the counterparties. We assess the effectiveness of our hedge
instruments on a quarterly basis. We performed periodic assessments of the cash flow hedge instruments during 2011 and 2010 and determined the hedges to be highly effective. We also determined that no portion of the hedges is ineffective and
therefore there was no material effect on our consolidated financial position, operations or cash flows. The counterparties to the interest rate swap agreements expose us to credit risk in the event of nonperformance. However, at December 31,
2011, each swap agreement entered into by us was in a net liability position which would require us to make the net settlement payments to the counterparties. We do not anticipate nonperformance by those counterparties. We do not hold or issue
derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.  During the first quarter of 2011, we entered into an interest rate cap
on a total notional amount of $275 million whereby we paid a premium of $30,000 in exchange for the counterparty agreeing to pay the difference between 2.25% and three-month LIBOR if the three-month LIBOR rate rises above 2.25% during the term of
the cap, which expired in December, 2011. The three-month LIBOR never reached 2.25% during the term of the cap. Therefore, no payment was made to us. We also entered into a forward starting interest rate cap on a total notional amount of $450
million from December, 2011 to December, 2012 reducing to $400 million from December, 2012 to December, 2013 whereby we paid a premium of $740,000 in exchange for the counterparty agreeing to pay the difference between 7.00% and three-month LIBOR if
the three-month LIBOR rate rises above 7.00% during the term of the cap. If the three-month LIBOR does not reach 7.00% during the term of the cap, no payment is made to us.  We also entered into six additional forward starting interest rate swaps in the first quarter of 2011 whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $425 million and receive three-month LIBOR.
Three of these swaps with a total notional amount of $225 million became effective in March, 2011 and will mature in May, 2015. The average fixed rate payable on these swaps is 1.91%. The three remaining interest rate swaps with total notional
amounts of $100 million, $25 million and $75 million became effective in December, 2011 and have fixed rates of 2.50%, 1.96% and 1.32%, and maturity dates in December, 2014, December, 2013 and December, 2012, respectively. 
During the fourth quarter of 2010, we entered into three interest rate caps on a total notional amount of $1 billion whereby we paid a
premium of $240,000 in exchange for the counterparties agreeing to pay the difference between 2.25% and three-month LIBOR if the three-month LIBOR rate rises above 2.25% during the term of the caps. All of these caps expired in December, 2011. The
three-month LIBOR rate never rose above 2.25% during the term of the caps. Therefore, no payments were made to us. We also entered into four forward starting interest rate swaps in the fourth quarter of 2010 whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total
notional amount of $600 million and receive three-month LIBOR. Each of the four swaps became effective in December, 2011 and will mature in May, 2015. The average fixed rate payable on these swaps is 2.38%. 
  81 


Table of Contents
During the fourth quarter of 2007, we entered into two interest rate swaps whereby we pay a
fixed rate on a total notional principal amount of $150 million and receive three-month LIBOR. Each of the two interest rate swaps had an initial notional principal amount of $75 million. The notional amount of the first interest rate swap reduced
to $50 million in October, 2010.The fixed rate payable is 4.76% and it matures in October, 2012. The fixed rate payable on the second interest rate swap was 4.87% and it matured in October, 2011. 
We measure our interest rate swaps at fair value on a recurring basis. The fair value of our interest rate swaps is based primarily on
quotes from banks. We consider those inputs to be “level 3” in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in the authoritative guidance for disclosures in connection with derivative instruments and hedging activities. The fair value of our
interest rate swaps was a liability of $48 million at December 31, 2011, of which $4 million is included in other current liabilities and $44 million is included in other noncurrent liabilities on the accompanying balance sheet. The fair value
of our interest rate swaps was a liability of $10 million at December 31, 2010, of which $2 million is included in other current liabilities and $8 million is included in other noncurrent liabilities. 
The table below presents information about our long-term financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates as of
December 31, 2011. For debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates.  Maturity Date, Fiscal Year Ending December 31  (Dollars in
thousands)   
































 
 
2012
 
 
2013
 
 
2014
 
 
2015
 
 
2016
 
 
Thereafter
 
 
Total
 

 Long-term debt:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Fixed rate:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Debt
 
$
2,056
  
 
$
2,110
  
 
$
1,487
  
 
$
17,538
  
 
$
401,193
  
 
$
274,042
  
 
$
698,426
  

 Average interest rates
 
 
7.0
% 
 
 
7.0
% 
 
 
7.0
% 
 
 
7.0
% 
 
 
7.1
% 
 
 
6.9
% 
 
 
7.0
% 

 Variable rate:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Debt
 
$
423
  
 
$
240,528
  
 
$
2,483
  
 
$
1,272,547
  
 
$
1,439,500
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
2,955,481
  

 Average interest rates
 
 
2.9
% 
 
 
2.9
% 
 
 
3.1
% 
 
 
3.1
% 
 
 
3.8
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3.4
% 

 Interest rate swaps:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Notional amount
 
$
150,000
  
 
$
2 5,000
  
 
$
100,000
  
 
$
825,000
  
 



 



 
$
1,100,000
  

 Average interest rates
 
 
3.0
% 
 
 
2.0
% 
 
 
2.5
% 
 
 
2.3
% 
 



 



 
 
2.4
% 

 Interest rate caps:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Notional amount
 
$
450,000
  
 



 



 



 



 



 
$
450,000
  

 Average interest rates
 
 
7.00
% 
 



 



 



 



 



 
 
7.00
% 
 As calculated based upon our variable rate debt outstanding as of December 31, 2011 that is subject
to interest rate fluctuations, each 1% change in interest rates would impact our pre-tax income by approximately $30 million.   


ITEM 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   Our Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Income, Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, together with the reports of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, are included elsewhere herein. Reference is made to the “Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule.” 
 


ITEM 9.
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
None. 
  82 


Table of Contents


ITEM 9A.
Controls and Procedures.   As of December 31, 2011, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), we
performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) or Rule 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Based on this evaluation, the CEO and CFO have concluded that
our disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that material information is recorded, processed, summarized and reported by management on a timely basis in order to comply with our disclosure obligations under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, and the SEC rules thereunder.  Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
 There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting or in other factors during the fourth
quarter of 2011 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining an adequate system of internal control over our financial reporting. In order
to evaluate the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, management has conducted an assessment, including testing, using the criteria on Internal
Control—Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Our system of internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  Based on its
assessment, management has concluded that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria in Internal Control—Integrated Framework, issued by the COSO. The effectiveness
of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm as stated in its report which appears herein. 
 


ITEM 9B
Other Information   None. 
  83 


Table of Contents
PART III 
 


ITEM 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   There is hereby incorporated by reference the information to appear under the captions “Election of Directors”, “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” and
“Corporate Governance” in our Proxy Statement, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2011. See also “Executive Officers of the Registrant” appearing in Item 1 hereof.
  


ITEM 11.
Executive Compensation   There is hereby incorporated by reference the information to appear under the caption “Executive Compensation” in our Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
within 120 days after December 31, 2011.   


ITEM 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
There is hereby incorporated by reference the information to appear under the caption “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners and Management” in our Proxy Statement, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2011.   


ITEM 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
There is hereby incorporated by reference the information to appear under the captions “Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions” and “Corporate Governance” in our Proxy Statement, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2011. 
 


ITEM 14.
Principal Accountant Fees and Services.   There is hereby incorporated by reference the information to appear under the caption “Relationship with Independent Auditors” in our Proxy Statement, to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2011. 
  84 


Table of Contents
PART IV 
 


ITEM 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   (a) Documents filed as part of this report:  (1) Financial
Statements:  See “Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule.” 
(2) Financial Statement Schedules:  See “Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule.” 
(3) Exhibits:  2.1 Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of May 16, 2010, among Universal Health Services, Inc., Psychiatric Solutions, Inc. and Olympus Acquisition Corp., previously filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the
Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 18, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference. 
3.1 Registrant’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation, and Amendments thereto, previously filed as Exhibit 3.1 to
Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997, are incorporated herein by reference. 
3.2 Bylaws of Registrant, as amended, previously filed as Exhibit 3.2 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1987, is incorporated herein by reference.  3.3 Amendment to the Registrant’s Restated Certificate
of Incorporation previously filed as Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 3, 2001 is incorporated herein by reference.  4.1 Form of Indenture dated January 20, 2000, between Universal Health Services, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.), Trustee
previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-3/A (File No. 333-85781), dated February 1, 2000, is incorporated herein by reference. 
4.2 Supplemental Indenture between Universal Health Services, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, dated as of
June 20, 2006, previously filed as Exhibit 4.2 to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-135277) dated June 23, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference. 
4.3 Form of Debt Security, previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File
No. 333-135277) dated June 23, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference.  4.4 Form of 7.125% Notes due 2016,
previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 30, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference.  4.5 Officer’s Certificate relating to the 7.125% Notes due 2016, previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 30, 2006, is incorporated
herein by reference.  4.6 Form of Note, previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
May 30, 2008, is incorporated herein by reference.  4.7 Officers’ Certificate, previously filed as Exhibit 4.2 to
the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 30, 2008, is incorporated herein by reference. 
  85 


Table of Contents
4.8 Indenture, dated as of September 29, 2010, between UHS Escrow Corporation and Union
Bank, N.A., as Trustee, previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 5, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference.  4.9 Form of 7% Senior Note due 2018, contained in Indenture filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 5, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference.
 4.10 Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 15, 2010, to the Indenture, dated September 29, 2010, between UHS
Escrow Corporation and Union Bank, N.A., as Trustee, relating to the $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Escrow Issuer’s 7% Senior Notes due 2018, previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K
dated November 17, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference.  4.11 Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of
November 15, 2010, to the Indenture, dated January 20, 2000, between Universal Health Services, Inc. and the Bank of New York Mellon Trust company, N.A., as Trustee, previously filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report
on Form 8-K dated November 17, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference.  10.1* Employment Agreement, dated as of
December 27, 2007, by and between Universal Health Services, Inc. and Alan B. Miller, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 27, 2007, is incorporated herein by reference.
 10.2 Advisory Agreement, dated as of December 24, 1986, between Universal Health Realty Income Trust and UHS of
Delaware, Inc., previously filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 24, 1986, is incorporated herein by reference.  10.3 Agreement, dated December 9, 2011, to renew Advisory Agreement, dated as of December 24, 1986, between Universal Health Realty Income Trust and UHS of Delaware, Inc. 
10.4 Form of Leases, including Form of Master Lease Document for Leases, between certain subsidiaries of the Registrant and
Universal Health Realty Income Trust, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Amendment No. 3 of the Registration Statement on Form S-11 and Form S-2 of Registrant and Universal Health Realty Income Trust (Registration No. 33-7872), is incorporated
herein by reference.  10.5 Corporate Guaranty of Obligations of Subsidiaries Pursuant to Leases and Contract of
Acquisition, dated December 24, 1986, issued by Registrant in favor of Universal Health Realty Income Trust, previously filed as Exhibit 10.5 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 24, 1986, is incorporated herein
by reference.  10.6* Universal Health Services, Inc. Executive Retirement Income Plan dated January 1, 1993,
previously filed as Exhibit 10.7 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, is incorporated herein by reference.  10.7* 2002 Executive Incentive Plan, previously filed as Exhibit 10.17 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, is incorporated herein by reference.
 10.8 Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of February 6, 1996, among Amarillo Hospital District, UHS of Amarillo, Inc.
and Universal Health Services, Inc., previously filed as Exhibit 10.28 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995, is incorporated herein by reference. 
10.9 Agreement of Limited Partnership of District Hospital Partners, L.P. (a District of Columbia limited partnership) by and among
UHS of D.C., Inc. and The George Washington University, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 30, 1997, and June 30, 1997, is incorporated herein by reference.

  86 


Table of Contents
10.10 Contribution Agreement between The George Washington University (a
congressionally chartered institution in the District of Columbia) and District Hospital Partners, L.P. (a District of Columbia limited partnership), previously filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 1997, is incorporated herein by reference.  10.11 Valley/Desert Contribution Agreement dated
January 30, 1998, by and among Valley Hospital Medical Center, Inc. and NC-DSH, Inc. previously filed as Exhibit 10.30 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997, is incorporated herein by
reference.  10.12 Summerlin Contribution Agreement dated January 30, 1998, by and among Summerlin Hospital Medical
Center, L.P. and NC-DSH, Inc., previously filed as Exhibit 10.31 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997, is incorporated herein by reference. 
10.13* Amended and Restated Universal Health Services, Inc. Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan dated as of January 1,
2002, previously filed as Exhibit 10.29 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, is incorporated herein by reference.  10.14* Second Amended and Restated 2001 Employees’ Restricted Stock Purchase Plan, previously filed as Exhibit 99.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 22, 2008, is
incorporated herein by reference.  10.15* Universal Health Services, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, previously filed
as Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 333-122188), dated January 21, 2005 is incorporated herein by reference.  10.16* Universal Health Services, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 18,
2011, is incorporated herein by reference.  10.17* Form of Stock Option Agreement, previously filed as Exhibit 10.4 to
Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, dated June 8, 2005, is incorporated herein by reference.  10.18* Form
of Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors, previously filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, dated October 3, 2005, is incorporated herein by reference. 
10.19 Amendment No. 1 to the Master Lease Document, between certain subsidiaries of Universal Health Services, Inc. and
Universal Health Realty Income Trust, dated April 24, 2006, previously filed as Exhibit 10.29 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference. 
10.20* Universal Health Services, Inc. 2010 Employees’ Restricted Stock Purchase Plan, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the
Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 20, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference.  10.21* Universal
Health Services, Inc. 2010 Executive Incentive Plan, previously filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 20, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference. 
10.22 Omnibus Amendment to Receivables Sale Agreements, dated as of October 27, 2010, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the
Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 2, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference.  10.23 Amended
and Restated Credit and Security Agreement, dated as of October 27, 2010, previously filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 2, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference. 
  87 


Table of Contents
10.24 Assignment and Assumption Agreement, dated as of October 27, 2010, previously
filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 2, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference.  10.25 Credit Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010, by and among Universal Health Services, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the various financial institutions as are or may become parties
thereto, as Lenders, SunTrust Bank, The Royal Bank of Scotland, Plc, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Company and Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, as co-documentation agents, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Bank of America N.A. as
co-syndication agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent for the Lenders and as collateral agent for the secured parties, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
November 17, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference.  10.26 First Amendment, dated as of March 15, 2011, to the
Credit Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010, by and among Universal Health Services, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the various financial institutions as are or may become parties thereto, as Lenders, certain banks as co-documentation
agents, and as co-syndication agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent for the Lenders and as collateral agent for the secured parties, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
March 15, 2011, is incorporated herein by reference.  10.27* Form of Supplemental Life Insurance Plan and Agreement Part
A: Alan B. Miller 1998 Dual Life Insurance Trust (effective December 9, 2010, by and between Universal Health Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), and Anthony Pantaleoni as Trustee), previously filed as Exhibit 10.1
to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 10, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference.  10.28*
Form of Supplemental Life Insurance Plan and Agreement Part B: Alan B. Miller 2002 Trust (effective December 9, 2010, by and between Universal Health Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), and Anthony Pantaleoni as
Trustee), previously filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 10, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference.  10.29* Universal Health Services, Inc. Termination, Assignment and Release Agreement (effective December 9, 2010, by and between Universal Health Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the
“Company”), Anthony Pantaleoni as Trustee of the Alan B. Miller 1998 Dual Life Insurance Trust, and Alan B. Miller, Executive), previously filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 10,
2010, is incorporated herein by reference.  10.30* Universal Health Services, Inc. Termination, Assignment and Release
Agreement (effective December 9, 2010, by and between Universal Health Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), Anthony Pantaleoni as Trustee of the Alan B. Miller 2002 Trust, and Alan B. Miller, Executive), previously
filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 10, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference.  11 Statement regarding computation of per share earnings is set forth in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
21 Subsidiaries of Registrant.  23.1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm-PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  31.1 Certification from the Company’s Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15(d)-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 
31.2 Certification from the Company’s Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15(d)-14(a) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934. 
  88 


Table of Contents
32.1 Certification from the Company’s Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  32.2 Certification
from the Company’s Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  101.INS** XBRL Instance Document  101.SCH** XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema
Document  101.CAL** XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 
101.DEF** XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document  101.LAB** XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document  101.PRE** XBRL
Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document   


*
Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 


**
XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language) information is furnished and not filed or a part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of Sections 11 or
12 of the Securities Act of 1933, is deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and otherwise is not subject to liability under these sections. 
Exhibits, other than those incorporated by reference, have been included in copies of this Annual Report filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Stockholders of the Company will be provided with copies of those exhibits upon written request to the Company. 
  89 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   






UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC.




By:
 
 /S/    ALAN B.
MILLER        


 
 Alan B. Miller Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer
 February 27, 2012  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.   








 Signatures
  
 Title
 
 Date





 /S/    ALAN B.
MILLER         Alan B. Miller
  
 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer(Principal Executive Officer)
 
February 27, 2012





 /S/    MARC D.
MILLER         Marc D. Miller
  
 Director and President
 
February 27, 2012





 /S/    LEATRICE
DUCAT         Leatrice Ducat
  
 Director
 
February 27, 2012





 /S/    JOHN H.
HERRELL         John H. Herrell
  
 Director
 
February 27, 2012





 /S/    ROBERT H.
HOTZ         Robert H. Hotz
  
 Director
 
February 27, 2012





 /S/    ANTHONY
PANTALEONI         Anthony Pantaleoni
  
 Director
 
February 27, 2012





 /S/    LAWRENCE S.
GIBBS         Lawrence S. Gibbs
  
 Director
 
February 27, 2012





 /S/    STEVE
FILTON         Steve Filton
  
 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)
 
February 27, 2012

  90 


Table of Contents
UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. 
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE   








 Consolidated Financial Statements:
  




 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on 2011 and 2010 Consolidated Financial Statements and
 Schedule and effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
  
 
92
  

 Consolidated Statements of Income for the three years ended December 31, 2011
  
 
93
  

 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010
  
 
94
  

 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity for the three years ended
December 31, 2011
  
 
95
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three years ended December 31, 2011
  
 
98
  

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
99
  

 Supplemental Financial Statement Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
  
 
144
  

  91 


Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Universal Health Services, Inc.: 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Universal Health Services, Inc. at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in
conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in
Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for these financial statements, financial statement schedule, and
for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included under item 9A as Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, on the financial statement schedule, and on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.  A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that,
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
/s/    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  Philadelphia, Pennsylvania  February 27, 2012 
  92 


Table of Contents
UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands, except per share data)
 

 Net revenues
  
$
7,500,198
  
  
$
5,568,185
  
  
$
5,202,379
  

 Operating charges:
  



  



  




 Salaries, wages and benefits
  
 
3,394,967
  
  
 
2,423,102
  
  
 
2,204,422
  

 Other operating expenses
  
 
1,385,680
  
  
 
1,005,288
  
  
 
994,923
  

 Supplies expense
  
 
821,811
  
  
 
733,093
  
  
 
699,249
  

 Provision for doubtful accounts
  
 
613,619
  
  
 
546,909
  
  
 
508,603
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
295,228
  
  
 
223,915
  
  
 
204,703
  

 Lease and rental expense
  
 
91,765
  
  
 
76,961
  
  
 
69,947
  

 Transaction costs
  
 
0
  
  
 
53,220
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
6,603,070
  
  
 
5,062,488
  
  
 
4,681,847
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
897,128
  
  
 
505,697
  
  
 
520,532
  

 Interest expense, net
  
 
200,792
  
  
 
77,600
  
  
 
45,810
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
 
696,336
  
  
 
428,097
  
  
 
474,722
  

 Provision for income taxes
  
 
247,466
  
  
 
152,302
  
  
 
170,475
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income
  
 
448,870
  
  
 
275,795
  
  
 
304,247
  

 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
50,703
  
  
 
45,612
  
  
 
43,874
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to UHS
  
$
398,167
  
  
$
230,183
  
  
$
260,373
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Basic earnings per share attributable to UHS
  
$
4.09
  
  
$
2.37
  
  
$
2.65
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted earnings per share attributable to UHS
  
$
4.04
  
  
$
2.34
  
  
$
2.64
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Weighted average number of common shares—basic
  
 
97,199
  
  
 
96,786
  
  
 
97,794
  

 Add: Other share equivalents
  
 
1,338
  
  
 
1,187
  
  
 
481
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Weighted average number of common shares and equivalents—diluted
  
 
98,537
  
  
 
97,973
  
  
 
98,275
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  93 


Table of Contents
UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
      2011      
 
 
      2010      
 

 
  
(Dollar amounts in thousands)
 

Assets
  



 




 Current assets:
  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
41,229
  
 
$
29,474
  

 Accounts receivable, net
  
 
969,802
  
 
 
837,820
  

 Supplies
  
 
96,775
  
 
 
94,330
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
108,324
  
 
 
120,834
  

 Other current assets
  
 
99,859
  
 
 
130,060
  

 Assets of facilities held for sale
  
 
48,916
  
 
 
118,598
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
1,364,905
  
 
 
1,331,116
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property and Equipment
  



 




 Land
  
 
377,984
  
 
 
376,567
  

 Buildings and improvements
  
 
3,244,117
  
 
 
3,057,313
  

 Equipment
  
 
1,256,165
  
 
 
1,165,635
  

 Property under capital lease
  
 
37,037
  
 
 
38,711
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
4,915,303
  
 
 
4,638,226
  

 Accumulated depreciation
  
 
(1,818,180
) 
 
 
(1,601,005
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
3,097,123
  
 
 
3,037,221
  

 Construction-in-progress
  
 
190,857
  
 
 
215,746
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
3,287,980
  
 
 
3,252,967
  

 Other assets:
  



 




 Goodwill
  
 
2,627,602
  
 
 
2,589,914
  

 Deferred charges
  
 
111,780
  
 
 
108,660
  

 Other
  
 
272,978
  
 
 
245,279
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
3,012,360
  
 
 
2,943,853
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
7,665,245
  
 
$
7,527,936
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity
  



 




 Current liabilities:
  



 




 Current maturities of long-term debt
  
$
2,479
  
 
$
3,449
  

 Accounts payable
  
 
228,043
  
 
 
252,487
  

 Liabilities of facilities held for sale
  
 
2,329
  
 
 
3,516
  

 Accrued liabilities
  



 




 Compensation and related benefits
  
 
233,583
  
 
 
249,429
  

 Interest
  
 
10,622
  
 
 
14,160
  

 Taxes other than income
  
 
45,359
  
 
 
35,175
  

 Other
  
 
314,518
  
 
 
268,083
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
836,933
  
 
 
826,299
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Other noncurrent liabilities
  
 
401,908
  
 
 
380,649
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
3,651,428
  
 
 
3,912,102
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
209,592
  
 
 
173,354
  

 Commitments and contingencies (Note 8)
  



 




 Redeemable noncontrolling interest
  
 
218,266
  
 
 
211,761
  

 Equity:
  



 




 Class A Common Stock, voting, $.01 par value; authorized 12,000,000 shares: issued and outstanding 6,625,708 shares in 2011
and 6,656,308 shares in 2010
  
 
66
  
 
 
67
  

 Class B Common Stock, limited voting, $.01 par value; authorized 150,000,000 shares: issued and outstanding 89,286,305 shares in
2011 and 90,093,562 shares in 2010
  
 
893
  
 
 
897
  

 Class C Common Stock, voting, $.01 par value; authorized 1,200,000 shares: issued and outstanding 664,000 shares in 2011 and
665,400 shares in 2010
  
 
7
  
 
 
7
  

 Class D Common Stock, limited voting, $.01 par value; authorized 5,000,000 shares: issued and outstanding 33,164 shares in 2011
and 35,218 shares in 2010
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Cumulative dividends
  
 
(147,515
) 
 
 
(128,049
) 

 Retained earnings
  
 
2,494,076
  
 
 
2,125,989
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
  
 
(51,175
) 
 
 
(20,139
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Universal Health Services, Inc. common stockholders’ equity
  
 
2,296,352
  
 
 
1,978,772
  

 Noncontrolling interest
  
 
50,766
  
 
 
44,999
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Equity
  
 
2,347,118
  
 
 
2,023,771
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
7,665,245
  
 
$
7,527,936
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  94 


Table of Contents
UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
(in thousands, except per share data)   






















































  
 
RedeemableInterest
 
 
  
 
Class ACommon
 
 
Class BCommon
 
 
Class CCommon
 
 
Class DCommon
 
 
Capital inExcess ofPar Value
 
 
CumulativeDividends
 
 
RetainedEarnings
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)
 
 
UHSCommonStockholders’Equity
 
 
NoncontrollingInterest
 
 
Total
 

 Balance, January 1, 2009
 
$
186,097
  
 
 
 
$
33
  
 
$
458
  
 
$
3
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
($
91,921
) 
 
$
1,666,973
  
 
($
31,696
) 
 
$
1,543,850
  
 
$
40,638
  
 
$
1,584,488
  

 Common Stock
 



 
 
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Issued/(converted) including tax benefits from exercise of stock options
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,285
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,287
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,287
  

 Repurchased
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(63,275
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(63,290
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(63,290
) 

 Restricted share-based compensation expense
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,174
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,174
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,174
  

 Dividends paid
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(16,706
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(16,706
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(16,706
) 

 Stock dividend
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
34
  
 
 
451
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(489
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Stock option expense
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,940
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,940
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,940
  

 Distributions to noncontrolling interests
 
 
(23,130
) 
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(6,736
) 
 
 
(6,736
) 

 Capital contributions from noncontrolling interests
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
121
  
 
 
121
  

 Purchase of minority ownership interests in majority owned businesses
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(229
) 
 
 
(229
) 

 Other
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,160
) 
 
 
(2,160
) 

 Comprehensive income:
 



 
 
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net income
 
 
34,185
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
260,373
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
260,373
  
 
 
9,689
  
 
 
270,062
  

 Amortization of terminated hedge (net of income tax effect of $126)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(216
) 
 
 
(216
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(216
) 

 Unrealized derivative losses on cash flow hedges (net of income tax effect of $899)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,477
  
 
 
1,477
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,477
  

 Minimum pension liability (net of income tax effect of $5,667)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,182
  
 
 
9,182
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,182
  


 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal—comprehensive income
 
 
34,185
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
260,373
  
 
 
10,443
  
 
 
270,816
  
 
 
9,689
  
 
 
280,505
  


 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, January 1, 2010
 
 
197,152
  
 
 
 
 
67
  
 
 
896
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(108,627
) 
 
 
1,879,981
  
 
 
(21,253
) 
 
 
1,751,071
  
 
 
41,323
  
 
 
1,792,394
  
   
See Note 1 for revision related to redeemable noncontrolling interest. 
  95 


Table of Contents
UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY—(Continued) 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009  (in thousands, except per share data)   






















































  
 
RedeemableInterest
 
 
  
 
Class ACommon
 
 
Class BCommon
 
 
Class CCommon
 
 
Class DCommon
 
 
Capital inExcess ofPar Value
 
 
CumulativeDividends
 
 
RetainedEarnings
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)
 
 
UHSCommonStockholders’Equity
 
 
NoncontrollingInterest
 
 
Total
 

 Common Stock
 



 
 
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Issued/(converted) including tax benefits from exercise of stock options
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
10,890
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
10,894
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
10,894
  

 Repurchased
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(11,525
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(11,528
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(11,528
) 

 Restricted share-based compensation expense
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,139
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,139
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,139
  

 Dividends paid
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(19,422
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(19,422
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(19,422
) 

 Stock option expense
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
13,321
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
13,321
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
13,321
  

 Distributions to noncontrolling interests
 
 
(23,777
) 
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(8,662
) 
 
 
(8,662
) 

 Capital contributions from noncontrolling interests
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Purchase of minority ownership interests in majority owned businesses
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
600
  
 
 
600
  

 Other
 
 
4,512
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Comprehensive income:
 



 
 
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net income
 
 
33,874
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
230,183
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
230,183
  
 
 
11,738
  
 
 
241,921
  

 Amortization of terminated hedge (net of income tax effect of $120)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(216
) 
 
 
(216
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(216
) 

 Unrealized derivative losses on cash flow hedges (net of income tax effect of $528)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
868
  
 
 
868
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
868
  

 Minimum pension liability (net of income tax effect of $281)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
462
  
 
 
462
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
462
  


 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal—comprehensive income
 
 
33,874
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
230,183
  
 
 
1,114
  
 
 
231,297
  
 
 
11,738
  
 
 
243,035
  


 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, January 1, 2011
 
 
211,761
  
 
 
 
 
67
  
 
 
897
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(128,049
) 
 
 
2,125,989
  
 
 
(20,139
) 
 
 
1,978,772
  
 
 
44,999
  
 
 
2,023,771
  
  See Note
1 for revision related to redeemable noncontrolling interest. 
  96 


Table of Contents
UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY—(Continued) 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009  (in thousands, except per share data)   






















































  
 
RedeemableInterest
 
 
  
 
Class ACommon
 
 
Class BCommon
 
 
Class CCommon
 
 
Class DCommon
 
 
Capital inExcess ofPar Value
 
 
CumulativeDividends
 
 
RetainedEarnings
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)
 
 
UHSCommonStockholders’Equity
 
 
NoncontrollingInterest
 
 
Total
 

 Common Stock
 



 
 
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Issued/(converted) including tax benefits from exercise of stock options
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
12
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
12,622
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
12,633
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
12,633
  

 Repurchased
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(16
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(60,466
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(60,482
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(60,482
) 

 Restricted share-based compensation expense
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,957
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,957
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,957
  

 Dividends paid
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(19,466
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(19,466
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(19,466
) 

 Stock option expense
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
15,807
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
15,807
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
15,807
  

 Distributions to noncontrolling interests
 
 
(31,016
) 
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(7,416
) 
 
 
(7,416
) 

 Purchase of minority ownership interests in majority owned businesses
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Comprehensive income:
 



 
 
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net income
 
 
37,521
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
398,167
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
398,167
  
 
 
13,183
  
 
 
411,350
  

 Amortization of terminated hedge (net of income tax effect of $120)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(216
) 
 
 
(216
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(216
) 

 Unrealized derivative losses on cash flow hedges (net of income tax effect of $14,363)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(23,114
) 
 
 
(23,114
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(23,114
) 

 Minimum pension liability (net of income tax effect of $4,691)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(7,706
) 
 
 
(7,706
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(7,706
) 


 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal—comprehensive income
 
 
37,521
  
 
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
398,167
  
 
 
(31,036
) 
 
 
367,131
  
 
 
13,183
  
 
 
380,314
  


 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2011
 
$
218,266
  
 
 
 
$
66
  
 
$
893
  
 
$
7
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
($
147,515
) 
 
$
2,494,076
  
 
($
51,175
) 
 
$
2,296,352
  
 
$
50,766
  
 
$
2,347,118
  


 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See Note 1 for revision related to redeemable noncontrolling interest. 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  97 


Table of Contents
UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(Amounts in thousands)
 

 Cash Flows from Operating Activities:
  



 



 




 Net income
  
$
448,870
  
 
$
275,795
  
 
$
304,247
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
  



 



 




 Depreciation & amortization
  
 
295,861
  
 
 
223,997
  
 
 
204,703
  

 Gains on sales of assets and businesses, net of losses
  
 
(452
) 
 
 
(1,993
) 
 
 
(1,346
) 

 Stock based compensation expense
  
 
18,225
  
 
 
16,799
  
 
 
13,096
  

 Changes in assets & liabilities, net of effects from acquisitions and dispositions:
  



 



 




 Accounts receivable
  
 
(134,838
) 
 
 
22,726
  
 
 
(1,402
) 

 Construction management and other receivable
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
29,519
  

 Accrued interest
  
 
(3,577
) 
 
 
8,408
  
 
 
357
  

 Accrued and deferred income taxes
  
 
85,792
  
 
 
132
  
 
 
14,930
  

 Other working capital accounts
  
 
(28,382
) 
 
 
(26,437
) 
 
 
(18,828
) 

 Other assets and deferred charges
  
 
37,160
  
 
 
11,539
  
 
 
6,699
  

 Other
  
 
(1,387
) 
 
 
812
  
 
 
755
  

 Accrued insurance expense, net of commercial premiums paid
  
 
83,612
  
 
 
19,739
  
 
 
44,314
  

 Payments made in settlement of self-insurance claims
  
 
(82,633
) 
 
 
(50,173
) 
 
 
(55,782
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
 
718,251
  
 
 
501,344
  
 
 
541,262
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash Flows from Investing Activities:
  



 



 




 Property and equipment additions, net of disposals
  
 
(285,682
) 
 
 
(239,274
) 
 
 
(379,748
) 

 Acquisition of property and businesses
  
 
(29,466
) 
 
 
(1,958,298
) 
 
 
(12,499
) 

 Proceeds received from sales of assets and businesses
  
 
67,592
  
 
 
21,460
  
 
 
9,770
  

 Costs incurred for purchase and implementation of electronic health records application
  
 
(38,249
) 
 
 
(17,971
) 
 
 
(7,957
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
  
 
(285,805
) 
 
 
(2,194,083
) 
 
 
(390,434
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash Flows from Financing Activities:
  



 



 




 Reduction of long-term debt
  
 
(381,517
) 
 
 
(1,392,086
) 
 
 
(66,499
) 

 Additional borrowings
  
 
98,100
  
 
 
3,266,146
  
 
 
26,069
  

 Financing costs
  
 
(23,608
) 
 
 
(101,815
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Repurchase of common shares
  
 
(60,482
) 
 
 
(11,528
) 
 
 
(63,288
) 

 Dividends paid
  
 
(19,466
) 
 
 
(19,422
) 
 
 
(16,706
) 

 Issuance of common stock
  
 
4,779
  
 
 
3,594
  
 
 
3,290
  

 Profit distributions to noncontrolling interests
  
 
(38,497
) 
 
 
(32,456
) 
 
 
(29,866
) 

 Proceeds from sale of noncontrolling interests in majority owned business
  
 
—  
  
 
 
600
  
 
 
—  
  

 Capital contributions from noncontrolling interests
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
121
  

 Purchase of noncontrolling interests in majority owned businesses
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(229
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities
  
 
(420,691
) 
 
 
1,713,033
  
 
 
(147,108
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
11,755
  
 
 
20,294
  
 
 
3,720
  

 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period
  
 
29,474
  
 
 
9,180
  
 
 
5,460
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period
  
$
41,229
  
 
$
29,474
  
 
$
9,180
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow Information:
  



 



 




 Interest paid
  
$
176,328
  
 
$
76,900
  
 
$
57,018
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income taxes paid, net of refunds
  
$
163,029
  
 
$
152,088
  
 
$
155,368
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 











 Supplemental Disclosures of Noncash Investing and Financing Activities:

     See Notes 2, 4 and 7
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  98 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
1) BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
Services provided by our hospitals, all of which are operated by subsidiaries of ours include general and specialty
surgery, internal medicine, obstetrics, emergency room care, radiology, oncology, diagnostic care, coronary care, pediatric services, pharmacy services and/or behavioral health services. We, through our subsidiaries, provide capital resources as
well as a variety of management services to our facilities, including central purchasing, information services, finance and control systems, facilities planning, physician recruitment services, administrative personnel management, marketing and
public relations.  The more significant accounting policies follow: 
A) Principles of Consolidation: The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our majority-owned
subsidiaries and partnerships controlled by us or our subsidiaries as the managing general partner. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. 
B) Revenue Recognition: We record revenues and related receivables for health care services at the time the services are
provided. Medicare and Medicaid revenues represented 37% of our net patient revenues during 2011 and 38% of our net patient revenues during each of 2010 and 2009. Revenues from managed care entities, including health maintenance organizations and
managed Medicare and Medicaid programs accounted for 43% of our net patient revenues during 2011 and 46% during each of 2010 and 2009.  We report net patient service revenue at the estimated net realizable amounts from patients and third-party payors and others for services rendered. We have agreements with third-party payors that provide
for payments to us at amounts different from our established rates. Payment arrangements include prospectively determined rates per discharge, reimbursed costs, discounted charges and per diem payments. Estimates of contractual allowances under
managed care plans are based upon the payment terms specified in the related contractual agreements. We closely monitor our historical collection rates, as well as changes in applicable laws, rules and regulations and contract terms, to assure that
provisions are made using the most accurate information available. However, due to the complexities involved in these estimations, actual payments from payors may be different from the amounts we estimate and record. 
We estimate our Medicare and Medicaid revenues using the latest available financial information, patient utilization data, government
provided data and in accordance with applicable Medicare and Medicaid payment rules and regulations. The laws and regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs are extremely complex and subject to interpretation and as a result, there is
at least a reasonable possibility that recorded estimates will change by material amounts in the near term. Certain types of payments by the Medicare program and state Medicaid programs (e.g. Medicare Disproportionate Share Hospital, Medicare
Allowable Bad Debts and Inpatient Psychiatric Services) are subject to retroactive adjustment in future periods as a result of administrative review and audit and our estimates may vary from the final settlements. Such amounts are included in
accounts receivable, net, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The funding of both federal Medicare and state Medicaid programs are subject to legislative and regulatory changes. As such, we can not provide any assurance that future legislation and
regulations, if enacted, will not have a material impact on our future Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements. Adjustments related to the final settlement of these retrospectively determined amounts did not materially impact our results in 2011, 2010
or 2009.  We provide care to patients who meet certain financial or economic criteria without charge or at amounts
substantially less than our established rates. Because we do not pursue collection of amounts determined to qualify as charity care, they are not reported in net revenues or in accounts receivable, net. Our acute care hospitals provided charity care
and uninsured discounts, based on charges at established rates, amounting to $956 million, $807 million and $671 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  99 


Table of Contents
C) Provision for Doubtful Accounts: Collection of receivables from
third-party payers and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. Our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill which is the patient’s responsibility, primarily
co-payments and deductibles. We estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payer mix, the agings of the receivables and historical collection experience. We routinely review accounts receivable balances in
conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions which might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. At our acute care hospitals, third party liability accounts
are pursued until all payment and adjustments are posted to the patient account. For those accounts with a patient balance after third party liability is finalized or accounts for uninsured patients, the patient receives statements and collection
letters. Patients that express an inability to pay are reviewed for potential sources of financial assistance including our charity care policy. If the patient is deemed unwilling to pay, the account is written-off as bad debt and transferred to an
outside collection agency for additional collection effort.  Uninsured patients that do not qualify as charity patients are
extended an uninsured discount of at least 20% of total charges. During the collection process the hospital establishes a partial reserve in the allowance for doubtful accounts for self-pay balances outstanding for greater than 60 days from the date
of discharge. All self-pay accounts at the hospital level are fully reserved if they have been outstanding for greater than 90 days from the date of discharge. Third party liability accounts are fully reserved in the allowance for doubtful accounts
when the balance ages past 180 days from the date of discharge. Potential charity accounts are fully reserved when it is determined the patient may be unable to pay.  As of December 31, 2011, our accounts receivable includes $54 million due from Illinois, the collection of which has been delayed due to budgetary and funding pressures experienced by the state.
Although approximately $41 million of the receivables due from Illinois have been outstanding in excess of 60 days (as of December 31, 2011), and a large portion will likely remain outstanding for the foreseeable future, we expect to eventually
collect all amounts due to us and therefore no related reserves have been established in our consolidated financial statements. However, we can provide no assurance that we will eventually collect all amounts due to us from Illinois. Failure to
ultimately collect all outstanding amounts due from Illinois would have an adverse impact on our future consolidated results of operations and cash flows.  On a consolidated basis, we monitor our total self-pay receivables to ensure that the total allowance for doubtful accounts provides adequate coverage based on historical collection experience. Our
accounts receivable are recorded net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $253 million and $249 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  D) Concentration of Revenues: Our five majority owned acute care hospitals in the Las Vegas, Nevada market contributed, on a combined basis, 16% in 2011, 21% in 2010 and 22% in 2009, of our
consolidated net revenues. On a combined basis, our facilities in the McAllen/Edinburg, Texas market (consisting of three acute care facilities, a children’s hospital and a behavioral health facility) contributed 5% in 2011, 6% in 2010 and 7%
in 2009, of our consolidated net revenues.  E) Cash and Cash Equivalents: We consider all highly liquid
investments purchased with maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.  F) Property and
Equipment: Property and equipment are stated at cost. Expenditures for renewals and improvements are charged to the property accounts. Replacements, maintenance and repairs which do not improve or extend the life of the respective asset are
expensed as incurred. We remove the cost and the related accumulated depreciation from the accounts for assets sold or retired and the resulting gains or losses are included in the results of operations. Construction-in-progress includes both
construction projects and equipment not yet placed into service.  We capitalize interest expense on major construction
projects while in progress. We capitalized interest on major construction projects amounting to $400,000 during 2011, $7.6 million during 2010 and $11.6 million during 2009. 
  100



Table of Contents
Depreciation is provided on the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of
buildings and improvements (twenty to forty years) and equipment (three to fifteen years). Depreciation expense (excluding discontinued operations) was $268.5 million during 2011, $202.8 million during 2010 and $184.6 million during 2009.
 G) Long-Lived Assets: We review our long-lived assets, including amortizable intangible assets, for
impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. The assessment of possible impairment is based on our ability to recover the carrying value of our asset based on our estimate of
its undiscounted future cash flow. If the analysis indicates that the carrying value is not recoverable from future cash flows, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value and an impairment loss is recognized. Fair values are determined
based on estimated future cash flows using appropriate discount rates.  H) Goodwill: Goodwill
is reviewed for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis or sooner if the indicators of impairment arise. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on market conditions and operational performance of
each reporting unit. We have designated September 1st
as our annual impairment assessment date and performed an impairment assessment as of September 1, 2011 which indicated no impairment of goodwill. There were also no goodwill impairments during 2010 or 2009. Future changes in the estimates used
to conduct the impairment review, including profitability and market value projections, could indicate impairment in future periods potentially resulting in a write-off of a portion or all of our goodwill. 
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the two years ended December 31, 2011 were as follows (in thousands): 
 
















 
  
Acute CareServices
 
 
BehavioralHealthServices
 
 
TotalConsolidated
 

 Balance, January 1, 2010
  
$
389,845
  
 
$
342,840
  
 
$
732,685
  

 Goodwill acquired during the period
  
 
510
  
 
 
1,895,276
  
 
 
1,895,786
  

 Goodwill divested during the period
  
 
(871
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(871
) 

 Adjustments to goodwill (a)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(37,686
) 
 
 
(37,686
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, January 1, 2011
  
 
389,484
  
 
 
2,200,430
  
 
 
2,589,914
  

 Adjustments to goodwill (b)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
37,688
  
 
 
37,688
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2011
  
$
389,484
  
 
$
2,238,118
  
 
$
2,627,602
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(a)
The reduction to the Behavioral Health Services’ goodwill consists primarily of a reclassification to “assets of facilities held for sale” and represents
the goodwill attributable to a legacy facility which we agreed to divest pursuant to our agreement with the Federal Trade Commission. 


(b)
Consists of adjustments to prior year purchase price allocations  I) Other Assets: Other assets consist primarily of amounts related to: (i) intangible assets acquired in connection with our acquisition of Psychiatric Solutions, Inc.
(“PSI”) in November, 2010 consisting of Medicare licenses, certificates of need and contracts to manage the operations of behavioral health services owned by third-parties; (ii) prepaid fees for various software and other applications
used by our hospitals; (iii) costs incurred in connection with the purchase and implementation of an electronic health records application for each of our acute care facilities; (iv) deposits; (v) investments in various businesses,
including Universal Health Realty Income Trust; (vi) the invested assets related to a deferred compensation plan that is held by an independent trustee in a rabbi-trust and that has a related payable included in other noncurrent liabilities;
(vii) the estimated future payments related to physician-related contractual commitments, as discussed below, and; (viii) other miscellaneous assets. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, other intangible assets, net of accumulated
amortization, were approximately $97 million and $100 million, respectively.  J) Physician Guarantees and
Commitments: As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, our accrued liabilities-other, and our other assets included $7 million and $8 million, respectively, of estimated future payments related

  101



Table of Contents

to physician-related contractual commitments. Pursuant to contractual guarantees outstanding as of December 31, 2011 that are applicable to future years, we have $6 million of potential
future financial obligations of which $4 million are potential obligations during 2012 and $2 million are potential obligations during 2013 and later.  K) Self-Insured Risks: We provide for self-insured risks, primarily general and professional liability claims and workers’ compensation claims. Our estimated liability for
self-insured professional and general liability claims is based on a number of factors including, among other things, the number of asserted claims and reported incidents, estimates of losses for these claims based on recent and historical
settlement amounts, estimate of incurred but not reported claims based on historical experience, and estimates of amounts recoverable under our commercial insurance policies. All relevant information, including our own historical experience is used
in estimating the expected amount of claims. While we continuously monitor these factors, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates due to inherent uncertainties involved
in making this estimate. Our estimated self-insured reserves are reviewed and changed, if necessary, at each reporting date and changes are recognized currently as additional expense or as a reduction of expense. See Note 8 for discussion of
revisions to prior year general and professional liability reserves and self-insurance liability assumed in connection with our acquisition of PSI in November, 2010. Based on the results of workers’ compensation reserves analyses, we recorded
reductions of prior year reserves of $4 million during 2010 and $7 million during 2009. Adjustments to prior year workers’ compensation reserves did not have a material impact on our 2011 consolidated financial statements or results of
operations.  L) Income Taxes: Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the amount of taxes payable
or deductible in future years as a result of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements. We believe that future income will enable us to realize our deferred tax assets net of
recorded valuation allowances relating to state net operating loss carry-forwards.  We operate in multiple jurisdictions with
varying tax laws. We are subject to audits by any of these taxing authorities. Our tax returns have been examined by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) through the year ended December 31, 2006. We believe that adequate accruals have
been provided for federal, foreign and state taxes.  See Note 6 for additional disclosure regarding income taxes. 
M) Other Noncurrent Liabilities: Other noncurrent liabilities include the long-term portion of our professional and
general liability, workers’ compensation reserves, pension and deferred compensation liabilities, liability incurred in connection with split-dollar life insurance agreements on the lives of our chief executive officer and his wife and interest
rate swap liabilities.  N) Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests and Noncontrolling Interest: Outside owners
hold noncontrolling, minority ownership interests of: (i) approximately 28% in our five acute care facilities located in Las Vegas, Nevada; (ii) 20% in an acute care facility located in Washington, D.C.; (iii) approximately 11% in an
acute care facility located in Laredo, Texas, and; (iv) 20% in a behavioral health care facility located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the majority ownership interest of which was acquired by us as result of our acquisition of PSI in November,
2010. The redeemable noncontrolling interests balances of $218 million and $212 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and the noncontrolling interests balances of $51 million and $45 million as of December 31, 2011 and
2010, respectively, consist primarily of the third-party ownership interests in these hospitals.  In connection with the five
acute care facilities located in Las Vegas, Nevada, the minority ownership interests of which are reflected as redeemable noncontrolling interests on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, the outside owners have certain “put rights”, that are
currently exercisable, that if exercised, require us to purchase the minority member’s interests at fair market value. The put rights are exercisable upon the occurrence of: (i) certain specified financial conditions falling below
established thresholds; (ii) breach of the management contract by the managing member (a subsidiary of ours), or; (iii) if the minority member’s ownership percentage is reduced to less than certain thresholds. In connection with the
behavioral health care facility located in 
  102



Table of Contents

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the minority ownership interest of which is also reflected as redeemable noncontrolling interests on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, the outside owner has a “put
option” to put its entire ownership interest to us at any time. If exercised, the put option requires us to purchase the minority member’s interest at fair market value. As of December 31, 2011, we believe the fair market value of the
minority ownership interests in these facilities approximates the book value of the redeemable noncontrolling interests. 
O) Comprehensive Income and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income: Comprehensive income or loss is comprised of net income,
changes in unrealized gains or losses on derivative financial instruments and a pension liability.  The accumulated other
comprehensive income (“AOCI”) component of stockholders’ equity includes: net unrealized gains and losses on effective cash flow hedges; and the net minimum pension liability of a non-contributory defined benefit pension plan which
covers employees at one of our subsidiaries. See Note 10, “Pension Plan” for additional disclosure regarding the defined benefit pension plan.  The amounts recognized in AOCI for the two years ended December 31, 2011 were as follows (in thousands):   
















 
  
Net UnrealizedGains 
(Losses) onEffective CashFlow Hedges
 
 
MinimumPensionLiability
 
 
TotalAOCI
 

 Balance, January 1, 2010, net of income tax
  
$
(5,782
) 
 
$
(15,471
) 
 
$
(21,253
) 

 2010 activity:
  



 



 




 Pre tax amount
  
 
1,060
  
 
 
743
  
 
 
1,803
  

 Income tax effect
  
 
(408
) 
 
 
(281
) 
 
 
(689
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Change, net of income tax
  
 
652
  
 
 
462
  
 
 
1,114
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2010, net of income tax
  
 
(5,130
) 
 
 
(15,009
) 
 
 
(20,139
) 

 2011 activity:
  



 



 




 Pre tax amount
  
 
(37,813
) 
 
 
(12,397
) 
 
 
(50,210
) 

 Income tax effect
  
 
14,483
  
 
 
4,691
  
 
 
19,174
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Change, net of income tax
  
 
(23,330
) 
 
 
(7,706
) 
 
 
(31,036
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2011, net of income tax
  
$
(28,460
) 
 
$
(22,715
) 
 
$
(51,175
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 P) Accounting for Derivative Financial Investments and Hedging Activities: We manage our
ratio of fixed to floating rate debt with the objective of achieving a mix that management believes is appropriate. To manage this risk in a cost-effective manner, we, from time to time, enter into interest rate swap agreements in which we agree to
exchange various combinations of fixed and/or variable interest rates based on agreed upon notional amounts.  We account for
our derivative and hedging activities using the Financial Accounting Standard Board’s (“FASB”) guidance which requires all derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, to be carried at
fair value on the balance sheet. For derivative transactions designated as hedges, we formally document all relationships between the hedging instrument and the related hedged item, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for
undertaking each hedge transaction.  Derivative instruments designated in a hedge relationship to mitigate exposure to
variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. Cash flow hedges are accounted for by recording the fair value of the derivative instrument on the balance sheet as either an
asset or liability, with a corresponding amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) within stockholders’ equity. Amounts are reclassified from AOCI to the income statement in the period or periods the hedged
transaction affects earnings. 
  103



Table of Contents
We use interest rate derivatives in our cash flow hedge transactions. Such derivatives are
designed to be highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows related to the hedged liability. For derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the ineffective portion of the change in expected cash flows of the hedged item are
recognized currently in the income statement.  Derivative instruments designated in a hedge relationship to mitigate exposure
to changes in the fair value of an asset, liability, or firm commitment attributable to a particular risk, such as interest rate risk, are considered fair value hedges. Fair value hedges are accounted for by recording the changes in the fair value
of both the derivative instrument and the hedged item in the income statement.  For hedge transactions that do not qualify for
the short-cut method, at the hedge’s inception and on a regular basis thereafter, a formal assessment is performed to determine whether changes in the fair values or cash flows of the derivative instruments have been highly effective in
offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items and whether they are expected to be highly effective in the future. 
Q) Stock-Based Compensation: At December 31, 2011, we have a number of stock-based employee compensation plans. Pursuant
to the FASB’s guidance, we expense the grant-date fair value of stock options and other equity-based compensation pursuant to the straight-line method over the stated vesting period of the award using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
 The expense associated with share-based compensation arrangements is a non-cash charge. In the Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows, share-based compensation expense is an adjustment to reconcile net income to cash provided by operating activities. The applicable FASB guidance requires that cash flows resulting from tax deductions in excess of compensation cost
recognized be classified as financing cash flows. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, there were no net excess tax benefits generated. 
R) Earnings per Share: Basic earnings per share are based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
during the year. Diluted earnings per share are based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year adjusted to give effect to common stock equivalents. 
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share, for the periods indicated: 
 
















 
  
Twelve Months Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Basic and diluted:
  



 



 




 Net Income
  
$
448,870
  
 
$
275,795
  
 
$
304,247
  

 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
  
 
(50,703
) 
 
 
(45,612
) 
 
 
(43,874
) 

 Less: Net income attributable to unvested restricted share grants
  
 
(521
) 
 
 
(918
) 
 
 
(1,146
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to UHS—basic and diluted
  
$
397,646
  
 
$
229,265
  
 
$
259,227
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic earnings per share attributable to UHS:
  



 



 




 Weighted average number of common shares—basic
  
 
97,199
  
 
 
96,786
  
 
 
97,794
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total basic earnings per share
  
$
4.09
  
 
$
2.37
  
 
$
2.65
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted earnings per share attributable to UHS:
  



 



 




 Weighted average number of common shares
  
 
97,199
  
 
 
96,786
  
 
 
97,794
  

 Net effect of dilutive stock options and grants based on the treasury stock method
  
 
1,338
  
 
 
1,187
  
 
 
481
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average number of common shares and equivalents—diluted
  
 
98,537
  
 
 
97,973
  
 
 
98,275
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total diluted earnings per share
  
$
4.04
  
 
$
2.34
  
 
$
2.64
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  104



Table of Contents
The “Net effect of dilutive stock options and grants based on the treasury stock
method”, for all years presented above, excludes certain outstanding stock options applicable to each year since the effect would have been anti-dilutive. The excluded weighted-average stock options totaled 1.4 million during 2011, 1,000
during 2010 and 3.6 million during 2009.  S) Fair Value of Financial Instruments: The fair values of our
registered debt and investments are based on quoted market prices. The fair values of other long-term debt, including capital lease obligations, are estimated by discounting cash flows using period-end interest rates and market conditions for
instruments with similar maturities and credit quality. The carrying amounts reported in the balance sheet for cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and short-term borrowings approximates their fair values due to the short-term nature of
these instruments. Accordingly, these items have been excluded from the fair value disclosures included elsewhere in these notes to consolidated financial statements.  T) Use of Estimates: The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from
those estimates.  U) Mergers and Acquisitions: The acquisition method of accounting for business combinations requires
that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values with limited exceptions. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a
liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Any excess of the purchase price (consideration transferred) over the
estimated fair values of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Transaction costs and costs to restructure the acquired company are expensed as incurred. The fair value of intangible assets, including Medicare Licenses, Certificates of Need,
and certain contracts, is based on significant judgments made by our management, and accordingly, for significant items we typically obtain assistance from third party valuation specialists. 
V) Accounting Standards:  Presentation and Disclosure of Patient Service Revenue, Provision for Bad Debts, and the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts for Certain Health Care Entities: In July 2011, the FASB issued Accounting
Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2011-07, “Health Care Entities (Topic 954): Presentation and Disclosure of Patient Service Revenue, Provision for Bad Debts, and the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts for Certain Health Care
Entities,” which requires health care entities to change the presentation in their statement of operations by reclassifying the provision for bad debts associated with patient service revenue from an operating expense to a deduction from
patient service revenue (net of contractual allowances and discounts). The guidance provided in this ASU is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption
permitted. While this standard will have no impact on our financial position or results of operations, it will require us to reclassify our provision for doubtful accounts from operating expenses to a component of net revenues beginning with the
first quarter of 2012, with retrospective application required.  Measuring Charity Care for Disclosures: In August
2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-23, “Health Care Entities (Topic 954): Measuring Charity Care for Disclosure,” which prescribes a specific measurement basis of charity care for disclosure. The guidance provided in this ASU is effective for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. 
A significant portion of the patients treated throughout our portfolio of acute care hospitals are uninsured patients which, in part, has
resulted from an increase in the number of patients who are employed but do not have health insurance or who have policies with relatively high deductibles. We provide care to patients who meet

  105



Table of Contents

certain financial or economic criteria without charge or at amounts substantially less than our established rates. Because we do not pursue collection of amounts that qualify as charity care,
they are not reported in net revenues or in accounts receivable, net. Our acute care hospitals provided charity care and uninsured discounts, based on charges at established rates, amounting to $956 million during 2011 and $807 million during 2010.
 The estimated cost of providing the charity services was $173 million during 2011 and $158 million during 2010. The estimated
costs were based on a calculation which multiplied the percentage of operating expenses for our acute care hospitals to gross charges for those hospitals by the above-mentioned gross charity care and uninsured discount amounts. The percentage of
cost to gross charges is calculated based on the total operating expenses for our acute care facilities (excluding provision for doubtful accounts) divided by gross patient service revenue for those facilities. An increase in the level of uninsured
patients to our facilities and the resulting adverse trends in the provision for doubtful accounts and charity care provided could have a material unfavorable impact on our future operating results. 
Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures: The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) has issued Accounting
Standards Update No. 2010-06, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements (“ASU 2010-06”). ASU 2010-06 affects all entities that are required to make disclosures about recurring and nonrecurring fair
value measurements under FASB ASC Topic 820, originally issued as FASB Statement No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. This ASU requires certain new disclosures and clarifies two existing disclosure requirements. The new disclosures and
clarifications of existing disclosures are effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the roll forward of activity in
Level 3 fair value measurements. Those disclosures are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010 and for interim periods within those fiscal years. ASU No. 2010-06 did not have a significant impact on our disclosures.
 Presentation of Comprehensive Income: In June 2011, the FASB amended its guidance governing the presentation of
comprehensive income. The amended guidance eliminates the option to report other comprehensive income and its components in the statement of changes in equity. Under the new guidance, an entity can elect to present items of net income and other
comprehensive income in one continuous statement referred to as the statement of comprehensive income or in two separate, but consecutive, statements. While the options for presenting other comprehensive income change under the guidance, other
portions of the current guidance will not change. For public entities, these changes are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. The adoption of this standard is not expected to
have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.  Multiemployer Pension Plan
Disclosures: In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-09 which requires enhanced disclosures around an employer’s participation in multiemployer pension plans. The standard is intended to provide more information about an
employer’s financial obligations to a multiemployer pension plan to help financial statement users better understand the financial health of the significant plans in which the employer participates. This guidance is effective for fiscal
2011 year-end reporting. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a significant impact on our disclosures. 
Goodwill Impairment Assessment: In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-08 which provides an entity the option to first
assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the current two-step test for goodwill impairment. If an entity believes, as a result of its qualitative assessment, that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value
of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the quantitative impairment test is required. Otherwise, no further testing is required. The revised standard is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. However, an entity can choose to early adopt even if its annual test date is before the issuance of the final standard, provided that the entity has not yet performed its 2011 annual
impairment test or issued its financial statements. The adoption of this ASU is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. 
  106



Table of Contents
Presentation of Insurance Claims and Related Insurance Recoveries: In August 2010,
the FASB issued Accounting Standard Updates (“ASU”) 2010-24, “Health Care Entities (Topic 954): Presentation of Insurance Claims and Related Insurance Recoveries,” which clarifies that a health care entity should not net
insurance recoveries against a related claim liability. The guidance provided in this ASU is effective for the fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2010. The adoption of this standard did not have a
material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. 
2) ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 
Year ended December 31, 2011: 
2011 Acquisitions of Assets and Businesses:  During 2011, we spent $29 million on the acquisition of businesses and real property, including the following:   


 
•
 
 the acquisition of administrative office buildings located in Pennsylvania, Tennessee and a multi-tenant office building located in Washington D.C.
(which was acquired by a limited partnership in which we hold an 80% ownership interest);   


 
•
 
 a deposit in connection with execution of a definitive agreement, which is subject to regulatory approvals and closing conditions, to acquire the Knapp
Medical Center, including a 226-bed acute care hospital, a surgery center, physician practices and other related assets located in Weslaco, Texas, and; 
 


 
•
 
 the acquisition of a cardiology practice in Texas  The aggregate net cash expenditure related to the properties and/or businesses was allocated to assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair values as follows: 
 








 
  
Amount(000s)
 

 Property, plant & equipment
  
$
35,000
  

 Other assets/deposits
  
 
11,000
  

 Debt
  
 
(17,000
) 


  
  
  
 

 Cash paid in 2011 for acquisitions and deposits
  
$
29,000
  


  
  
  
 
 2011 Divestitures of Assets and Businesses: 
During 2011, we received $68 million from the divestiture of assets and businesses, including the following: 
 


 
•
 
 the sale of three behavioral healthcare facilities (one located in Delaware and two located in Nevada) pursuant to our agreement with the Federal Trade
Commission (“FTC”) in connection with our acquisition of PSI;   


 
•
 
 sale of our majority ownership interest in a radiation oncology center located in Nevada, and; 
 


 
•
 
 the real property of a closed acute care hospital 
The operating results for the three former PSI facilities located in Delaware and Nevada are reflected as
discontinued operations during 2011 and 2010 (from the November 15th dates of acquisition). Since the aggregate income from discontinued operations before income tax expense for these facilities is not material to our 2011 or 2010 consolidated financial statements, it is
included as a reduction to other operating expenses. The aggregate pre-tax net gain on the divestitures of the above-mentioned facilities located in Delaware and Nevada did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations.
 In addition, also pursuant to our agreement with the FTC in connection with our acquisition of PSI, in January, 2012, we
divested the Hospital San Juan Capestrano, a 108-bed facility located in Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico. The assets and liabilities for the Hospital San Juan Capestrano are reflected as “held for sale” on our

  107



Table of Contents

Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2011. The pre-tax gain on the divestiture of the Hospital San Juan Capestrano, which will not have a material impact on our 2012 consolidated
results of operations, will be reflected in our consolidated results of operations during the first quarter of 2012. The assets and liabilities for each of the above-mentioned facilities were reflected as “held for sale” on our
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2010.  The following table shows the results of operations for the former
PSI facilities located in Delaware and Nevada, on a combined basis, which are reflected as discontinued operations (amounts in thousands):   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net revenues
  
$
33,884
  
 
$
4,155
  
 
$
—  
  

 Income from discontinued operations
  
 
7,904
  
 
 
859
  
 
 
—  
  

 Gain on divestiture
  
 
442
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from discontinued operations, before income tax expense
  
 
8,346
  
 
 
859
  
 
 
—  
  

 Income tax expense
  
 
(3,160
) 
 
 
(318
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from discontinued operations, net of income tax expense
  
$
5,186
  
 
$
541
  
 
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Year ended December 31, 2010: 
2010 Acquisitions of Assets and Businesses:  During 2010, we spent $1.96 billion and assumed $1.08 billion of debt on the acquisition of businesses and real property, including the following: 
 


 
•
 
 the acquisition of PSI on November 15, 2010 for a total purchase price of $3.04 billion consisting of $1.96 billion in cash plus the assumption of
approximately $1.08 billion of PSI’s debt, the majority of which has since been refinanced, and;   


 
•
 
 the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of an outpatient surgery center located in Florida in which we previously held a 20% minority
ownership interest. The purchase price consideration in connection with this transaction, which occurred during the first quarter, consisted of acquisition of the net assets less the assumption of the outstanding liabilities and third-party debt.
 The aggregate net purchase price of the facilities was allocated to assets and liabilities based on their
estimated fair values as follows:   








 
  
Amount(000s)
 

 Working capital, net
  
$
60,000
  

 Assets held for sale
  
 
67,000
  

 Property, plant & equipment
  
 
932,000
  

 Goodwill
  
 
1,921,000
  

 Other assets
  
 
132,000
  

 Income tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities
  
 
(14,000
) 

 Debt
  
 
(1,082,000
) 

 Liabilities held for sale
  
 
(1,000
) 

 Redeemable noncontrolling interests
  
 
(5,000
) 

 Other liabilities
  
 
(52,000
) 


  
  
  
 

 Cash paid in 2010 for acquisitions
  
$
1,958,000
  


  
  
  
 
 Goodwill of the facilities acquired is computed, pursuant to the residual method, by deducting the fair
value of the acquired assets and liabilities from the total purchase price. The factors that contribute to the recognition of 
  108



Table of Contents

goodwill, which may also influence the purchase price, include the following for each of the acquired facilities: (i) the historical cash flows and income levels; (ii) the reputations
in their respective markets; (iii) the nature of the respective operations, and; (iv) the future cash flows and income growth projections.  Assuming the acquisition of PSI occurred on January 1, 2009, our 2009 pro forma net revenues would have been approximately $7.01 billion and our pro forma net income attributable to UHS and pro form
net income attributable to UHS per diluted share would have been $211 million and $2.14 per diluted share, respectively. The 2009 pro forma net income attributable to UHS and net income attributable to UHS per diluted share include the after-tax
impact of the transaction costs incurred by us in connection with the acquisition of PSI amounting to $79 million or $.81 per diluted share.  Our 2010 pro forma net revenues would have been approximately $7.30 billion and our pro forma net income attributable to UHS and pro forma net income attributable to UHS per diluted share would have been
$342 million and $3.47 per diluted share, respectively.  During the period of November 16, 2010 through December 31,
2010, the facilities acquired from PSI generated $227 million of net revenues which are included in our consolidated net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. The aggregate effect of the earnings generated by these facilities since the
date of acquisition, less the cost on the borrowings utilized to finance the acquisition, was not material to our 2010 net income attributable to UHS and net income attributable to UHS per diluted share. 
2010 Divestitures of Assets and Businesses:  During 2010, we received $21 million from the divestiture of assets and businesses, including the following:   


 
•
 
 the sale of our minority ownership interest in a healthcare technology company; 
 


 
•
 
 the sale of a portion of our ownership interest in an outpatient surgery center located in Texas, and; 
 


 
•
 
 the sale of the real property of Methodist Hospital located in Louisiana that was severely damaged and closed in 2005 as a result of Hurricane Katrina.
 The pre-tax gain, net of losses, resulting from the above-mentioned transactions did not have a material
impact on our 2010 financial statements.  Year ended December 31, 2009: 
2009 Acquisitions of Assets and Businesses:  During 2009, we spent $12 million on the acquisition of businesses and real property, including the following:   


 
•
 
 the acquisition of a 72-bed behavioral health care facility located in Louisville, Colorado, and; 
 


 
•
 
 the acquisition of the real property assets of a medical office building located on the campus of one of our acute care hospitals located in Texas.
 The aggregate net purchase price of the facilities was allocated to assets and liabilities based on their
estimated fair values as follows:   








 
  
Amount(000s)
 

 Working capital, net
  
$
1,000
  

 Property, plant & equipment
  
 
11,000
  


  
  
  
 

 Cash paid in 2009 for acquisitions
  
$
12,000
  


  
  
  
 

  109



Table of Contents
Assuming the acquisition of the behavioral health facility located in Colorado occurred on
January 1, 2009, the pro forma effect on our 2009 net revenues, income from continuing operations, income from continuing operations per basic and diluted share, net income attributable to UHS and net income attributable to UHS per basic and
diluted share was immaterial.  2009 Divestitures of Assets and Businesses: 
During 2009, we received $10 million from the divestiture of assets and businesses, including the following: 
 


 
•
 
 the sale of the real property assets of a medical office building on the campus of a previously divested acute care facility located in Pennsylvania,
and;   


 
•
 
 the sale of our ownership interest in an outpatient surgery center 
3) FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
Fair Value Hedges:  During 2011, 2010 and 2009, we had no fair value hedges outstanding.  Cash
Flow Hedges:  We manage our ratio of fixed to floating rate debt with the objective of achieving a mix that management
believes is appropriate. To manage this risk in a cost-effective manner, we, from time to time, enter into interest rate swap agreements in which we agree to exchange various combinations of fixed and/or variable interest rates based on agreed upon
notional amounts. We account for our derivative and hedging activities using the Financial Accounting Standard Board’s (“FASB”) guidance which requires all derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in
other contracts, to be carried at fair value on the balance sheet. For derivative transactions designated as hedges, we formally document all relationships between the hedging instrument and the related hedged item, as well as its risk-management
objective and strategy for undertaking each hedge transaction.  Derivative instruments designated in a hedge relationship to
mitigate exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. Cash flow hedges are accounted for by recording the fair value of the derivative instrument on the balance
sheet as either an asset or liability, with a corresponding amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) within stockholders’ equity. Amounts are reclassified from AOCI to the income statement in the period or
periods the hedged transaction affects earnings. We use interest rate derivatives in our cash flow hedge transactions. Such derivatives are designed to be highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows related to the hedged liability. For
derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the ineffective portion of the change in expected cash flows of the hedged item are recognized currently in the income statement. 
For hedge transactions that do not qualify for the short-cut method, at the hedge’s inception and on a regular basis thereafter, a
formal assessment is performed to determine whether changes in the fair values or cash flows of the derivative instruments have been highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items and whether they are expected to be highly
effective in the future.  The fair value of interest rate swap agreements approximates the amount at which they could be
settled, based on estimates obtained from the counterparties. We assess the effectiveness of our hedge instruments on a quarterly basis. We performed periodic assessments of the cash flow hedge instruments during 2011 and 2010 and determined the
hedges to be highly effective. We also determined that no portion of the hedges is ineffective and therefore there was no material effect on our consolidated financial position, operations or cash flows. The counterparties to the interest rate swap
agreements expose us to credit risk in the event of nonperformance. However, at December 31, 2011, each swap agreement entered into by us was in a net liability position which would require us to make the net settlement payments to the
counterparties. We do not anticipate nonperformance by those counterparties. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. 
  110



Table of Contents
During the first quarter of 2011, we entered into an interest rate cap on a total notional
amount of $275 million whereby we paid a premium of $30,000 in exchange for the counterparty agreeing to pay the difference between 2.25% and three-month LIBOR if the three-month LIBOR rate rises above 2.25% during the term of the cap, which expired
in December, 2011. The three-month LIBOR never reached 2.25% during the term of the cap. Therefore, no payment was made to us. We also entered into a forward starting interest rate cap on a total notional amount of $450 million from December, 2011
to December, 2012 reducing to $400 million from December, 2012 to December, 2013 whereby we paid a premium of $740,000 in exchange for the counterparty agreeing to pay the difference between 7.00% and three-month LIBOR if the three-month LIBOR rate
rises above 7.00% during the term of the cap. If the three-month LIBOR does not reach 7.00% during the term of the cap, no payment is made to us.  We also entered into six additional forward starting interest rate swaps in the first quarter of 2011 whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $425 million and receive three-month LIBOR.
Three of these swaps with a total notional amount of $225 million became effective in March, 2011 and will mature in May, 2015. The average fixed rate payable on these swaps is 1.91%. The three remaining interest rate swaps with total notional
amounts of $100 million, $25 million and $75 million became effective in December, 2011 and have fixed rates of 2.50%, 1.96% and 1.32%, and maturity dates in December, 2014, December, 2013 and December, 2012, respectively. 
During the fourth quarter of 2010, we entered into three interest rate caps on a total notional amount of $1 billion whereby we paid a
premium of $240,000 in exchange for the counterparties agreeing to pay the difference between 2.25% and three-month LIBOR if the three-month LIBOR rate rises above 2.25% during the term of the caps. All of these caps expired in December, 2011. The
three-month LIBOR rate never rose above 2.25% during the term of the caps. Therefore, no payments were made to us. We also entered into four forward starting interest rate swaps in the fourth quarter of 2010 whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total
notional amount of $600 million and receive three-month LIBOR. Each of the four swaps became effective in December, 2011 and will mature in May, 2015. The average fixed rate payable on these swaps is 2.38%. 
During the fourth quarter of 2007, we entered into two interest rate swaps whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional principal
amount of $150 million and receive three-month LIBOR. Each of the two interest rate swaps had an initial notional principal amount of $75 million. The notional amount of the first interest rate swap reduced to $50 million in October, 2010.The fixed
rate payable is 4.76% and it matures in October, 2012. The fixed rate payable on the second interest rate swap was 4.87% and it matured in October, 2011.  We measure our interest rate swaps at fair value on a recurring basis. The fair value of our interest rate swaps is based primarily on quotes from banks. We consider those inputs to be “level 3”
in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in the authoritative guidance for disclosures in connection with derivative instruments and hedging activities. The fair value of our interest rate swaps was a liability of $48 million at December 31,
2011, of which $4 million is included in other current liabilities and $44 million is included in other noncurrent liabilities on the accompanying balance sheet. The fair value of our interest rate swaps was a liability of $10 million at
December 31, 2010, of which $2 million is included in other current liabilities and $8 million is included in other noncurrent liabilities. 
  111



Table of Contents
4) LONG-TERM DEBT 
A summary of long-term debt follows: 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(amounts in thousands)
 

 Long-term debt:
  



 




 Notes payable and Mortgages payable (including obligations under capitalized leases of $9,982 in 2011 and $11,962 in 2010) and
term loans with varying maturities through 2038; weighted average interest at 6.1% in 2011 and 6.5% in 2010 (see Note 7 regarding capitalized leases)
  
$
51,841
  
 
$
49,355
  

 Revolving credit and demand notes
  
 
249,600
  
 
 
187,500
  

 Term Loan A, net of unamortized discount of $6,103
  
 
1,020,375
  
 
 
1,042,322
  

 Term Loan B, net of unamortized discount of $19,500
  
 
1,436,772
  
 
 
1,576,500
  

 Revenue bonds, interest at floating rates of 0.2% and 0.3% at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, with varying
maturities through 2015
  
 
5,300
  
 
 
5,300
  

 Accounts receivable securitization program
  
 
240,000
  
 
 
204,000
  

 6.75% Senior Secured Notes due 2011, net of the unamortized discount of $9 in 2010, and fair market value adjustment of $559 in
2010.
  
 
—  
  
 
 
200,550
  

 7.125% Senior Secured Notes due 2016, including unamortized net premium of $19 in 2011 and $24 in 2010
  
 
400,019
  
 
 
400,024
  

 7.00% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2018
  
 
250,000
  
 
 
250,000
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
3,653,907
  
 
 
3,915,551
  

 Less-Amounts due within one year
  
 
(2,479
) 
 
 
(3,449
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
3,651,428
  
 
$
3,912,102
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 On November 15, 2010, we entered into a credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with
various financial institutions. The Credit Agreement is a senior secured facility which provided an initial aggregate commitment amount of $3.45 billion, comprised of a new $800 million revolving credit facility, a $1.05 billion Term Loan A facility
and a $1.6 billion Term Loan B facility. Prior to the effectiveness of the Credit Agreement Amendment in March, 2011 (as discussed below), we prepaid the principal amount and permanently reduced the Term Loan B commitment by $125 million. During
2011, we made scheduled principal payments of $16 million on the Term Loan B and $26 million on the Term Loan A. The revolving credit facility and the Term Loan A mature on November 15, 2015 and the Term Loan B matures on November 15,
2016. The revolving credit facility includes a $125 million sub-limit for letters of credit. The Credit Agreement is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company and our material subsidiaries and guaranteed by our material subsidiaries.
 On March 15, 2011, we entered into a first amendment to the Credit Agreement (the “Amendment”) which became
effective immediately and provides, among other things, for a reduction in the interest rates payable in connection with borrowings under the Credit Agreement. Upon the effectiveness of the Amendment, borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear
interest at the ABR rate which is defined as the rate per annum equal to, at our election (1) the greatest of (a) the lender’s prime rate, (b) the weighted average of the federal funds rate, plus 0.5% and (c) one month
Eurodollar rate plus 1%, in each case, plus an applicable margin based upon our consolidated leverage ratio at the end of each quarter ranging from 0.50% to 1.25% for revolving credit and Term Loan A borrowings and 1.75% to 2.00% for Term Loan B
borrowings or (2) the one, two, three or six month Eurodollar rate (at our election), plus an applicable margin based upon our consolidated leverage ratio at the end of each quarter ranging from 1.50% to 2.25% for revolving credit and Term Loan
A borrowings and ranging from 2.75% to 3.00% for Term Loan B borrowings. The current applicable margins are 0.75% for ABR-based loans, 1.75% for Eurodollar-based loans under the revolving credit and Term Loan A facilities and 2.75% under the Term
Loan B facility. Upon the effectiveness of the Amendment, the minimum Eurodollar rate for the Term Loan B facility was reduced from 1.50% to 1.00%. In connection with the Amendment, we paid a fee of 1.00% of the amounts outstanding under the Term
Loan B in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement. 
  112



Table of Contents
In October, 2010, we amended our accounts receivable securitization program
(“Securitization”) with a group of conduit lenders and liquidity banks. We increased the size of the Securitization to $240 million (the “Commitments”), from $200 million, and extended the maturity date to October 25, 2013.
Substantially all of the patient-related accounts receivable of our acute care hospitals (“Receivables”) serve as collateral for the outstanding borrowings. The interest rate on the borrowings is based on the commercial paper rate plus a
spread of 0.475% and there is a facility fee of 0.375% required on 102% on the Commitments. We have accounted for this Securitization as borrowings. We maintain effective control over the Receivables since, pursuant to the terms of the
Securitization, the Receivables are sold from certain of our subsidiaries to special purpose entities that are wholly-owned by us. The Receivables, however, are owned by the special purpose entities, can be used only to satisfy the debts of the
wholly-owned special purpose entities, and thus are not available to us except through our ownership interest in the special purpose entities. The wholly-owned special purpose entities use the Receivables to collateralize the loans obtained from the
group of third-party conduit lenders and liquidity banks. The group of third-party conduit lenders and liquidity banks do not have recourse to us beyond the assets of the wholly-owned special purpose entities that securitize the loans. At
December 31, 2011, we had $240 million of outstanding borrowings and no additional capacity pursuant to the terms of our accounts receivable securitization program.  As of December 31, 2011, we had $9 million outstanding borrowings under a short-term, on-demand credit facility. Outstanding borrowings, if any, pursuant to this facility are classified as long-term
debt on our Consolidated Balance Sheet since they can be refinanced through available borrowings under the terms of our Credit Agreement.  As of December 31, 2011, we had an aggregate of $482 million of available borrowing capacity pursuant to the terms of our Credit Agreement and Securitization, net of $69 million of outstanding
letters of credit and $9 million of outstanding borrowings under a short-term, on-demand credit facility.  On
September 29, 2010, we issued $250 million of 7.00% senior unsecured notes (the “Unsecured Notes”) which are scheduled to mature on October 1, 2018. The Unsecured Notes were registered in April, 2011. Interest on the Unsecured
Note is payable semiannually in arrears on April 1st and October 1st of each year. The Unsecured Notes can be redeemed in whole at anytime subject to a make-whole call at treasury rate plus 50 basis points prior to October 1, 2014.
They are also redeemable in whole or in part at a price of: (i) 103.5% on or after October 1, 2014; (ii) 101.75% on or after October 1, 2015, and; (iii) 100% on or after October 1, 2016. These Unsecured Notes are
guaranteed by a group of subsidiaries (each of which is a 100% directly owned subsidiary of Universal Health Services, Inc.) which fully and unconditionally guarantee the Unsecured Notes on a joint and several basis, subject to certain customary
automatic release provisions.  On June 30, 2006, we issued $250 million of senior notes which have a 7.125% coupon rate
and mature on June 30, 2016 (the “7.125% Notes”). Interest on the 7.125% Notes is payable semiannually in arrears on June 30th and December 30th of each year. In June, 2008, we issued an additional $150 million of 7.125%
Notes which formed a single series with the original 7.125% Notes issued in June, 2006. Other than their date of issuance and initial price to the public, the terms of the 7.125% Notes issued in June, 2008 are identical to and trade interchangeably
with, the 7.125% Notes which were originally issued in June, 2006.  During 2001, we issued $200 million of senior notes which
have a 6.75% coupon rate and which matured and were paid in full on November 15, 2011 (the “6.75% Notes”). The interest on the 6.75% Notes was paid semiannually in arrears on May 15th and November 15th of each year.
 In connection with the entering into of the Credit Agreement on November 15, 2010, and in accordance with the Indenture
dated January 20, 2000 governing the rights of our existing notes, we entered into a supplemental indenture pursuant to which our 7.125% Notes (due in 2015) and our 6.75% Notes (which matured in November, 2011) were equally and ratably secured
with the lenders under the Credit Agreement with respect to the collateral for so long as the lenders under the Credit Agreement are so secured. 
  113



Table of Contents
The average amounts outstanding during 2011, 2010, and 2009 are under the current and prior
Credit Agreements, demand notes and accounts receivable securitization programs were $2.9 billion, $610 million and $287 million, respectively, with corresponding interest rates of 3.4%, 3.4%, and 1.7% including commitment and facility fees. The
maximum amounts outstanding at any month-end were $3.03 billion in 2011, $3.11 billion in 2010, and $356 million in 2009. The effective interest rate on our current and prior Credit Agreements, accounts receivable securitization programs, and demand
notes, which includes the respective interest expense, commitment and facility fees, designated interest rate swaps expense and amortization of deferred financing costs and original issue discounts, was 4.6% in 2011, 5.0% in 2010 and 3.9% in 2009.
 Our Credit Agreement includes a material adverse change clause that must be represented at each draw. The Credit Agreement
contains covenants that include a limitation on sales of assets, mergers, change of ownership, liens and indebtedness, transactions with affiliates and dividends; and requires compliance with financial covenants including maximum leverage and
minimum interest coverage ratios. We are in compliance with all required covenants as of December 31, 2011.  The carrying
values of our debt at December 31, 2011 and 2010 are reflected above. The fair values of our debt at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $3.70 billion and $3.96, respectively. The fair value of our debt was computed based upon quotes received
from financial institutions.  Aggregate maturities follow: 
 








 
  
(000s)
 

 2012
  
$
2,479
  

 2013
  
 
242,638
  

 2014
  
 
3,970
  

 2015
  
 
1,290,085
  

 2016
  
 
1,840,693
  

 Later
  
 
274,042
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
3,653,907
  


  
  
  
 

5) COMMON STOCK 
In November, 2009, we declared a two-for-one stock split in the form of a 100% stock dividend which was paid on
December 15, 2009 to stockholders of record as of December 1, 2009. All classes of common stock participated on a pro rata basis and, as required, references to share quantities, share prices and earnings per share for all periods
presented or discussed have been adjusted to reflect the two-for-one stock split.  Dividends 
Cash dividends of $.20 per share ($19 million in the aggregate) were declared and paid during each of 2011 and 2010, and $.17 per share
($17 million in the aggregate) were declared and paid during 2009. 
  114



Table of Contents
Stock Repurchase Programs 
In various prior years, our Board of Directors has approved stock repurchase programs authorizing us to purchase shares of our outstanding
Class B Common Stock on the open market at prevailing market prices or in negotiated transactions off the market. There is no expiration date for our stock repurchase programs. The most recent approval occurred during 2007 at which time our Board of
Directors authorized the purchase of up to 10 million shares, a portion of which (as reflected below) remains available for purchase as of December 31, 2011. The following schedule provides information related to our stock repurchase
programs for each of the three years ended December 31, 2011:   
































 
  
AdditionalShares AuthorizedFor Repurchase
 
 
Total numberof sharespurchased(a)
 
 
Averageprice paidper sharefor forfeitedrestrictedshares
 
 
Totalnumberof sharespurchasedas part
ofpubliclyannouncedprograms
 
 
Averageprice paidper sharefor sharespurchasedas part
ofpubliclyannouncedprogram
 
 
Aggregatepurchaseprice paid(in thousands)
 
 
Maximumnumber ofshares thatmay yet bepurchasedunder
theprogram
 

 Balance as of January 1, 2009
  



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
4,713,548
  

 2009
  
 
—  
  
 
 
2,574,209
  
 
$
0.01
  
 
 
2,561,209
  
 
$
24.71
  
 
$
63,288
  
 
 
2,152,339
  

 2010
  
 
—  
  
 
 
301,933
  
 
$
0.01
  
 
 
293,933
  
 
$
39.22
  
 
$
11,528
  
 
 
1,858,406
  

 2011
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,602,286
  
 
$
0.01
  
 
 
1,602,286
  
 
$
37.75
  
 
$
60,482
  
 
 
256,120
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total for three year period ended December 31, 2011
  
 
—  
  
 
 
4,478,428
  
 
$
0.01
  
 
 
4,457,428
  
 
$
30.35
  
 
$
135,298
  
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



  


(a)
During 2010 and 2009, there were 8,000 and 13,000, respectively, of restricted shares that were forfeited by former employees pursuant to the terms of our restricted
stock purchase plan which are included in the total number of shares purchased. No such forfeitures occurred during 2011.  Stock-based Compensation Plans  At December 31, 2011, we have a
number of stock-based employee compensation plans. Pursuant to the FASB’s guidance, we expense the grant-date fair value of stock options and other equity-based compensation pursuant to the straight-line method over the stated vesting period of
the award using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.  The expense associated with share-based compensation arrangements is
a non-cash charge. In the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, share-based compensation expense is an adjustment to reconcile net income to cash provided by operating activities. The applicable FASB guidance requires that cash flows resulting from
tax deductions in excess of compensation cost recognized be classified as financing cash flows. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, there were no net excess tax benefits generated.  Compensation costs related to outstanding stock options were recognized as follows: (i) a pre-tax charge of $15.8 million ($9.8 million after-tax) or $.10 per diluted share during 2011; (ii) a
pre-tax charge of $13.3 million ($8.3 million after-tax) or $.08 per diluted share during 2010, and; (ii) $9.9 million ($6.2 million after-tax) or $.06 per diluted share during 2009. In addition, during the years ended 2011, 2010 and 2009,
compensation costs of $2.0 million ($1.2 million after-tax), $3.1 million ($2.0 million after-tax) and$2.8 million ($1.8 million after-tax) , respectively, were recognized related to restricted stock. 
  115



Table of Contents
We adopted the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended in 2008 and 2010, (the “Stock
Incentive Plan”) which replaced our Amended and Restated 1992 Stock Option Plan which expired in July of 2005. An aggregate of twenty-three million shares of Class B Common Stock has been reserved under the Stock Incentive Plan. There were
2,747,500, 82,750 and 2,400,500 stock options, net of cancellations, granted during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The per option weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during 2011, 2010 and 2009, was $11.62, $7.84 and $7.93,
respectively. Stock options to purchase Class B Common Stock have been granted to our officers, key employees and directors under our above referenced stock option plans. All stock options were granted with an exercise price equal to the fair market
value on the date of the grant. Options are exercisable ratably over a four-year period beginning one year after the date of the grant. All outstanding options expire five years after the date of the grant. 
The fair value of each option grant was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following
weighted average assumptions derived from averaging the number of options granted during the most recent five-year period that were granted or have vestings after January 1, 2006. The 2009 weighted-average assumptions were based upon nineteen
option grants, the 2010 weighted-average assumptions were based upon seventeen option grants and the 2011 weighted-average assumptions were based upon eighteen option grants. 
 
















 Year Ended December 31,
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Volatility
  
 
29
% 
 
 
27
% 
 
 
28
% 

 Interest rate
  
 
2
% 
 
 
3
% 
 
 
3
% 

 Expected life (years)
  
 
3.5
  
 
 
3.6
  
 
 
3.6
  

 Forfeiture rate
  
 
9
% 
 
 
10
% 
 
 
10
% 

 Dividend yield
  
 
0.7
% 
 
 
0.7
% 
 
 
0.7
% 
 The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury zero coupon four year yield in effect at the time of
grant. The expected life of the stock options granted was estimated using the historical behavior of employees. Expected volatility was based on historical volatility for a period equal to the stock option’s expected life. Expected dividend
yield is based on our actual dividend yield at the time of grant.  The table below summarizes our stock option activity during
each of the last three years:   
















 Outstanding Options
  
Numberof Shares
 
 
AverageOptionPrice
 
  
Range(High-Low)
 

 Balance, January 1, 2009
  
 
8,116,326
  
 
$
22.68
  
  
$
 31.70 -$16.22
  

 Granted
  
 
2,635,000
  
 
$
31.18
  
  
$
 31.18 -$31.18
  

 Exercised
  
 
(1,582,376
) 
 
$
23.71
  
  
$
 29.89 -$16.22
  

 Cancelled
  
 
(366,500
) 
 
$
22.84
  
  
$
 29.89 -$16.22
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance, January 1, 2010
  
 
8,802,450
  
 
$
25.03
  
  
$
 31.70 -$16.22
  

 Granted
  
 
94,000
  
 
$
30.40
  
  
$
 32.28 -$30.32
  

 Exercised
  
 
(2,000,250
) 
 
$
24.87
  
  
$
 31.70 -$16.22
  

 Cancelled
  
 
(301,250
) 
 
$
24.91
  
  
$
 31.18 -$16.22
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance, January 1, 2011
  
 
6,594,950
  
 
$
25.16
  
  
$
 32.28 -$16.22
  

 Granted
  
 
2,894,500
  
 
$
43.66
  
  
$
 54.79 -$38.12
  

 Exercised
  
 
(1,563,255
) 
 
$
26.38
  
  
$
 32.28 -$16.22
  

 Cancelled
  
 
(367,250
) 
 
$
32.60
  
  
$
 46.97 -$16.22
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2011
  
 
7,558,945
  
 
$
31.63
  
  
$
 54.79 -$16.22
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Outstanding options vested and exercisable as of December 31, 2011
  
 
2,979,945
  
 
$
23.82
  
  
$
 31.18 -$16.22
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  116



Table of Contents
The following table provides information about unvested options for the year
December 31, 2011:   












 
  
Shares
 
 
WeightedAverageGrant DateFair Value
 

 Unvested options as of January 1, 2011
  
 
3,799,250
  
 
$
5.80
  

 Granted
  
 
2,894,500
  
 
$
11.62
  

 Vested
  
 
(1,757,500
) 
 
$
5.26
  

 Cancelled
  
 
(357,250
) 
 
$
8.19
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unvested options as of December 31, 2011
  
 
4,579,000
  
 
$
9.50
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The following table provides information about all outstanding options, and exercisable options, at
December 31, 2011:   












 
  
OptionsOutstanding
 
  
OptionsExercisable
 

 Number
  
 
7,558,945
  
  
 
2,979,945
  

 Weighted average exercise price
  
$
31.63
  
  
$
23.82
  

 Aggregate intrinsic value as of December 31, 2011
  
$
67,870,455
  
  
$
44,833,019
  

 Weighted average remaining contractual life
  
 
2.8
  
  
 
1.8
  
 The total in-the-money value of all stock options exercised during the years ended December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009 were $28.9 million, $26.8 million and $10.2 million, respectively.  The weighted average
remaining contractual life for options outstanding and weighted average exercise price per share for exercisable options at December 31, 2011 were as follows:   
































 
 
Options Outstanding
 
 
Exercisable Options
 
 
Expected to VestOptions(a)
 

 Exercise Price
 
Shares
 
 
WeightedAverageExercise PricePer Share
 
 
WeightedAverageRemainingContractual Life(in Years)
 
 
Shares
 
 
WeightedAverageExercise PricePer Share
 
 
Shares
 
 
WeightedAverageExercise PricePer Share
 

 $16.22 – $24.45
 
 
2,642,825
  
 
$
19.56
  
 
 
1.5
  
 
 
2,050,825
  
 
$
20.53
  
 
 
537,891
  
 
$
16.22
  

 $25.32 – $29.26
 
 
29,500
  
 
 
26.80
  
 
 
1.1
  
 
 
17,750
  
 
 
26.59
  
 
 
10,676
  
 
 
27.12
  

 $29.60 – $32.28
 
 
2,139,120
  
 
 
31.15
  
 
 
2.9
  
 
 
911,370
  
 
 
31.16
  
 
 
1,115,534
  
 
 
31.14
  

 $38.12 – $43.67
 
 
2,728,000
  
 
 
43.59
  
 
 
4.1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
2,478,661
  
 
 
43.59
  

 $46.79 – $54.79
 
 
19,500
  
 
 
52.99
  
 
 
4.3
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
17,718
  
 
 
52.99
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 
7,558,945
  
 
$
31.63
  
 
 
2.8
  
 
 
2,979,945
  
 
$
23.82
  
 
 
4,160,480
  
 
$
36.71
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(a)
Assumes a weighted average forfeiture rate of 9.14%.  In addition to the Stock Incentive Plan, we have the following stock incentive and purchase plans: (i) the 2010 Employees’ Restricted Stock Purchase Plan (“2010 Plan”), which replaced
the Second Amended and Restated 2001 Employees’ Restricted Stock Purchase Plan (“2001 Plan”), which allows eligible participants to purchase shares of Class B Common Stock at par value, subject to certain restrictions. During 2011,
pursuant to the 2010 Plan, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the “Committee”) approved the issuance of 21,500 restricted shares of our Class B Common Stock at a weighted average price of $53.21 per share ($1.1 million
in the aggregate) to various employees. These shares have various vesting schedules. and; (ii) a 2005 Employee Stock Purchase Plan which allows eligible employees to purchase shares of Class B Common Stock at a ten percent discount. There were
98,366, 94,955 and 138,870 shares issued pursuant to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Compensation expense recorded in connection with this plan was $461,000, $339,000 and $316,000 during 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively. 
  117



Table of Contents
We have reserved 6.0 million shares of Class B Common Stock for issuance under these
various plans (excluding terminated plans) and have issued approximately 700,000 shares, net of cancellations, pursuant to the terms of these plans (excluding terminated plans) as of December 31, 2011. 
During 2011, pursuant to the 2010 Plan, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the “Committee”) approved the
issuance of 21,500 restricted shares of our Class B Common Stock at a weighted average price of $53.21 per share ($1.1 million in the aggregate) to various employees. These shares have various vesting schedules. We recorded compensation expense of
$198,000 during 2011 in connection with these grants. The remaining expense associated with these awards (estimated at $947,000 as of December 31, 2011) will be recorded over the remaining vesting periods of the awards, assuming the recipients
remain employed by us.  The 2001 Plan, as described above, expired in March, 2010. Under this plan, we had 2.4 million
shares of Class B Common Stock reserved for issuance and have issued approximately 1.2 million shares, net of cancellations, pursuant to the terms of this plan as of December 31, 2010, of which 78,133 became fully vesting during 2011,
313,770 became fully vested during 2010 and 31,638 became fully vested during 2009.  During the first quarter of 2010,
pursuant to the 2001 Plan and prior to its expiration, the Committee approved the issuance of 49,472 restricted shares of our Class B Common Stock at $30.32 per share ($1.5 million in the aggregate) to our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”)
and Chairman of the Board. These shares, which were issued pursuant to a provision in our CEO’s employment agreement, are scheduled to vest ratably on the first, second, third and fourth anniversary dates of the grant, assuming our CEO remains
employed by us. In the event that our CEO’s employment is terminated by reason of disability, death, without proper cause or due to breach of the CEO’s employment agreement by us, the vesting of these awards will occur immediately. 12,368
of these shares became fully vested in 2011. In connection with this grant, we recorded compensation expense of $375,000 and $355,000 during 2011 and 2010, respectively, and the remaining expense associated with this award (estimated at $770,000 as
of December 31, 2011) will be recorded over the remaining vesting periods of the award.  During the first quarter of
2009, pursuant to the 2001 Plan, the Committee approved the issuance of 109,850 restricted shares of our Class B Common Stock at $20.26 per share ($2.2 million in the aggregate) to our CEO. These shares are scheduled to vest ratably on the first,
second, third and fourth anniversary dates of the grant and are subject to the same conditions and terms as mentioned above in connection with the grant of restricted shares during the first quarter of 2010. 27,462 and 27,463 of these shares became
fully vested in 2011 and 2010, respectively. In connection with this grant, we recorded compensation expense of $556,000 during each of 2011 and 2010 and $482,000 during 2009. The remaining expense associated with this award (estimated at $630,000
as of December 31, 2011) will be recorded over the remaining vesting periods of the award.  During the first quarter of
2008, pursuant to the 2001 Plan, the Committee approved the issuance of 62,190 restricted shares of our Class B Common Stock at $24.12 per share ($1.5 million in the aggregate) to our CEO. These shares are scheduled to vest ratably on the first,
second, third and fourth anniversary dates of the grant and are subject to the same conditions and terms as mentioned above in connection with the grant of restricted shares during the first quarter of 2010. 15,546 of these shares became fully
vesting during 2011 and 15,548 of these shares became fully vested in each of 2010 and 2009. In connection with this grant, we recorded compensation expense of $375,000 during each of 2011, 2010 and 2009. The remaining expense associated with this
award (estimated at $15,000 as of December 31, 2011) was recorded over the remaining vesting periods of the award. 
During the fourth quarter of 2007, pursuant to the 2001 Plan, the Committee approved the issuance of 61,362 restricted shares of our
Class B Common Stock at $24.45 per share ($1.5 million in the aggregate) to our CEO. These shares are scheduled to vest ratably on the first, second, third and fourth anniversary dates of the grant and are subject to the same conditions and terms as
mentioned above in connection with the grant of restricted shares during the first quarter of 2010. 15,341 of these shares became fully vested in each of 2011 and 2010 and 15,340 of these shares became fully vested in each of 2009 and 2008. In
connection with this grant, we recorded compensation expense of $333,000 during 2011 and $375,000 during each of 2010 and 2009. 
  118



Table of Contents
Additionally, during 2007, pursuant to the 2001 Plan, the Committee approved the issuance of
22,250 restricted shares of our Class B Common stock at a weighted average of $29.62 per share ($659,000 in the aggregate) to various employees. These shares have various vesting schedules. We recorded compensation expense of $120,000 during 2011
and $135,000 during each of 2010 and 2009, in connection with these grants. The remaining expense associated with these awards (estimated at $42,000 as of December 31, 2011) will be recorded over the remaining vesting periods of the awards,
assuming the recipients remain employed by us.  During the fourth quarter of 2006, pursuant to the 2001 Plan, the Committee
approved the issuance of 247,000 restricted shares (net of cancellations) of our Class B Common Stock at $25.71 per share ($6.4 million in the aggregate) to various officers and employees. These shares became fully vested in November, 2010. In
connection with this grant, we recorded compensation expense of $1.3 million and $1.5 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively.  At December 31, 2011, 31,167,268 shares of Class B Common Stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of shares of Class A, C and D Common Stock outstanding, for issuance upon exercise of
options to purchase Class B Common Stock and for issuance of stock under other incentive plans. Class A, C and D Common Stock are convertible on a share for share basis into Class B Common Stock. 
In connection with the long-term incentive plans described above, we recorded compensation expense of $2.4 million in 2011, $3.5 million
in 2010 and $3.2 million in 2009. Including the compensation expense recognized related to outstanding stock options of $15.8 million in 2011, $13.3 million in 2010 and $9.9 million in 2009, we recorded a total stock compensation expense of $18.2
million in 2011, $16.8 million in 2010 and $13.1 million in 2009. 
6) INCOME TAXES 
Components of income tax expense/(benefit) are as follows (amounts in thousands): 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Current
  



  



  




 Federal
  
$
165,409
  
  
$
105,077
  
  
$
130,798
  

 Foreign
  
 
300
  
  
 
2,555
  
  
 
—  
  

 State
  
 
22,901
  
  
 
16,547
  
  
 
18,976
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
188,610
  
  
 
124,179
  
  
 
149,774
  

 Deferred
  



  



  




 Federal and foreign
  
 
53,056
  
  
 
26,419
  
  
 
18,524
  

 State
  
 
5,800
  
  
 
1,704
  
  
 
2,177
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
58,856
  
  
 
28,123
  
  
 
20,701
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
247,466
  
  
$
152,302
  
  
$
170,475
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  119



Table of Contents
Deferred taxes are required to be classified based on the financial statement classification
of the related assets and liabilities which give rise to temporary differences. Deferred taxes result from temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. The components of deferred
taxes are as follows (amounts in thousands):   












 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Deferred income tax assets:
  



 




 Self-insurance reserves
  
$
115,201
  
 
$
121,249
  

 Compensation accruals
  
 
49,717
  
 
 
53,855
  

 State and foreign net operating loss carryforwards and other state and foreign deferred tax assets
  
 
52,506
  
 
 
46,338
  

 Other currently non-deductible accrued liabilities
  
 
19,699
  
 
 
19,016
  

 Net pension liability—OCI only
  
 
13,959
  
 
 
9,268
  

 Doubtful accounts and other reserves
  
 
17,345
  
 
 
31,046
  

 Other combined items—OCI only
  
 
17,684
  
 
 
3,196
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
286,111
  
 
 
283,968
  

 Less: Valuation Allowance
  
 
(42,143
) 
 
 
(32,352
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred income tax assets:
  
 
243,968
  
 
 
251,616
  

 Deferred income tax liabilities:
  



 




 Depreciable and amortizable assets
  
 
(342,655
) 
 
 
(299,566
) 

 Other deferred tax liabilities
  
 
(2,581
) 
 
 
(4,570
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred income tax liabilities
  
$
(101,268
) 
 
$
(52,520
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The effective tax rates, as calculated by dividing the provision for income taxes by income before income
taxes, were as follows for each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (dollar amounts in thousands):   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Provision for income taxes
  
$
247,466
  
 
$
152,302
  
 
$
170,475
  

 Income before income taxes
  
 
696,336
  
 
 
428,097
  
 
 
474,722
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effective tax rate
  
 
35.5
% 
 
 
35.6
% 
 
 
35.9
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Impacting the effective tax rates during 2011 was approximately $1 million favorable discrete tax item
recorded to adjust the estimated liabilities for uncertain tax positions. Impacting the effective tax rates during 2010 were the following items: (i) $5 million unfavorable discrete tax item recorded to adjust the non-deductible portion of
certain transaction costs incurred during 2010 in connection with our acquisition of PSI; (ii) a $4 million unfavorable discrete tax item recorded to adjust for the non-deductible, $9 million charge incurred from split-dollar life insurance
agreements entered into during 2010 on the lives of our chief executive officer and his wife, partially offset by; (iii) a $4 million favorable discrete tax item recorded during 2010 to adjust the estimated non-deductible portion of the
previously disclosed South Texas Health System settlement with the government based upon the final agreement. 
  120



Table of Contents
A reconciliation between the federal statutory rate and the effective tax rate is as
follows:   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Federal statutory rate
  
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 

 State taxes, net of federal income tax benefit
  
 
2.9
  
 
 
3.1
  
 
 
3.2
  

 Nondeductible transaction costs
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1.3
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other items
  
 
0.4
  
 
 
0.4
  
 
 
1.4
  

 Impact of income attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
(2.8
) 
 
 
(4.2
) 
 
 
(3.7
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effective tax rate
  
 
35.5
% 
 
 
35.6
% 
 
 
35.9
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Included in “Other current assets” on our Consolidated Balance Sheet are prepaid federal,
foreign, and state income taxes amounting to approximately $25 million and $51 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  The net deferred tax assets and liabilities are comprised as follows (amounts in thousands):   












 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Current deferred taxes
  



 




 Assets
  
$
109,297
  
 
$
123,362
  

 Liabilities
  
 
(973
) 
 
 
(2,528
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred taxes-current
  
 
108,324
  
 
 
120,834
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Noncurrent deferred taxes
  



 




 Assets
  
 
135,189
  
 
 
128,254
  

 Liabilities
  
 
(344,781
) 
 
 
(301,608
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred taxes-noncurrent
  
 
(209,592
) 
 
 
(173,354
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax liabilities
  
$
(101,268
) 
 
$
(52,520
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The assets and liabilities classified as current relate primarily to the allowance for uncollectible
patient accounts, compensation-related accruals and the current portion of the temporary differences related to self- insurance reserves. At December 31, 2011, state net operating loss carryforwards (expiring in years 2012 through 2031), and
credit carryforwards available to offset future taxable income approximated $881 million, representing approximately $44 million in deferred state tax benefit (net of the federal benefit). At December 31, 2011, related to the
acquisition of PSI, there were federal net operating losses of approximately $2 million expiring in 2022 representing approximately $1 million in deferred federal tax benefits and foreign net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $8 million
expiring through 2021 representing approximately $3 million in deferred foreign tax benefit.  A valuation allowance is
required when it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Based on available evidence, it is more likely than not that certain of our state tax benefits will not be realized. Therefore, valuation
allowances of approximately $39 million and $28 million have been reflected as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. During 2011, the valuation allowance on these state tax benefits increased by approximately $11 million due to
additional net operating losses incurred. In addition, valuation allowances of approximately $3 million and $4 million have been reflected as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to foreign net operating losses.
 We adopted the provisions of Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes effective January 1, 2007. During 2011 and 2010,
the estimated liabilities for uncertain tax positions (including accrued interest and 
  121



Table of Contents

penalties) were increased in the amount of approximately $1 million and $3 million, respectively, due to tax positions taken in the current and prior years. The increase in 2010 is primarily
attributable to tax positions taken by PSI on pre-acquisition tax return years. Also during 2011, the estimated liabilities for uncertain tax positions (including accrued interest and penalties) were reduced due to the lapse of the statute of
limitations resulting in a net income tax benefit of approximately $2 million. The balance at each of December 31, 2011 and 2010, if subsequently recognized, that would favorably affect the effective tax rate and the provision for income taxes
is approximately $5 million.  We recognize accrued interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions as part of
the tax provision. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we have approximately $1 million of accrued interest and penalties. The U.S. federal statute of limitations remains open for the 2008 and subsequent years. Foreign and U.S. state and local
jurisdictions have statutes of limitations generally ranging for 3 to 4 years. The statute of limitations on certain jurisdictions could expire within the next twelve months. It is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits
will change during the next 12 months however it is anticipated that any such change, if it were to occur, would not have a material impact on our results of operations.  The tabular reconciliation of unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 is as follows (amounts in thousands). 
 
















 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Balance at January 1,
  
$
7,923
  
 
$
5,754
  
 
$
3,759
  

 Additions based on tax positions related to the current year
  
 
750
  
 
 
1,219
  
 
 
750
  

 Additions for tax positions of prior years
  
 
419
  
 
 
2,076
  
 
 
1,245
  

 Reductions for tax positions of prior years
  
 
(1,628
) 
 
 
(907
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Settlements
  
 
(61
) 
 
 
(219
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31,
  
$
7,403
  
 
$
7,923
  
 
$
5,754
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

7) LEASE COMMITMENTS 
Four of our hospital facilities are held under operating leases with Universal Health Realty Income Trust with terms
expiring in 2014 and 2016 (see Note 9 for additional disclosure). We also lease the real property of certain facilities acquired by us in connection with the acquisition of PSI in November, 2010 (see Item 2. Properties for additional
disclosure).  A summary of property under capital lease follows (amounts in thousands): 
 












 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Land, buildings and equipment
  
$
37,037
  
 
$
38,712
  

 Less: accumulated amortization
  
 
(35,264
) 
 
 
(35,627
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
1,773
  
 
$
3,085
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  122



Table of Contents
Future minimum rental payments under lease commitments with a term of more than one year as
of December 31, 2011, are as follows (amounts in thousands):   












 Year
  
CapitalLeases
 
 
OperatingLeases
 

 
  
(000s)
 

 2012
  
$
2,425
  
 
$
58,388
  

 2013
  
 
2,277
  
 
 
42,717
  

 2014
  
 
1,299
  
 
 
32,777
  

 2015
  
 
1,212
  
 
 
26,806
  

 2016
  
 
1,077
  
 
 
21,687
  

 Later years
  
 
7,787
  
 
 
24,053
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total minimum rental
  
$
16,077
  
 
$
206,428
  


  



 
  
  
 

 Less: Amount representing interest
  
 
(6,095
) 
 





  
  
  
 
 




 Present value of minimum rental commitments
  
 
9,982
  
 




 Less: Current portion of capital lease obligations
  
 
(1,680
) 
 





  
  
  
 
 




 Long-term portion of capital lease obligations
  
$
8,302
  
 





  
  
  
 
 



 In the ordinary course of business, our facilities routinely lease equipment pursuant to month-to-month
lease arrangements that will likely result in future lease & rental expense in excess of the amounts indicated above. Capital lease obligations of $7.1 million in 2010 and $700,000 in 2009 were incurred when we assumed capital lease
obligations upon the acquisition of facilities or entered into capital leases for new equipment. We incurred no additional capital lease obligations during 2011. 
8) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 
Professional and General Liability Claims and Property Insurance 
Professional and General Liability  Effective January 1, 2008, most of our subsidiaries became self-insured for professional and general liability exposure up to $10 million per occurrence (as compared to $20 million per occurrence
prior to 2008). Prior to our acquisition of PSI in November, 2010, our subsidiaries purchased several excess policies through commercial insurance carriers which provide for coverage in excess of $10 million up to $200 million per occurrence and in
the aggregate. However, we are liable for 10% of the claims paid pursuant to the commercially insured coverage in excess of $10 million up to $60 million per occurrence and in the aggregate. 
Prior to our acquisition in November, 2010, the PSI subsidiaries were commercially insured for professional and general liability
insurance claims in excess of a $3 million self-insured retention to a limit of $75 million. PSI utilized its captive insurance company and that captive insurance company remains in place after our acquisition of PSI to manage the
self-insured retention for all former PSI subsidiaries for claims incurred prior to January 1, 2011. The captive insurance company also continues to manage the applicable self-insured retention for all professional and general liability claims,
regardless of date incurred, for the former PSI subsidiaries located in Florida and Puerto Rico.  Since our acquisition of PSI
on November 15, 2010, the former PSI subsidiaries are self-insured for professional and general liability exposure up to $3 million per occurrence and our legacy subsidiaries (which are not former PSI subsidiaries) are self-insured for
professional and general liability exposure up to $10 million per occurrence. Effective November, 2010, our subsidiaries (including the former PSI subsidiaries) were provided with several excess policies through commercial insurance carriers which
provide for coverage in excess of the applicable per occurrence self-insured retention (either $3 million or $10 million) up to $200 million per occurrence and in the aggregate. We remain liable for 10% of the claims paid pursuant to the
commercially insured coverage in excess of $10 million up to $60 million per occurrence and in the aggregate. 
  123



Table of Contents
Our estimated liability for self-insured professional and general liability claims is based
on a number of factors including, among other things, the number of asserted claims and reported incidents, estimates of losses for these claims based on recent and historical settlement amounts, estimates of incurred but not reported claims based
on historical experience, and estimates of amounts recoverable under our commercial insurance policies. While we continuously monitor these factors, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from
our current estimates due to inherent uncertainties involved in making this estimate. Given our significant self-insured exposure for professional and general liability claims, there can be no assurance that a sharp increase in the number and/or
severity of claims asserted against us will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations.  As of
December 31, 2011, the total accrual for our professional and general liability claims, including the estimated claims related to the facilities acquired from PSI, was $292 million, of which $60 million is included in current liabilities. As of
December 31, 2010, the total accrual for our professional and general liability claims was $289 million, of which $60 million is included in other current liabilities.  Based upon the results of reserve analyses, we recorded reductions to our professional and general liability self-insurance reserves (relating to prior years) amounting to $11 million during 2011, $49
million during 2010 and $23 million during 2009. The favorable change recorded during 2011 consisted primarily of third-party recoveries and reserve reductions in connection with PHICO–related claims which we became liable for upon PHICO’s
(a former commercial insurance carrier) liquidation in 2002. The favorable changes in our estimated future claims payments recorded during 2010 and 2009 were due to: (i) an increased weighting given to company-specific metrics (to 75% from
50%), and decreased general industry metrics (to 25% from 50%), related to projected incidents per exposure, historical claims experience and loss development factors; (ii) historical data which measured the realized favorable impact of medical
malpractice tort reform experienced in several states in which we operate, and; (iii) a decrease in claims related to certain higher risk specialties (such as obstetrical) due to a continuation of the company-wide patient safety initiative
undertaken during the last several years. As the number of our facilities and our patient volumes have increased, thereby providing for a statistically significant data group, and taking into consideration our long-history of company-specific risk
management programs and claims experience, our reserve analyses have included a greater emphasis on our historical professional and general liability experience which has developed favorably as compared to general industry trends. 
Property Insurance  We have commercial property insurance policies covering catastrophic losses, including windstorm damage, up to a $1 billion policy limit per occurrence, subject to a $250,000 deductible. Losses resulting
from named windstorms are subject to deductibles between 3% and 5% of the declared total insurable value of the property. In addition, we have commercial property insurance policies covering catastrophic losses resulting from earthquake and flood
damage, each subject to aggregated loss limits (as opposed to per occurrence losses). Our earthquake limit is $250 million, subject to a deductible of $250,000, except for facilities located within documented fault zones. Earthquake losses that
affect facilities located in fault zones within the United States are subject to a $100 million limit and will have applied deductibles ranging from 1% to 5% of the declared total insurable value of the property. The earthquake limit in Puerto Rico
is $25 million. Flood losses have either a $250,000 or $500,000 deductible, based upon the location of the facility.  Our
property insurance coverage is scheduled for renewal on June 1, 2012. Due to an increase in property losses experienced nationwide in recent years, the cost of commercial property insurance has increased. As a result, catastrophic coverage for
earthquake and flood has been limited to annual aggregate losses (as opposed to per occurrence losses). Given these insurance market conditions, there can be no assurance that a continuation of these unfavorable trends, or a sharp increase in
uninsured property losses sustained by us, will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. 
  124



Table of Contents
Legal Proceedings 
U.S. v. Marion and UHS:  In November, 2009, the United States Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and the Virginia Attorney General intervened in a qui tam case that had been filed by former employees of Marion Youth Center
under seal in 2007 against Universal Health Services, Inc. (“UHS”), and Keystone Marion, LLC (“Marion”) and Keystone Education and Youth Services, LLC (“Keystone”). The intervention by the DOJ followed the issuance of a
series of subpoenas from the Office of the Inspector General for the Department of Health and Human Services seeking documents related to the treatment of Medicaid beneficiaries at Marion. The amended complaint filed by the DOJ and Virginia Attorney
General alleged causes of action pursuant to the federal and state false claims acts and the Virginia fraud statute. The former employees filed a separate amended complaint alleging employment and retaliation claims as well as false claim act
violations. During the third quarter of 2011, we reached an agreement in principle to settle all of the claims. We have established a reserve in connection with this matter which did not have a material impact on our results of operations for any of
the periods presented herein. Should we be unable to finalize a definitive settlement agreement in this matter, we will continue to defend ourselves vigorously against the government’s and the former employees’ allegations. There can be no
assurance that we will prevail should this matter be litigated.  Martin v. UHS of Delaware: 
UHS of Delaware, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours, has been named as defendants in a state False Claim Act case in Sacramento
County Superior Court. Plaintiffs are a former student and employees of the Elmira School who claim that the UHS schools in California unlawfully retained public education funding from the state of California for the operation of these schools but
failed to meet state requirements pertaining to the operation of non-public schools. We deny liability and intend to defend this case vigorously. We have established a reserve in connection with this matter which did not have a material impact on
our consolidated financial statements.  Department of Justice ICD Investigation: 
In September, 2010, we, along with many other companies in the healthcare industry, received a letter from the United States Department of
Justice (“DOJ”) advising of a False Claim Act investigation being conducted in connection with the implantation of implantable cardioverter defibrillators (“ICDs”) from 2003 to the present at several of our acute care facilities.
The DOJ alleges that ICDs were implanted and billed by our facilities in contravention of a National Claims Determination regarding these devices. We have established a reserve in connection with this matter which did not have a material impact on
our consolidated financial statements.  Two Rivers Psychiatric Hospital: 
On April 11, 2011, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) issued notice of its decision terminating Two
Rivers Psychiatric Hospital (“Two Rivers”) in Kansas City, Missouri from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid program. The termination notice was issued as a result of surveys conducted which allegedly found Two Rivers to be out of
compliance with the conditions of participation required for participation in the Medicare program and for Two Rivers’ alleged failure to alleviate an “immediate jeopardy” situation. Two Rivers filed an administrative appeal with the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Departmental Appeal Board, Civil Remedies Division, seeking review and reversal of that decision. In addition, Two Rivers filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Missouri
seeking a temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction against CMS rescinding the termination action. On April 22, 2011, the District Court issued a temporary restraining order abating the termination action pending a preliminary
injunction hearing or an agreement with CMS. On May 17, 2011, Two Rivers and CMS entered into a settlement agreement which resulted in the rescission of the termination notice and actions by CMS. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, Two
Rivers was required to submit an acceptable plan of correction relative to the immediate jeopardy citation and engage independent experts in various disciplines to analyze and develop implementation plans for Two Rivers to meet the applicable
Medicare conditions of participation. Both of these actions have 
  125



Table of Contents

occurred. CMS will conduct an initial survey of Two Rivers, expected to occur in early 2012, to determine if the Medicare conditions of participation have been met. During the term of this
agreement, Two Rivers remains eligible to receive reimbursements for services rendered to Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. Two Rivers remains fully committed to providing high-quality healthcare to their patients and the community it serves. We
therefore intend to work expeditiously and collaboratively with CMS in an effort to resolve these matters. We can provide no assurance that Two Rivers will not ultimately lose its Medicare certification. The operating results of Two Rivers did not
have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition for the years ended December 31, 2011 or 2010.  Matters Relating to PSI:  The following matters pertain to PSI or former
PSI facilities (owned by subsidiaries of Psychiatric Solutions, Inc.) for which we have assumed the defense as a result of our acquisition of PSI which was completed in November, 2010: 
Garden City Employees’ Retirement System v. PSI:  This is a purported shareholder class action lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee against PSI and the former directors in 2009 alleging violations of
federal securities laws. We intend to defend the case vigorously. Should we be deemed liable in this matter, we believe we would be entitled to commercial insurance recoveries for amounts paid by us, subject to certain limitations and deductibles.
Included in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2011, is an estimated reserve (current liability) and corresponding commercial insurance recovery (current asset) which did not have a material impact on our financial statements.
Although we believe the commercial insurance recoveries are adequate to satisfy potential liability in this matter, we can provide no assurance that the ultimate liability will not exceed the commercial insurance recoveries which would make us
liable for the excess.  Department of Justice Investigation of Sierra Vista: 
In 2009, Sierra Vista Hospital in Sacramento, California learned of an investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”)
relating to Medicare services provided by the facility. The DOJ ultimately notified the facility that with respect to partial hospitalization and outpatient services, the DOJ believed that the medical record documentation did not
adequately support the claims submitted for reimbursement by Medicare. We reached a tentative financial settlement with the DOJ which is subject to the negotiation of a definitive settlement agreement. As part of that agreement, the
facility will be subject to a corporate integrity agreement. The reserve established in connection with this matter did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
Department of Justice Investigation of Friends Hospital:  In October, 2010, Friends Hospital in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, received a subpoena from the DOJ requesting certain documents from the facility. The requested documents have been collected and provided
to the DOJ for review and examination. Another subpoena was issued to the facility in July 2011 requesting additional documents. Those documents are being collected and will be provided to the DOJ. At present, we are uncertain as to the focus, scope
or extent of the investigation, liability of the facility and/or potential financial exposure, if any, in connection with this matter.  Department of Justice Investigation of Riveredge Hospital:  In 2008,
Riveredge Hospital in Chicago, Illinois received a subpoena from the DOJ requesting certain information from the facility. Additional requests for documents were also received from the DOJ in 2009 and 2010. The requested documents have been provided
to the DOJ and we continue to cooperate with the DOJ with respect to this investigation. At present, we are uncertain as to the focus, scope or extent of the investigation, liability of the facility and/or potential financial exposure, if any, in
connection with this matter. 
  126



Table of Contents
Virginia Department of Medical Assistance Services Recoupment Claims: 
The Virginia Department of Medical Assistance Services (“DMAS”) has conducted audits at seven former PSI Residential Treatment
Centers operated in the Commonwealth of Virginia to confirm compliance with provider rules under the state’s Medicaid Provider Services Manual (“Manual”). As a result of those audits, DMAS claims the facilities failed to comply with
the requirements of the Manual and has requested repayment of Medicaid payments to those facilities. PSI had previously filed appeals to repayment demands at each facility which are currently pending. The aggregate refund of Medicaid payments made
to those facilities, as requested by DMAS, and the corresponding reserve established on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, was not material to our consolidated financial position or results of
operations.  General:  The healthcare industry is subject to numerous laws and regulations which include, among other things, matters such as government healthcare participation requirements, various licensure, certifications,
and accreditations, reimbursement for patient services, and Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse. Government action has increased with respect to investigations and/or allegations concerning possible violations of fraud and abuse and false claims
statutes and/or regulations by healthcare providers. Currently, and from time to time, some of our facilities are subjected to inquiries and/or actions and receive notices of potential non-compliance of laws and regulations from various federal and
state agencies. Providers that are found to have violated these laws and regulations may be excluded from participating in government healthcare programs, subjected to potential licensure, certification, and/or accreditation revocation, subjected to
fines or penalties or required to repay amounts received from the government for previously billed patient services. We monitor all aspects of our business and have developed a comprehensive ethics and compliance program that is designed to meet or
exceed applicable federal guidelines and industry standards. Because the law in this area is complex and constantly evolving, governmental investigation or litigation may result in interpretations that are inconsistent with industry practices,
including ours. Although we believe our policies, procedures and practices comply with governmental regulations, there is no assurance that we will not be faced with sanctions, fines or penalties in connection with such inquiries or actions,
including with respect to the investigations and other matters discussed herein. Even if we were to ultimately prevail, such inquiries and/or actions could have a material adverse effect on us. 
The outcome of any current or future litigation or governmental or internal investigations, including the matters described above, cannot
be accurately predicted, nor can we predict any resulting penalties, fines or other sanctions that may be imposed at the discretion of federal or state regulatory authorities. We record accruals for such contingencies to the extent that we conclude
it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. No estimate of the possible loss or range of loss in excess of amounts accrued, if any, can be made at this time regarding the matters
specifically described above because the inherently unpredictable nature of legal proceedings may be exacerbated by various factors, including, but not limited to: (i) the damages sought in the proceedings are unsubstantiated or indeterminate; (ii)
discovery is not complete; (iii) the proceeding is in its early stages; (iv) the matters present legal uncertainties; (v) there are significant facts in dispute; (vi) there are a large number of parties, or; (vii) there is a wide range of potential
outcomes. It is possible that the outcome of these matters could have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial position, cash flows and, potentially, our reputation. 
In addition, various suits and claims arising against us in the ordinary course of business are pending. In the opinion of management,
the outcome of such claims and litigation will not materially affect our consolidated financial position or results of operations.  In addition to our long-term debt obligations as discussed in Note 4-Long-Term Debt and our operating lease obligations as discussed in Note 7-Lease Commitments, we have various other
contractual commitments outstanding as of December 31, 2011 as follows: (i) other combined estimated future purchase obligations of $130 million related to a long-term contract with third-parties consisting primarily of certain revenue
cycle data processing services for our acute care facilities ($58 million), expected costs to be paid to a third-party vendor in 
  127



Table of Contents

connection with the purchase and implementation of an electronic health records application for each of our acute care facilities ($66 million) and estimated minimum liabilities for physician
commitments expected to be paid in the future ($6 million), and; (ii) combined estimated future payments of $227 million related to our non-contributory, defined benefit pension plan ($212 million consisting of estimated payments through 2088)
and other retirement plan liabilities ($15 million).  As of December 31, 2011 we were party to certain off balance sheet
arrangements consisting of standby letters of credit and surety bonds. Our outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds as of December 31, 2011 totaled $79 million consisting of: (i) $62 million related to our self-insurance programs,
and; (ii) $17 million of other debt and public utility guarantees. 
9) RELATIONSHIP WITH UNIVERSAL HEALTH REALTY INCOME TRUST AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
Relationship with Universal Health Realty Income Trust: 
At December 31, 2011, we held approximately 6.2% of the outstanding shares of Universal Health Realty Income Trust (the
“Trust”). We serve as Advisor to the Trust under an annually renewable advisory agreement pursuant to the terms of which we conduct the Trust’s day-to-day affairs, provide administrative services and present investment opportunities.
In addition, certain of our officers and directors are also officers and/or directors of the Trust. Management believes that it has the ability to exercise significant influence over the Trust, therefore we account for our investment in the Trust
using the equity method of accounting. We earned an advisory fee from the Trust, which is included in net revenues in the accompanying consolidated statements of income, of approximately $2.0 million during 2011, $1.8 million during 2010 and $1.6
million during 2009.  Our pre-tax share of income from the Trust was $4.6 million during 2011, $1.0 million during 2010 and
$1.1 million during 2009, and is included in net revenues in the accompanying consolidated statements of income for each year. Included in our share of the Trust’s income for 2011 was approximately $3.7 million related to our share of the
following: (i) an aggregate gain realized by the Trust during 2011 in connection with the sale of medical office buildings by various limited liability companies (“LLCs”) in which the Trust formerly held noncontrolling, majority
ownership interests; (ii) an aggregate gain recorded by the Trust during 2011 in connection with its purchases of third-party minority ownership interests in various LLCs in which the Trust formerly held noncontrolling majority ownership
interests (the Trust now owns 100% of each of these entities), partially offset by; (iii) a provision for asset impairment recorded by the Trust during 2011 in connection with a medical office building located in Atlanta, Georgia. 
The carrying value of our investment in the Trust was $9.9 million and $7.3 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and
is included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The market value of our investment in the Trust was $30.7 million at December 31, 2011 and $28.8 million at December 31, 2010, based on the closing price of the
Trust’s stock on the respective dates.  Total rent expense under the operating leases on the four hospital facilities
with the Trust (as discussed below) was $16.3 million during 2011, $16.2 million during 2010 and $16.3 million during 2009. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are tenants in several medical office buildings owned by limited liability companies
in which the Trust holds either 100% of the ownership interest or various noncontrolling, majority ownership interests.  The
Trust commenced operations in 1986 by purchasing certain properties from us and immediately leasing the properties back to our respective subsidiaries. Most of the leases were entered into at the time the Trust commenced operations and provided for
initial terms of 13 to 15 years with up to six additional 5-year renewal terms. Each lease also provided for additional or bonus rental, as discussed below. The base rents are paid monthly and the bonus rents are computed and paid on a quarterly
basis, based upon a computation that compares current quarter revenue to a corresponding quarter in the base year. The leases with our subsidiaries are unconditionally guaranteed by us and are cross-defaulted with one another. 
  128



Table of Contents
Pursuant to the terms of the leases with the Trust, we have the option to renew the leases
at the lease terms described above by providing notice to the Trust at least 90 days prior to the termination of the then current term. In addition, we have rights of first refusal to: (i) purchase the respective leased facilities during and
for 180 days after the lease terms at the same price, terms and conditions of any third-party offer, or; (ii) renew the lease on the respective leased facility at the end of, and for 180 days after, the lease term at the same terms and
conditions pursuant to any third-party offer. We also have the right to purchase the respective leased facilities at the end of the lease terms or any renewal terms at their appraised fair market value as well as purchase any or all of the four
leased hospital properties at their appraised fair market value upon one month’s notice should a change of control of the Trust occur.  On May 19, 2011, certain of our subsidiaries provided the required notice to the Trust exercising the 5-year renewal options on McAllen Medical Center, Wellington Regional Medical Center and
Southwest Healthcare System, Inland Valley Campus which extended the lease terms to December, 2016.  The table below details
the renewal options and terms for each of our four hospital facilities leased from the Trust, giving effect to the above-mentioned renewals:   


















 Hospital Name
  
Type of Facility
  
AnnualMinimumRent
 
  
End of Lease Term
 
  
RenewalTerm(years)
 

 McAllen Medical Center
  
Acute Care
  
$
5,485,000
  
  
 
December, 2016
  
  
 
15
(a) 

 Wellington Regional Medical Center
  
Acute Care
  
$
3,030,000
  
  
 
December, 2016
  
  
 
15
(b) 

 Southwest Healthcare System, Inland Valley Campus
  
Acute Care
  
$
2,648,000
  
  
 
December, 2016
  
  
 
15
(b) 

 The Bridgeway
  
Behavioral Health
  
$
930,000
  
  
 
December, 2014
  
  
 
10
(c) 
  


(a)
We have three 5-year renewal options at existing lease rates (through 2031). 


(b)
We have one 5-year renewal options at existing lease rates (through 2021) and two 5-year renewal options at fair market value lease rates (2022 through 2031).



(c)
We have two 5-year renewal options at fair market value lease rates (2015 through 2024). 
Split-dollar Life Insurance Agreements:  In December, 2010, our Board of Directors approved the Company’s entering into supplemental life insurance plans and agreements on the lives of our chief executive officer and his wife. As a result
of these agreements, based on actuarial tables and other assumptions, during the life expectancies of the insureds, we would pay approximately $25 million in premiums and certain trusts, owned by our chief executive officer, would pay approximately
$8 million in premiums. Based on the projected premiums mentioned above, and assuming the policies remain in effect until the death of the insureds, we will be entitled to receive death benefit proceeds of no less than $33 million representing the
$25 million of aggregate premiums paid by us as well as the $8 million of aggregate premiums paid by the trusts. During 2011, we paid approximately $1.4 million in premium payments and during the fourth quarter of 2010, we paid approximately $6
million in premium payments. These agreements did not have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements or results of operations during 2011. Included in our financial statements during 2010, was a pre-tax and after-tax expense of $9
million recorded during the fourth quarter of 2010 representing the present value of our projected premium funding commitment over the terms of the policies.  Other Related Party Transactions:  A member of our Board of
Directors and member of the Executive Committee is Of Counsel to the law firm used by us as our principal outside counsel. This Board member is also the trustee of certain trusts for the benefit of our CEO and his family. This law firm also provides
personal legal services to our CEO. 
  129



Table of Contents
10) PENSION PLAN 
We maintain contributory and non-contributory retirement plans for eligible employees. Our contributions to the
contributory plan amounted to $21.7 million, $20.8 million and $20.4 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The non-contributory plan is a defined benefit pension plan which covers employees of one of our subsidiaries. The benefits are based
on years of service and the employee’s highest compensation for any five years of employment. Our funding policy is to contribute annually at least the minimum amount that should be funded in accordance with the provisions of ERISA. 
The following table shows the reconciliation of the defined benefit pension plan as of December 31, 2011 and 2010: 
 












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(000s)
 

 Change in plan assets:
  



 




 Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year
  
$
73,402
  
 
$
61,451
  

 Actual return (loss) on plan assets
  
 
5,689
  
 
 
10,027
  

 Employer contributions
  
 
14,065
  
 
 
6,657
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(4,541
) 
 
 
(4,256
) 

 Administrative expenses
  
 
(675
) 
 
 
(477
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair value of plan assets at end of year
  
$
87,940
  
 
$
73,402
  

 Change in benefit obligation:
  



 




 Benefit obligation at beginning of year
  
$
93,513
  
 
$
85,476
  

 Service cost
  
 
1,162
  
 
 
1,140
  

 Interest cost
  
 
5,047
  
 
 
4,958
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(4,541
) 
 
 
(4,256
) 

 Actuarial (gain) loss
  
 
13,265
  
 
 
6,195
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Benefit obligation at end of year
  
$
108,446
  
 
$
93,513
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet:
  



 




 Other noncurrent liabilities
  
 
20,506
  
 
 
20,110
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liability at end of year
  
$
20,506
  
 
$
20,110
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Additional year end information for Pension Plan
  



 




 Projected benefit obligation
  
$
108,446
  
 
$
93,513
  

 Accumulated benefit obligation
  
 
106,609
  
 
 
91,559
  

 Fair value of plan assets
  
 
87,940
  
 
 
73,402
  
  
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(000s)
 

 Components of net periodic cost (benefit)
  



 



 




 Service cost
  
$
1,162
  
 
$
1,140
  
 
$
1,191
  

 Interest cost
  
 
5,047
  
 
 
4,958
  
 
 
4,834
  

 Expected return on plan assets
  
 
(6,566
) 
 
 
(5,151
) 
 
 
(3,927
) 

 Recognized actuarial loss
  
 
2,427
  
 
 
2,538
  
 
 
4,676
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net periodic cost
  
$
2,070
  
 
$
3,485
  
 
$
6,774
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Measurement Dates
  



  




 Benefit obligations
  
 
12/31/2011
  
  
 
12/31/2010
  

 Fair value of plan assets
  
 
12/31/2011
  
  
 
12/31/2010
  

  130



Table of Contents
 












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Weighted average assumptions as of December 31
  



 




 Discount rate
  
 
4.40
% 
 
 
5.54
% 

 Rate of compensation increase
  
 
4.00
% 
 
 
4.00
% 
  
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Weighted-average assumptions for net periodic benefit cost calculations
  



 



 




 Discount rate
  
 
5.54
% 
 
 
5.96
% 
 
 
5.87
% 

 Expected long-term rate at return on plan assets
  
 
8.00
% 
 
 
8.00
% 
 
 
8.00
% 

 Rate of compensation increase
  
 
4.00
% 
 
 
4.00
% 
 
 
4.00
% 
 The accumulated benefit obligation was $106,609 and $91,559 as of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. The accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of plan assets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. In 2011 and 2010, the accrued pension cost is included in non-current liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance
Sheet. We estimate that there will be $4,219 of net loss that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income over the next fiscal year.  Our pension plans assets were $87,940 and $73,402 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The market values of our pension plan assets at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 by
asset category are as follows:   




















December 31, 2011
  
Total
 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 

 Equities:
  



  



  



  




 U.S. Large Cap
  
$
18,921
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
18,921
  
  
$
—  
  

 U.S. Mid Cap
  
 
1,281
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,281
  
  
 
—  
  

 U.S. Small-Mid Cap
  
 
6,332
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
6,332
  
  
 
—  
  

 U.S. Small Cap
  
 
1,282
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,282
  
  
 
—  
  

 International Developed
  
 
8,692
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
8,692
  
  
 
—  
  

 Emerging Markets
  
 
3,123
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
3,123
  
  
 
—  
  

 Fixed income:
  



  



  



  




 Long Duration Fixed Income
  
 
44,587
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
44,587
  
  
 
—  
  

 Real Estate:
  



  



  



  




 REIT Fund
  
 
3,269
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
3,269
  
  
 
—  
  

 Tangible Assets:
  



  



  



  




 Commodities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Cash/Currency:
  



  



  



  




 Cash Equivalents
  
 
453
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
453
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total market value
  
$
87,940
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
87,940
  
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




















December 31, 2010
  
Total
 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 

 Equities:
  



  



  



  




 U.S. Large Cap
  
$
22,010
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
22,010
  
  
$
—  
  

 U.S. Mid Cap
  
 
1,468
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,468
  
  
 
—  
  

 U.S. Small-Mid Cap
  
 
6,295
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
6,295
  
  
 
—  
  

 U.S. Small Cap
  
 
1,471
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,471
  
  
 
—  
  

 International Developed
  
 
10,353
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
10,353
  
  
 
—  
  

 Emerging Markets
  
 
3,709
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
3,709
  
  
 
—  
  

 Fixed income:
  



  



  



  




 Core Fixed Income
  
 
11,542
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
11,542
  
  
 
—  
  

 Long Duration Fixed Income
  
 
11,421
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
11,421
  
  
 
—  
  

 Real Estate:
  



  



  



  




 REIT Fund
  
 
3,740
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
3,740
  
  
 
—  
  

 Tangible Assets:
  



  



  



  




 Commodities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Cash/Currency:
  



  



  



  




 Cash Equivalents
  
 
1,393
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,393
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total market value
  
$
73,402
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
73,402
  
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  131



Table of Contents
To develop the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption, we considered
the historical returns and the future expectations for returns for each asset class, as well as the target asset allocation of the pension portfolio.  The following table shows expected benefit payments for the years ended December 31, 2011 through 2021 for our defined pension plan. There will be benefit payments under this plan beyond 2021.
  








 Estimated Future Benefit Payments (000s)
  




 2012
  
$
5,100
  

 2013
  
 
5,400
  

 2014
  
 
5,664
  

 2015
  
 
5,895
  

 2016
  
 
6,117
  

 2017-2021
  
 
33,216
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
61,392
  


  
  
  
 
  












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Plan Assets
  



 




 Asset Category
  



 




 Equity securities
  
 
45
% 
 
 
62
% 

 Fixed income securities
  
 
50
% 
 
 
31
% 

 Other
  
 
5
% 
 
 
7
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Investment Policy, Guidelines and Objectives have been established for the defined benefit pension plan.
The investment policy is in keeping with the fiduciary requirements under existing federal laws and managed in accordance with the Prudent Investor Rule. Total portfolio risk is regularly evaluated and compared to that of the plan’s policy
target allocation and judged on a relative basis over a market cycle. The following asset allocation policy and ranges have been established in accordance with the overall risk and return objectives of the portfolio: 
 
















 
  
Policy
 
 
As of 12/31/11
 
 
Permitted Range
 

 Total Equity
  
 
46
% 
 
 
45
% 
 
 
43-49
% 

 Total Fixed Income
  
 
50
% 
 
 
50
% 
 
 
45-55
% 

 Other
  
 
4
% 
 
 
5
% 
 
 
0-10
% 
 In accordance with the investment policy, the portfolio will invest in high quality, large and small
capitalization companies traded on national exchanges, and investment grade securities. The investment managers will not write or buy options for speculative purposes; securities may not be margined or sold short. The manager may employ futures or
options for the purpose of hedging exposure, and will not purchase unregistered sectors, private placements, partnerships or commodities. 
  132



Table of Contents
11) SEGMENT REPORTING 
Our reportable operating segments consist of acute care hospital services and behavioral health care services. The
“Other” segment column below includes centralized services including information services, purchasing, reimbursement, accounting, taxation, legal, advertising, design and construction and patient accounting as well as the operating results
for our other operating entities including outpatient surgery and radiation centers. The chief operating decision making group for our acute care hospital services and behavioral health care services is comprised of our Chief Executive Officer, the
President and the Presidents of each operating segment. The Presidents for each operating segment also manage the profitability of each respective segment’s various facilities. The operating segments are managed separately because each
operating segment represents a business unit that offers different types of healthcare services or operates in different healthcare environments. The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those described in the summary of
significant accounting policies included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.   




















 2011
  
Acute CareHospitalServices
 
  
BehavioralHealthServices
 
  
Other
 
 
TotalConsolidated
 

 
  
(Dollar amounts in thousands)
 

 Gross inpatient revenues
  
$
12,025,664
  
  
$
5,529,205
  
  
 
—  
  
 
$
17,554,869
  

 Gross outpatient revenues
  
$
5,629,420
  
  
$
608,785
  
  
$
53,240
  
 
$
6,291,445
  

 Total net revenues
  
$
4,071,570
  
  
$
3,401,118
  
  
$
27,510
  
 
$
7,500,198
  

 Income (loss) before income taxes
  
$
351,917
  
  
$
732,674
  
  
($
388,255
) 
 
$
696,336
  

 Total assets
  
$
2,852,549
  
  
$
4,383,432
  
  
$
429,264
  
 
$
7,665,245
  
  




















 2010
  
Acute CareHospitalServices
 
  
BehavioralHealthServices
 
  
Other
 
 
TotalConsolidated
 

 
  
(Dollar amounts in thousands)
 

 Gross inpatient revenues
  
$
10,890,171
  
  
$
2,566,366
  
  
 
—  
  
 
$
13,456,537
  

 Gross outpatient revenues
  
$
4,771,070
  
  
$
350,192
  
  
$
49,245
  
 
$
5,170,507
  

 Total net revenues
  
$
3,901,815
  
  
$
1,635,455
  
  
$
30,915
  
 
$
5,568,185
  

 Income (loss) before income taxes
  
$
363,427
  
  
$
353,203
  
  
($
288,533
) 
 
$
428,097
  

 Total assets
  
$
2,755,697
  
  
$
4,360,710
  
  
$
411,529
  
 
$
7,527,936
  
  




















 2009
  
Acute CareHospitalServices
 
  
BehavioralHealthServices
 
  
Other
 
 
TotalConsolidated
 

 
  
(Dollar amounts in thousands)
 

 Gross inpatient revenues
  
$
9,901,032
  
  
$
2,075,141
  
  
 
—  
  
 
$
11,976,173
  

 Gross outpatient revenues
  
$
4,100,427
  
  
$
282,473
  
  
$
62,353
  
 
$
4,445,253
  

 Total net revenues
  
$
3,810,828
  
  
$
1,315,029
  
  
$
76,522
  
 
$
5,202,379
  

 Income (loss) before income taxes
  
$
386,208
  
  
$
281,541
  
  
($
193,027
) 
 
$
474,722
  

 Total assets
  
$
2,748,175
  
  
$
998,508
  
  
$
217,780
  
 
$
3,964,463
  

  133



Table of Contents
12) QUARTERLY RESULTS (unaudited) 
The following tables summarize the quarterly financial data for the two years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:
  
























 2011
 
FirstQuarter
 
 
SecondQuarter
 
 
ThirdQuarter
 
 
FourthQuarter
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(amounts in thousands, except per share amounts)
 

 Net revenues
 
$
1,910,528
  
 
$
1,902,234
  
 
$
1,848,662
  
 
$
1,838,774
  
 
$
7,500,198
  

 Net income
 
$
129,987
  
 
$
116,034
  
 
$
94,842
  
 
$
108,007
  
 
$
448,870
  

 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests
 
$
15,794
  
 
$
12,385
  
 
$
9,788
  
 
$
12,736
  
 
$
50,703
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to UHS
 
$
114,193
  
 
$
103,649
  
 
$
85,054
  
 
$
95,271
  
 
$
398,167
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings per share attributable to UHS-Basic:
 



 



 



 



 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total basic earnings per share
 
$
1.17
  
 
$
1.06
  
 
$
0.87
  
 
$
0.99
  
 
$
4.09
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings per share attributable to UHS-Diluted:
 



 



 



 



 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total diluted earnings per share
 
$
1.15
  
 
$
1.04
  
 
$
0.86
  
 
$
0.98
  
 
$
4.04
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The 2011 quarterly financial data presented above includes the following: 
Fourth Quarter:   


 
•
 
 (i) a favorable $10.4 million pre-tax reduction ($6.4 million, or $.07 per diluted share, net of taxes) to our professional and general liability
self-insurance reserves relating to years prior to 2011, as discussed in Self-Insured Risks.   
























 2010
 
FirstQuarter
 
 
SecondQuarter
 
 
ThirdQuarter
 
 
FourthQuarter
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(amounts in thousands, except per share amounts)
 

 Net revenues
 
$
1,347,153
  
 
$
1,338,315
  
 
$
1,323,264
  
 
$
1,559,453
  
 
$
5,568,185
  

 Net income
 
$
82,762
  
 
$
76,415
  
 
$
65,802
  
 
$
50,816
  
 
$
275,795
  

 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests
 
$
10,943
  
 
$
10,843
  
 
$
10,192
  
 
$
13,634
  
 
$
45,612
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to UHS
 
$
71,819
  
 
$
65,572
  
 
$
55,610
  
 
$
37,182
  
 
$
230,183
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings per share attributable to UHS-Basic:
 



 



 



 



 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total basic earnings per share
 
$
0.74
  
 
$
0.68
  
 
$
0.57
  
 
$
0.38
  
 
$
2.37
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings per share attributable to UHS-Diluted:
 



 



 



 



 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total diluted earnings per share
 
$
0.73
  
 
$
0.67
  
 
$
0.57
  
 
$
0.38
  
 
$
2.34
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The 2010 quarterly financial data presented above includes the following: 
Second Quarter:   


 
•
 
 (i) a favorable $16.4 million pre-tax reduction ($10.2 million, or $.10 per diluted share, net of taxes) to our professional and general liability
self-insurance reserves relating to years prior to 2010, as discussed in Self-Insured Risks, and; (ii) $18.2 million of pre-tax transaction costs ($11.3 million, or $.11 per diluted share, net of taxes) recorded in connection with our
acquisition of Psychiatric Solutions, Inc. (“PSI”) and;   
  134



Table of Contents
Third Quarter: 
 


 
•
 
 (i) $3.9 million of pre-tax transaction costs ($2.4 million, or $.02 per diluted share, net of taxes) recorded in connection with our acquisition of
“PSI” and; (ii) a favorable $4.3 million ($.04 per diluted share) discrete tax item recorded in connection with a settlement payment made to the government in connection with the investigation of our South Health Systems affiliates,
and;  Fourth Quarter: 
 


 
•
 
 (i) a favorable $32.6 million pre-tax reduction ($17.9 million, or $.18 per diluted share, net of taxes) to our professional and general liability
self-insurance reserves relating to years prior to 2010, as discussed in Self-Insured Risks, and; (ii) $31.1 million of pre-tax transaction costs ($24.9 million, or $.25 per diluted share, net of taxes) recorded in connection with our
acquisition of “PSI” and; (iii) an unfavorable $6.7 million pre-tax ($4.1 million, or .$04 per diluted share, net of taxes) charge to write-off certain costs related to an acute care hospital construction project and; (iv) an
unfavorable $9.2 million ($.09 per diluted share) charge in connection with split-dollar life insurance agreements on the lives of our Chief Executive Officer and his wife. 
13) SUPPLEMENTAL CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING FINANCIAL INFORMATION 
Certain of our senior notes are guaranteed by a group of subsidiaries (the “Guarantors”). The Guarantors,
each of which is a 100% directly owned subsidiary of Universal Health Services, Inc., fully and unconditionally guarantee the senior notes on a joint and several basis, subject to certain customary automatic release provisions. 
The following financial statements present condensed consolidating financial data for (i) Universal Health Services, Inc. (on a
parent company only basis), (ii) the combined Guarantors, (iii) the combined non guarantor subsidiaries (all other subsidiaries), (iv) an elimination column for adjustments to arrive at the information for the parent company,
Guarantors, and non guarantors on a consolidated basis, and (v) the parent company and our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.  Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for by the parent company and the Guarantors using the equity method for this presentation. Results of operations of subsidiaries are therefore classified in the
parent company’s and Guarantors’ investment in subsidiaries accounts. The elimination entries set forth in the following condensed consolidating financial statements eliminate distributed and undistributed income of subsidiaries,
investments in subsidiaries, and intercompany balances and transactions between the parent, Guarantors, and non guarantors. 
  135



Table of Contents
UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF INCOME  FOR THE TWELVE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011  (amounts in thousands)
  
























 
  
Parent
 
 
Guarantors
 
 
NonGuarantors
 
 
ConsolidatingAdjustments
 
 
TotalConsolidatedAmounts
 

 Net revenues
  
$
0
  
 
$
5,046,459
  
 
$
2,480,215
  
 
$
(26,476
) 
 
$
7,500,198
  








 Operating charges:
  



 



 



 



 




 Salaries, wages and benefits
  
 
0
  
 
 
2,433,871
  
 
 
961,096
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
3,394,967
  

 Other operating expenses
  
 
200
  
 
 
949,475
  
 
 
460,692
  
 
 
(24,687
) 
 
 
1,385,680
  

 Supplies expense
  
 
0
  
 
 
514,574
  
 
 
307,237
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
821,811
  

 Provision for doubtful accounts
  
 
0
  
 
 
356,976
  
 
 
256,643
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
613,619
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
0
  
 
 
215,697
  
 
 
79,531
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
295,228
  

 Lease and rental expense
  
 
0
  
 
 
62,118
  
 
 
31,436
  
 
 
(1,789
) 
 
 
91,765
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
200
  
 
 
4,532,711
  
 
 
2,096,635
  
 
 
(26,476
) 
 
 
6,603,070
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
(200
) 
 
 
513,748
  
 
 
383,580
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
897,128
  

 Interest expense
  
 
195,404
  
 
 
90,417
  
 
 
(85,029
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
200,792
  

 Interest (income) expense, affiliate
  
 
0
  
 
 
87,205
  
 
 
(87,205
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Equity in net income of consolidated affiliates
  
 
(518,797
) 
 
 
(157,009
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
675,806
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
 
323,193
  
 
 
493,135
  
 
 
555,814
  
 
 
(675,806
) 
 
 
696,336
  

 Provision for income taxes
  
 
(74,974
) 
 
 
164,666
  
 
 
157,774
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
247,466
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
 
398,167
  
 
 
328,469
  
 
 
398,040
  
 
 
(675,806
) 
 
 
448,870
  

 Less: Income attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
50,703
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
50,703
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to UHS
  
$
398,167
  
 
$
328,469
  
 
$
347,337
  
 
$
(675,806
) 
 
$
398,167
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  136



Table of Contents
UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF INCOME  FOR THE TWELVE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010  (amounts in thousands)
  
























 
  
Parent
 
 
Guarantors
 
 
NonGuarantors
 
 
ConsolidatingAdjustments
 
 
TotalConsolidatedAmounts
 

 Net revenues
  
$
648
  
 
$
3,631,814
  
 
$
1,983,060
  
 
$
(47,337
) 
 
$
5,568,185
  








 Operating charges:
  



 



 



 



 




 Salaries, wages and benefits
  
 
0
  
 
 
1,670,276
  
 
 
752,826
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
2,423,102
  

 Other operating expenses
  
 
(255
) 
 
 
670,043
  
 
 
381,689
  
 
 
(46,189
) 
 
 
1,005,288
  

 Supplies expense
  
 
0
  
 
 
438,901
  
 
 
294,192
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
733,093
  

 Provision for doubtful accounts
  
 
0
  
 
 
290,152
  
 
 
256,757
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
546,909
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
0
  
 
 
154,597
  
 
 
69,318
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
223,915
  

 Lease and rental expense
  
 
0
  
 
 
50,455
  
 
 
27,654
  
 
 
(1,148
) 
 
 
76,961
  

 Transaction costs
  
 
0
  
 
 
53,220
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
53,220
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
(255
) 
 
 
3,327,644
  
 
 
1,782,436
  
 
 
(47,337
) 
 
 
5,062,488
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
903
  
 
 
304,170
  
 
 
200,624
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
505,697
  

 Interest expense, net
  
 
70,283
  
 
 
6,729
  
 
 
588
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
77,600
  

 Interest (income) expense, affiliate
  
 
0
  
 
 
60,876
  
 
 
(60,876
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Equity in net income of consolidated affiliates
  
 
(271,944
) 
 
 
(134,760
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
406,704
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
 
202,564
  
 
 
371,325
  
 
 
260,912
  
 
 
(406,704
) 
 
 
428,097
  

 Provision for income taxes
  
 
(27,619
) 
 
 
134,547
  
 
 
45,374
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
152,302
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
 
230,183
  
 
 
236,778
  
 
 
215,538
  
 
 
(406,704
) 
 
 
275,795
  

 Less: Income attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
45,612
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
45,612
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to UHS
  
$
230,183
  
 
$
236,778
  
 
$
169,926
  
 
$
(406,704
) 
 
$
230,183
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  137



Table of Contents
UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF
INCOME FOR THE TWELVE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 (amounts in thousands)   
























 
  
Parent
 
 
Guarantors
 
 
NonGuarantors
 
 
ConsolidatingAdjustments
 
 
TotalConsolidatedAmounts
 

 Net revenues
  
$
980
  
 
$
3,322,936
  
 
$
1,902,618
  
 
$
(24,155
) 
 
$
5,202,379
  

 Operating charges:
  



 



 



 



 




 Salaries, wages and benefits
  
 
0
  
 
 
1,492,008
  
 
 
712,414
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
2,204,422
  

 Other operating expenses
  
 
140
  
 
 
631,659
  
 
 
386,405
  
 
 
(23,281
) 
 
 
994,923
  

 Supplies expense
  
 
0
  
 
 
411,074
  
 
 
288,175
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
699,249
  

 Provision for doubtful accounts
  
 
0
  
 
 
265,223
  
 
 
243,380
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
508,603
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
0
  
 
 
140,223
  
 
 
64,480
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
204,703
  

 Lease and rental expense
  
 
0
  
 
 
45,366
  
 
 
26,831
  
 
 
(2,250
) 
 
 
69,947
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
140
  
 
 
2,985,553
  
 
 
1,721,685
  
 
 
(25,531
) 
 
 
4,681,847
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
840
  
 
 
337,383
  
 
 
180,933
  
 
 
1,376
  
 
 
520,532
  

 Interest expense, net
  
 
40,555
  
 
 
2,870
  
 
 
1,009
  
 
 
1,376
  
 
 
45,810
  

 Interest (income) expense, affiliate
  
 
1,628
  
 
 
47,744
  
 
 
(49,372
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Equity in net income of consolidated affiliates
  
 
(286,714
) 
 
 
(125,784
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
412,498
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
 
245,371
  
 
 
412,553
  
 
 
229,296
  
 
 
(412,498
) 
 
 
474,722
  

 Provision for income taxes
  
 
(15,002
) 
 
 
149,229
  
 
 
36,248
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
170,475
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
 
260,373
  
 
 
263,324
  
 
 
193,048
  
 
 
(412,498
) 
 
 
304,247
  

 Less: Income attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
43,874
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
43,874
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to UHS
  
$
260,373
  
 
$
263,324
  
 
$
149,174
  
 
$
(412,498
) 
 
$
260,373
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  138



Table of Contents
UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET  AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2011  (amounts in thousands) 
 
























 
 
Parent
 
 
Guarantors
 
 
NonGuarantors
 
 
ConsolidatingAdjustments
 
 
TotalConsolidatedAmounts
 

 Assets
 



 



 



 



 




 Current assets:
 



 



 



 



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
0
  
 
$
33,221
  
 
$
8,008
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
41,229
  

 Accounts receivable, net
 
 
8,891
  
 
 
663,593
  
 
 
297,318
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
969,802
  

 Supplies
 
 
0
  
 
 
59,467
  
 
 
37,308
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
96,775
  

 Other current assets
 
 
33,057
  
 
 
56,864
  
 
 
9,938
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
99,859
  

 Deferred income taxes
 
 
67,189
  
 
 
41,755
  
 
 
322
  
 
 
(942
) 
 
 
108,324
  

 Current assets held for sale
 
 
0
  
 
 
48,916
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
48,916
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
 
 
109,137
  
 
 
903,816
  
 
 
352,894
  
 
 
(942
) 
 
 
1,364,905
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investments in subsidiaries
 
 
5,213,573
  
 
 
1,181,849
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(6,395,422
) 
 
 
0
  

 Intercompany receivable
 
 
669,112
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
74,155
  
 
 
(743,267
) 
 
 
0
  

 Intercompany note receivable
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,148,839
  
 
 
(1,148,839
) 
 
 
0
  








 Property and equipment
 
 
0
  
 
 
3,650,025
  
 
 
1,456,135
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
5,106,160
  

 Less: accumulated depreciation
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,184,283
) 
 
 
(633,897
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,818,180
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


 
 
0
  
 
 
2,465,742
  
 
 
822,238
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
3,287,980
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Other assets:
 



 



 



 



 




 Goodwill
 
 
820
  
 
 
2,132,103
  
 
 
494,679
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
2,627,602
  

 Deferred charges
 
 
103,434
  
 
 
5,972
  
 
 
2,374
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
111,780
  

 Other
 
 
10,412
  
 
 
241,107
  
 
 
21,459
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
272,978
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


 
$
6,106,488
  
 
$
6,930,589
  
 
$
2,916,638
  
 
$
(8,288,470
) 
 
$
7,665,245
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity
 



 



 



 



 




 Current liabilities:
 



 



 



 



 




 Current maturities of long-term debt
 
$
0
  
 
$
1,133
  
 
$
1,346
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
2,479
  

 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
 
 
14,201
  
 
 
616,026
  
 
 
201,898
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
832,125
  

 Current liabilities held for sale
 
 
0
  
 
 
2,329
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
2,329
  

 Federal and state taxes
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
620
  
 
 
(620
) 
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
 
 
14,201
  
 
 
619,488
  
 
 
203,864
  
 
 
(620
) 
 
 
836,933
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Intercompany payable
 
 
0
  
 
 
743,267
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(743,267
) 
 
 
0
  

 Other noncurrent liabilities
 
 
49,840
  
 
 
249,033
  
 
 
103,035
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
401,908
  

 Long-term debt
 
 
3,594,182
  
 
 
3,616
  
 
 
53,630
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
3,651,428
  

 Intercompany note payable
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,148,839
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,148,839
) 
 
 
0
  

 Deferred income taxes
 
 
151,913
  
 
 
58,001
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(322
) 
 
 
209,592
  








 Redeemable noncontrolling interests
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
218,266
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
218,266
  








 UHS common stockholders’ equity
 
 
2,296,352
  
 
 
4,108,345
  
 
 
2,287,077
  
 
 
(6,395,422
) 
 
 
2,296,352
  

 Noncontrolling interest
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
50,766
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
50,766
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total equity
 
 
2,296,352
  
 
 
4,108,345
  
 
 
2,337,843
  
 
 
(6,395,422
) 
 
 
2,347,118
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


 
$
6,106,488
  
 
$
6,930,589
  
 
$
2,916,638
  
 
$
(8,288,470
) 
 
$
7,665,245
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  139



Table of Contents
UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET  AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2010  (amounts in thousands) 
 
























 
 
Parent
 
 
Guarantors
 
 
NonGuarantors
 
 
ConsolidatingAdjustments
 
 
TotalConsolidatedAmounts
 

 Assets
 



 



 



 



 




 Current assets:
 



 



 



 



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
0
  
 
$
21,385
  
 
$
8,089
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
29,474
  

 Accounts receivable, net
 
 
10,646
  
 
 
561,869
  
 
 
265,305
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
837,820
  

 Supplies
 
 
0
  
 
 
57,069
  
 
 
37,261
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
94,330
  

 Other current assets
 
 
51,161
  
 
 
69,903
  
 
 
8,996
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
130,060
  

 Deferred income taxes
 
 
82,416
  
 
 
55,927
  
 
 
322
  
 
 
(17,831
) 
 
 
120,834
  

 Current assets held for sale
 
 
0
  
 
 
109,781
  
 
 
8,817
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
118,598
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
 
 
144,223
  
 
 
875,934
  
 
 
328,790
  
 
 
(17,831
) 
 
 
1,331,116
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investments in subsidiaries
 
 
4,694,776
  
 
 
1,024,840
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(5,719,616
) 
 
 
0
  

 Intercompany receivable
 
 
1,056,839
  
 
 
939,667
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,996,506
) 
 
 
0
  

 Intercompany note receivable
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
3,071,860
  
 
 
(3,071,860
) 
 
 
0
  








 Property and equipment
 
 
0
  
 
 
3,492,263
  
 
 
1,361,709
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
4,853,972
  

 Less: accumulated depreciation
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,029,609
) 
 
 
(571,396
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,601,005
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


 
 
0
  
 
 
2,462,654
  
 
 
790,313
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
3,252,967
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Other assets:
 



 



 



 



 




 Goodwill
 
 
820
  
 
 
2,153,366
  
 
 
435,728
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
2,589,914
  

 Deferred charges
 
 
101,582
  
 
 
6,749
  
 
 
329
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
108,660
  

 Other
 
 
7,612
  
 
 
214,694
  
 
 
22,973
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
245,279
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


 
$
6,005,852
  
 
$
7,677,904
  
 
$
4,649,993
  
 
$
(10,805,813
) 
 
$
7,527,936
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity
 



 



 



 



 




 Current liabilities:
 



 



 



 



 




 Current maturities of long-term debt
 
$
559
  
 
$
1,357
  
 
$
1,533
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
3,449
  

 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
 
 
16,318
  
 
 
514,225
  
 
 
288,791
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
819,334
  

 Current liabilities held for sale
 
 
0
  
 
 
3,343
  
 
 
173
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
3,516
  

 Federal and state taxes
 
 
16,886
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
623
  
 
 
(17,509
) 
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
 
 
33,763
  
 
 
518,925
  
 
 
291,120
  
 
 
(17,509
) 
 
 
826,299
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Intercompany payable
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,996,506
  
 
 
(1,996,506
) 
 
 
0
  

 Other noncurrent liabilities
 
 
13,672
  
 
 
252,568
  
 
 
114,409
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
380,649
  

 Long-term debt
 
 
3,855,810
  
 
 
4,834
  
 
 
51,458
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
3,912,102
  

 Intercompany note payable
 
 
0
  
 
 
3,071,860
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(3,071,860
) 
 
 
0
  

 Deferred income taxes
 
 
123,835
  
 
 
49,841
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(322
) 
 
 
173,354
  








 Redeemable noncontrolling interests
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
211,761
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
211,761
  








 UHS common stockholders’ equity
 
 
1,978,772
  
 
 
3,779,876
  
 
 
1,939,740
  
 
 
(5,719,616
) 
 
 
1,978,772
  

 Noncontrolling interest
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
44,999
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
44,999
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total equity
 
 
1,978,772
  
 
 
3,779,876
  
 
 
1,984,739
  
 
 
(5,719,616
) 
 
 
2,023,771
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


 
$
6,005,852
  
 
$
7,677,904
  
 
$
4,649,993
  
 
$
(10,805,813
) 
 
$
7,527,936
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  140



Table of Contents
UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  FOR THE TWELVE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011  (amounts in thousands)
  
























 
 
Parent
 
 
Guarantors
 
 
NonGuarantors
 
 
ConsolidatingAdjustments
 
 
TotalConsolidatedAmounts
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
 
$
(4,990
) 
 
$
518,462
  
 
$
204,779
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
718,251
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash Flows from Investing Activities:
 



 



 



 



 




 Property and equipment additions, net of disposals
 
 
0
  
 
 
(226,848
) 
 
 
(58,834
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(285,682
) 

 Proceeds received from sale of assets and businesses
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
67,592
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
67,592
  

 Acquisition of property and businesses
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(29,466
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(29,466
) 

 Costs incurred for purchase and development of electronic health records application
 
 
0
  
 
 
(38,249
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(38,249
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
 
 
0
  
 
 
(265,097
) 
 
 
(20,708
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(285,805
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash Flows from Financing Activities:
 



 



 



 



 




 Reduction of long-term debt
 
 
(382,060
) 
 
 
(1,442
) 
 
 
1,985
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(381,517
) 

 Additional borrowings
 
 
98,100
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
98,100
  

 Financing costs
 
 
(23,608
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(23,608
) 

 Repurchase of common shares
 
 
(60,482
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(60,482
) 

 Dividends paid
 
 
(19,466
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(19,466
) 

 Issuance of common stock
 
 
4,779
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
4,779
  

 Profit distributions to noncontrolling interests
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(38,497
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(38,497
) 

 Changes in intercompany balances with affiliates, net
 
 
387,727
  
 
 
(240,087
) 
 
 
(147,640
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities
 
 
4,990
  
 
 
(241,529
) 
 
 
(184,152
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(420,691
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
0
  
 
 
11,836
  
 
 
(81
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
11,755
  

 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period
 
 
0
  
 
 
21,385
  
 
 
8,089
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
29,474
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period
 
$
0
  
 
$
33,221
  
 
$
8,008
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
41,229
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  141



Table of Contents
UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  FOR THE TWELVE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010  (amounts in thousands)
  
























 
 
Parent
 
 
Guarantors 
 
 
NonGuarantors
 
 
ConsolidatingAdjustments 
 
 
TotalConsolidatedAmounts
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
 
$
(139,226
) 
 
$
342,633
  
 
$
297,937
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
501,344
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 








 Cash Flows from Investing Activities:
 



 



 



 



 




 Property and equipment additions, net of disposals
 
 
0
  
 
 
(186,967
) 
 
 
(52,307
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(239,274
) 

 Acquisition of property and businesses
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,958,904
) 
 
 
606
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,958,298
) 

 Proceeds received from sale of assets and businesses
 
 
0
  
 
 
21,460
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
21,460
  

 Costs incurred for purchase and development of electronic health records application
 
 
0
  
 
 
(17,971
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(17,971
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
 
 
0
  
 
 
(2,142,382
) 
 
 
(51,701
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(2,194,083
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 








 Cash Flows from Financing Activities:
 



 



 



 



 




 Reduction of long-term debt
 
 
(1,388,679
) 
 
 
(753
) 
 
 
(2,654
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,392,086
) 

 Additional borrowings
 
 
3,266,146
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
3,266,146
  

 Financing costs
 
 
(101,815
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(101,815
) 

 Repurchase of common shares
 
 
(11,528
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(11,528
) 

 Dividends paid
 
 
(19,422
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(19,422
) 

 Issuance of common stock
 
 
3,594
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
3,594
  

 Profit distributions to noncontrolling interests
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(32,456
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(32,456
) 

 Proceeds from sale of noncontrolling interest in majority owned business
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
600
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
600
  

 Changes in intercompany balances with affiliates, net
 
 
(1,609,070
) 
 
 
1,816,520
  
 
 
(207,450
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities
 
 
139,226
  
 
 
1,815,767
  
 
 
(241,960
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,713,033
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
0
  
 
 
16,018
  
 
 
4,276
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
20,294
  

 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period
 
 
0
  
 
 
5,367
  
 
 
3,813
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
9,180
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period
 
$
0
  
 
$
21,385
  
 
$
8,089
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
29,474
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  142



Table of Contents
UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS FOR THE TWELVE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 (amounts in thousands)   
























 
  
Parent
 
 
Guarantors
 
 
NonGuarantors
 
 
ConsolidatingAdjustments
 
  
TotalConsolidatedAmounts
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
$
(130,200
) 
 
$
 331,518
  
 
$
 339,944
  
 
$
0
  
  
$
 541,262
  

 Cash Flows from Investing Activities:
  



 



 



 



  




 Property and equipment additions, net of disposals
  
 
0
  
 
 
(282,868
) 
 
 
(96,880
) 
 
 
0
  
  
 
(379,748
) 

 Acquisition of property and businesses
  
 
0
  
 
 
(12,499
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
(12,499
) 

 Proceeds received from sale of assets and businesses
  
 
0
  
 
 
8,952
  
 
 
818
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
9,770
  

 Costs incurred for purchase and development of electronic health records application
  
 
0
  
 
 
(7,957
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
(7,957
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
  
 
0
  
 
 
(294,372
) 
 
 
(96,062
) 
 
 
0
  
  
 
(390,434
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Cash Flows from Financing Activities:
  



 



 



 



  




 Reduction of long-term debt
  
 
(58,779
) 
 
 
(4,297
) 
 
 
(3,423
) 
 
 
0
  
  
 
(66,499
) 

 Additional borrowings
  
 
25,408
  
 
 
661
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
26,069
  

 Repurchase of common shares
  
 
(63,288
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
(63,288
) 

 Dividends paid
  
 
(16,706
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
(16,706
) 

 Issuance of common stock
  
 
3,290
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
3,290
  

 Profit distributions to noncontrolling interests
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(29,866
) 
 
 
0
  
  
 
(29,866
) 

 Capital contributions from noncontrolling interests
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
121
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
121
  

 Purchase of noncontrolling interest in majority owned businesses
  
 
0
  
 
 
(229
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
(229
) 

 Changes in intercompany balances with affiliates, net
  
 
240,275
  
 
 
(30,129
) 
 
 
(210,146
) 
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities
  
 
130,200
  
 
 
(33,994
) 
 
 
(243,314
) 
 
 
0
  
  
 
(147,108
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
0
  
 
 
3,152
  
 
 
568
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
3,720
  

 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period
  
 
0
  
 
 
2,215
  
 
 
3,245
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
5,460
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period
  
$
0
  
 
$
5,367
  
 
$
3,813
  
 
$
0
  
  
$
9,180
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  143



Table of Contents
SCHEDULE II—VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 (amounts in thousands)   
























 Description
  
Balance atbeginningof period
 
  
Charges tocosts andexpenses
 
  
Acquisitionsof business
 
  
Write-off ofuncollectibleaccounts
 
 
Balanceat endof period
 

 Allowance for doubtful accounts receivable:
  



  



  



  



 




 Year ended December 31, 2011
  
$
248,622
  
  
$
613,619
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
(608,836
) 
 
$
253,405
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Year ended December 31, 2010
  
$
168,876
  
  
$
546,909
  
  
$
56,596
  
  
$
(523,759
) 
 
$
248,622
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Year ended December 31, 2009
  
$
162,975
  
  
$
508,603
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
(502,702
) 
 
$
168,876
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  144




