
10-K
1
c68390_10k.htm








 




UNITED STATES




SECURITIES
 AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION




Washington, D. C. 20549




 




FORM 10-K




 





S  ANNUAL
 REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
 THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934




For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011




- or -




£  TRANSITION
 REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934




For the Transition period from __________ to__________




 




Commission File Number 001-15185




 




FIRST HORIZON NATIONAL CORPORATION




(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)







 


 




TENNESSEE


62-0803242




(State or other jurisdiction of


(I.R.S. Employer




incorporation or organization)


Identification Number)




 


 




165 Madison Avenue, Memphis, Tennessee


38103




(Address of principal executive offices)


(Zip Code)




 


 




Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: 901-523-4444



Securities registered pursuant to Section
12(b) of the Act:



 


 


 




Title of Each Class


 


Name of Exchange on which Registered







 







$0.625 Par Value Common Capital Stock


 


New York Stock Exchange, Inc.



Securities registered pursuant to Section
12(g) of the Act: None
Indicate by
check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act. x
YES   o
NO
Indicate by
check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. o
YES   x
NO
Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days. x
YES   o
NO
Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate
Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and
posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to submit and post such files).
x
YES   o
NO
Indicate by
check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K (Section 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. o
Indicate by
 check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
 accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.
 See definition of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” and
 “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one)



 


 


 


 




x Large Accelerated Filer


o Accelerated Filer


o Non-Accelerated Filer


o Smaller Reporting Company




 


 


(Do not check if smaller
 reporting company)



Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act). o YES   x NO
At June 30,
2011, the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity of
the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $2.5
billion. 
At January 31,
2012, the registrant
had 256,394,438 shares of
common stock outstanding.
DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:



 


 




 


Portions of
 the 2011 Annual Report to shareholders – Parts I, II, and IV




 


 




 


Portions of
 Proxy Statement to be furnished to shareholders in connection with Annual
 Meeting of Shareholders scheduled for April 17, 2012 – Part III





PART I
Note
on Page Number References
In this report, references
to specific pages in the Corporation’s 2011 Annual Report to shareholders, or
to specific pages of its consolidated financial statements or the notes
thereto, relate to page numbers appearing in Exhibit 13 to this report. The
Exhibit 13 page numbers do not necessarily correspond to page numbers appearing
in the printed 2011 Annual Report to shareholders.
ITEM 1
BUSINESS
General
Overview.
          First
Horizon National Corporation (the “Corporation,” “FHN,” “we,” or “us”) is a
Tennessee corporation headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee and incorporated in
1968. We are registered as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956, as amended, and are a financial holding company under the
provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. At December 31, 2011, the Corporation
had total consolidated assets of $24.8 billion and ranked 1st in
terms of total assets among Tennessee-headquartered bank holding companies. 
          We
provide diversified financial services primarily through our principal
subsidiary, First Tennessee Bank National Association (the “Bank” or “FTBNA”),
and its subsidiaries. Financial results of operations are reported through
segments based on financial accounting and reporting principles rather than the
legal structure of the Bank and other subsidiaries. In first quarter 2010, we
revised our operating segments to better align with our strategic direction,
representing a renewed focus on our regional banking franchise and capital
markets business. At year-end 2011 FHN has four business segments: regional
banking, capital markets, corporate, and non-strategic. 
          The
regional banking segment offers financial products and services, including
traditional lending and deposit taking, to retail and commercial customers in Tennessee
and surrounding markets. Regional banking provides investments, financial
planning, trust services and asset management, credit card, cash management,
and first lien mortgage originations within the Tennessee footprint.
Additionally, the regional banking segment includes correspondent banking which
provides credit, depository, and other banking related services to other
financial institutions. 
          The
capital markets segment consists of fixed income sales, trading, and
strategies for institutional clients in the U.S. and abroad, as well as loan
sales, portfolio advisory, and derivative sales. 
          The
corporate segment consists of gains on the extinguishment of debt, unallocated
corporate expenses, expense on subordinated debt issuances and preferred stock,
bank-owned life insurance, unallocated interest income associated with excess
equity, net impact of raising incremental capital, revenue and expense
associated with deferred compensation plans, funds management, low income
housing investment activities, and various charges related to restructuring,
repositioning, and efficiency.
          The
nonstrategic segment consists of the wind-down national consumer lending
activities, legacy mortgage banking elements including servicing fees, and the
associated ancillary revenues and expenses related to these businesses.
Non-strategic also includes the wind-down trust preferred loan portfolio and
exited businesses along with the associated restructuring, repositioning, and
efficiency charges.

          The
approximate percentage of consolidated revenues (for this purpose, the sum of
net interest income and noninterest income) and consolidated expenses ascribed
to each of our segments for the past three years is set forth below. During
that period the Regional Banking segment’s share of total revenues has grown
while its share of total expenses has remained relatively flat.
Correspondingly, during that period the share of revenues provided by
Non-Strategic and, to a lesser extent, Capital Markets has fallen while their
share of expenses remained relatively flat.
REVENUE AND EXPENSE MIX ASSOCIATED WITH BUSINESS SEGMENTS



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


Revenues


 


Expenses


 




 


 





 





 




 


 


2011


 


2010


 


2009


 


2011


 


2010


 


2009


 




 


 





 





 





 





 





 





 




Regional
 Banking


 


 


56


%


 


51


%


 


43


%


 


44


%


 


45


%


 


42


%




Capital
 Markets


 


 


25


%


 


27


%


 


32


%


 


25


%


 


24


%


 


25


%




Corporate


 


 


5


%


 


4


%


 


4


%


 


8


%


 


5


%


 


6


%




Non-Strategic


 


 


14


%


 


18


%


 


21


%


 


23


%


 


26


%


 


27


%



          Financial
and other additional information concerning our segments – including
information concerning assets, revenues, and financial results – appears in the
response to Item 7 of Part II hereof and Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements contained in our 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders. During 2011 approximately
53% of our consolidated revenues were provided by fee and other noninterest
income and approximately 47% of revenues were provided by net interest income.
As a financial holding company, the Corporation coordinates the financial
resources of the consolidated enterprise and maintains systems of financial,
operational and administrative control intended to coordinate selected policies
and activities, including as described in Item 9A of Part II hereto.
          The
Bank is a national banking association with principal offices in Memphis,
Tennessee. It received its charter in 1864. During 2011 through its various
business lines, including consolidated subsidiaries, the Bank generated gross
revenue (net interest income plus noninterest income) of approximately $1.5
billion and contributed the majority of our consolidated revenue from
continuing operations. At December 31, 2011, the Bank had $24.6 billion in
total assets, $16.4 billion in total deposits, and $16.0 billion in total net
loans. Among Tennessee headquartered banks, the Bank ranked 1st in
Tennessee deposit market share at June 30, 2011.
          At
December 31, 2011, the Corporation’s subsidiaries had over 200 business
locations in 17 U.S. states, Hong Kong, and Tokyo, excluding off-premises ATMs.
Almost all of those locations were bank financial centers and FTN Financial
offices. 
          At
December 31, 2011, the Bank had 183 branch locations in four states: 172
branches in the major metropolitan areas of Tennessee discussed in the “Competition”
section beginning on page 16 of this report; 2 branches in northwestern
Georgia; 7 branches in northwestern Mississippi; and 2 branches in North
Carolina. 
          FTN
Financial products and services, at December 31, 2011, were offered through 18
offices in total, including 16 offices in 14 states plus an office in each of
Hong Kong and Tokyo. 
          At
December 31, 2011, we provided the following services through our subsidiaries:



 


 


 




 


•


general
 banking services for consumers, businesses, financial institutions, and
 governments



2





 


 


 




 


•


through FTN Financial –
 fixed income sales and trading; underwriting of bank-eligible securities and
 other fixed-income securities eligible for underwriting by financial
 subsidiaries; loan sales; advisory services; and derivative sales




 


 


 




 


•


discount brokerage and
 full-service brokerage




 


 


 




 


•


correspondent banking




 


 


 




 


•


transaction processing –
 nationwide check clearing services and remittance processing




 


 


 




 


•


trust, fiduciary, and
 agency services




 


 


 




 


•


credit card products




 


 


 




 


•


equipment finance




 


 


 




 


•


investment
 and financial advisory services




 


 


 




 


•


mutual fund sales as agent




 


 


 




 


•


retail
 insurance sales as agent




 


 


 




 


•


mortgage banking services



          Over
the past six years we have undergone substantial changes. Prior to 2008 our
principal businesses were in the areas of regional banking, capital markets,
and home mortgage. Our regional banking footprint was in the major
Tennessee-based market areas. Our capital markets business, which had primarily
institutional customers, was nationwide in scope. We had home mortgage offices
across the U.S. and were using those offices to expand our banking business. We
had opened over 30 bank branches – more than 15% of our total branches at that
time – in selected mortgage markets; we made home equity loans through our
mortgage offices; and we made commercial loans in many mortgage markets, mostly
to homebuilders. We refer to these mortgage-driven activities outside of our
regional banking markets as our “national” businesses. 
          Starting
in 2007 the economic environment began to worsen significantly, especially in
terms of residential real estate transactions and values. That environment
became a recession in 2008 and 2009 which in many respects continues to impact
the U.S. economy today. In 2007 we began to change our strategy substantially.
During this time we focused on enhancing our credit management processes,
improving our efficiency, redirecting resources to support and build our
regional banking and capital markets businesses, and eliminating through sale
or closure those business units which no longer fit our strategy, and those
efforts are continuing today. By the end of 2008 most of our national
businesses had been sold or closed, including our mortgage businesses outside
of Tennessee, our national lending businesses, and all of our national bank
branches. We raised significant amounts of equity capital twice in 2008, once
by selling common stock in the public markets and later by selling preferred
stock and a common stock warrant to the U.S. Treasury. In 2008 and 2009 our
loan loss expense climbed to very high levels. In 2010 we raised additional
common equity capital as well as senior debt capital while retiring the U.S.
Treasury’s preferred stock. During the years 2008-2011 we have retired debt,
grown deposits, and become less leveraged.
          These
actions have changed our company in substantial ways. At the end of 2011 we are
a smaller company in terms of assets and liabilities than we were in 2006, with
a different business mix and strategic focus. We still hold a substantial
amount of legacy national assets, mostly in the form of retail and commercial
loans, and our efficiency and other re-focus efforts are continuing. The
following table provides selected data concerning our revenues, assets,
liabilities, and shareholders’ equity for the past six years. 
3





 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




SELECTED CONSOLIDATED REVENUE, ASSET, LIABILITY, AND EQUITY
 DATA*




 (Dollars
 in millions; financial condition data shown as of December 31)




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


2011


 


2010


 


2009


 


2008


 


2007


 


2006


 




 


 





 





 





 





 





 





 




Net
 interest income


 


$


700.8


 


$


730.8


 


$


776.5


 


$


895.1


 


$


940.6


 


$


996.9


 




Provision
 for loan losses


 


 


44.0


 


 


270.0


 


 


880.0


 


 


1,080.0


 


 


272.8


 


 


83.1


 




Noninterest
 income


 


 


786.0


 


 


932.7


 


 


1,234.4


 


 


1,438.3


 


 


783.9


 


 


1,056.3


 




Total
 assets


 


 


24,789.4


 


 


24,699.0


 


 


26,068.7


 


 


31,022.0


 


 


37,015.5


 


 


37,918.3


 




Total
 deposits


 


 


16,213.0


 


 


15,208.2


 


 


14,867.2


 


 


14,241.8


 


 


17,032.3


 


 


20,213.2


 




Total
 term borrowings


 


 


2,481.7


 


 


3,228.1


 


 


2,891.1


 


 


4,767.7


 


 


6,828.4


 


 


5,836.4


 




Total
 liabilities


 


 


22,104.7


 


 


22,020.9


 


 


22,766.2


 


 


27,447.3


 


 


34,584.6


 


 


35,160.6


 




Preferred
 Stock Series CPP


 


 


—


 


 


—


 


 


798.7


 


 


782.7


 


 


—


 


 


—


 




Total
 Shareholders’ Equity


 


 


2,684.6


 


 


2,678.0


 


 


3,302.5


 


 


3,574.6


 


 


2,430.9


 


 


2,757.7


 



*       Certain previously
reported items have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
Other
General Information.
          An
element of our business strategy is to consider acquisitions and divestitures
that would enhance long-term shareholder value. Acquisitions and divestitures
which closed during the past three years are described in Note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, which information is incorporated into this
Item 1 by this reference. 
          All
of the Corporation’s operating subsidiaries at December 31, 2011 are listed in
Exhibit 21. The Bank has filed notice with the Comptroller of the Currency
(“Comptroller” or “OCC”) as a government securities broker/dealer. The FTN
Financial Capital Markets division of the Bank is registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) as a municipal securities
dealer. The Bank is supervised and regulated as described below. Martin and Company,
Inc., First Tennessee Advisory Services, Inc., and First Tennessee Brokerage,
Inc. are registered with the SEC as investment advisers. Hickory Venture
Capital Corporation is licensed as a Small Business Investment Company. First
Tennessee Brokerage, Inc., and FTN Financial Securities Corp. are registered
as broker-dealers with the SEC and all states where they conduct business for
which registration is required. First Tennessee Insurance Services, Inc.,
First Horizon Insurance Services, Inc., and First Horizon Insurance Agency, Inc.
are licensed as insurance agencies in all states where they do business for which
licensing is required. FT Reinsurance Company is licensed by the state of South
Carolina as a captive insurance company. FTN Financial Securities Corp., First
Horizon Insurance Services, Inc., First Tennessee Insurance Services, Inc., and
First Horizon Insurance Agency, Inc. are financial subsidiaries under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley
Act. First Tennessee Brokerage, Inc. is licensed as an insurance agency in the
states where it does business for which licensing is required for the sale of
annuity products. FTN Financial Asia, Ltd. is a subsidiary based in Hong Kong. FTN
Financial Asia, Ltd. is registered to carry on a Type 1 regulated
activity (Dealing in Securities) with the Securities and Futures
Commission in Hong Kong, and its Tokyo, Japan office is registered with the
Kanto Local Finance Bureau as a Type-I
Financial Instruments Business pursuant to the Financial Instruments and
Exchange Law of Japan. First
Horizon Insurance Agency, Inc. is inactive. 
          Expenditures
for research and development activities were not material in any of the last
three fiscal years ended December 31, 2011.
          Neither
the Corporation nor any of its significant subsidiaries is dependent upon a
single customer or very few customers.
4

          We
do not experience material seasonality. We do experience a degree of seasonal
variation in certain revenues and expenses. Historically, these variations have
somewhat increased certain expenses and somewhat diminished certain revenues
principally in the first quarter of each year for the Regional Banking and
Capital Markets segments.
          At
December 31, 2011, the Corporation and its subsidiaries had 4,809 employees, or
4,728 full-time-equivalent employees, not including contract labor for certain
services.
          For
additional information on the business of the Corporation, refer to the
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations, Glossary,
and Acronyms sections contained in pages 3 through 79 of the Corporation’s
2011 Annual Report to Shareholders, which sections are incorporated herein by
reference.
          The
Corporation’s current internet address is www.fhnc.com. In the Investor
Relations section of its internet website, under the Financial Information –
SEC Filings pull-down tab, the Corporation makes available free of charge its
annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K, proxy statements, and amendments thereto as soon as reasonably practicable
after the Corporation files such material with, or furnishes such material to,
the Securities and Exchange Commission. Additional information regarding
materials available on the Corporation’s website is provided in Item 10 of this report
beginning on page 45.

Supervision
and Regulation.
          The
following summary sets forth certain of the material elements of the regulatory
framework applicable to bank holding companies and financial holding companies
and their subsidiaries and to companies engaged in securities and insurance
activities and provides certain specific information about the Corporation. The
bank regulatory framework is intended primarily for the protection of
depositors and the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund and not for the protection of
security holders. In addition, certain activities of the Corporation and its
subsidiaries are subject to various securities and insurance laws and are
regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the state insurance
departments of the states in which they operate. To the extent that the
following information describes statutory and regulatory provisions, it is
qualified in its entirety by express reference to each of the particular
statutory and regulatory provisions. A change in applicable statutes,
regulations or regulatory policy may have a material effect on the business of
the Corporation. 
          General
          The
Corporation is a bank holding company and financial holding company within the
meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHCA”), and
is registered with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the
“Federal Reserve”). The Corporation is subject to the regulation and
supervision of and examination by the Federal Reserve under the BHCA. The
Corporation is required to file with the Federal Reserve annual reports and
such additional information as the Federal Reserve may require pursuant to the
BHCA. 
          Under
the BHCA, prior to March 13, 2000, bank holding companies could not in general
directly or indirectly acquire the ownership or control of more than 5% of the
voting shares or substantially all of the assets of any company, including a
bank, without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve, and a bank holding
company and its subsidiaries were generally limited to engaging in banking and
activities found by the Federal Reserve to be so closely related to banking as
to be a proper incident thereto. Since March 13, 2000, eligible bank holding
companies that elect to become financial holding companies may affiliate with 
5

securities firms and
insurance companies and engage in activities that are “financial in nature”
generally without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. See
“Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act” below.
          In
addition, the BHCA permits the Federal Reserve to approve an application by a
bank holding company to acquire a bank located outside the acquirer’s principal
state of operations without regard to whether the transaction is prohibited
under state law. See “Interstate Banking and Branching Legislation.” The
Tennessee Bank Structure Act of 1974, among other things, prohibits (subject to
certain exceptions) a bank holding company from acquiring a bank for which the
home state is Tennessee (a “Tennessee bank”) if, upon consummation, the company
would directly or indirectly control 30% or more of the total deposits in
insured depository institutions in Tennessee. As of June 30, 2011, the
Corporation estimates that it held approximately 13% of such deposits. Subject
to certain exceptions, the Tennessee Bank Structure Act prohibits a bank
holding company from acquiring a bank in Tennessee which has been in operation
for less than three years. Tennessee law permits a Tennessee bank to establish
branches in any county in Tennessee. See also “Interstate Banking and Branching
Legislation” below.
          The
Bank is a national banking association subject to regulation, examination and
supervision by the Comptroller as its primary federal regulator. The Bank is
insured by, and subject to regulation by, the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (the “FDIC”) and is subject to regulation in certain respects by
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “Bureau”). The Bank is also
subject to various requirements and restrictions under federal and state law,
including requirements to maintain reserves against deposits, restrictions on
the types and amounts of loans that may be granted and the interest that may be
charged thereon and limitations on the types of investments that may be made,
activities that may be engaged in, and types of services that may be offered.
Various consumer laws and regulations also affect the operations of the Bank.
In addition to the impact of regulation, commercial banks are affected
significantly by the actions of the Federal Reserve as it attempts to control
the money supply and credit availability in order to influence the economy.
Also, the Bank and certain of its subsidiaries are prohibited from engaging in
certain tie-in arrangements in connection with extensions of credit, leases or
sales of property, or furnishing products or services.
           Payment
of Dividends
          The
Corporation is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other
subsidiaries. The principal source of cash flow of the Corporation, including
cash flow to pay dividends on its stock or principal (premium, if any) and
interest on debt securities, is dividends from the Bank. There are statutory
and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by the Bank to the
Corporation, as well as by the Corporation to its shareholders.
          As
a national bank, the Bank is required by federal law to obtain the prior
approval of the Comptroller for the payment of cash dividends if the total of
all dividends declared by the board of directors of the Bank in any year will
exceed the total of (i) its net profits (as defined and interpreted by
regulation) for that year plus (ii) the retained net profits (as defined and
interpreted by regulation) for the preceding two years, less any required
transfers to surplus. A national bank also can pay dividends only to the extent
that retained net profits (including the portion transferred to surplus) exceed
bad debts (as defined by regulation).
          If,
in the opinion of the applicable federal bank regulatory authority, a
depository institution or a holding company is engaged in or is about to engage
in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial condition
of the depository institution or holding company, could include the payment of
dividends), such authority may require that such institution or holding company
cease and desist from such practice. The federal banking agencies have
indicated that paying dividends that deplete a depository institution’s or holding
company’s capital base to an inadequate level would be such an unsafe and
unsound banking practice. Moreover, the Federal Reserve, the Comptroller, and
the FDIC have issued policy 
6

statements which provide
that bank holding companies and insured depository institutions generally
should pay cash dividends only out of current operating earnings.
          In
addition, under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (“FDIA”), an FDIC-insured
depository institution may not make any capital distributions (including the
payment of dividends) or pay any management fees to its holding company or pay
any dividend if it is undercapitalized or if such payment would cause it to
become undercapitalized. 
          At
December 31, 2011 and at January 1, 2012, under dividend restrictions imposed
under applicable federal laws as outlined above, the Bank could not legally
declare cash dividends on the Bank’s common or preferred stock without
obtaining regulatory approval. The application of those restrictions to the
Bank is discussed in more detail under the heading “Liquidity Management” in
the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations section beginning on page 51 of the Corporation’s 2011 Annual
Report to Shareholders, which section is incorporated herein by reference. As
mentioned in that section, the Bank has requested OCC approval to declare dividends
on the Bank’s outstanding
preferred stock payable in April 2012. 
          Under
Tennessee law, the Corporation is not permitted to pay cash dividends if, after
giving effect to such payment, it would not be able to pay its debts as they
become due in the usual course of business or the Corporation’s total assets
would be less than the sum of its total liabilities plus any amounts needed to
satisfy any preferential rights if the Corporation was dissolving. In addition,
in deciding whether or not to declare a dividend of any particular size, the
Corporation’s Board must consider the Corporation’s current and prospective
capital, liquidity, and other needs. 
          The
payment of cash dividends by the Corporation and the Bank also may be affected
or limited by other factors, such as the requirement to maintain adequate
capital above regulatory guidelines and debt covenants. Furthermore, the
Federal Reserve and the OCC have issued policy statements generally requiring
insured banks and bank holding companies only to pay dividends out of current
operating earnings. The Federal Reserve has released a supervisory letter
advising bank holding companies, among other things, that as a general matter a
bank holding company should inform the Federal Reserve and should eliminate,
defer or significantly reduce its dividends if (i) the bank holding
company’s net income available to shareholders for the past four quarters, net
of dividends previously paid during that period, is not sufficient to fully
fund the dividends; (ii) the bank holding company’s prospective rate of
earnings is not consistent with the bank holding company’s capital needs and
overall current and prospective financial condition; or (iii) the bank
holding company will not meet, or is in danger of not meeting, its minimum
regulatory capital adequacy ratios. 
          In
2008 the Corporation discontinued paying a quarterly cash dividend to its
common stockholders and began distributing a dividend payable in shares of
common stock. In 2010 the Corporation returned to profitability, but preferred
stock payments to the Treasury in connection with the TARP program
significantly exceeded those earnings. In January 2011 the Corporation, having
exited the TARP program, resumed a cash dividend at the rate of one cent per
share, substantially lower than the rate prior to 2008. 
          Transactions
with Affiliates
          There
are various legal restrictions on the extent to which the Corporation and its
nonbank subsidiaries (including for purposes of this paragraph, in certain
situations, subsidiaries of the Bank) can borrow or otherwise obtain credit
from the Bank. There are also legal restrictions on the Bank’s purchases of or
investments in the securities of and purchases of assets from the Corporation
and its nonbank subsidiaries, the Bank’s loans or extensions of credit to third
parties collateralized by the securities or obligations of the Corporation and
its nonbank subsidiaries, the issuance of guaranties, acceptances and letters
of credit on behalf of the Corporation and its nonbank subsidiaries, and
certain bank transactions with the Corporation and its nonbank subsidiaries, or
with respect to which the Corporation 
7

and its nonbank subsidiaries
act as agent, participate or have a financial interest. The Bank (including for
purposes of this paragraph all subsidiaries of the Bank) generally may not
extend credit to the Corporation or to any other affiliate (other than another
subsidiary bank and certain exempted affiliates) in an amount which exceeds 10%
of the Bank’s capital stock and surplus and may not extend credit in the
aggregate to all such affiliates in an amount which exceeds 20% of its capital
stock and surplus. Further, there are legal requirements as to the type, amount
and quality of collateral which must secure such extensions of credit by the
Bank to the Corporation or to such other affiliates. Extensions of credit and
other transactions between the Bank and the Corporation or such other
affiliates must be on terms and under circumstances, including credit
standards, that are substantially the same or at least as favorable to the Bank
as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with non-affiliated
companies.
          Capital
Adequacy
          The
Federal Reserve has adopted risk-based capital guidelines for bank holding
companies. The minimum guideline for the ratio of total capital (“Total
Capital”) to risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance-sheet items,
such as standby letters of credit) is 8%, and the minimum ratio of Tier 1
Capital (defined below) to risk-weighted assets is 4%. At least half of the
Total Capital must be composed of common stock, minority interests in the
equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, non-cumulative perpetual
preferred stock and a limited amount of cumulative perpetual preferred stock
and trust preferred securities, less any amounts of goodwill, other intangible
assets, and other items that are required to be deducted (“Tier 1 Capital”).
The remainder may consist of qualifying subordinated debt, certain types of
mandatory convertible securities and perpetual debt, other preferred stock and
a limited amount of loan loss reserves. At December 31, 2011, the Corporation’s
consolidated Total Capital and Tier 1 Capital ratios were 17.99% and 14.23%,
respectively.
          The
Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, and the OCC have adopted rules to incorporate
market and interest-rate risk components into their risk-based capital
standards and that explicitly identify concentration of credit risk and certain
risks arising from non-traditional activities, and the management of such
risks, as important factors to consider in assessing an institution’s overall
capital adequacy. Under the market risk requirements, capital is allocated to
support the amount of market risk related to a financial institution’s ongoing
trading activities for banks with relatively large trading activities.
Institutions are able to satisfy any related additional capital requirement, in
part, by issuing short-term subordinated debt that qualifies as Tier 3 capital.
Based on present practices and activity levels, the Corporation believes that
these trading-related market risk rules have no significant impact on the
Corporation’s ability to meet regulatory capital requirements.
          In
addition, the Federal Reserve has established minimum leverage ratio guidelines
for bank holding companies. These guidelines provide for a minimum ratio of
Tier 1 Capital to quarterly average assets, less goodwill and certain other
intangible assets (the “Leverage Ratio”), of 3% for bank holding companies
that meet certain specific criteria, including having the highest regulatory
rating. All other bank holding companies generally are required to maintain a
Leverage Ratio of at least 3%, plus an additional cushion of 100 to 200 basis
points. The Corporation’s Leverage Ratio at December 31, 2011 was 11.41%.
The guidelines also provide that bank holding companies experiencing internal
growth or making acquisitions will be expected to maintain strong capital
positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels without
significant reliance on intangible assets. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve has
indicated that it will consider a “tangible Tier 1 Capital leverage ratio”
(deducting all intangibles) and other indicia of capital strength in evaluating
proposals for expansion or new activities.
          The
Bank is subject to risk-based and leverage capital requirements similar to
those described above adopted by the Comptroller. The Corporation believes that
the Bank was in compliance with applicable 
8

minimum capital requirements
as of December 31, 2011. Neither the Corporation nor the Bank has been advised
by any federal banking agency of any specific minimum Leverage Ratio
requirement applicable to it. 
          During
2009, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC,
and the OCC initiated a capital assessment program. Under the program, the
capital needs of selected major U.S. banking institutions were evaluated for
resilience under economic stress. That program, coupled with the Dodd-Frank
legislation discussed below, have led to a proposal in late 2011 by the Federal
Reserve Board of specific standards intended to strengthen the financial
position of the largest U.S. financial institutions (having assets over $50
billion) along with those other institutions deemed systemically important. The
standards deal with seven areas: risk-based capital and leverage; liquidity;
single-counterparty credit limits; risk management; annual stress tests (with
public disclosure of the results); debt to equity ratio limits; and early
remediation requirements. Of those seven areas, the Federal Reserve Board
indicated that two, the new risk management and stress testing regulations,
would apply to institutions (such as the Corporation) with $10 billion of
assets. The OCC recently proposed its own stress testing rules for national
banks with $10 billion of assets, such as the Bank. Also, it is at least
possible that other of these large-institution regulations, over time, will be
applied in various ways to mid-sized and smaller institutions by the regulatory
agencies. In other words, these standards could evolve to apply in some form to
all or nearly all U.S. banks and holding companies, with different versions
applying to different institutions based on size or other key factors. When
adopted, these standards will revise and supplement the bright-line numerical
tests mentioned above in this section.
          Failure
to meet capital guidelines could subject a bank to a variety of enforcement
remedies, including the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, and to
certain restrictions on its business and in certain circumstances to the
appointment of a conservator or receiver. See “Prompt Corrective Action”
beginning on page 10
of this report for additional information.
          In
1999, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision launched its efforts to
develop an improved international capital adequacy framework by issuing its
proposals to revise the 1988 Capital Accord, sometimes known as Basel I. In
June 2004, the Basel Committee issued a new capital framework (Basel II) which
consisted of minimum capital requirements, a supervisory review process, and
the effective use of market discipline. 
          In
September 2006 the U.S. regulators published a revised Notice of Proposed
Rulemaking (NPR) for Basel II. The Final Rule on Advanced Capital Adequacy
Framework – Basel II took effect in the U.S. in 2008. The Final Rule currently
applies only to certain core banks with total assets of $250 billion or more,
but allows non-core banks to opt-in. Under the Final Rules the Bank is
considered to be a non-core bank. For those non-core banks that do not opt in,
an NPR was issued in December 2006, known as Basel IA, which proposed certain
revisions to the Basel I capital rules. In July 2008 the agencies issued a
supplemental NPR. At year-end 2011, the 2006 and 2008 NPRs remain
unimplemented. If implemented, the net effect of these NPRs would allow
non-core banks the option of adopting the Standardized Approach of the Basel II
Framework or remaining under the Basel I framework. 
          In
2010 international banking industry regulators largely agreed upon significant
changes in the regulation of capital required to be held by banks and their
holding companies to support their businesses. The new international rules,
known as “Basel III”, generally increase the capital required to be held and
narrow the types of instruments which will qualify as providing appropriate
capital. Among other things, Basel III establishes these minimum ratios: common
equity to risk weighted assets of 4.5%; Tier 1 capital of 6%; and total capital
of 8%. Basel III additionally requires banks to hold a 2.5% countercyclical
buffer added to each of those ordinary minimum ratios during certain periods
determined by regulators from time to 
9

time. The Basel III
requirements are complex and will be phased in over many years, generally from
2013 to 2018. 
          The
Basel III rules do not apply to U.S. banks or holding companies automatically.
Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act of 2010 (“DF Act”) requires U.S. regulators to reform the system
under which the safety and soundness of banks and other financial institutions,
individually and systemically, are regulated. That reform effort will include
the regulation of capital. It is not known  to what extent the U.S.
regulators will incorporate elements of Basel III into the reformed U.S.
regulatory system, but it is expected that the U.S. reforms will include an
increase in capital requirements and a narrowing of what qualifies as appropriate
capital. 
          Holding
Company Structure and Support of Subsidiary Banks
          Because
the Corporation is a holding company, its right to participate in the assets of
any subsidiary upon the latter’s liquidation or reorganization will be subject
to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors (including depositors in the
case of the Bank) except to the extent that the Corporation may itself be a
creditor with recognized claims against the subsidiary. In addition, depositors
of a bank, and the FDIC as their subrogee, would be entitled to priority over
the creditors in the event of liquidation of a bank subsidiary.
          Under
Federal Reserve policy the Corporation is expected to act as a source of
financial strength to, and to commit resources to support, the Bank. This
support may be required at times when, absent such Federal Reserve policy, the
Corporation may not be inclined to provide it. In addition, any capital loans
by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in
right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such
subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any
commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to
maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy
trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.
          Cross-Guarantee
Liability
          Under
the FDIA, a depository institution insured by the FDIC can be held liable for
any loss incurred by, or reasonably expected to be incurred by, the FDIC in
connection with (i) the default of a commonly controlled FDIC-insured
depository institution or (ii) any assistance provided by the FDIC to any
commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institution “in danger of default.”
“Default” is defined generally as the appointment of a conservator or receiver
and “in danger of default” is defined generally as the existence of certain
conditions indicating that a default is likely to occur in the absence of
regulatory assistance. The FDIC’s claim for damages is superior to claims of
shareholders of the insured depository institution or its holding company but
is subordinate to claims of depositors, secured creditors and holders of
subordinated debt (other than affiliates) of the commonly controlled insured
depository institution. The Bank is currently the only depository institution
owned by the Corporation. In the event that the Corporation established or
acquired another depository institution, any loss suffered by the FDIC in
respect of one subsidiary bank would likely result in assertion of the
cross-guarantee provisions, the assessment of such estimated losses against the
Corporation’s other subsidiary bank(s), and a potential loss of the
Corporation’s investment in such subsidiary bank.
          Prompt
Corrective Action
          The
FDIA requires, among other things, the federal banking regulators to take
“prompt corrective action” in respect of FDIC-insured depository institutions
that do not meet minimum capital requirements. Under the FDIA, insured
depository institutions are divided into five capital tiers: “well
capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly
undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized.” Under applicable regulations,
an institution is defined to be well capitalized if it maintains 
10

a Leverage Ratio of at least
5%, a Tier 1 Capital ratio of at least 6% and a Total Capital ratio of at least
10% and is not subject to a directive, order, or written agreement to meet and
maintain specific capital levels. An institution is defined to be adequately
capitalized if it meets all of its minimum capital requirements as described
above. An institution will be considered undercapitalized if it fails to meet
any minimum required measure; significantly undercapitalized if it has a Total
Risk-Based Capital ratio of less than 6%, a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital ratio of
less than 3%, or a Leverage Ratio of less than 3%; and critically
undercapitalized if it fails to maintain a level of tangible equity equal to at
least 2% of total assets. An institution may be deemed to be in a
capitalization category that is lower than is indicated by its actual capital
position if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating.
          The
FDIA generally prohibits an FDIC-insured depository institution from making any
capital distribution (including payment of dividends) or paying any management
fee to its holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be
undercapitalized. Undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to
restrictions on borrowing from the Federal Reserve System. In addition,
undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to growth limitations and
are required to submit capital restoration plans. An insured depository
institution’s holding company must guarantee the capital plan, up to an amount
equal to the lesser of 5% of the depository institution’s assets at the time it
becomes undercapitalized or the amount of the capital deficiency when the institution
fails to comply with the plan, for the plan to be accepted by the applicable
federal regulatory authority. The federal banking agencies may not accept a
capital plan without determining, among other things, that the plan is based on
realistic assumptions and is likely to succeed in restoring the depository
institution’s capital. If a depository institution fails to submit an
acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is significantly undercapitalized.
          Significantly
undercapitalized depository institutions may be subject to a number of
requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock
to become adequately capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets and
cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. Critically
undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to appointment of a
receiver or conservator, generally within 90 days of the date on which they
become critically undercapitalized.
          At
December 31, 2011, the Bank had sufficient capital to qualify as “well
capitalized” under the regulatory capital requirements discussed above. As
noted under the caption “Capital Adequacy” beginning on page 8 of this report, it is expected that
significant changes to those requirements will be implemented in the future.
          Interstate
Banking and Branching Legislation
          After the enactment of the DF
Act, federal law allows a national bank to establish and operate a de novo branch in states other than the bank's home
state if the law of the bank's home state would permit establishment of the branch if the bank were chartered in that state, subject
to standard regulatory review and approval requirements. Federal law also allows a national bank to acquire an existing branch
in a state in which the bank is not headquartered and does not maintain a branch if the OCC approves the branch or acquisition,
and if the law of the state in which the branch is located or to be located would permit the establishment of the branch if the
bank were chartered by that state.
          Additionally, the DF Act created
a number of regulatory requirements for interstate merger and acquisition activity, including the following: the acquiring bank
must be well-capitalized and well-managed; concentration limits on liabilities and deposits may not be exceeded; and regulators
must assess the transaction for incremental systemic risk.
          Once
a bank has established branches in a state through an interstate merger
transaction or through de novo branching, the bank may then establish
and acquire additional branches within that state to the same extent that a
state chartered bank is allowed to establish or acquire branches within the
state.
11

          Gramm-Leach-Bliley
Act
          The
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (“GLB Act”) repealed or modified a number of
significant provisions of then-current laws, including the Glass-Steagall Act
and the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, which imposed restrictions on banking
organizations’ ability to engage in certain types of activities. The GLB Act
generally allows bank holding companies such as the Corporation broad authority
to engage in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to such a
financial activity, including insurance underwriting and brokerage; merchant banking;
securities underwriting, dealing and market-making; real estate development;
and such additional activities as the Federal Reserve in consultation with the
Secretary of the Treasury determines to be financial in nature or incidental
thereto. A bank holding company may engage in these activities directly or
through subsidiaries by qualifying as a “financial holding company.” To
qualify, a bank holding company must file an initial declaration with the
Federal Reserve, certifying that all of its subsidiary depository institutions
are well-managed and well-capitalized. The GLB Act also permits national banks
such as the Bank to engage in certain of these activities through financial
subsidiaries. To control or hold an interest in a financial subsidiary, a national
bank must meet the following requirements: 



 


 


 




 


(1)


the national bank must
 receive approval from the Comptroller for the financial subsidiary to engage
 in the activities; 




 


 


 




 


(2)


the national bank and its
 depository institution affiliates must each be well-capitalized and
 well-managed;




 


 


 




 


(3)


the aggregate consolidated
 total assets of all of the national bank’s financial subsidiaries must not
 exceed 45% of the national bank’s consolidated total assets or, if less, $50
 billion;




 


 


 




 


(4)


the national bank must
 have in place adequate policies and procedures to identify and manage
 financial and operational risks and to preserve the separate identities and
 limited liability of the national bank and the financial subsidiary; and 




 


 


 




 


(5)


if the financial
 subsidiary will engage in principal transactions and the national bank is one
 of the one hundred largest banks, the national bank must have outstanding at
 least one issue of unsecured long-term debt that is currently rated in one of
 the three highest investment grade rating categories (or if in the second
 fifty largest banks, an alternative requirement is that the national bank has
 a current long-term issuer credit rating within the three highest investment
 grade rating categories). If this fifth requirement ceases to be met after a
 national bank controls or holds an interest in a financial subsidiary, the
 bank cannot invest additional capital in that subsidiary until the
 requirement again is met.



          No
new financial activity may be commenced under the GLB Act unless the national
bank and all of its depository institution affiliates have at least
“satisfactory” CRA ratings. Certain restrictions apply if the bank holding
company or the national bank fails to continue to meet one or more of the
requirements listed above. In addition, the GLB Act contains a number of other
provisions that may affect the Bank’s operations, including functional
regulation of the Bank’s securities operations by the SEC and the Bank’s
insurance operations by the states and limitations on the use and disclosure to
third parties of customer information. At December 31, 2011, the Corporation is
a financial holding company and the Bank has a number of financial
subsidiaries, as discussed in “Other General Information” beginning on page 4 of this report. 
12

          Dodd-Frank Act
          The
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (“DF Act”)
was enacted on July 21, 2010. The DF Act made a substantial number of
significant changes to how financial services companies are regulated. Most of
the most sweeping changes in the DF Act are not complete or specific but
instead authorize potentially expansive new regulations to be issued in the
future, possibly over several years. Overall, the Corporation expects that the
DF Act and its regulations are likely to increase the Corporation’s regulatory
compliance and certain other costs significantly, and they are likely to
constrain operations and revenues in some respects, perhaps significantly in
some areas.
          Provisions
or topics of the DF Act and the regulatory regimes which will arise under it
that the Corporation anticipates will be key to the Corporation and the Bank
are:



 


 


 




 


•


The DF Act
 requires capital, leverage, and other financial strength requirements to be
 re-examined by regulators and made counter-cyclical. Current proposals in
 response to this are discussed in the “Capital Adequacy” section beginning on
 page 8 of this report. It is likely that this effort will result in new
 capital, leverage, risk management, and other standards for the Corporation
 and the Bank. Among other things, those new standards could result in
 restrictions on the payment of cash dividends and on the repurchase of
 shares, and could require us to hold more capital in relatively unproductive
 investments to support a given level of productive business assets.




 


•


The DF Act
 excluded certain items, including trust preferred securities, from Tier 1
 capital of financial institutions having assets of $15 billion or more. A
 direct effect of this exclusion will be to remove $200 million of currently
 outstanding long-term securities from the Corporation’s Tier 1 capital after
 a phase-in period has passed.




 


•


The
 Financial Stability Oversight Council (“Council”) was created which oversees
 financial industry regulators and regulation in certain areas, especially
 relating to the areas of risk and stability. 




 


•


The DF Act
 established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“Bureau”). The Bureau
 has expansive regulatory authority over consumer products and practices in
 the financial services industry, including the authority to define deceptive
 practices and centralize consumer complaints.




 


•


Regulations
 under the DF Act’s so-called Durbin Amendment went into effect in the fourth
 quarter of 2011. They severely cap the interchange fees which banks charge
 merchants for debit card transactions, and are expected to reduce the Bank’s
 fee income by approximately $4-5 million per quarter. The Bank has adjusted
 certain fee structures and taken other steps designed to mitigate the effects
 of this lost income, as have many other banks; that adjustment process will
 continue in 2012.




 


•


The DF Act
 created a new registration regime for municipal securities advisors, along
 with new fiduciary duties.




 


•


The DF Act
 authorized the regulatory imposition of fiduciary duties on retail securities
 brokers and restrictions on such brokers from including arbitration clauses
 in customer agreements.




 


•


The DF Act
 imposed new duties on mortgage lenders, including a duty to determine the
 borrower’s ability to repay the loan, and imposed a requirement on mortgage
 securitizers to retain a minimum level of economic interest in securitized
 pools of certain mortgage types and to make certain periodic reports which
 will be public.




 


•


The DF Act,
 in the so-called Volcker Amendment, substantially restricted so-called
 proprietary trading and investments in hedge funds or private equity funds.
 Regulations implementing Volcker proposed in 2011 have generated a degree of
 controversy within the industry and politically. Adoption could force
 companies, including the Bank, to cease certain activities and to divest
 certain businesses or assets. Nevertheless, final rules could be adopted in
 2012.



13





 


 


 




 


•


Under the DF
 Act deposit insurance costs are likely to increase. This is discussed further
 under the caption “FDIC Insurance Assessments; DIFA” beginning on page 14 of
 this report.




 


•


The DF Act
 authorized the establishment of a new regulatory framework for the
 derivatives markets.



The list above
is not exhaustive. It reflects the Corporation’s current assessment of the
DF Act provisions that are reasonably possible to have a substantial impact in
the future. It is possible that at least some other areas unexpectedly will become
significant to the Corporation or the Bank as the regulatory processes unfold.
          FDIC
Insurance Assessments; DIFA
          The
Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) was formed in March 2006 when the FDIC merged
the Bank Insurance Fund with the Savings Association Insurance Fund pursuant to
the the Federal
Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 (“2005 Reform Act”). Prior to 2008, the
FDIC insurance premium charged on bank deposits insured by the DIF varied
depending on the institution’s risk classification, based on capital and
supervisory risk factors. Beginning in 2008 new risk category and DIF premium
structures became effective. The new rate ranges were based on four new Risk
Categories that in turn were based on asset size as well as capital,
supervisory, credit, and other risk factors. Somewhat different factors were
used for institutions in different situations. Within the range for a given
Risk Category, the rate applicable to any particular institution is determined
by the FDIC according to formal guidelines. In 2008, rates for institutions ranged
from 5 to 43 basis points of U.S. deposits. 
          During
2008 and 2009, losses from bank failures significantly diminished the DIF. Late
in 2008 the FDIC announced a multi-year restoration plan for the DIF which
included an increase in deposit insurance premium rates of 7 basis points
across all rate categories, effective for the first quarter of 2009. In June
2009 the FDIC imposed an emergency 20-basis-point special assessment. In
November 2009 the FDIC required banks to pre-pay three years of premiums in
2009. Early in 2010 the FDIC announced an initiative to link deposit insurance
premium rates to the risks associated with a bank’s employee compensation
structures. In July 2010 the DF Act was passed, requiring the FDIC to further
reform funding for the DIF and mandating several changes, most notably that
insurance premiums be based on an institution’s consolidated assets net of
tangible capital rather than on its insured deposit base. The FDIC adopted a
new assessment system beginning in April 2011 which created a new rate grid
structure. In the grid, base rates will range from 5 to 35 basis points
annually, and fully adjusted rates will range from 2.5 to 45 basis points
annually. Key factors in the grid include: the institution’s risk category (I
to IV); whether the institution is deemed large and highly complex; whether the
institution qualifies for an unsecured debt adjustment; and whether the
institution is burdened with a brokered deposit adjustment. 
          The
Deposit Insurance Funds Act of 1996 (“DIFA”) provides for assessments to be
imposed on insured depository institutions with respect to deposits insured by
the DIF to pay for the cost of Financing Corporation (“FICO”) bonds. All banks
are assessed to pay the interest due on FICO bonds. The FICO assessment cost to
the Corporation on an annual basis is immaterial.
          Under
the FDIA, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding
that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an
unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any
applicable law, regulation, rule, order, or condition imposed by a federal bank
regulatory agency.
14

          Depositor
Preference
          Federal
law provides that deposits and certain claims for administrative expenses and
employee compensation against an insured depository institution would be
afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an
institution, including federal funds and letters of credit, in the “liquidation
or other resolution” of such an institution by any receiver.
          Securities
Regulation
          Certain
of the Corporation’s subsidiaries are subject to various securities laws and
regulations and capital adequacy requirements promulgated by the regulatory and
exchange authorities of the jurisdictions in which they operate.
          The
Corporation’s registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the SEC’s
net capital rule, Rule 15c3-1. That rule requires the maintenance of minimum
net capital and limits the ability of the broker-dealer to transfer large
amounts of capital to a parent company or affiliate. Compliance with the rule
could limit operations that require intensive use of capital, such as
underwriting and trading.
          Certain
of the Corporation’s subsidiaries are registered investment advisers which are
regulated under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Advisory contracts with
clients automatically terminate under these laws upon an assignment of the
contract by the investment adviser unless appropriate consents are obtained.
          Insurance
Activities
          Subsidiaries
of the Corporation sell various types of insurance as agent in a number of the
states. Insurance activities are subject to regulation by the states in which
such business is transacted. Although most of such regulation focuses on
insurance companies and their insurance products, insurance agents and their
activities are also subject to regulation by the states, including, among other
things, licensing and marketing and sales practices.
          Compensation and Risk Management
          In
2010 the Federal Reserve, OCC, and other agencies issued guidance to regulated
banks and holding companies intended to ensure that incentive compensation
arrangements at financial organizations take into account risk and are
consistent with safe and sound practices. The guidance is based on three “key
principles” calling for incentive compensation plans to: appropriately balance
risks and rewards; be compatible with effective controls and risk management;
and be backed up by strong corporate governance. In response the Corporation
has adopted an enhanced risk management process for assessing risk in incentive
compensation plans. Among other things, the Corporation has moved several key
incentive programs away from a revenues approach in favor of a net profit
approach, and has adopted mandatory deferral features for other key programs.
Effect of Governmental Policies.
          The
Bank is affected by the policies of regulatory authorities, including the
Federal Reserve System and the Comptroller. An important function of the
Federal Reserve System is to regulate the national money supply.
          Among
the instruments of monetary policy used by the Federal Reserve are: purchases
and sales of U.S. Government securities in the marketplace; changes in the
discount rate, which is the rate any depository 
15

institution
must pay to borrow from the Federal Reserve; changes in the reserve
requirements of depository institutions; and, indirectly, changes in the
federal funds rate, which is the rate at which depository institutions lend
balances to each other overnight. These instruments are intended to influence
economic and monetary growth, interest rate levels, and inflation.
          The
monetary policies of the Federal Reserve System and other governmental policies
have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in
the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. Because of changing
conditions in the national and international economy and in the money markets,
as well as the result of actions by monetary and fiscal authorities, it is not
possible to predict with certainty future changes in interest rates, deposit
levels, loan demand, or the business and results of operations of the
Corporation and the Bank, or whether changing economic conditions will have a
positive or negative effect on operations and earnings.
Proposals.
          Various
bills are from the time to time introduced in the United States Congress and
the Tennessee General Assembly and other state legislatures, and regulations
are proposed by the regulatory agencies which could affect the business of the
Corporation and its subsidiaries. An example of recent legislation calling for
substantial new regulatory measures is discussed under “Dodd-Frank Act”
beginning on page 13 of this report. It cannot be predicted whether or in what
form any particular proposals will be adopted or the extent to which the
business of the Corporation and its subsidiaries may be affected thereby. 
Competition.
          The
Corporation and its subsidiaries face substantial competition in all aspects of
the businesses in which they engage from national and state banks located in
our Tennessee markets and large out-of-state and non-U.S. banks as well as from
savings and loan associations, credit unions, other financial institutions,
consumer finance companies, trust companies, investment counseling firms, money
market and other mutual funds, insurance companies and agencies, securities
firms, mortgage banking companies, and others. 
          Our
traditional regional banking business primarily competes in the major market
areas associated with Tennessee: western Tennessee around Memphis; middle
Tennessee around Nashville; and eastern Tennessee around Knoxville,
Chattanooga, and the tri-cities area of Johnson City, Bristol, and Kingsport
along with communities in Virginia and North Carolina. Our regional banking
business serves both retail and commercial customers. Key competitors in those
markets include Regions Bank, SunTrust Bank, Wells Fargo Bank N.A., Bank of
America N.A., and Pinnacle National Bank, among many others including many
community banks.
          Our
capital markets business serves institutional customers broadly segregated into
depositories (including banks, thrifts and credit unions) and non-depositories
(including money managers, insurance companies, public funds, pension funds and
hedge funds). Both customer segments are widely dispersed geographically, and
we have many competitors within both segments including major U.S. and
international securities firms as well as numerous regional and local firms.
          In
the past three years certain financial companies or their affiliates that
traditionally were not banks have converted to bank status and have been able
to compete more directly with the Bank for deposits and other traditional
banking services and products. Those companies include investment banks,
brokerage firms, insurance company affiliates, and the financing company
associated with an automobile manufacturer. For additional information on the
competitive position of the Corporation and the Bank, refer to the “General”
subsection above of this Item 1. Also, refer to the subsections entitled
“Supervision and Regulation” and “Effect of Governmental Policies,” both of
which are relevant to an analysis of the Corporation’s 
16

competitors.
Due to the intense competition in the financial services industry, the
Corporation makes no representation that its competitive position has remained
constant, nor can it predict whether its position will change in the future.
Sources and Availability of Funds.
          Specific
reference is made to the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Glossary, and
Acronyms sections, including the subsection entitled “Liquidity Management,”
contained in pages 3 through 79 (including pages 51 through 54) of the
Corporation’s 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders, which sections are
incorporated herein by reference.
Non-U.S. Operations.
          Our
non-U.S. operations are not material.
Statistical Information Required by Guide 3.
          The
statistical information required to be displayed under Item I pursuant to Guide
3, “Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies,” of the Exchange Act
Industry Guides is incorporated herein by reference to the Consolidated
Financial Statements and the notes thereto and the Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Glossary, and
Acronyms sections set forth at pages 3 through 79 of the Corporation’s 2011
Annual Report to Shareholders. Certain information not contained in the 2011
Annual Report to Shareholders, but required by Guide 3, is contained in the
tables immediately following: 
FIRST HORIZON NATIONAL CORPORATION
ADDITIONAL GUIDE 3 STATISTICAL INFORMATION
ON DECEMBER 31
(Unaudited)



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Investment
Portfolio 
(Dollars in thousands) 


 


2011


 


2010


 


2009


 

























 




Government agency issued mortgage-backed securities &
 collateralized mortgage obligations


 


$


2,768,171


 


$


2,638,698


 


$


2,189,507


 




U.S. Treasuries


 


 


40,121


 


 


87,444


 


 


48,129


 




Other U.S. Government agencies*


 


 


15,951


 


 


53,226


 


 


118,145


 




States and municipalities


 


 


18,070


 


 


26,015


 


 


44,400


 




Other


 


 


223,959


 


 


226,547


 


 


294,287


 




 


 








 








 








 




Total


 


$


3,066,272


 


$


3,031,930


 


$


2,694,468


 




 


 








 








 








 






 




* Includes securities issued by government sponsored
 entities which are not backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S.
 Government.



17





 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Loan
 Portfolio


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 (Dollars
 in thousands)


 


2011


 


2010


 


2009


 


2008


 


2007


 





































 




Commercial:


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Commercial, financial and industrial


 


$


8,014,927


 


$


7,338,155


 


$


7,149,784


 


$


7,819,455


 


$


7,120,118


 




Commercial real estate:


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Income CRE


 


 


1,257,497


 


 


1,406,646


 


 


1,774,123


 


 


1,988,017


 


 


1,976,690


 




Residential CRE


 


 


120,913


 


 


263,878


 


 


639,826


 


 


1,288,435


 


 


2,091,676


 




 


 








 








 








 








 








 




Total Commercial


 


 


9,393,337


 


 


9,008,679


 


 


9,563,733


 


 


11,095,907


 


 


11,188,484


 




 


 








 








 








 








 








 




Retail:


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Consumer real estate


 


 


5,291,364


 


 


5,617,619


 


 


6,931,435


 


 


7,749,368


 


 


8,047,492


 




Permanent mortgage


 


 


787,597


 


 


1,086,859


 


 


1,085,668


 


 


1,126,784


 


 


510,420


 




One-time close residential construction


 


 


2,358


 


 


19,276


 


 


229,487


 


 


980,798


 


 


2,008,289


 




Credit card and other


 


 


281,693


 


 


292,649


 


 


313,561


 


 


325,333


 


 


348,831


 




Restricted real estate loans*


 


 


640,778


 


 


757,491


 


 


N/A


 


 


N/A


 


 


N/A


 




 


 








 








 








 








 








 




Total


 


$


16,397,127


 


$


16,782,573


 


$


18,123,884


 


$


21,278,190


 


$


22,103,516


 




 


 








 








 








 








 








 



* Prior to 1Q10, amount was
included in Commercial Real Estate.



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Short-Term
 Borrowings


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 (Dollars in
 thousands)


 


2011 


 


2010


 


2009


 

























 




Federal funds purchased and securities sold under
 agreements to repurchase


 


$ 


1,887,052 


 


$


2,114,908


 


$


2,874,353


 




Trading liabilities


 


 


347,285 


 


 


361,920


 


 


293,387


 




Other short-term borrowings


 


 


172,550 


 


 


180,735


 


 


761,758


 




 


 








 








 








 




Total


 


$ 


2,406,887 


 


$


2,657,563


 


$


3,929,498


 




 


 








 








 








 



Maturities of Certificates of Deposit
$100,000 and more on December 31, 2011



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 (Dollars
 in thousands)


 


0-3
Months


 


3-6
Months


 


6-12
Months


 


Over 12
Months


 


Total


 










































Certificates of deposit $100,000
 and more


 


$


144,056


 


$


91,292


 


$


225,726


 


$


147,444


 


$


608,518


 
























































Contractual
Maturities of Commercial Loans on December 31, 2011 



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 (Dollars
 in thousands)


 


Within 1 Year


 


After 1 Year 
 Within 5 Years


 


After 5 Years


 


Total


 




































Commercial,
 financial and industrial


 


$


3,635,928


 


$


3,213,897


 


$


1,165,102


 


$


8,014,927


 




Commercial real
 estate


 


 


527,233


 


$


708,057


 


 


143,120


 


$


1,378,410


 
















































Total


 


$


4,163,161


 


$


3,921,954


 


$


1,308,222


 


$


9,393,337


 
















































For maturities
 over one year:


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Interest rates - floating


 


 


 


 


$


2,894,282


 


$


612,712


 


$


3,506,994


 




Interest rates - fixed


 


 


 


 


 


1,027,672


 


 


695,510


 


 


1,723,182


 
















































Total


 


 


 


 


$


3,921,954


 


$


1,308,222


 


$


5,230,176


 















































ITEM 1A 
RISK FACTORS
          This
Item outlines specific risks that could affect the ability of our various
businesses to compete, change our risk profile, or materially impact our
financial results and condition. Our operating environment continues to evolve
and new risks continue to emerge. To address that challenge we have a risk
management governance structure that oversees processes for monitoring evolving
risks and oversees various initiatives designed to manage and control our
potential exposure. 
18

          The
following discussion highlights risks which could impact us in material ways by
causing our future results to differ materially from our past results, by
causing future results to differ materially from current expectations, or by
causing material changes in our financial condition. In this Item we have
outlined risks that we believe are important to us at the present time.
However, other risks may prove to be important in the future, and new risks may
emerge at any time. We cannot predict with certainty all potential developments
which could materially affect our financial performance or condition. 
TABLE OF ITEM 1A TOPICS



 


 


 


 


 


 


 




TOPIC


 


PAGE


 


TOPIC


 


PAGE







 





 





 







Forward-Looking
 Statements


19


 


Regulatory,
 Legislative, and Legal Risks


28




Competition
 Risks


20


 


Risks
 of Expense Control


32




Risk
 From Economic Downturns and Changes


20


 


Geographic
 Risks


33




Risks
 Associated with Monetary Events


21


 


Non-U.S.
 Operations Risks


33




Growth
 and Disposition Risks


21


 


Insurance


33




Risks
 Related to Exited Businesses


23


 


Financing,
 Funding, and Liquidity Risks


34




Legacy
 Mortgage Business Risks


23


 


Interest
 Rate and Yield Curve Risks


36




Reputation
 Risks


26


 


Securities
 Inventories and Market Risks


36




Credit
 Risks


26


 


Hedge
 Risks


37




Operational
 Risks


27


 


Accounting
 Risks


37




Service
 Risks


28


 


Risks
 of Holding our Common Stock


38



Forward-Looking Statements 
          This
report, including materials incorporated into it, may contain forward-looking
statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995 with respect to our beliefs, plans, goals, expectations, and estimates.
Forward-looking statements are statements that are not a representation of
historical information but rather are related to future operations, strategies,
financial results or other developments. The words “believe,” “expect,”
“anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate,” “should,” “is likely,” “will,” “going
forward,” and other expressions that indicate future events and trends identify
forward-looking statements. 
          Forward-looking statements are necessarily based
upon estimates and assumptions that are inherently subject to significant business, operational, economic and competitive
uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, and many of which, with respect to future business
decisions and actions (including acquisitions and divestitures), are subject to change. Examples of uncertainties and
contingencies include, among other important factors: global, general, and local economic and business conditions, including
economic recession or depression; the level and length of deterioration in the residential housing and commercial real estate
markets; potential requirements for First Horizon to repurchase previously sold or securitized mortgages or securities based
on such mortgages; potential claims relating to the foreclosure process; expectations of and actual timing and amount of
interest rate movements, including the slope of the yield curve, which can have a significant impact on a financial services
institution; market and monetary fluctuations, including fluctuations in mortgage markets; inflation or deflation; customer,
investor, regulatory, and legislative responses to any or all of these conditions; the financial condition of borrowers and
other counterparties; competition within and outside the financial services industry; geopolitical developments including
possible terrorist activity; natural disasters; effectiveness and cost-efficiency of our hedging practices; technological
changes; fraud, theft, or other incursions through conventional, electronic, or other means; demand for our product offerings; new
products and services in the industries in which we operate; and critical accounting estimates. Other factors are those
inherent in originating, selling, servicing, and holding loans and loan-based assets including prepayment risks, pricing
concessions, fluctuation in U.S. housing and other real estate prices, fluctuation of collateral values, and changes in
customer profiles. Additionally, the actions of the Securities
19

and Exchange
Commission (SEC), the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System (Federal Reserve), Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
(FINRA), Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau (Bureau), the Financial Stability Oversight Council
(Council), and other regulators; regulatory, administrative, and judicial
proceedings and changes in laws and regulations applicable to us; and our
success in executing our business plans and strategies and managing the risks
involved in the foregoing, could cause actual results to differ, perhaps
materially, from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. 
          We
assume no obligation to update or revise, whether as a result of new
information, future events, or otherwise, any forward-looking statements that
are made in this report or in any other statement, release, report, or filing
from time to time. Actual results could differ and expectations could change,
possibly materially, because of one or more factors, including those factors
listed above or presented below, in other sections of this report, or in
material incorporated by reference into this report. Readers of this report
should carefully consider the factors discussed in this Item below, among
others, in evaluating forward-looking statements and assessing our prospects. 
Competition Risks 
          We
compete with other financial services companies for customers. Our primary
areas of competition include: retail and commercial deposits and bank loans,
wealth management, personal or consumer loans including home mortgages and
lines of credit, capital markets products and services, and other consumer and
business financial products and services. Our competitors in these areas
include national, state, and non-US banks, savings and loan associations,
credit unions, consumer finance companies, trust companies, investment
counseling firms, money market and other mutual funds, insurance companies and
agencies, securities firms, mortgage banking companies, hedge funds, and other
financial services companies that serve the markets which we serve. Some
competitors are banks, subject to the same regulatory regime as we are, while
others are not banks and in many cases experience a significantly different or
reduced degree of regulation. We expect that competition will continue to grow
more intense with respect to most of our products and services. Heightened
competition tends to put downward pressure on revenues from affected items,
upward pressure on marketing and other promotional costs, or both. For
additional information regarding competition for customers, refer to the
“Competition” heading of Part I, Item 1 beginning on page 16 of this report. 
          We
compete for financial capital. See “Financing, Funding, and Liquidity Risks”
beginning on page 34 of this report for additional information concerning those
risks. 
          We
also compete to acquire and retain the human capital we need to thrive. The
primary tools we use to attract and retain talent are: salaries; commission,
incentive, and retention compensation programs; retirement benefits; change in
control severance benefits; health and other welfare benefits; and our
corporate culture. To the extent we are unable to use these tools effectively,
we face the risk that, over time, our best talent will leave us and we will be
unable to replace those persons effectively. 
Risk From Economic Downturns and Changes 
          Delinquencies
and credit losses generally increase during economic downturns due to an
increase in liquidity problems for customers and downward pressure on
collateral values. Likewise, demand for loans (at a given level of
creditworthiness), deposit and other products, and financial services may
decline during an economic downturn, and may be adversely affected by other
national, regional, or local economic factors that impact demand for loans and
other financial products and services. Such factors include, for example,
changes in interest rates, real estate prices, or expectations concerning rates
or prices. Accordingly, an 
20

economic
downturn or other adverse economic change (local, regional, national, or
global) can hurt our financial performance in the form of higher loan losses,
lower loan production levels, lower deposit levels, and lower fees from
transactions and services. 
          Since
2007, our operating results have been adversely affected by such a weakness in
the economy, especially in real estate markets and commercial lending. In 2011
we continued to experience overall credit quality improvement, but with
volatility from quarter to quarter in some portfolios and (by historical norms)
loss reserves that continued to be elevated. Although we expect those overall
and specific trends to continue into 2012, that expectation depends upon a
continued mild economic recovery, among other things, which may not occur. If
the strength of the U.S. economy in general and the strength of the local
economies in which we conduct operations in particular decline, that could result
in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality with corresponding
adverse effects on our loan portfolio and loan loss provision. 
Risks Associated with Domestic and Foreign
Monetary Events 
          In
recent years the U.S. Federal Reserve has implemented a series of domestic
monetary initiatives in response to economic conditions. Several of these have
emphasized so-called quantitative easing strategies and were known by names
such as QE1, QE2, and Operation Twist. More recently the Federal Reserve
provided dollars to the European central bank through currency swap
arrangements. Other significant monetary strategies, including a QE3, could be
implemented in the future. Such strategies can, and often are intended to,
domestically affect the money supply, inflation and interest rates, and the
shape of the yield curve. Risks associated with interest rates and the yield
curve are discussed in this Item under the caption “Interest Rate and Yield
Curve Risks” beginning on page 36 of this report. Such strategies also can
affect the U.S. and world-wide financial systems in ways that may be difficult
to predict. 
          During
2011 and continuing into 2012 the economic and political situation in Europe
has become uncertain due in part to monetary and financial stresses. Although
we have little direct exposure to Euro-denominated assets or to European debt,
in the future major adverse events in Europe could have a substantial indirect
adverse impact upon us. Key potential events which could have such an impact
include (i) sovereign debt default (default by one or more European governments
in their borrowings), (ii) European bank and/or corporate debt default, (iii)
market and other liquidity disruptions, and, if stresses become especially
severe, (iv) the collapse of the European Union as a coherent economic group
and/or the collapse of its currency, the Euro. Such events could impact us
because the U.S. financial system is linked in many ways to the European
financial system, particularly through the larger U.S. institutions and the
Federal Reserve. Also, European and American markets are substantially linked
so that, for example, a liquidity freeze-up in Europe could quickly impact
liquidity for us in U.S. markets. The methods by which such events could
adversely affect us are highly varied, but broadly include the following: an
increase in our cost of borrowed funds or, in a worst case, the unavailability
of borrowed funds through conventional markets; impacts upon our hedging and
other counterparties, especially those which have European business
relationships or hold Euro assets; impacts upon our customers, especially those
which have European business relationships or hold Euro assets; impacts upon
the U.S. economy, especially in the areas of employment rates, real estate
values, interest rates, and inflation/deflation rates; and impacts upon us from
our regulatory environment, which can change substantially and unpredictably
from possible political response to major financial disruptions.
Growth and Disposition Risks 
          Every
organization faces risks associated with growth. Our growth from 2003 to 2007
resulted primarily from a combination of: our expansion strategy in banking
based on our mortgage operations; acquisition of customers from competitors
that have merged with each other; and targeted non-bank business acquisitions.
In 2007 and 2008 we modified our strategy in response to substantial and rapid
changes in 
21

business
conditions. As a result, in 2008 we sold our national mortgage platforms,
closed our national specialty lending operations, and renewed our emphasis on
financial services in our traditional Tennessee-based markets. Since 2008, and
continuing in 2011, we have continued to sell or close units which have not
performed or which do not complement our strategy.
          Although
our current strategy is expected to evolve as business conditions continue to
change, at present our strategy’s primary components are to invest capital
and other resources in our retail/commercial banking business and in our capital
markets business. In any case growth is expected to be coordinated with a focus
on stronger and more stable returns on capital. Our growth in the past has been
primarily organic rather than through substantial acquisitions, and in recent
years we have  expanded organically into contiguous markets with characteristics similar to
our traditional ones. In the future, we may also rely on acquisitions if
appropriate opportunities, within or outside of our current markets, present
themselves. We believe that the successful execution of our strategy
depends upon a number of key elements, including:



 


 


 




 


•


our ability
 to attract and retain banking customers in our regional banking market areas;




 


•


in our
 capital markets business, our ability to maintain or strengthen our existing
 customer relationships while at the same time identifying and successfully
 executing upon opportunities to provide new or existing products and services
 to new or existing customers in the US and overseas; 




 


•


our ability
 to develop and retain profitable customer relationships while expanding or
 enhancing our existing information processing, technology, and other
 operational infrastructures effectively and efficiently; 




 


•


our ability
 to manage the liquidity and capital requirements associated with organic
 growth; and




 


•


our ability
 to manage any operational, cultural, liquidity, or capital risks associated
 with growth through purchases.



We have in
place strategies designed to achieve those elements that are significant to us
at present. Our challenge is to execute those strategies and adjust them, or
adopt new strategies, as conditions change.
          To
the extent we engage in bank or non-bank business acquisitions, we face various
risks associated with that practice, including:



 


 


 




 


•


our ability
 to identify, analyze, and correctly assess the execution, contingency, and
 other risks in the acquisition and to price the transaction appropriately; 




 


•


our ability
 to integrate the acquired company into our operations quickly and cost-effectively;




 


•


our ability
 to integrate the franchise value of the acquired company with our own; and,




 


•


our ability
 to retain core customers and key employees of the acquired company.



          At
times a company must consider exiting businesses or units that no longer fit
into management’s plans for the future. We have made several exit moves in
recent years and could make others again as we continue to adapt to a changing
business and regulatory environment. Key risks associated with exiting a
business include:



 


 


 




 


•


our ability
 to price a sale transaction appropriately and otherwise negotiate acceptable
 terms;




 


•


our ability
 to identify and implement key customer, technology systems, and other
 transition actions to avoid or minimize negative effects on retained businesses;
 




 


•


our ability
 to assess and manage any loss of synergies that the exited business had with
 our retained businesses; and




 


•


our ability
 to manage capital, liquidity, and other challenges that may arise in the
 event of an exit that results in significant cash expenditures or a financial
 loss.



22

Risks Related to Exited Businesses
          In
2008 we sold or closed our national mortgage and national specialty lending
businesses. However, we retain as assets many of the loans that those businesses
created. Most of those loans are secured by residential or other real estate
situated across the U.S. We also retain a substantial portion of the mortgage
servicing rights that we previously serviced, we continue to maintain hedge
positions that we obtain to manage certain risks related to those retained
servicing rights, and we retain the risk of liability to parties with whom we
made contracts in the course of operating those businesses. These legacy assets
and positions continue to impose risks on us. Key risks include:



 


 


 




 


•


We have
 experienced elevated losses related to claims that we did not comply with
 contractual or other legal requirements when we sold or securitized mortgage
 loans. Losses at elevated levels may continue for some time to come.
 Additional information concerning this risk appears in “Legacy Mortgage
 Business Risks” beginning on page 23 of this report.




 


•


We could be
 subject to claims that foreclosures and other servicing-related actions taken
 by us, or on our behalf, were done improperly. Additional information
 concerning this risk appears in “Legacy Mortgage Business Risks” beginning on
 page 23 of this report.




 


•


The retail
 and commercial loans on our books from our former national specialty lending
 business have experienced significantly higher default and loss rates
 compared to pre-recession years. For example, due to declining home values,
 home loans secured on a second-lien basis in a significant number of cases
 have little or no collateral value to cover the loan if it defaults.
 Accordingly, a default on such a loan today will result in a much higher loss
 severity than would have resulted shortly after the loan was originated. 




 


•


The
 incidence of counterparty loss on hedges, swaps, and other such instruments
 associated with mortgage servicing rights may rise as those counterparties
 experience financial stress or failure.



Other trends
adverse to us may emerge from these legacy assets and positions as
counterparties are stressed by economic conditions, both domestic and global,
and of course some of these impacts apply to continuing businesses. Over time
those losses and risks related to legacy items should diminish since those exited
businesses will not generate new loans and new contracts, but it is not
possible to predict when that may occur. 
Legacy Mortgage Business Risks
          Repurchase
and Similar Exposures
          Like many
other financial institutions that originated and sold significant amounts of
mortgage loans, we have experienced elevated exposure to repurchase obligations
from entities which purchased mortgages and mortgage-backed securities from us.
Prior to August 2008, we originated loans through our legacy mortgage business,
primarily first lien home loans, with the intention of selling them. A
substantial majority of such loans were sold to government-sponsored
enterprises (“GSEs”) and other purchasers without recourse as to credit
defaults by the borrowers. Two primary types of these non-recourse sales
occurred: so-called whole loan sales to GSEs and others; and sales through
securitizations. Whole loan sales were primarily to GSEs but also to other
purchasers; in those cases we contracted with the buyers directly. The
securities issued in the securitizations were backed by the loans sold and were
sold to many types of investors including GSEs and federal home loan banks; in
those cases we have contractual relationships with the trustees holding the
loans, and we provided investors with information at the time of sale in the
form of offering documents. In some cases the whole loans sold by us were
securitized by the purchaser; we contracted with our purchaser but have no
relationship with the securitization trustee or the investors. In 
23

some cases the loans or securities were insured, as mentioned below,
and in those cases we contracted with the insurers. As described below, we
retain risk of loss in connection with each of those past relationships, and
that risk varies greatly with the type of relationship.
          From 2005
through 2008, we originated and sold $69.5 billion original principal
amount of first lien mortgage loans to GSEs in whole-loan sales. Although
additional GSE whole-loan sales occurred in earlier years, a substantial
majority of GSE repurchase requests (discussed below) have come from the 2005-8
period. In addition, from 2000 through 2007, we securitized $47.0 billion
original principal amount of first lien mortgage loans. During that period we
also securitized $2.5 billion original principal amount of HELOC and
second-lien loans without recourse in proprietary transactions (“HELOC
securitizations”). 
          Whole-loan
purchasers have increased their efforts to seek to require loan sellers to
repurchase those loans or to reimburse purchasers for losses related to those
loans when losses are incurred due to actual or alleged failure to strictly
conform to the purchase contract representations or warranties. A substantial
majority of our whole loan sales were to GSEs. The representations and
warranties generally are broader for whole loans sold to the GSEs than they are
for the loans sold in proprietary securitizations. GSE representations and
warranties claims typically include claims that loans had missing or
insufficient file documentation or that loans were obtained through fraud by
borrowers or other third parties such as appraisers. As a result, we face
pressure from GSE and other whole-loan purchasers to repurchase those loans or
to make the purchaser whole, and we face expenses to administer and defend
against such claims. 
          For loans
sold in proprietary securitizations we have exposure for investment rescission
or damages arising from legal claims that the offering documents under which
the loans were securitized were materially deficient. At year-end 2011 we were
a defendant in a total of four such lawsuits, but others might be brought in
the future. There is also potential repurchase exposure and rescission risk
associated with the proprietary securitizations under the contracts with
trustees through which the securitizations were created. The repurchase process
is more difficult for securitization investors than it is for GSEs in whole
loan sales, and at year-end no such requests had been received with respect to
first-lien mortgage securitizations. At December 31, 2011, based on applicable
accounting guidance associated with litigation, we had no reserve for potential
losses associated with private first-lien mortgage securitizations.
          The HELOC
securitizations are credit enhanced, or “wrapped,” by a monoline insurance
company. Contractual representations and warranties were made to the monoline
insurers, and we have received repurchase requests from a monoline insurer
based on those contractual provisions. A monoline insurer for some of these
securitizations has become insolvent, and we are unable to estimate what, if
any, loss exposure that insolvency may create for us. Because of interests we
retained, the loans held in our HELOC securitizations generally are recognized
on our balance sheet as restricted assets. Loss content for those loans is
evaluated and recognized on our financial statements quarterly within the
Allowance for Loan Losses. As a result, if we were to repurchase securitized
HELOC loans the event likely would have little immediate impact on our income
statement. At December 31, 2011, based on the information available and
applicable accounting guidance, we had no reserve for potential losses associated
with private HELOC securitizations other than the reserve within the Allowance
for Loan Losses. 
          A
significant portion of the loans we sold to GSEs, and some of the loans in
proprietary securitizations, were required to have private mortgage insurance
(“MI”). We have received MI cancellation notices from the insurers which wrote
these policies based on claims of fraud or misrepresentations relating to the
insured loans. To date a majority of MI cancellations have involved loans sold
to GSEs. Although unresolved MI cancellation notices are not formal repurchase
requests, we include these in the active repurchase request pipeline when
analyzing and estimating loss content in relation to the loans sold to GSEs.
One MI insurer involved with loans we sold reportedly has become insolvent. We
do not expect its failure to 
24

create new exposure for us, but it will increase the amount of our loss
associated with any related repurchases.
          Our reserve
for repurchase losses is assessed quarterly. Although not all loans repurchased
are in arrears or default, as a practical matter many have been. As a result,
loss recognition for repurchased loans as a group has been much higher than for
consumer loans typically held in our portfolio. Also, although we re-evaluate
our reserves for repurchase losses each quarter, evaluations of that sort
necessarily are estimates and there remains a risk that the reserves will not
be adequate. 
          Our ability
to predict repurchase losses is adversely affected by both the absence of
significant historical precedent for repurchase requests of this scope and our
lack of visibility into current loan information for the majority of the loans
that we sold to GSEs. As a result of the sale of our national
mortgage banking business in the third quarter of 2008 and later sales of
mortgage servicing rights, we no longer
service the majority of the loans that we sold to GSEs and therefore no longer
have visibility into current loan information. Those facts increase the risk that our reserves
may not reflect our actual ultimate loss.
          While the
vast majority of claims made to date relate to whole-loan sales to GSEs, claims
have been made with respect to other purchasers and investors. The number of
repurchase requests, MI cancellation notices, or lawsuits may increase
materially over time. An increase in the volume of such claims beyond what we
are currently experiencing, or an increase in the loss rate we experience upon
resolution of these claims, could adversely affect our financial condition and
results of operations. Also, starting in 2012 we will be required to
periodically report on repurchase demands and related activities. 
          Additional
information concerning risks related to our former mortgage businesses and our
management of them, all of which is incorporated into this Item 1A by this
reference, is set forth under the captions “Repurchase Obligations, Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements, and Other
Contractual Obligations” beginning on page 54, “Repurchase and
Foreclosure Liability” beginning on page 60, and “Repurchase and Foreclosure Liability” beginning on page 69 of the Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our 2011
Annual Report to Shareholders, which is part of the material from that Report
that has been incorporated by reference into Item 7 of Part II of this report.
          Mortgage
Foreclosure Risks
          State and federal officials
and regulators have announced and commenced inquiries and investigations into the procedures followed by mortgage servicing companies
and banks in completing affidavits relating to foreclosures and into the authority of the servicer to foreclose if assignments
of legal interests in the mortgage loans have not been properly recorded. The attorneys general of all 50 states concluded a joint
investigation of foreclosure practices across the industry and proposed significant changes in servicing practices related to foreclosures
and substantial penalties. On February 9, 2012, the Justice Department announced that the federal government and attorneys general
of 49 states (the state of Oklahoma reached a separate agreement) had reached a $25 billion settlement agreement with five of the
largest servicers to address mortgage loan servicing and foreclosure abuses. We are not a party to this settlement and our subservicer
has advised us that it has not been involved in recent discussions. Press reports indicate that other subservicers may be approached
to participate in the settlement. Further, President Obama has recently established a mortgage fraud task force to investigate
mortgage related issues with its primary focus on mortgage-backed securities and press reports indicate that civil investigative
demands have been issued to a number of servicers. Additional state or federal inquiries or investigations may be commenced. We
cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these inquiries and investigations or the impact that they could have on our financial condition,
results of operations, or business.
          The
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) has issued supervisory
guidance regarding consumer foreclosure practices applicable to national banks,
including our Bank. The guidance draws upon 
25

industry regulators’ recent experience with
14 large mortgage servicing companies. The guidance requires our Bank to
conduct a self-assessment of its past and present foreclosure practices and
submit a report to the OCC regarding its outcome. The guidance also requires
our Bank to monitor its first-lien mortgage servicer and servicing vendors, to
follow certain governance practices, and to take corrective action regarding
any deficiencies or weaknesses uncovered in the assessment. Corrective action
includes remediation for customers who have experienced financial harm as a
result of such deficiencies. The ultimate financial impact to our Bank of this
assessment and remediation process is unknown.
          We
are aware that some local and state government agencies have begun to assert
claims against mortgage owners, trustees, and servicers related generally to
maintenance of foreclosed and other properties, including in some cases
properties which we own or with which we are otherwise involved. The number and
scope of such claims may increase significantly as more foreclosures are
completed across the U.S. in circumstances where, for market or other reasons,
the property is not sold immediately to an unrelated third party.
          Additional
information concerning foreclosure-related risks and our management of them,
all of which is incorporated into this Item 1A by this reference, is set forth
under the captions “Repurchase and Foreclosure Liability” beginning
on page 60,
“Foreclosure Practices” beginning on page 65, and “Repurchase and Foreclosure
Liability”
beginning on page 69 of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations section of our 2011 Annual Report to
Shareholders, which is part of the material from that Report that has been
incorporated by reference into Item 7 of Part II of this report.
Reputation Risks 
          Our
ability to conduct and grow our businesses, and to obtain and retain customers,
is highly dependent upon external perceptions of our business practices and our
financial stability. Our reputation is, therefore, a key asset for us. Our
reputation is affected principally by our own practices and how those practices
are perceived and understood by others. Adverse perceptions regarding the
practices of our competitors, or our industry as a whole, also may adversely
impact our reputation. In addition, negative perceptions relating to parties
with whom we have important relationships may adversely impact our reputation.
Senior management oversees processes for reputation risk monitoring,
assessment, and management.
          Damage
to our reputation could hinder our ability to access the capital markets or
otherwise impact our liquidity, could hamper our ability to attract new customers
and retain existing ones, could impact the market value of our stock, could
create or aggravate regulatory difficulties, and could undermine our ability to
attract and retain talented employees, among other things. Adverse impacts on
our reputation, or the reputation of our industry, may also result in greater
regulatory and/or legislative scrutiny, which may lead to laws or regulations
that change or constrain our business or operations. Events that result in
damage to our reputation also may increase our litigation risk.
Credit Risks
          We
face the risk that our customers may not repay their loans and that the
realizable value of collateral may be insufficient to avoid a charge-off. We
also face risks that other counterparties, in a wide range of situations, may
fail to honor their obligations to pay us. In our business some level of credit
charge-offs is unavoidable and overall levels of credit charge-offs can vary
over time. Since 2007 our credit charge-offs, especially related to lending, increased
to historically high levels. Although in the past two years our credit
charge-offs have retreated somewhat resulting in a substantial reduction in
provision expense in 2011, at year-end 2011 credit reserves remain elevated by
historical norms.
26

          Our
ability to manage credit risks depends primarily upon our ability to assess the
creditworthiness of loan customers and other counterparties and the value of
any collateral, including real estate. We manage lending credit risk by
attempting to diversify our loan portfolio, by managing its granularity, and by
recording and managing an allowance for loan losses based on the factors
mentioned above and in accordance with applicable accounting rules. We also
record loan charge-offs in accordance with accounting and regulatory guidelines
and rules. As indicated in this Item under the caption “Accounting Risks”
beginning on page 37 of this report, these guidelines and rules could
change and cause provision expense or charge-offs to increase, or to be recognized
on an accelerated basis, for reasons related or unrelated to the underlying
performance of our portfolio. Moreover, the SEC could take accounting positions
applicable to our holding company that may be inconsistent with those taken by
the OCC or other regulators for the Bank. We manage other counterparty credit
risk in a variety of ways, some of which are discussed in other parts of this
Item 1A and all of which have as a primary goal the avoidance having too
much risk concentrated with any one counterparty.
          A
significant challenge for us is to keep the credit and other models and
approaches we use to originate and manage loans updated to take into account
changes in the competitive environment, in real estate prices and other
collateral values, and in the economy, among other things, based on our
experience originating loans and servicing loan portfolios. In recent years we
have changed our models and approaches based on changes in circumstances, and
we will continue to do so as conditions change. At times those changes have had
significant impacts upon our reported financial results and condition. In
addition, we use those models and approaches to manage our loan portfolios and
lending businesses. To the extent our models and approaches are not consistent
with underlying real-world conditions, our management decisions could be
misguided or otherwise adversely affected with substantial adverse consequences
to us. Additional information concerning credit risks and our management of
them is set forth under the captions “Credit Risk Management” beginning on page
48 and “Allowance for Loan Losses” beginning on page 67 of the Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
section of our 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is part of the
material from that Report that has been incorporated by reference into Item 7
of Part II of this report.
Operational Risks
          Our
ability to conduct and grow our businesses is dependent in part upon our
ability to create and maintain an appropriate operational and organizational
infrastructure, manage expenses, and recruit and retain personnel with the
ability to manage a complex business. Operational risk can arise in many ways,
including: errors related to failed or inadequate physical, operational,
information technology, or other processes; faulty or disabled computer or
other technology systems; fraud, theft, physical security breaches, electronic
data and related security breaches, or other criminal conduct by employees or
third parties; and exposure to other external events. Inadequacies may present
themselves in a myriad of ways, and actions taken to manage one risk may be
ineffective against others. For example, information technology systems may be
insufficiently redundant to withstand a fire, incursion, or other major
casualty, and they may be insufficiently adaptable to new business conditions
or opportunities. Efforts to make such systems more robust may also make them
less adaptable, and vice-versa.
          One
of the foregoing risks that has become particularly important to financial
institutions involves electronic systems security. A serious electronic
security breach can cause significant damage and at the same time be difficult
to detect even after it occurs. Among other things, that damage can occur due
to outright theft of funds, fraud or identity theft perpetrated on customers,
or adverse publicity associated with the breach and its potential effects.
Perpetrators potentially can be employees, customers, and certain vendors, all
of whom legitimately have access to some portion of our systems, as well as
outsiders with no legitimate access. Because of the potentially very serious
consequences associated with these risks, our 
27

electronic
systems and their upgrades address internal and external security concerns to a
higher degree than might be true of many companies in other industries, and our
systems have to comply with applicable banking and other regulations pertaining
to bank safety and customer protection. Although many of our defenses are
systemic and highly technical, others are much older and more basic. In
particular, periodically we train all our employees to recognize red flags
associated with fraud, theft, and other electronic crimes, and we “train” our
customers as well through regular and episodic security-oriented
communications. We expect our systems and the regulatory requirements to
continue to evolve as technology and criminal techniques also continue to
evolve.
          In
addition, we outsource some of our operational functions to third parties.
Those third parties may experience similar errors or disruptions that could
adversely impact us and over which we may have limited control and, in some
cases, limited ability to quickly obtain an alternate vendor. To the extent we
increase our reliance on third party vendors to perform or assist operational
functions, the challenge of managing the associated risks becomes more
difficult. 
          For
example, in 2008 we sold our national mortgage origination and servicing
platforms. We retained significant servicing right assets, however, and we
continue to originate mortgage products in our regional banking markets in and
around Tennessee. Of practical necessity, we have outsourced our servicing
functions, and we have outsourced many key roles in the Tennessee-based
mortgage origination process to a third party. In 2011 we transferred our
servicing relationship from the 2008 purchaser of our platform to a new vendor.
The complexity and significant cost of that change illustrate the risks and
costs associated with any change in those vendors which provide detailed and
substantial services to us. Managing the operational, compliance, reputational,
liability, and other risks associated with this level of outsourcing in those
business areas is an ongoing challenge for us.
          Failure
to build and maintain the necessary operational infrastructure, failure of that
infrastructure to perform its functions, or failure of our disaster preparedness
plans if primary infrastructure components suffer damage, can lead to risk of
loss of service to customers, legal actions, and noncompliance with applicable
laws or regulatory standards. Operational risk is specifically managed through
internal monitoring, measurement, and assessment by line management and
oversight of processes by top management, and by maintaining systems to adhere
to regulatory guidance. Additional information concerning operational risks and
our management of them appears under the caption “Operational Risk Management”
beginning on page 48 of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our 2011 Annual Report to
Shareholders, which is part of the material from that Report that has been
incorporated by reference into Item 7 of Part II of this report.
Service Risks
          We
engage in a wide range of activities in which we provide services to customers.
These activities create risk of claims against us that the services were provided
in a manner that harmed the customer or a third party, or were contrary to
applicable laws or rules. These activities include fiduciary, custodial,
depositary, funds management, and advisory services, among others. We manage
these risks primarily through training programs, compliance programs, and
supervision processes.
Regulatory, Legislative, and Legal Risks 
          We
operate in a heavily regulated industry. The regulatory environment has been
changing more rapidly in recent years, and the regulatory burdens generally
have been increasing, as a result of recent events affecting traditional
banking, mortgage banking, and financial markets generally. Heightened levels
of regulatory change are likely to continue for at least the next several years.

28

          We
are subject to many banking, deposit, insurance, securities brokerage and
underwriting, and consumer lending regulations in addition to the rules
applicable to all companies publicly traded in the U.S. securities markets and,
in particular, on the New York Stock Exchange. Failure to comply with
applicable regulations could result in financial, structural, and operational
penalties. In addition, efforts to comply with applicable regulations may
increase our costs and/or limit our ability to pursue certain business
opportunities. See “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1 of this report,
beginning on page 5, for additional information concerning financial industry
regulations. Federal and state regulations significantly limit the types of
activities in which we, as a financial institution, may engage. In addition, we
are subject to a wide array of other regulations that govern other aspects of
how we conduct our business, such as in the areas of employment and
intellectual property. Federal and state legislative and regulatory authorities
increasingly consider changing these regulations or adopting new ones. Such
actions could further limit the amount of interest or fees we can charge, could
further restrict our ability to collect loans or realize on collateral, could
affect the terms or profitability of the products and services we offer, or
could materially affect us in other ways. Additional federal and state consumer
protection regulations also could expand the privacy protections afforded to
customers of financial institutions, restricting our ability to share or
receive customer information and increasing our costs. 
          The
following paragraphs highlight certain specific important risk areas related to
legal matters currently. These paragraphs do not describe these risks
exhaustively, and they do not describe all legal risks that we face currently.
Moreover, the importance of specific risks will grow or diminish as
circumstances change.
          Regulatory and Other Pressures Related to Operating
Results
          The
Bank is required to maintain certain regulatory capital levels and ratios, as
discussed under the caption “Capital Adequacy” beginning on page 8 of this
report. If the Bank’s financial losses from recent years past were to resume,
or if the regulatory requirements were to increase, then at some point the
Bank’s ability to meet those requirements could be adversely affected. Those
effects would be made worse if the regulatory requirements become more
stringent, as is expected.
          Pressure
to maintain appropriate capital levels and address business needs in a weak
economy may lead to actions that could be dilutive or otherwise adverse to our
shareholders, at least in the short term. Such actions that have occurred in
the past three years include the elimination of our common cash dividend (which
was reinstated at one cent per share in January 2011), two sales of our common
stock and the issuance of a common stock warrant, and a contraction of our
balance sheet (involving sales or other dispositions of assets or businesses)
at times when market values were depressed. Further such actions could occur.
          Recent Legislation: Dodd-Frank Act
          The
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (“DF Act”)
was enacted on July 21, 2010. The DF Act made a substantial number of
significant changes to how financial services companies are regulated.
Additional information concerning the DF Act is provided in the section
captioned “Dodd-Frank Act” beginning on page 13 of this report, which section
is incorporated by reference into this Item 1A. 
          Many
of the most sweeping changes in the DF Act are not complete or specific but
instead authorize potentially expansive new regulations to be issued in the
future. At this time it is not known how the DF Act and the regulations that
eventually will be adopted under it will affect the financial services industry
in general or our company in particular, and it could be several years before
all the impacts are known. Although it is not possible to summarize in any
detail the effects of this legislation, one likely overall impact
29

upon us will be to increase our regulatory
compliance and certain other costs significantly. In addition, it is possible
that our operations and associated revenues will be constrained in some
respects, perhaps significantly in some areas. Areas covered by the DF Act
which presently appear likely to present the greatest risks to us are mentioned
below:



 


 


 




 


•


Due to the
 scope of the new regulations authorized, it is likely that our compliance
 costs will rise appreciably over the next several years, and a substantial
 portion of that increase likely will be permanent. 




 


 


 




 


•


Final regulations under the DF Act’s so-called Durbin
 Amendment were issued in 2011. Effective October 1, they severely capped the
 interchange fees which banks are able to charge merchants for debit card
 transactions. The cap represents a substantial reduction compared to the
 rates that prevailed in the market previously.




 


 


 




 


•


A new
 regulatory agency has been created: the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
 or “Bureau.” The Bureau has substantial authority over our consumer finance
 products and services, and therefore is likely to have a substantial impact
 on our retail financial services businesses. Although presently unknown, the
 Bureau’s rules could conflict with, and possibly override, our Bank’s primary
 regulator in consumer matters. Since the Bureau’s mission is not focused upon
 the safety and soundness of our Bank, conflicts of that sort could be
 significantly adverse to us. The Bureau’s rule-making authority is extensive,
 including such things as setting terms and conditions on consumer products
 and services and defining deceptive practices. The Bureau’s rules could substantially
 reduce revenues, increase costs and risks, and otherwise make our consumer
 products and services less profitable or unprofitable. In early 2012 the
 Bureau began issuing proposed rules; however, the manner in which the
 Bureau’s chief was appointed has called the legal status of those rules into
 question so that there remains substantial uncertainty regarding how the
 Bureau ultimately will impact us.




 


 


 




 


•


The DF Act’s
 new municipal advisor registration regime could adversely affect our capital
 markets and other activities with municipal customers.




 


 


 




 


•


The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System,
 among other agencies, in 2011 issued a proposal to implement the DF
 Act’s so-called Volcker provisions. The proposal would prohibit financial
 services companies from engaging in proprietary trading activities and from
 investing in and sponsoring hedge funds and private equity funds. Key
 definitions under the proposal are broad so that the proposal would regulate
 a wide range of activities. The proposal is far reaching and likely to impact
 the business operations of many if not most U.S. financial companies.
 Although at this time the impacts upon us remain highly uncertain, it is
 possible that the rule, when final, will require us to divest assets or
 curtail or close business operations. Such actions could have material
 adverse financial consequences as a result of immediate impacts such as
 losses realized on sale or closure, and ongoing impacts such as diminished
 sources of revenues and earnings.




 


 


 




 


•


The DF Act is
 likely to substantially increase our deposit insurance costs. The assessment
 rate is expected to increase, at least temporarily, and the base upon which
 the assessment is made has been expanded from insured deposits to include all
 consolidated assets less tangible capital.




 


 


 




 


•


The DF Act’s
 new requirements on mortgage lenders and securitizers could adversely impact
 our ability to conduct mortgage lending activities, and similarly could
 impact mortgage-lending banks which are customers of ours. 




 


 


 




 


•


Regulators,
 including the Federal Reserve, the OCC, and the FDIC, have been given
 expansive authority to regulate compensation and many other matters
 throughout our company in connection with enhanced risk regulation functions.
 If new regulations in this area are severe, they could adversely impact our
 ability to attract or retain key employees and could make some business
 activities impractical for banks and bank holding companies.



30





 


 


 




 


•


The DF Act has
 excluded certain items, including trust preferred securities, from Tier 1
 capital of financial institutions having assets of $15 billion or more. A
 direct effect of this exclusion will be to remove $200 million of currently
 outstanding securities from our Tier 1 capital after a phase-out period has
 passed. 




 


 


 




 


•


The DF Act requires the financial regulators to adopt
 new capital and liquidity standards for institutions having more than $50
 billion of assets, which would not include us. The OCC, among other agencies,
 has proposed stress-testing guidance that would be applicable to us. These
 changes are expected to be final in 2012. Although the guidance is not
 intended to implement capital and liquidity requirement changes under the DF
 Act, it is likely to be coordinated with that effort. Increases in capital
 and liquidity requirements could increase dilution of common shareholders by
 requiring stock to be issued and remain outstanding, and could constrain
 revenues by restricting the amount of capital which can be loaned to
 customers or put to other highly productive uses.




 


 


 




 


•


In 2011 the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
 adopted final rules implementing a whistleblower bounty provision of the DF
 Act. Although it is unknown how this rule will impact us in the future,
 eventually it is likely to increase our costs of dealing with certain types
 of employment disputes and it could weaken the effectiveness of our
 compliance and ethics “hotline” and other internal reporting processes.




 


 


 




 


•


New regulations under the DF Act governing derivatives
 could adversely affect certain activities of our capital markets business.




 


 


 




 


•


There is a
 risk that the burden of many of the increased compliance costs could be
 uneven over the industry in terms of the impact to each institution’s
 efficiency ratio (the ratio of costs to revenues), leaving some institutions
 disadvantaged relative to others. Uneven outcomes could arise because: larger
 institutions may be able to bear some of the new costs more efficiently due
 to economies of scale; some new burdens do not apply to smaller institutions
 at all or are intended to impact community banks much less than regional,
 national, or international banks; and, there is a risk of unintended impacts.
 Uneven impact may be inevitable because in most cases each new burden will
 apply only to a narrow range of activities, institutions have differing mixes
 of business activities, and the various burdens will be unequal from one
 activity to the next.



          Recent Legislation: Healthcare
          In
2010 a sweeping healthcare reform law was enacted. Many of the most significant
provisions of this legislation depend upon substantial, and as yet unknown,
regulations and other rules, and the application of many provisions are to be
phased in over several years, with significant provisions taking effect in
2013. Also, the legal validity of the law has been challenged in federal court
and the U.S. Supreme Court is expected to decide those questions in the summer
of 2012. Accordingly, the overall impact of the law upon us will not be known
for some time. However, assuming the law is upheld, at this time it appears
likely that the new law will increase our costs and there is a significant risk
that the increases over time will be substantial.
          Federal and
State Regulatory Jurisdiction
          For
many years the OCC took the position that it was the exclusive regulator of
various aspects of national banks or their operating subsidiaries. This
position allowed national banks to operate under one set of rules in many
important respects. In the past three years that position has been impacted by
two events. In its 2009 decision known as Cuomo
v. Clearing House Association L.L.C., the U.S. Supreme Court determined that the OCC does not
have the exclusive ability to enforce certain state and local laws applicable
to certain business activities of national banks which are not pre-empted by
federal law. Cuomo holds that the
National Bank Act allows states to enforce non-pre-empted laws through judicial
proceedings against 
31

national banks. In 2010 the DF Act codified the Cuomo
holding and created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which has certain
regulatory powers over national banks in consumer matters. In 2011, acting
under the DF Act, the OCC conformed its pre-emption rule to Cuomo
and the requirements of the DF Act regarding visitorial powers and pre-emption
standards.
          In
general, a weakening of federal pre-emption tends to increase our compliance
and operational costs and risks, and can increase them substantially. Most states
and some communities have in place various laws pertaining to lending and other
business activities conducted by banks, some of which may not be pre-empted by
federal law. Dealing with potential state and local enforcement activity
relating to non-pre-empted laws would, at a minimum, increase the compliance
costs for national banks that have multi-state operations or a multi-state
customer base.
          Litigation
Risks
          We
face litigation risks from customers, employees, vendors, contractual parties,
and other persons, either singly or in class actions, and from federal or state
regulators. We manage those risks through internal controls, personnel
training, insurance, litigation management, our compliance and ethics
processes, and other means. However, the commencement, outcome, and magnitude
of litigation cannot be predicted or controlled with certainty.
          Since
2008 the risks of certain types of litigation have increased. For us, the most
notable of those types are (i) lender liability claims, (ii) claims involving
other types of distressed counterparties, including investors in mortgage
securities sold prior to 2008, (iii) claims based on declines in our stock
price, and (iv) a new type of lender tort claim. The risk from the first two
types has increased primarily because borrowers and other contractual
counterparties have experienced financial stress, in many cases resulting in an
attempt to obtain funds or relief from a solvent party (us). We expect that
this heightened risk level will not abate until after economic conditions,
including residential real estate values, substantially improve. The elevated
risk associated with type (iii) largely is a result of our volatile stock price
performance, and eventually should fall back to ordinary levels if volatility
in our stock price moderates.
          Regarding
type (iv), some local governments or agencies have claimed that certain lenders
in their communities have created a public nuisance, engaged in predatory or
discriminatory lending, or otherwise are liable for the alleged consequences of
inappropriate consumer lending, especially home mortgage lending. Lender tort
claims of this sort, where alleged damages are measured on a statistical and/or
city-wide basis, create litigation costs immediately and create a risk of
significant litigation losses for those lenders which are named as defendants
in them. Moreover, claims of this sort adversely alter the business climate and
raise the costs and risks for all lenders, both in the communities involved and
in similar communities across the country.
Risks of Expense Control 
          Expenses
and other costs directly affect our earnings. Our ability to successfully
manage expenses is important to our long-term survival and prosperity. Many
factors can influence the amount of our expenses, as well as how quickly they
grow. As our businesses change, either by expansion or contraction, additional
expenses can arise from asset purchases, structural reorganization, evolving
business strategies, and changing regulations, among other things. We manage
expense growth and risk through a variety of means, including selectively
outsourcing or multi-sourcing various functions and procurement coordination
and processes, and through an expense management committee.
32

Geographic Risks
          Our
capital markets business is national in scope, and our capital markets division
has a business presence in selected Asian markets. Also, we continue to
hold substantial assets across the U.S. originated under our now-discontinued
national lending businesses. However, our traditional banking business remains
grounded in, and depends upon, the major Tennessee markets. As a result,
although some of our business operations and assets are exposed to
geographically broad risks, to a significant degree our banking business is
exposed to economic, regulatory, natural disaster, and other risks that
primarily impact Tennessee and neighboring states where we do our traditional
banking business. In other words, if the Tennessee region experiences adversity
not shared by other parts of the country, we are likely to experience adversity
to a degree not shared by those competitors which have a broader footprint.
Non-U.S. Operations Risks
          We
have two capital markets offices outside of the United States, in Hong Kong and
Tokyo. Opening and operating non-U.S. offices creates a number of risks.
Specific risks associated with any non-U.S. presence include: the risk that
taxes, licenses, fees, prohibitions, and other barriers and constraints may be
created or increased by the U.S. or other countries that would impact our
ability to operate overseas profitably or at all; the risk that our assets and
operations in a particular country could be nationalized in whole or part without
adequate compensation; the risk that currency exchange rates could move
unfavorably so as to diminish or destroy the U.S. dollar value of assets, or to
enlarge the U.S. dollar value of liabilities, denominated in those currencies;
the risk that legal recourse against foreign counterparties may be limited in
unexpected ways; risks and costs associated with U.S. banking and other
regulation of non-U.S. business activities; and the risk that political or
cultural preferences in a particular host country might become antagonistic to
U.S. companies. Our ability to manage those and other risks will depend upon a
number of factors, including: our ability to recognize and anticipate
differences in cultural and other expectations applicable to customers, employees,
regulators, vendors, and other business partners and counterparties; our
ability to recognize and act upon opportunities and constraints peculiar to the
countries and cultures in which our offices operate; our ability to recognize
and manage any exchange rate risks to which we are exposed; and our ability to
anticipate the stability of or changes in the political, legal, and monetary
systems of the countries in which our offices operate. 
Insurance
          We use
insurance to manage a number of risks, including damage or destruction of
property, legal and other liability, and certain types of credit risks. Not all
such risks are insured, in any given insured situation our insurance may be
inadequate to cover all loss, and many risks we face are uninsurable. For those
risks that are insured, we also face the risks that the insurer may default on
its obligations or that the insurer may refuse to honor them. We treat the
former risk as a type of credit risk, which we manage by reviewing the insurers
that we use and by striving to use more than one insurer when
practical. The risk of refusal, whether due to honest disagreement or bad
faith, is inherent in any contractual situation.
          A
portion of our retail loan portfolio involves mortgage default insurance. If a
default insurer were to experience a significant credit downgrade or were to
become insolvent, that could adversely affect the carrying value of loans
insured by that company, which could result in an immediate increase in our
loan loss provision or write-down of the carrying value of those loans on our
balance sheet and, in either case, a corresponding impact on our financial
results. In recent years events of this sort have happened. If many default
insurers were to experience downgrades or insolvency at the same time, the risk
of a financial impact would be amplified and the disruption to the default
insurance industry could curtail our ability to originate new loans that need
such insurance, which could result in a loss of business for us.
33

          In
addition, we own certain bank-owned life insurance policies as assets on our
books. Some of those policies are “general account” and others are “separate
account.” The general account policies are subject to the risk that the carrier
might experience a significant downgrade or become insolvent. The separate
account policies are less susceptible to carrier risk, but do carry the risk of
value fluctuations in securities which underlie those policies. Both risks are
managed through periodic reviews of the carriers and the underlying security
values. However, particularly for the general account policies, our ability to
liquidate a policy in anticipation of an adverse carrier event is significantly
limited by applicable insurance contracts and regulations as well as by a
substantial tax penalty which could be levied upon early policy termination.
Financing, Funding, and Liquidity Risks
          Management
of liquidity and related risks is a key function for our business. Additional
information concerning liquidity risk management is set forth under the caption
“Liquidity Management” beginning on page 51 of the Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our 2011
Annual Report to Shareholders, which is part of the material from that Report
that has been incorporated by reference into Item 7 of Part II of this report.
          In
general, the costs of our funding directly impact our costs of doing business
and, therefore, can positively or negatively affect our financial results. Our
funding requirements in 2011 were met principally by deposits and by financing
from other financial institutions. Historically we also depended upon financing
from private institutional investors by means of the capital markets. In 2008
and 2009 we were not able to utilize the private markets economically, but late
in 2010 we issued and sold $500 million of senior notes in an underwritten
offering which remain outstanding at year-end 2011. The recent past illustrates,
however, the risk that capital markets may become unavailable for reasons
beyond our control. Deposits traditionally have provided our most affordable
funds, and in 2010 and 2011 our deposits trended upward despite the
low-interest-rate environment. However, deposit trends can shift with economic
conditions; if the economy improves, deposit levels in our Bank might fall as
depositors become more comfortable with risk and seek higher returns in other
vehicles. 
          A
number of more general factors could make such funding more difficult, more
expensive, or unavailable on affordable terms, including, but not limited to,
our financial results, organizational or political changes, adverse impacts on
our reputation, changes in the activities of our business partners, disruptions
in the capital markets, specific events that adversely impact the financial
services industry, counterparty availability, changes affecting our loan
portfolio or other assets, changes affecting our corporate and regulatory
structure, interest rate fluctuations, ratings agency actions, general economic
conditions, and the legal, regulatory, accounting, and tax environments
governing our funding transactions. In addition, our ability to raise funds is
strongly affected by the general state of the U.S. and world economies and
financial markets as well as the policies and capabilities of the U.S.
government and its agencies, and may become or remain increasingly difficult
due to economic and other factors beyond our control. 
          Events
affecting interest rates, markets, and other factors  may
adversely affect the demand for our services in our capital markets business.
As a result, disruptions in those areas may adversely impact our earnings in
that business unit as well. For instance, market
disruptions in 2007
significantly reduced the demand for certain of our capital markets products
and services.
          Rating
agencies assign credit ratings to issuers and their debt. In that role,
agencies directly affect the availability and cost of our funding. The
Corporation and the Bank currently receive ratings from several rating entities
for unsecured borrowings. A rating below investment grade typically reduces
availability and 
34

increases the cost of market-based funding. A debt rating of Baa3
or higher by Moody’s Investors Service, or BBB- or higher by Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, is considered investment grade for many purposes. At
December 31, 2011, all three rating agencies rated the unsecured senior debt of
the Corporation and the Bank as investment grade, although we were at or near
the lowest levels of that grade. To the extent that in the future we depend on
institutional borrowing and the capital markets for funding and capital, we
could experience reduced liquidity and increased cost of funding if our debt
ratings were lowered further, particularly if lowered below investment grade.
In addition, other actions by ratings agencies can create uncertainty about our
ratings in the future and thus can adversely affect the cost and availability
of funding, including placing us on negative outlook or on watchlist. Please
note that a credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold
securities, is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time, and should be
evaluated independently of any other rating.
          In
addition to the direct liquidity risks noted above, reductions in our credit
ratings could allow counterparties to terminate and immediately force us to
settle certain derivatives agreements, and could force us to provide additional
collateral with respect to certain derivatives agreements. Additional
information concerning those matters is provided under the caption “Derivative
Instruments” within Note 25 to our financial statements, beginning on page 176
of our 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is part of the material from
that Report that has been incorporated by reference into Item 15 of Part IV of
this report.
          Certain
regulatory laws or rules establish minimum capital levels or define
risk-weighting for capital, regulate deposit insurance, and govern related
funding matters for banks. Those laws or rules could be changed in a manner
that could increase our overall cost of capital and thus reduce our earnings.
Significant changes are expected in the next year or two, as mentioned in the
next two paragraphs.
          International
banking industry regulators have largely agreed upon significant changes in the
regulation of capital required to be held by banks and their holding companies
to support their businesses. The new international rules, known as “Basel III”,
generally increase the capital required to be held, narrow the types of
instruments which will qualify as providing appropriate capital, and tighten
liquidity requirements. The Basel III requirements are complex and will be
phased in over many years. 
          The
Basel III rules do not apply to U.S. banks or holding companies automatically.
Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act of 2010 (“DF Act”) requires U.S. regulators to reform the system under
which the safety and soundness of banks and other financial institutions,
individually and systemically, are regulated. That reform effort will include
the regulation of capital. It is not known to what extent the U.S.
regulators will incorporate elements of Basel III into the reformed U.S.
regulatory system, but for 2012 it is expected that the U.S. reforms will
include an increase in capital requirements and a narrowing of what qualifies
as appropriate capital. Although such reforms are likely to impact the very
largest institutions more substantially, we could be impacted as well. 
          One
likely effect of a significant tightening of our capital requirements would be
to increase our cost of capital, among other things. Any permanent significant
increase in our cost of capital could have significant adverse impacts on the
profitability of many of our products, the types of products we could offer
profitably, our overall profitability, and our overall growth opportunities,
among other things. Although most financial institutions would be affected,
these business impacts could be felt unevenly, depending upon the business and
product mix of each institution. Other potential effects could include less
ability to pay cash dividends and repurchase our common shares, higher dilution
of common shareholders, and a higher risk that we might fall below regulatory
capital thresholds in an adverse economic cycle.
35

Interest Rate and Yield Curve Risks
          A
significant portion of our business involves borrowing and lending money.
Accordingly, changes in interest rates directly impact our revenues and
expenses, and potentially could expand or compress our net interest margin. We
actively manage our balance sheet to control the risks of a reduction in net
interest margin brought about by ordinary fluctuations in rates. Additional
information concerning those risks and our management of them appears under the
caption “Interest Rate Risk Management” beginning on page 49 of the
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 section of our 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is part of
the material from that Report that has been incorporated by reference into Item
7 of Part II of this report, and under the caption “Interest Rate Risk Management” within Note 25 to our financial statements, beginning on page 179 of our 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is part of the material from the Report that has been incorporated by reference into Item 15 of Part IV of this report.
          Our
mortgage servicing rights (MSR) portfolio is affected by changes in interest
rates. Although we sold our mortgage servicing platform in 2008, at present we
still retain substantial MSR assets. The value of MSR assets declines when the
underlying loans are refinanced, otherwise paid early, or charged off.
Generally, when interest rates increase, the value of MSR generally increases,
and when rates decline the value of MSR tends to decline. However, those
general tendencies do not result in concrete outcomes in all circumstances; for
example, a decrease in interest rates does not always result in a predictable
increase in refinancings because other factors may blunt loan demand or curtail
credit availability. Additional information concerning those risks and our
management of them appears under the caption “Mortgage Servicing Rights
and Other Retained Interests” beginning on page 67 of the Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
section of our 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is part of the
material from that Report that has been incorporated by reference into Item 7
of Part II of this report.
          We
face the risks associated with movements in the yield curve. The yield curve
simply shows the interest rates applicable to short and long term debt. The
curve is steep when short-term rates are much lower than long-term rates; it is
flat when short-term rates are nearly equal to long-term rates; and it is
inverted when short-term rates exceed long-term rates. Historically, the yield
curve normally is positively sloped. However, the yield curve can be
relatively flat or inverted for short or even protracted periods. A flat or
inverted yield curve tends to decrease net interest margin, which would
adversely impact our lending businesses, and it tends to reduce demand for
long-term debt securities, which would adversely impact the revenues of our
capital markets business. A prolonged inversion of the yield curve historically
is so uncommon that it is difficult to predict all the effects that such a
market condition is reasonably likely to create.
          Expectations
by the market regarding the direction of future interest rate movements,
particularly long-term rates, can impact the demand for long-term debt which in
turn can impact the revenues of our capital markets business. That risk is most
apparent during times when strong expectations have not yet been reflected in
market rates, or when expectations are especially weak or uncertain.
Securities Inventories and Market Risks
          Our
capital markets business buys and sells various types of securities for its
institutional customers. In the course of that business we hold inventory
positions and are exposed to certain risks of market fluctuations. In addition,
we are exposed to credit risk and interest rate risk associated with debt
securities. We manage the risks of holding inventories of securities through
certain policies and procedures, including hedging activities related to
certain interest rate risks. Additional information concerning those risks and
our management of them appears under the caption “Market Risk Management”
beginning on page 47 of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our 2011 Annual Report to
Shareholders, which is part of the material from that Report that has been 
36

incorporated by reference into Item 7 of Part II of this report,
and in the “Credit Risks” discussion beginning on page 26 of this report.
          In
addition, we earn fees and other income related to our brokerage business and
our management of assets for customers. Declines, disruptions, or precipitous
changes in markets or market prices can adversely affect those revenue sources.
          We
have exposure to risks related to securities markets in other respects as well.
We have a number of assets and obligations that are linked, directly or
indirectly, to major securities markets. Significant changes in market
performance can have a material impact upon our assets, liabilities, and
financial results. 
          A
major example of that linkage is our obligation to fund our pension plan so
that it may satisfy benefit claims in the future. Our pension funding
obligations generally depend upon actuarial estimates of benefits claims and
actuarial estimates of future plan asset values. To a substantial extent the
pension plan invests its assets in marketable securities. Our obligations to
fund the plan can diminish substantially if the plan’s investments perform
well, and can grow substantially if those investments perform poorly. Changes
in those obligations generally translate into positive or negative changes in
our pension expense, which in turn affects our financial performance. Although
our obligations and expenses relative to the plan can be affected by many other
things, including changes in our participating employee population and changes
to the plan itself, declines in market performance in recent years have tended
to increase our obligations to fund the pension plan, and that tendency is
likely to continue to be felt over the next several years. We announced in 2009
that we will implement a freeze of new benefits after 2012, and we changed the
asset allocation investment strategy; although we expect these changes
to moderate future volatility in this area, risk of some level of
volatility is unavoidable. That risk of volatility would be amplified if
certain actuarial assumptions change adversely, especially the discount rate
used to estimate the adequacy of assets to cover projected benefits, or if the
accounting rules regarding pension liability estimates change adversely.
Hedge Risks
          In the
normal course of our businesses, including (among others) banking, capital
markets, and legacy mortgage servicing, we attempt to create partial or full
economic hedges of various, though not all, financial risks. Our hedging
activities are discussed in more detail in various places under the following
captions of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 section of our 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders,
which is part of the material from that Report that has been incorporated by
reference into Item 7 of Part II of this report: “Risk Management,” beginning
on page 46; and, “Critical Accounting Policies,” beginning on page 66. Hedging
creates certain risks for us, including the risk that the other party to the
hedge transaction will fail to perform (counterparty risk, which is a type of
credit risk), and the risk that the hedge will not fully protect us from loss
as intended (hedge failure risk). Unexpected counterparty failure or hedge
failure could have a significant adverse effect on our liquidity and earnings.
Accounting Risks
          Uncertainties
in Estimates
          The
preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make significant
estimates that affect the financial statements. Three of our most critical
estimates are: the level of the allowance for credit losses; the level of
repurchase, make-whole, and foreclosure reserves; and the valuation of mortgage
servicing rights. However, other estimates occasionally become highly
significant, especially in volatile situations such as litigation and other
loss contingency matters. Estimates are made at specific points in time; as
actual events unfold, estimates are 
37

adjusted accordingly. Due to the inherent nature of these
estimates, it is possible that, at some time in the future, we may
significantly increase the allowance for credit losses and/or sustain credit
losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance, or we may
recognize a significant provision for impairment of our goodwill or other
assets, or we may recognize a significant decline in the fair value of our
mortgage servicing rights, or we may make some other adjustment that will
differ materially from the estimates that we make today. For additional
information concerning the sensitivity of these estimates, refer to “Critical
Accounting Policies” beginning on page 66 of the Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our 2011
Annual Report to Shareholders.
          Changes to
Rules and Practices
          In
addition, accounting rules and practices change over time. Changes in
accounting rules can significantly affect how we record and report assets,
liabilities, revenues, expenses, and earnings. Although such changes generally
affect all companies in a given industry, in practice changes sometimes have a
disparate impact due to differences in the circumstances or business operations
of companies within the same industry. For example, in late 2011 U.S. and
international accounting standards boards reached an accord which would
substantially change how we recognize loss associated with loans. The new
standards, which are not in final form and may not become effective for several
years, are intended to accelerate recognition of loan loss. Final adoption of
these new standards could adversely affect our provision for loan loss expense,
at least initially, and could make certain loan products less attractive. 
Risks of Holding our Common Stock 
          Holding
Company Dividends
          Historically
the Corporation has depended upon common dividends from the Bank for cash to
fund common dividends paid to the Corporation’s shareholders. However, because Bank dividends to the Corporation exceeded the Bank's net income over the two year period of 2010-2011, regulatory
constraints may prevent the Bank from declaring and paying dividends
to the Corporation in 2012 without regulatory approval. Also, we are required to provide financial support to the
Bank. Additional information concerning those regulatory restrictions on
the Bank is discussed in more detail under the heading “Liquidity Management”
in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section beginning on page 51 of our
2011 Annual Report to Shareholders, which section is incorporated herein by
reference. 
          Furthermore, the Federal Reserve and the OCC have issued
policy statements generally requiring insured banks and bank holding companies
only to pay dividends out of current operating earnings. The Federal Reserve
has released a supervisory letter advising bank holding companies, among other
things, that as a general matter a bank holding company should inform the
Federal Reserve and should eliminate, defer or significantly reduce its
dividends if (i) the bank holding company’s net income available to
shareholders for the past four quarters, net of dividends previously paid
during that period, is not sufficient to fully fund the dividends;
(ii) the bank holding company’s prospective rate of earnings is not
consistent with the bank holding company’s capital needs and overall current
and prospective financial condition; or (iii) the bank holding company
will not meet, or is in danger of not meeting, its minimum regulatory capital
adequacy ratios. As mentioned above, at present the capital requirements
applicable to us are expected to change and it is not clear what those changes
will entail.
          In
2008 the Corporation discontinued paying a quarterly cash dividend to its common
stockholders and began distributing a dividend payable in shares of common
stock. In 2010 the Corporation returned to profitability, but preferred stock
dividends to the Treasury in connection with the TARP program significantly
exceeded those earnings. In January 2011 the Corporation, having exited the
TARP program, resumed a cash dividend at the rate of one cent per share,
substantially lower than the rate prior to 2008. For 
38

the reasons mentioned above, our dividend rate may remain muted
until our earnings are stronger and it becomes clearer how the capital
requirements applicable to us will change.
          Dilution Potential
          We may decide to raise additional funds through public or
private debt or equity financings to fund our operations, to increase our
capital, or to expand. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities or
instruments that are convertible into equity securities, the percentage
ownership of our current stockholders will be reduced, the new equity
securities may have rights and preferences superior to those of the common
stock, and additional issuances could be at sales price which is dilutive to
current stockholders. We may also issue equity securities directly as
consideration for acquisitions we may make that could be dilutive to current
stockholders. 
           Anti-takeover Provisions
          Provisions of Tennessee law, and certain provisions of
our charter and bylaws, could make it more difficult for a third party to
acquire control of us or could have the effect of discouraging a third party
from attempting to acquire control of us. These provisions could make it more
difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be at a
price attractive to many of our stockholders. 
ITEM 1B
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
          Not
applicable.
ITEM 2
PROPERTIES
          The
Corporation has no properties that it considers materially important to its
financial statements. 
ITEM 3
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
          The
“Contingencies” section from Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements appearing on pages 132-141 of the Corporation’s 2011 Annual Report
to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 4
[Reserved]
SUPPLEMENTAL PART I INFORMATION
Executive Officers of the Registrant
          The
following is a list of executive officers of the Corporation, along with
certain supplemental information, all presented as of January 31, 2012. The
executive officers generally are appointed at the April meeting of the
Corporation’s Board of Directors following the annual meeting of shareholders
for a term of one year and until their successors are elected and qualified. 
39





 


 


 




Name and Age


 


Current (Year
 First Elected to Office) and Recent Offices and Positions







 







John M. Daniel Age: 57


 


Executive Vice President – Chief Human Resources Officer of the
 Corporation and the Bank (2006)




 


From January
 2001 to September 2006, Mr. Daniel was Executive Vice President in charge of
 Human Resources for Regions Financial Corporation.




 


 


 




Jeff L. Fleming Age: 50


 


Executive Vice President – Chief Accounting Officer of the
 Corporation and the Bank (2012); principal accounting officerMr. Fleming became Chief Accounting Officer on January
 1, 2012. He first joined the Corporation in the Accounting Division in 1984.
 From 2010 to 2011 he was Executive Vice President – Corporate Controller,
 from 2008 to 2010 he was Senior Vice President – Corporate Controller and
 from 2004 to 2008 he was Senior Vice President – Director of Corporate
 Accounting of the Corporation and the Bank.




 


 


 




Gregory D. Jardine
 Age: 56


 


Executive Vice President – Chief Credit Officer of the
 Corporation and the Bank (2010)




 


From October
 2009 until May 2010, Mr. Jardine was Executive Vice President of the
 Corporation and the Bank in charge of credit portfolio management. Before
 joining the Corporation, from January to September 2009, Mr. Jardine was a
 senior credit officer with Wells Fargo & Company in the wealth, brokerage
 and retirement services division. Prior to 2009 Mr. Jardine was a senior vice
 president with Wachovia Corporation with various duties including senior
 credit officer and senior risk officer for credit and counterparty risk in
 capital management and wealth management.




 


 


 




D. Bryan Jordan Age: 50


 


President and Chief Executive Officer (2008) and Chairman of the
 Board (2012) of the Corporation and the Bank; principal executive officer




 


Mr.
 Jordan was elected Chairman of the Board on January 1, 2012. From May 2007
 until September 2008 Mr. Jordan was Executive Vice President and Chief
 Financial Officer of the Corporation and the Bank. From 2000 until 2002 Mr.
 Jordan was Comptroller, and from 2002 until April 2007 Mr. Jordan was Chief
 Financial Officer, of Regions Financial Corp. During that time he was also an
 Executive Vice President and, from November 2006, a Senior Executive Vice
 President of Regions.




 


 


 




Michael E. KisberAge: 52


 


President – FTN Financial of the Corporation and the Bank (2011)




 


 


Mr.
 Kisber became President of the Bank’s FTN Financial division on January 1,
 2011. He joined FTN Financial in 1993 as a sales representative. In 2006 he
 became Head of Sales and an Executive Vice President. In 2008 he became
 Director of Fixed Income for FTN.




 


 


 




William C. Losch III
 Age: 41


 


Executive Vice President – Chief Financial Officer of the
 Corporation and the Bank (2009); principal financial officer




 


From 1998 to 2009, Mr. Losch was with Wachovia
 Corporation. Most recently he served as Senior Vice President and Chief
 Financial Officer of its Retail and Small Business Banking unit from 2003 to
 2005, and as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of its General
 Bank unit from 2006 to 2009.




 


 


 




Christine B. Munson Age: 58


 


Executive Vice President – Corporate Banking of the Corporation
 and the Bank (2011)




 


Ms. Munson became an executive officer of the
 Corporation in July 2011. She first joined the Bank in 1981. From 1999 to
 2011 Ms. Munson was Executive Vice President Corporate and Middle Market
 Banking of the Bank, and prior to 1999 she was a senior vice president of
 commercial lending of the Bank.



40





 


 


 




David T. Popwell
 Age: 51


 


Executive Vice President – Regional Banking and Banking Chief
 Operating Officer of the Corporation and the Bank (2011)




 


Mr. Popwell became an executive officer of the
 Corporation in July 2011. From 2008 to 2011 Mr. Popwell was the Banking Chief
 Operating Officer of the Bank, and from 2007 to 2008 Mr. Popwell was the
 Market Manager for the Bank’s Mid-South Market. From 2004 to 2007 Mr. Popwell
 was the president of SunTrust Bank – Memphis, and prior to that was an
 executive vice president of National Commerce Financial Corp.




 


 


 




Charles T. Tuggle, Jr.
 Age: 63


 


Executive Vice President – General Counsel of the Corporation
 and the Bank (2008)




 


From 2003 to
 2007 Mr. Tuggle was an Executive Vice President of the Bank’s FTN
 Financial division; during that time prior to 2007 Mr. Tuggle served as Chief
 Risk Officer of FTN Financial. From 1998 to 2003 Mr. Tuggle was
 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the law firm Baker, Donelson,
 Bearman, Caldwell & Berkowitz, PC.




 


 


 




Yousef A. Valine
Age: 52


 


Executive Vice President – Chief Risk Officer (2010) of the
 Corporation and the Bank




 


From June to
 December 2009, Mr. Valine served as Executive Vice President – Corporate Risk
 Management of the Corporation and the Bank. From 1985 until June 2009, Mr.
 Valine was with Wachovia Corporation, most recently serving as Executive Vice
 President and Chief Operating Officer of its enterprise-wide risk management
 division from 2007 until June 2009, as the head of its Institutional Risk
 Group in 2006, and as its chief Operational Risk officer in 2005.



Declaration of Covenant
Relating To
The Bank’s Class A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock
          On
March 23, 2005, the Bank issued 300,000 shares of Class A Non-Cumulative
Perpetual Preferred Stock (“Bank
Preferred Stock”). That issuance was the subject of the Corporation’s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 24, 2005. The Bank made a Declaration of
Covenant dated as of July 20, 2005 (“Declaration”)
in connection with the Bank Preferred Stock. The Declaration was the subject of
Item 8.01 of the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed July 22, 2005.
Under the Declaration, the Bank has promised to redeem shares of the Bank
Preferred Stock only if and to the extent that the redemption price is equal to
or less than the New Equity Amount as of the date of redemption. “New Equity Amount” means, on any
date, the net proceeds to the Bank or subsidiaries of the Bank received during
the six months prior to such date from new issuances of common stock of the
Bank or of other securities or combinations of securities that 



 


 


 




 


(i)


qualify as
 Tier 1 capital of the Bank, and




 


 


 




 


(ii)


as
 reasonably determined in good faith by the Bank’s Board of Directors, (x) on
 a liquidation or dissolution of the Bank rank pari passu with or junior
 to the Bank Preferred Stock (or, if all of the Bank Preferred Stock has been
 redeemed, would have ranked pari passu with or junior to the Bank
 Preferred Stock had it remained outstanding), (y) are perpetual, with no
 prepayment obligation on the part of the issuer, whether at the election of
 holders or otherwise (although such securities may be subject to early
 redemption at the option of the issuer), and (z) dividends or other distributions
 on which are non-cumulative;



41

provided, however,
that the net proceeds of such securities or combinations of securities
(A) if issued to any affiliate of the Bank other than the Corporation,
shall not qualify as a New Equity Amount and (B) if issued to the Corporation
shall qualify as a New Equity Amount only if such securities or combinations of
securities have been purchased by the Corporation with the net proceeds from
new issuances of common stock of the Corporation or of securities or
combinations of securities by the Corporation during such six-month period that




 


 


 




 


(i)


qualify as
 Tier 1 capital of the Corporation and




 


 


 




 


(ii)


as
 reasonably determined in good faith by the Corporation’s Board of Directors,
 (x) on a liquidation or dissolution of the issuer rank junior to all
 indebtedness for money borrowed and claims of other creditors of the issuer,
 (y) are perpetual, with no prepayment obligation on the part of the
 issuer, whether at the election of holders or otherwise (although such
 securities may be subject to early redemption at the option of the issuer),
 and (z) dividends or other distributions on which are non-cumulative.



          The
covenants in the Declaration run in favor of persons that buy, hold, or sell
debt of the Bank during the period that such debt is “Covered Debt.” The Bank’s 5.05% Subordinated Bank Notes Due
January 15, 2015 (“2015 Notes”)
are the initial Covered Debt. Other debt will replace the 2015 Notes as the
Covered Debt under the Declaration on the earlier to occur of (x) the date two
years prior to the 2015 Notes’ maturity, or (y) the date the Bank gives notice
of a redemption of the 2015 Notes such that, or the date 2015 Notes are
repurchased in such an amount that, the outstanding principal amount of 2015
Notes is or will become less than $100 million. 
          The
Declaration is subject to various additional terms and conditions. The
Declaration may be terminated if the holders of at least 51% by principal
amount of the Covered Debt so agree, or if the Bank no longer has any long-term
indebtedness rated by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization. 
          The
summary description of the Declaration in this report is qualified in its
entirety by the full terms of the Declaration, which are controlling. 
PART
II
Note
on Page Number References
In this report,
references to specific pages in the Corporation’s 2011 Annual Report to
shareholders, or to specific pages of its consolidated financial statements or
the notes thereto, relate to page numbers appearing in Exhibit 13 to this
report. The Exhibit 13 page numbers do not necessarily correspond to page
numbers appearing in the printed 2011 Annual Report to shareholders.
ITEM 5
MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES



 


 


 




 


(a)


Market for
 the Corporation’s Common Stock:



          The
Corporation’s common stock, $0.625 par value, is listed and trades on the New
York Stock Exchange, Inc. under the symbol FHN. As of December 31, 2011, there
were 6,845 shareholders of record of the Corporation’s common stock. Additional
information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to: 
42





 


 


 


 




 


 


(i)


the Summary
 of Quarterly Financial Information Table (Table 32)(page 73), the Selected Financial and Operating
 Data Table (page 2),
 and the “Liquidity Management” subsection (beginning on page 51) of the
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 section contained in the Corporation’s 2011 Annual Report to
 Shareholders,




 


 


(ii)


Note 18 to the Consolidated
 Financial Statements beginning on page 132 of the 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders, and




 


 


(iii)


the “Payment
 of Dividends” and “Transactions with Affiliates” subsections beginning on pages 6 and 7,
 respectively, of Item 1 of Part I of this report on Form 10-K. 




 


 


 




 


(b)


Sale of
 Unregistered Equity Securities:




 


 


 




Not
 applicable.




 




 


(c)


Issuer
 Repurchases:



          Repurchases
are made in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions and
are subject to market conditions, accumulation of excess equity, prudent
capital management, and regulatory restrictions. Pursuant to Board authority,
the Corporation may repurchase shares from time to time for general purposes
and for its stock option and other compensation plans, subject to market
conditions, accumulation of excess equity, prudent capital management, and
legal and regulatory restrictions. The Corporation will evaluate the level of
capital and take action designed to generate or use capital as appropriate for
the interests of the shareholders. Additional information concerning repurchase
activity during the final three months of 2011 is presented in Table 12, and the
surrounding notes and other text, of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section appearing on pages 27-28 of the
Corporation’s 2011 Annual Report to shareholders, which information is
incorporated herein by this reference.
ITEM 6
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
          The
information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
Selected Financial and Operating Data table appearing on page 2 of the
Corporation’s 2011 Annual Report to shareholders.
ITEM 7
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION
          The
information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 section, the Glossary and Acronyms sections, and the Consolidated
Historical Statements of Income and Consolidated Average Balance Sheets and
Related Yields and Rates tables appearing on pages 3-79 and 186-189 of the Corporation’s 2011 Annual Report
to Shareholders. 
ITEM 7A
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
          The
information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
“Interest Rate Risk Management” subsection of Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,
and to the “Risk Management-Interest Rate Risk Management” subsection of the
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
43

section, both of which appear, respectively,
on pages 179-181 and
on pages 49-51 of
the Corporation’s 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders.
ITEM 8
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
          The
information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, the Reports
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, the Consolidated Financial
Statements and the notes thereto, and Table 32, Summary of Quarterly Financial
Information, appearing, respectively, on pages 80-185 and on page 73 of the Corporation’s 2011 Annual Report to
Shareholders. 
ITEM 9
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
          Not
applicable. 
ITEM 9A
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
          Evaluation
of Disclosure Controls and Procedures. The Corporation’s management, with
the participation of the Corporation’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Corporation’s
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e))
as of the end of the period covered by the annual report. Based on that
evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have
concluded that the Corporation’s disclosure controls and procedures were
effective as of the end of the period covered by this report. 
          Management’s
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. The report of
management required by Item 308(a) of Regulation S-K, and the attestation
report required by Item 308(b) of Regulation S-K, appear at pages 80-81 of the
Corporation’s 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders and are incorporated herein by
this reference.
          Changes
in Internal Control over Financial Reporting. There have not been any
changes in the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting during
the Corporation’s fourth fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, the Corporation’s internal control over
financial reporting. 
ITEM 9B
OTHER INFORMATION 
          Not
applicable.
44

PART
III
ITEM 10
DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
          The
information called for by this Item as it relates to directors and nominees for
director of the Corporation, the Audit Committee of the Corporation’s Board of
Directors, members of the Audit Committee, and audit committee financial experts
is incorporated herein by reference to the “Corporate Governance and Board Matters” section
and the “Vote Item No.
1—Election of Directors” section of the Corporation’s 2012 Proxy
Statement (excluding the Audit Committee Report, the statements regarding the
existence, availability, and location of the Audit Committee’s charter, and the
Compensation Committee Report). The information required by this Item as it
relates to executive officers of the Corporation is incorporated herein by
reference to the information provided under the heading “Executive Officers of the
Registrant” in the Supplemental Part I Information following Item 4 of this Report.
The information required by this Item as it relates to compliance with Section
16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated herein by
reference to the “Section
16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” section of the 2012
Proxy Statement. 
          In
2011 there were no material amendments to the procedures, described in the
Corporation’s 2012 Proxy Statement, by which security holders may recommend
nominees to the Corporation’s Board of Directors.
          The
Corporation’s Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior
Financial Officers that applies to the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial
Officer, and Chief Accounting Officer and also applies to all professionals
serving in the financial, accounting, or audit areas of the Corporation and its
subsidiaries. A copy of the Code has been filed or incorporated by reference as
Exhibit 14 to this
report and is posted on the Corporation’s current internet website (at
www.fhnc.com; click on “Investor Relations” and then “Corporate Governance.”) A
paper copy of the Code is available without charge upon written request
addressed to the Corporate Secretary of the Corporation at its main office, 165
Madison Avenue, Memphis, Tennessee 38103. The Corporation intends to satisfy
its disclosure obligations under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K related to Code amendments or waivers by
posting such information on the Corporation’s internet website, the address for
which is listed above. 
ITEM 11
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
          The
information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the “Compensation Committee
Interlocks and Insider Participation,” “Executive Compensation,” and “Director Compensation”
sections of the Corporation’s 2012 Proxy Statement.
          The
Corporation has provided the information required by Item 407(e)(5) of
Regulation S-K in its 2012 Proxy Statement under the caption “Compensation Committee Report.”
That information is not “filed” with this report and is not incorporated by
reference herein. 
ITEM 12
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND 
MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
Equity Compensation Plan Information
          The
information required by this Item pursuant to Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K is
incorporated herein by reference to the “Equity Compensation Plan Information” section of
the Corporation’s 2012 Proxy Statement, immediately following Vote Item No. 3.
45

Beneficial Ownership of Corporation Stock
          The
information required by this Item pursuant to Item 403(a) and (b) of Regulation
S-K is incorporated herein by reference to the “Stock Ownership Information” section of the
Corporation’s 2012 Proxy Statement.
Change in Control Arrangements
          The
Corporation is unaware of any arrangements which may result in a change in
control of the Corporation.
ITEM 13
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
          The
information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the “Independence and Categorical
Standards” and the “Transactions
with Related Persons” sections of the 2012 Proxy Statement, which
sections are incorporated herein by reference. The Corporation’s independent
directors and nominees are identified in the second paragraph of the “Independence and Categorical Standards”
section of the 2012 Proxy Statement.
ITEM 14
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
          The
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors has a policy providing for
pre-approval of all audit and non-audit services to be performed by our
registered public accounting firm that performs the audit of our consolidated
financial statements that are filed with the SEC. Services either may be
approved in advance by the Audit Committee specifically on a case-by-case basis
(“specific pre-approval”) or may be approved in advance (“advance
pre-approval”). Advance pre-approval requires the Committee to identify in
advance the specific types of service that may be provided and the fee limits
applicable to such types of service, which limits may be expressed as a limit
by type of service or by category of services. Unless the type of service to be
provided by the Corporation’s registered public accounting firm has received
advance pre-approval under the policy and the fee for such service is within
the limit pre-approved, the service will require specific pre-approval by the
Committee. The terms of and fee for the annual audit engagement must receive
the specific pre-approval of the Committee. “Audit,” “Audit-related,” “Tax,”
and “All Other” services, as those terms are defined in the policy, have the
advance pre-approval of the Committee, but only to the extent those services have
been specified by the Committee and only in amounts that do not exceed the fee
limits specified by the Committee. Such advance pre-approval is to be for a
term of 12 months following the date of pre-approval unless the Committee
specifically provides for a different term. Unless the Committee specifically
determines otherwise, the aggregate amount of the fees pre-approved for All
Other services for the fiscal year must not exceed seventy-five percent (75%)
of the aggregate amount of the fees pre-approved for the fiscal year for Audit
services, Audit-related services, and those types of Tax services that
represent tax compliance or tax return preparation. The policy delegates the
authority to pre-approve services to be provided by the Corporation’s registered
public accounting firm, other than the annual audit engagement and any changes
thereto, to the chair of the Committee. The chair may not, however,
make a determination that causes the 75% limit described above to be exceeded.
Any service pre-approved by the chair will be reported to the Committee
at its next regularly scheduled meeting. 
46

          Information
regarding fees billed to the Corporation by KPMG LLP for the two most recent
fiscal years is incorporated herein by reference to the “Vote Item No. 5”
section of the 2012 Proxy Statement. No services were approved by the Audit
Committee pursuant to Rule 2-01(c)(7)(i)(C) of Regulation S-X. 
PART
IV



 




Note on Page Number
 References




In this report, references
 to specific pages in the Corporation’s 2011 Annual Report to shareholders, or
 to specific pages of its consolidated financial statements or the notes
 thereto, relate to page numbers appearing in Exhibit 13 to this report. The
 Exhibit 13 page numbers do not necessarily correspond to page numbers
 appearing in the printed 2011 Annual Report to shareholders.



ITEM 15
EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
The following
documents are filed as a part of this Report:
Financial
Statements and related Reports:



 


 


 


 




 


Page 83*


1.


Consolidated Statements of Condition as of December 31, 2011 and
 2010.




 


 


 


 




 


Page 84*


2.


Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31,
 2011, 2010 and 2009.




 


 


 


 




 


Pages 85-86*


3.


Consolidated Statements of Equity for the years ended December 31,
 2011, 2010, and 2009.




 


 


 


 




 


Page 87*


4.


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December
 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.




 


 


 


 




 


Pages 88-185*


5.


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements




 


 


 


 




 


Pages 80*


6.


Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting




 


 


 


 




 


Pages 81-82*


7.


Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm







 


 


 




 


*


The
 consolidated financial statements of the Corporation, the notes thereto, and
 the reports of independent public accountants, as listed above, are
 incorporated herein by reference to the indicated pages of the Corporation’s
 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders.



Financial
Statement Schedules: Not applicable.
Exhibits:



 


 




 


Exhibits marked * represent a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be identified as such and filed as an exhibit.




 


 




 


Exhibits marked ** are "furnished" pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and are not “filed” as part of this Report or as a separate disclosure document.



 
 

 
Exhibits marked *** represent those that, in accordance
with Regulation S-T, contain or consist of interactive data file information which shall be deemed “furnished” and
not “filed.”

 
 

 
Exhibits marked + are filed herewith.

 
 

47





 


 




 


The phrase
 “2011 named executive officers” refers to those executive officers whose 2011
 compensation is described in detail in the Corporation’s 2012 Proxy
 Statement.




 


 




 


In many
 agreements filed as exhibits, each party makes representations and warranties
 to other parties. Those representations and warranties are made only to and
 for the benefit of those other parties in the context of a business contract.
 Exceptions to such representations and warranties may be partially or fully
 waived by such parties, or not enforced by such parties, in their discretion.
 No such representation or warranty may be relied upon by any other person for
 any purpose.







 


 




3.1


Restated
 Charter of the Corporation, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1
 to the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 20, 2011.




 


 




3.2


Bylaws of
 First Horizon National Corporation, as amended and restated October 17, 2011,
 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Corporation’s Current
 Report on Form 8-K filed October 20, 2011. 




 


 




3.3


Bylaws of
 First Horizon National Corporation, as amended and restated January 18, 2012
 (amendment is not effective until annual meeting scheduled for April 17,
 2012), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Corporation’s
 Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 18, 2012. 




 


 




4.1


The
 Corporation and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries have outstanding
 certain long-term debt. See Note 10 in the Corporation’s 2011 Annual Report
 to Shareholders. At December 31, 2011, none of such debt exceeded 10% of the
 total assets of the Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Thus,
 copies of constituent instruments defining the rights of holders of such debt
 are not required to be included as exhibits. The Corporation agrees to
 furnish copies of such instruments to the Securities and Exchange Commission
 upon request.




 


 




*Deferral
 Plans and Related Exhibits




 




*10.1(a1)


Directors
 and Executives Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated,
 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(h) to the Corporation’s
 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 6-30-03 and form of
 individual agreement, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(h) to
 the Corporation’s 1996 Annual report on Form 10-K.




 


 




*10.1(a2)


Form of
 Amendment to Directors and Executives Deferred Compensation Plan,
 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1(a3) to the Corporation’s
 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.




 


 




*10.1(a3)


Rate
 Applicable to Directors and Executive Officers Under the Directors and
 Executives Deferred Compensation Plan, incorporated herein by reference to
 Exhibit 10.1 to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended September 30, 2011.




 


 




*10.1(b)


Director
 Deferral Agreements with schedule, incorporated herein by reference to
 Exhibit 10(k) to the Corporation’s 1992 Annual Report on Form 10-K and
 Exhibit 10(j) to the Corporation’s 1995 Annual Report on Form 10-K.




 


 




*10.1(c)


Form of
 First Horizon National Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan as Amended and
 Restated, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1(c) to the
 Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
 30, 2007.



48





 


 




*10.1(d)


[1995]
 Non-Employee Directors’ Deferred Compensation Stock Option Plan, as restated
 for amendments through December 15, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to
 Exhibit 10.1(d) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended June 30, 2009.




 


 




*10.1(e)


2000
 Non-Employee Directors’ Deferred Compensation Stock Option Plan, as restated
 for amendments through December 15, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to
 Exhibit 10.1(e) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended June 30, 2009.




 


 




*10.1(f)


[1991] Bank
 Advisory Director Deferral Plan, as restated for amendments through December
 15, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1(f) to the
 Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
 2009.




 


 




*10.1(g)


[1996] Bank
 Director and Advisory Board Member Deferral Plan, as restated for amendments
 through December 15, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
 10.1(g) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
 ended June 30, 2009.




 


 




*10.1(h)


2002 Bank
 Director and Advisory Board Member Deferral Plan, as restated for amendments
 through December 15, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
 10.1(h) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
 ended June 30, 2009.




 


 




*10.1(i)


Form of
 First Horizon Deferred Compensation Plan as Amended and Restated,
 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1(i) to the Corporation’s
 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007. 




 


 




*10.1(j)


Form of FTN
 Financial Deferred Compensation Plan Amended and Restated Effective January
 1, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1(j) to the
 Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
 30, 2007.




 


 




*10.1(k)


Form of
 Deferred Compensation Agreement used under the Corporation’s 2003 Equity
 Compensation Plan and First Tennessee National Corporation Non-Qualified
 Deferred Compensation Plan, along with form of Salary, Commission, and Annual
 Bonus Deferral Programs Overview, form of Deferred Stock Option (“DSO”)
 Program Summary, and description of share receipt deferral feature,
 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(z) to the Corporation’s
 Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 3, 2005.




 


 




*10.1(l)


Description
 of April 19, 2005 amendments to the First Horizon National Corporation
 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan (formerly First Tennessee National
 Corporation Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan), incorporated herein by
 reference to Exhibit 10.1(l) to the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K
 dated April 19, 2005. 




 


 




*10.1(m)


Description
 of changes to options granted in January 2005 to certain employees in
 connection with deferrals of salary earned in 2004, incorporated herein by
 reference to Exhibit 10.1(m) to the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K
 dated October 19, 2005.




 


 




*Stock-Based
 Incentive Plans




 


 




*10.2(a)


1990 Stock
 Option Plan, as amended, and 1-21-97, 10-22-97, and 10-18-00 amendments,
 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Corporation’s 1992,
 1996, 1997 and 2000 Annual Reports on Form 10-K.



49





 


 




*10.2(b)


1992
 Restricted Stock Incentive Plan, as restated for amendments through December
 15, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2(b) to the
 Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
 2009.




 


 




*10.2(c)


1995
 Employee Stock Option Plan, as restated for amendments through December 15,
 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2(c) to the
 Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
 2009.




 


 




*10.2(d)


1997
 Employee Stock Option Plan, as restated for amendments through December 15,
 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2(d) to the
 Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
 2009.




 


 




*10.2(e)


2000
 Employee Stock Option Plan, as restated for amendments through December 15,
 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2(e) to the
 Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
 2009.




 


 




*10.2(f)


2003 Equity
 Compensation Plan (as amended and restated April 20, 2010 and as
 adjusted for all stock dividends through April 1, 2010), incorporated by
 reference to Appendix A to the Corporation’s Proxy Statement for its
 annual meeting on April 20, 2010.




 


 




*TARSAP/PARSAP
 Restricted Stock Agreements and Related Documents




 


 




*10.3(a)


Form of
 accelerated (performance based) Restricted Stock Agreement under the 1992
 Restricted Stock Incentive Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
 10.3(a) to the Corporation’s 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K.




 


 




*10.3(b)


Form of
 accelerated (performance based) Restricted Stock Agreement under the 2003
 Equity Compensation Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3(b)
 to the Corporation’s 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K.




 


 




*10.3(c)


Description
 of performance criteria related to TARSAP/PARSAP awards granted prior to
 2005, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3(c) to the
 Corporation’s 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K.




 


 




*10.3(d)


Form of 2005
 PARSAP Agreement (for executive officers other than the CEO), incorporated
 herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3(e) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report
 on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005.




 


 




*10.3(e)


Description
 of performance criteria related to 2005 PARSAP Agreement, incorporated herein
 by reference to Exhibit 10.3(f) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form
 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005.




 


 




*Performance-Based
 Stock Incentive Award Documents




 


 




*10.4(a)


Form of
 Performance Stock Units Notice of Grant [2009], incorporated herein by
 reference to Exhibit 10.4(f) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form
 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.




 


 




*10.4(b)


Form of
 Performance Stock Units Grant Notice [2010], incorporated herein by reference
 to Exhibit 10.4(d) to the Corporation’s Amendment No. 1 to Quarterly Report
 on Form 10-Q/A for the quarter ended March 31, 2010.



50





 


 




*10.4(c)


Form of
 Performance Stock Units Grant Notice [2011], incorporated herein by reference
 to Exhibit 10.4(d) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended March 31, 2011.




 




*Other
 Stock-Based Incentive Plan Agreements and Related Documents




 


 




*10.5(a)


Form of
 Restricted Stock Agreement for Non-Employee Director used under the 2003
 Equity Compensation Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(aa)
 to the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 18, 2005.




 


 




*10.5(b)


Form of
 Agreement To Defer Receipt Of Shares Following Option Exercise, incorporated
 herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5(c) to the Corporation’s 2004 Annual
 Report on Form 10-K.




 


 




*10.5(c)


Form of
 Agreement to Exchange Shares for RSUs and Defer Receipt of Shares [relating
 to Restricted Stock], incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5(d) to
 the Corporation’s 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K.




 


 




*10.5(d)


Form of
 Stock Option Grant Notice, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5(e)
 to the Corporation’s 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K.




 


 




*10.5(e)


Form of
 Stock Option Reload Grant Notification, incorporated herein by reference to
 Exhibit 10.5(f) to the Corporation’s 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K.




 


 




*10.5(f)


Form of
 Stock Option Grant Notice (used for executive officers during 2005),
 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5(g) to the Corporation’s
 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005.




 


 




*10.5(g)


Form of
 Management Stock Option Grant Notice (used for executive officers during
 2006), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5(j) to the
 Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
 2006. 




 


 




*10.5(h)


Form of
 Management Restricted Stock Grant Notice (used for executive officers during
 2006), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5(k) to the
 Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
 2006. 




 


 




*10.5(i)


Sections of
 Director Policy pertaining to compensation, incorporated herein by reference
 to Exhibit 10.5(j) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended September 30, 2010. 




 


 




*10.5(j)


First
 Tennessee Stock Option Enhancement Program, incorporated herein by reference
 to Exhibit 10.5(o) to the Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
 year ended December 31, 2006.




 


 




*10.5(k)


Form of
 Management Stock Option Grant Notice [2007], incorporated herein by reference
 to Exhibit 10.5(p) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended June 30, 2007.




 


 




*10.5(l)


Form of
 stock option grant notice used for special grant to Mr. Jordan in lieu of
 bonus, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5(r) to the
 Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 29, 2008.



51





 


 




*10.5(m)


Form of
 Retention Restricted Stock award grant notice under 2003 Equity Compensation
 Plan [2008], incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5(t) to the
 Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
 2008.




 


 




*10.5(n)


Form of
 Executive Restricted Stock Notice of Grant [2009], incorporated herein by
 reference to Exhibit 10.5(o) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form
 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.




 


 




*10.5(o)


Form of
 Executive Special Restricted Stock Notice of Grant [2009], incorporated
 herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5(p) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report
 on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.




 


 




*10.5(p)


Form of
 Bonus Restricted Stock Notice of Grant (associated with bonuses under the
 Capital Markets Incentive Compensation Plan) [2009], incorporated herein by
 reference to Exhibit 10.5(q) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form
 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.




 


 




*10.5(q)


Form of
 Executive Restricted Stock Grant Notice [2010], incorporated herein by
 reference to Exhibit 10.5(r) to the Corporation’s Amendment No. 1 to
 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A for the quarter ended March 31, 2010.




 


 




*10.5(r)


Form of
 Executive Stock Option Grant Notice [2011], incorporated herein by reference
 to Exhibit 10.5(s) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended March 31, 2011.




 


 




*10.5(s)


Form of
 Executive Retention Restricted Stock Grant Notice [2011], incorporated herein
 by reference to Exhibit 10.5(t) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form
 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011.




 


 




*Management
 Cash Incentive Plan Documents




 


 




*10.6(a)


2002
 Management Incentive Plan, as restated for amendments through July 14, 2008,
 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6(a) to the Corporation’s
 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.




 


 




*10.6(b1)


Capital
 Markets Incentive Compensation Plan, incorporated herein by reference to
 Exhibit 10.6(c) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended September 30, 2006. Certain information in this exhibit has
 been omitted pursuant to a request for confidential treatment. The omitted
 information has been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange
 Commission. In accordance with the Corporation’s bylaws, the Corporation’s
 Board Compensation Committee’s charter, and action of that Committee on July
 18, 2006, the annual incentive bonus to the head of the Capital Markets unit
 is subject to final review and approval by the Chief Executive Officer and
 the Compensation Committee.




 


 




*10.6(b2)


Amendment to
 Capital Markets Incentive Compensation Plan, incorporated herein by reference
 to Exhibit 10.6(c2) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
 the quarter ended September 30, 2007.



52





 


 




*Other
 Material Contract Exhibits relating to Employment, Retirement, Severance, or
 Separation




 


 




*10.7(a1)


February
 2007 form of change-in-control severance agreement between the Corporation
 and its executive officers, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
 10.7(a2) to the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 20,
 2007. 




 


 




*10.7(a2)


Form of
 Amendment to February 2007 form of change-in-control severance agreement
 between the Corporation and its executive officers, incorporated herein by
 reference to Exhibit 10.7(a4) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form
 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.




 


 




*10.7(b)


October 2007
 form of change-in-control severance agreement between the Corporation and its
 executive officers, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7(a5) to
 the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
 September 30, 2007.




 


 




*10.7(c)


Form of
 Change in Control Severance Agreement offered to executive officers on or
 after November 14, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
 the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 24, 2008.




 


 




*10.7(d1)


Form of
 Pension Restoration Plan (amended and restated as of January 1, 2008),
 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7(e) to the Corporation’s
 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.




 


 




*10.7(d2)


Form of
 Amendment to Pension Restoration Plan, incorporated herein by reference to
 Exhibit 10.7(d2) to the Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
 ended December 31, 2009.




 


 




*10.7(d3)


Form of
 Amendment No. 3 to Pension Restoration Plan, incorporated herein by reference
 to Exhibit 10. 2 to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended September 30, 2011.




 


 




*10.7(e)


Conformed
 copy of Retirement Agreement with Charles G. Burkett, incorporated herein by
 reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K
 dated April 27, 2011.




 


 




*Other
 Material Contract Exhibits related to Management or Directors




 


 




*10.8(a)


Survivor
 Benefits Plan, as amended and restated July 18, 2006, incorporated herein by
 reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
 for the quarter ended September 30, 2006.




 


 




*10.8(b)


Other
 Compensation and Benefit Arrangements for Non-employee Directors,
 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.8(b) to the Corporation’s
 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009.




 


 




*10.8(c)


Long-Term
 Disability Program, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(v) to the
 Corporation’s 2003 Annual Report on Form 10-K.




 


 




*10.8(d1)


2004 Form of
 Indemnity Agreement between the Corporation and its directors and executive
 officers, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the
 Corporation’s 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K.



53





 


 




*10.8(d2)


Form of
 amendment to 2004 form of Indemnity Agreement with directors and executive
 officers, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the
 Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 28, 2008.




 


 




*10.8(e)


Form of
 Indemnity Agreement with directors and executive officers (April 2008
 revision), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Corporation’s
 Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 28, 2008.




 


 




*10.8(f)+


Description
 of Certain Benefits Available to Executive Officers.




 


 




*10.8(g)+


Description
 of 2012 Salaries for 2011 Named Executive Officers.




 


 




*10.8(h)


Salary Stock
 Unit Program, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 8(h)to the
 Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
 2010.




 


 




*10.8(i)


Memorandum
 concerning consulting arrangement with Charles G. Burkett, incorporated
 herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Corporation’s Current Report on
 Form 8-K dated December 21, 2011.




 


 




Other
 Material Contract Exhibits




 


 




[reserved]


 




 


 




Other
 Exhibits




 


 




13+


Pages 2
 through 190 of the First Horizon National Corporation 2011 Annual Report to
 Shareholders, a copy of which is furnished for the information of the
 Securities and Exchange Commission. Portions of the Annual Report not
 incorporated herein by reference are deemed not to be “filed” with the
 Commission.




 


 




14


Code of
 Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, incorporated herein by reference to
 Exhibit 14 to the Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
 December 31, 2008.




 


 




21+


Subsidiaries
 of the Corporation.




 


 




23+


Accountant’s
 Consents.




 


 




24+


Power of
 Attorney.




 


 




31(a)+


Rule
 13a-14(a) Certifications of CEO (pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley
 Act of 2002)




 


 




31(b)+


Rule
 13a-14(a) Certifications of CFO (pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley
 Act of 2002)




 


 




32(a)+


18 USC 1350
 Certifications of CEO (pursuant to Section 906 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
 2002)**




 


 




32(b)+


18 USC 1350
 Certifications of CFO (pursuant to Section 906 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
 2002)**




 


 




101+


The
 following financial information from First Horizon National Corporation’s
 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011,
 formatted in XBRL: (i) Consolidated Statements of Condition at
 December 31, 2011 and 2010 (Unaudited); (ii) Consolidated Statements of Income
 for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 (Unaudited); (iii) Consolidated
 Statements 



54





 


 




 


of
 Shareholders’ Equity for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and
 2009 (Unaudited); (iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended
 December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 (Unaudited); (v) Notes to the Consolidated
 Financial Statements (Unaudited).***




 


 




101.INS+


XBRL
 Instance Document***




 


 




101.SCH+


XBRL
 Taxonomy Extension Schema***




 


 




101.CAL+


XBRL
 Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase***




 


 




101.LAB+


XBRL
 Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase***




 


 




101.PRE+


XBRL
 Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase***




 


 




101.DEF+


XBRL
 Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase***




55

     SIGNATURES
          Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.



 


 


 




 


FIRST
 HORIZON NATIONAL CORPORATION




 


 


 




Date:
 February 27, 2012


By:


/s/ William
 C. Losch III




 


 







 


 


William C.
 Losch III, Executive Vice 




 


 


President
 and Chief Financial Officer



          Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.



 


 


 


 


 




Signature


 


Title


 


Date







 





 







 


 


 




D. Bryan
 Jordan *


 


President,
 Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board (principal executive
 officer)


 


February 27,
 2012







 


 


 




D. Bryan
 Jordan


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 




William C.
 Losch III*


 


Executive
 Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer)


 


February 27,
 2012







 


 


 




William C.
 Losch III


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 




Jeff L.
 Fleming*


 


Executive
 Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (principal accounting officer)


 


February 27,
 2012







 


 


 




Jeff L.
 Fleming


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 




Robert B.
 Carter*


 


Director


 


February 27,
 2012







 


 


 


 




Robert B.
 Carter


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 




John C.
 Compton*


 


Director


 


February 27,
 2012







 


 


 


 




John C.
 Compton


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 




Mark A.
 Emkes*


 


Director


 


February 27,
 2012







 


 


 


 




Mark A.
 Emkes


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 




Vicky B.
 Gregg*


 


Director


 


February 27,
 2012







 


 


 


 




Vicky B.
 Gregg


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 




James A.
 Haslam, III*


 


Director


 


February 27,
 2012







 


 


 


 




James A.
 Haslam, III


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 




R. Brad
 Martin*


 


Director


 


February 27,
 2012







 


 


 


 




R. Brad
 Martin


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 




Scott M.
 Niswonger*


 


Director


 


February 27,
 2012







 


 


 


 




Scott M.
 Niswonger


 


 


 


 



56





 


 


 


 


 




Vicki R.
 Palmer *


 


Director


 


February 27,
 2012







 


 


 


 




Vicki R.
 Palmer


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 




Colin V.
 Reed*


 


Director


 


February 27,
 2012







 


 


 


 




Colin V.
 Reed


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 




Michael D.
 Rose*


 


Director


 


February 27,
 2012







 


 


 


 




Michael D.
 Rose


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 




William B.
 Sansom*


 


Director


 


February 27,
 2012







 


 


 


 




William B.
 Sansom


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 




Luke Yancy
 III*


 


Director


 


February 27,
 2012







 


 


 


 




Luke Yancy
 III


 


 


 


 







 


 


 


 


 


 




 


*By:


/s/ Clyde A.
 Billings, Jr.


 


 


February 27,
 2012




 


 





 


 


 




 


 


     Clyde A. Billings, Jr.


 


 


 




 


 


     As Attorney-in-Fact


 


 


 



57

EXHIBIT INDEX



 


 




 


Exhibits marked * represent a management contract or compensatory
plan or arrangement required to be identified as such and filed as an exhibit.




 


 



 
Exhibits marked ** are “furnished” pursuant
to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and are not “filed” as part of this Report or as a separate disclosure document.

 


 
Exhibits marked *** represent those that, in accordance
with Regulation S-T, contain or consist of interactive data file information which shall be deemed “furnished” and
not “filed.”


 






  
 Exhibits marked + are filed herewith.


 


 




 


The phrase
 “2011 named executive officers” refers to those executive officers whose 2011
 compensation is described in detail in the Corporation’s 2012 Proxy
 Statement.




 


 




 


In many
 agreements filed as exhibits, each party makes representations and warranties
 to other parties. Those representations and warranties are made only to and
 for the benefit of those other parties in the context of a business contract.
 Exceptions to such representations and warranties may be partially or fully
 waived by such parties, or not enforced by such parties, in their discretion.
 No such representation or warranty may be relied upon by any other person for
 any purpose.







 


 




3.1


Restated
 Charter of the Corporation, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1
 to the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 20, 2011.




 


 




3.2


Bylaws of First
 Horizon National Corporation, as amended and restated October 17, 2011,
 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Corporation’s Current
 Report on Form 8-K filed October 20, 2011. 




 


 




3.3


Bylaws of
 First Horizon National Corporation, as amended and restated January 18, 2012
 (amendment is not effective until annual meeting scheduled for April 17,
 2012) , incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Corporation’s
 Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 18, 2012. 




 


 




4.1


The Corporation
 and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries have outstanding certain
 long-term debt. See Note 10 in the Corporation’s 2011 Annual Report to
 Shareholders. At December 31, 2011, none of such debt exceeded 10% of the
 total assets of the Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Thus,
 copies of constituent instruments defining the rights of holders of such debt
 are not required to be included as exhibits. The Corporation agrees to
 furnish copies of such instruments to the Securities and Exchange Commission
 upon request.




 


 




*Deferral
 Plans and Related Exhibits




 


 




*10.1(a1)


Directors
 and Executives Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated,
 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(h) to the Corporation’s
 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 6-30-03 and form of
 individual agreement, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(h) to
 the Corporation’s 1996 Annual report on Form 10-K.




 


 




*10.1(a2)


Form of
 Amendment to Directors and Executives Deferred Compensation Plan,
 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1(a3) to the Corporation’s
 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.




 


 




*10.1(a3)


Rate
 Applicable to Directors and Executive Officers Under the Directors and
 Executives Deferred Compensation Plan, incorporated herein by reference to
 Exhibit 10.1 to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended September 30, 2011.



58





 


 




*10.1(b)


Director
 Deferral Agreements with schedule, incorporated herein by reference to
 Exhibit 10(k) to the Corporation’s 1992 Annual Report on Form 10-K and
 Exhibit 10(j) to the Corporation’s 1995 Annual Report on Form 10-K.




 


 




*10.1(c)


Form of
 First Horizon National Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan as Amended and
 Restated, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1(c) to the
 Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
 30, 2007.




 


 




*10.1(d)


[1995]
 Non-Employee Directors’ Deferred Compensation Stock Option Plan, as restated
 for amendments through December 15, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to
 Exhibit 10.1(d) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended June 30, 2009.




 


 




*10.1(e)


2000
 Non-Employee Directors’ Deferred Compensation Stock Option Plan, as restated
 for amendments through December 15, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to
 Exhibit 10.1(e) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended June 30, 2009.




 


 




*10.1(f)


[1991] Bank
 Advisory Director Deferral Plan, as restated for amendments through December
 15, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1(f) to the
 Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
 2009.




 


 




*10.1(g)


[1996] Bank
 Director and Advisory Board Member Deferral Plan, as restated for amendments
 through December 15, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
 10.1(g) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
 ended June 30, 2009.




 


 




*10.1(h)


2002 Bank
 Director and Advisory Board Member Deferral Plan, as restated for amendments
 through December 15, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
 10.1(h) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
 ended June 30, 2009.




 


 




*10.1(i)


Form of
 First Horizon Deferred Compensation Plan as Amended and Restated,
 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1(i) to the Corporation’s
 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007. 




 


 




*10.1(j)


Form of FTN
 Financial Deferred Compensation Plan Amended and Restated Effective January
 1, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1(j) to the
 Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
 30, 2007.




 


 




*10.1(k)


Form of
 Deferred Compensation Agreement used under the Corporation’s 2003 Equity
 Compensation Plan and First Tennessee National Corporation Non-Qualified
 Deferred Compensation Plan, along with form of Salary, Commission, and Annual
 Bonus Deferral Programs Overview, form of Deferred Stock Option (“DSO”)
 Program Summary, and description of share receipt deferral feature,
 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(z) to the Corporation’s
 Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 3, 2005.




 


 




*10.1(l)


Description
 of April 19, 2005 amendments to the First Horizon National Corporation
 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan (formerly First Tennessee National
 Corporation Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan), incorporated herein by
 reference to Exhibit 10.1(l) to the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K
 dated April 19, 2005. 




 


 




*10.1(m)


Description
 of changes to options granted in January 2005 to certain employees in
 connection with deferrals of salary earned in 2004, incorporated herein by
 reference to Exhibit 10.1(m) to the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K
 dated October 19, 2005.



59





 


 




*Stock-Based
 Incentive Plans




 


 




*10.2(a)


1990 Stock
 Option Plan, as amended, and 1-21-97, 10-22-97, and 10-18-00 amendments,
 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Corporation’s 1992,
 1996, 1997 and 2000 Annual Reports on Form 10-K.




 


 




*10.2(b)


1992
 Restricted Stock Incentive Plan, as restated for amendments through December
 15, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2(b) to the
 Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
 2009.




 


 




*10.2(c)


1995
 Employee Stock Option Plan, as restated for amendments through December 15,
 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2(c) to the
 Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
 2009.




 


 




*10.2(d)


1997
 Employee Stock Option Plan, as restated for amendments through December 15,
 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2(d) to the
 Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
 2009.




 


 




*10.2(e)


2000
 Employee Stock Option Plan, as restated for amendments through December 15,
 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2(e) to the
 Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
 2009.




 


 




*10.2(f)


2003 Equity
 Compensation Plan (as amended and restated April 20, 2010 and as
 adjusted for all stock dividends through April 1, 2010), incorporated by
 reference to Appendix A to the Corporation’s Proxy Statement for its
 annual meeting on April 20, 2010.




 


 




*TARSAP/PARSAP
 Restricted Stock Agreements and Related Documents




 




*10.3(a)


Form of
 accelerated (performance based) Restricted Stock Agreement under the 1992
 Restricted Stock Incentive Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
 10.3(a) to the Corporation’s 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K.




 


 




*10.3(b)


Form of
 accelerated (performance based) Restricted Stock Agreement under the 2003
 Equity Compensation Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3(b)
 to the Corporation’s 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K.




 


 




*10.3(c)


Description
 of performance criteria related to TARSAP/PARSAP awards granted prior to
 2005, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3(c) to the
 Corporation’s 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K.




 


 




*10.3(d)


Form of 2005
 PARSAP Agreement (for executive officers other than the CEO), incorporated
 herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3(e) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report
 on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005.




 


 




*10.3(e)


Description
 of performance criteria related to 2005 PARSAP Agreement, incorporated herein
 by reference to Exhibit 10.3(f) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form
 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005.



60





 


 




*Performance-Based
 Stock Incentive Award Documents




 




*10.4(a)


Form of
 Performance Stock Units Notice of Grant [2009], incorporated herein by
 reference to Exhibit 10.4(f) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form
 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.




 


 




*10.4(b)


Form of
 Performance Stock Units Grant Notice [2010], incorporated herein by reference
 to Exhibit 10.4(d) to the Corporation’s Amendment No. 1 to Quarterly Report
 on Form 10-Q/A for the quarter ended March 31, 2010.




 


 




*10.4(c)


Form of
 Performance Stock Units Grant Notice [2011], incorporated herein by reference
 to Exhibit 10.4(d) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended March 31, 2011.




 


 




*Other
 Stock-Based Incentive Plan Agreements and Related Documents




 




*10.5(a)


Form of
 Restricted Stock Agreement for Non-Employee Director used under the 2003
 Equity Compensation Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(aa)
 to the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 18, 2005.




 


 




*10.5(b)


Form of
 Agreement To Defer Receipt Of Shares Following Option Exercise, incorporated
 herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5(c) to the Corporation’s 2004 Annual
 Report on Form 10-K.




 


 




*10.5(c)


Form of
 Agreement to Exchange Shares for RSUs and Defer Receipt of Shares [relating
 to Restricted Stock], incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5(d) to
 the Corporation’s 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K.




 


 




*10.5(d)


Form of
 Stock Option Grant Notice, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
 10.5(e) to the Corporation’s 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K.




 


 




*10.5(e)


Form of
 Stock Option Reload Grant Notification, incorporated herein by reference to
 Exhibit 10.5(f) to the Corporation’s 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K.




 


 




*10.5(f)


Form of
 Stock Option Grant Notice (used for executive officers during 2005),
 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5(g) to the Corporation’s
 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005.




 


 




*10.5(g)


Form of
 Management Stock Option Grant Notice (used for executive officers during
 2006), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5(j) to the
 Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
 2006. 




 


 




*10.5(h)


Form of
 Management Restricted Stock Grant Notice (used for executive officers during
 2006), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5(k) to the
 Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
 2006. 




 


 




*10.5(i)


Sections of
 Director Policy pertaining to compensation, incorporated herein by reference
 to Exhibit 10.5(j) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended September 30, 2010. 



61





 


 




*10.5(j)


First
 Tennessee Stock Option Enhancement Program, incorporated herein by reference
 to Exhibit 10.5(o) to the Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
 year ended December 31, 2006.




 


 




*10.5(k)


Form of
 Management Stock Option Grant Notice [2007], incorporated herein by reference
 to Exhibit 10.5(p) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended June 30, 2007.




 


 




*10.5(l)


Form of
 stock option grant notice used for special grant to Mr. Jordan in lieu of
 bonus, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5(r) to the
 Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 29, 2008.




 


 




*10.5(m)


Form of
 Retention Restricted Stock award grant notice under 2003 Equity Compensation
 Plan [2008], incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5(t) to the
 Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
 2008.




 


 




*10.5(n)


Form of
 Executive Restricted Stock Notice of Grant [2009], incorporated herein by
 reference to Exhibit 10.5(o) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form
 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.




 


 




*10.5(o)


Form of
 Executive Special Restricted Stock Notice of Grant [2009], incorporated
 herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5(p) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report
 on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.




 


 




*10.5(p)


Form of
 Bonus Restricted Stock Notice of Grant (associated with bonuses under the
 Capital Markets Incentive Compensation Plan) [2009], incorporated herein by
 reference to Exhibit 10.5(q) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form
 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.




 


 




*10.5(q)


Form of
 Executive Restricted Stock Grant Notice [2010], incorporated herein by
 reference to Exhibit 10.5(r) to the Corporation’s Amendment No. 1 to Quarterly
 Report on Form 10-Q/A for the quarter ended March 31, 2010.




 


 




*10.5(r)


Form of
 Executive Stock Option Grant Notice [2011], incorporated herein by reference
 to Exhibit 10.5(s) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended March 31, 2011.




 


 




*10.5(s)


Form of
 Executive Retention Restricted Stock Grant Notice [2011], incorporated herein
 by reference to Exhibit 10.5(t) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form
 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011.




 


 




*Management
 Cash Incentive Plan Documents




 


 




*10.6(a)


2002
 Management Incentive Plan, as restated for amendments through July 14, 2008,
 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6(a) to the Corporation’s
 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.




 


 




*10.6(b1)


Capital
 Markets Incentive Compensation Plan, incorporated herein by reference to
 Exhibit 10.6(c) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended September 30, 2006. Certain information in this exhibit has
 been omitted pursuant to a request for confidential treatment. The omitted
 information has been submitted separately to the Securities and 



62





 


 




 


Exchange
 Commission. In accordance with the Corporation’s bylaws, the Corporation’s
 Board Compensation Committee’s charter, and action of that Committee on July
 18, 2006, the annual incentive bonus to the head of the Capital Markets unit
 is subject to final review and approval by the Chief Executive Officer and
 the Compensation Committee.




 


 




*10.6(b2)


Amendment to
 Capital Markets Incentive Compensation Plan, incorporated herein by reference
 to Exhibit 10.6(c2) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
 the quarter ended September 30, 2007.




 


 




*Other
 Material Contract Exhibits relating to Employment, Retirement, Severance, or
 Separation




 




*10.7(a1)


February
 2007 form of change-in-control severance agreement between the Corporation
 and its executive officers, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
 10.7(a2) to the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 20,
 2007. 




 


 




*10.7(a2)


Form of
 Amendment to February 2007 form of change-in-control severance agreement
 between the Corporation and its executive officers, incorporated herein by
 reference to Exhibit 10.7(a4) to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form
 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.




 


 




*10.7(b)


October 2007
 form of change-in-control severance agreement between the Corporation and its
 executive officers, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7(a5) to
 the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
 September 30, 2007.




 


 




*10.7(c)


Form of
 Change in Control Severance Agreement offered to executive officers on or
 after November 14, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
 the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 24, 2008.




 


 




*10.7(d1)


Form of
 Pension Restoration Plan (amended and restated as of January 1, 2008),
 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7(e) to the Corporation’s
 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.




 


 




*10.7(d2)


Form of
 Amendment to Pension Restoration Plan, incorporated herein by reference to
 Exhibit 10.7(d2) to the Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
 ended December 31, 2009.




 


 




*10.7(d3)


Form of
 Amendment No. 3 to Pension Restoration Plan, incorporated herein by reference
 to Exhibit 10. 2 to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended September 30, 2011.




 


 




*10.7(e)


Conformed
 copy of Retirement Agreement with Charles G. Burkett, incorporated herein by
 reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K
 dated April 27, 2011.




 


 




*Other
 Material Contract Exhibits related to Management or Directors




 


 




*10.8(a)


Survivor
 Benefits Plan, as amended and restated July 18, 2006, incorporated herein by
 reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
 for the quarter ended September 30, 2006.




 


 




*10.8(b)


Other
 Compensation and Benefit Arrangements for Non-employee Directors,
 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.8(b) to the Corporation’s
 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009.



63





 


 




*10.8(c)


Long-Term
 Disability Program, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(v) to the
 Corporation’s 2003 Annual Report on Form 10-K.




 


 




*10.8(d1)


2004 Form of
 Indemnity Agreement between the Corporation and its directors and executive
 officers, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the
 Corporation’s 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K.




 


 




*10.8(d2)


Form of
 amendment to 2004 form of Indemnity Agreement with directors and executive
 officers, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the
 Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 28, 2008.




 


 




*10.8(e)


Form of Indemnity
 Agreement with directors and executive officers (April 2008 revision),
 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Corporation’s Current
 Report on Form 8-K filed April 28, 2008.




 


 




*10.8(f)+


Description
 of Certain Benefits Available to Executive Officers.




 


 




*10.8(g)+


Description
 of 2012 Salaries for 2011 Named Executive Officers.




 


 




*10.8(h)


Salary Stock
 Unit Program, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 8(h)to the
 Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
 2010.




 


 




*10.8(i)


Memorandum
 concerning consulting arrangement with Charles G. Burkett, incorporated
 herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Corporation’s Current Report on
 Form 8-K dated December 21, 2011.



Other Material Contract Exhibits
[reserved]
Other Exhibits



 


 




13+


Pages 2
 through 190 of the First Horizon National Corporation 2011 Annual Report to
 Shareholders, a copy of which is furnished for the information of the
 Securities and Exchange Commission. Portions of the Annual Report not
 incorporated herein by reference are deemed not to be “filed” with the
 Commission.




 


 




14


Code of
 Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, incorporated herein by reference to
 Exhibit 14 to the Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
 December 31, 2008.




 


 




21+


Subsidiaries
 of the Corporation.




 


 




23+


Accountant’s
 Consents.




 


 




24+


Power of
 Attorney.




 


 




31(a)+


Rule
 13a-14(a) Certifications of CEO (pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley
 Act of 2002)




 


 




31(b)+


Rule
 13a-14(a) Certifications of CFO (pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley
 Act of 2002)



64





 


 




32(a)+


18 USC 1350
 Certifications of CEO (pursuant to Section 906 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
 2002)**




 


 




32(b)+


18 USC 1350
 Certifications of CFO (pursuant to Section 906 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
 2002)**




 


 




101+


The
 following financial information from First Horizon National Corporation’s
 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011,
 formatted in XBRL: (i) Consolidated Statements of Condition at
 December 31, 2011 and 2010 (Unaudited); (ii) Consolidated Statements of Income
 for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 (Unaudited);
 (iii) Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for the Years
 Ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 (Unaudited); (iv) Consolidated
 Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010,
 and 2009 (Unaudited); (v) Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).***




 


 




101.INS+


XBRL
 Instance Document***




 


 




101.SCH+


XBRL
 Taxonomy Extension Schema***




 


 




101.CAL+


XBRL
 Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase***




 


 




101.LAB+


XBRL
 Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase***




 


 




101.PRE+


XBRL
 Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase***




 


 




101.DEF+


XBRL
 Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase***




65





