
10-K
1
mar10k.htm
MARCH 31, 2012 10-K



mar10k.htm








UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 10-K


(Mark One)




R


ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934.





For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012


or






£


TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934.





For the transition period from __________________ to __________________






Commission
File Number


Registrant, State of Incorporation
Address and Telephone Number


I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.


  

 


  


1-11255


AMERCO


88-0106815


  

(A Nevada Corporation)

  

  

1325 Airmotive Way, Ste. 100

  

  

Reno, Nevada 89502-3239

  

  

Telephone (775) 688-6300

  

  
  
  


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



 
Registrant


 
Title of Class


Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered



AMERCO


Common


NASDAQ


  
  
  


 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
 
None
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes £  No R
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Securities Act.  Yes £  No R
 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. £
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant:  (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes R  No £
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files.) Yes R  No £



  


  





  



 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of a “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
 
Large accelerated filer £                                                                Accelerated filer R
 
Non-accelerated filer £ (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)      Smaller reporting company £
                                                                                                                                   
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.) Yes £  No R
 
The aggregate market value of AMERCO common stock held by non-affiliates on September 30, 2011 was $397,885,149. The aggregate market value was computed using the closing price for the common stock trading on NASDAQ on such date. Shares held by executive officers, directors and persons owning directly or indirectly more than 5% of the outstanding common stock have been excluded from the preceding number because such persons may be deemed to be affiliates of the registrant. This determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other purposes.
 
19,607,788 shares of AMERCO common stock, $0.25 par value, were outstanding at June 1, 2012.
 
Documents incorporated by reference: portions of AMERCO’s definitive proxy statement for the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, to be filed within 120 days after AMERCO’s fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this report.







  


  





  



TABLE OF CONTENTS
 



  
  

Page


  

PART I

  

  
  
  


Item 1.


Business                                                                                                                     


2

  


Item 1A.


Risk Factors                                                                                                                      


7

  


Item 1B.


Unresolved Staff Comments                                                                                                                      


12

  


Item 2.


Properties                                                                                                                      


12

  


Item 3.


Legal Proceedings                                                                                                                      


12

  


Item 4.


Mine Safety Disclosure                                                                                                                      


13

  

  
  
  
  

  

PART II

  
  


Item 5.


Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer  Repurchases of Equity Securities


14

  


Item 6.


Selected Financial Data                                                                                                                      


17

  


Item 7.


Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations


18

  


Item 7A.


Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk                    


40

  


Item 8.


Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                                                                                                                      


41

  


Item 9.


Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure


41

  


Item 9A.


Controls and Procedures                                                                                                                      


41

  


Item 9B.


Other Information                                                                                                                      


44

  

  
  
  
  

  

PART III

  
  


Item 10.


Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance                                                                                                                      


44

  


Item 11.


Executive Compensation                                                                                                                      


44

  


Item 12.


Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters


44

  


Item 13.


Certain Relationships and Related Transaction, and Director Independence


44

  


Item 14.


Principal Accounting Fees and Services                                                                                                                      


44

  

  
  
  
  

  

PART IV

  
  


Item 15.


Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules                                                                                                                      


45

  







  


  





  





 
PART I
 
Item 1. Business
 
 Company Overview
 
We are North America’s largest “do-it-yourself” moving and storage operator through our subsidiary    U-Haul International, Inc. (“U-Haul”). U-Haul is synonymous with “do-it-yourself” moving and storage and is a leader in supplying products and services to help people move and store their household and commercial goods. Our primary service objective is to provide a better and better product or service to more and more people at a lower and lower cost. Unless the context otherwise requires, the term “AMERCO,” “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refers to AMERCO, a Nevada Corporation, and all of its legal subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis.
 
We were founded in 1945 as a sole proprietorship under the name "U-Haul Trailer Rental Company" and have rented trailers ever since. Starting in 1959, we rented trucks on a one-way and in-town basis exclusively through independent U-Haul dealers. In 1974, we began developing our network of U-Haul managed retail centers, through which we rent our trucks and trailers, self-storage rooms and sell moving and self-storage products and services to complement our independent dealer network.
 
We rent our distinctive orange and white U-Haul trucks and trailers as well as offer self-storage rooms through a network of 1,450 Company operated retail moving centers and approximately 15,500 independent U-Haul dealers. We also sell U-Haul brand boxes, tape and other moving and self-storage products and services to “do-it-yourself” moving and storage customers at all of our distribution outlets and through our eMove® web site.
 
We believe U-Haul is the most convenient supplier of products and services addressing the needs of North America’s “do-it-yourself” moving and storage market. Our broad geographic coverage throughout the United States and Canada and our extensive selection of U-Haul brand moving equipment rentals, self-storage rooms and related moving and storage products and services provide our customers with convenient “one-stop” shopping.
 
Since 1945 U-Haul has incorporated sustainable practices into its everyday operations. We believe that our basic business premise of equipment sharing helps reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reduces the need for total large capacity vehicles. We continue to look for ways to reduce waste within our business and are dedicated to manufacturing reusable components and recyclable products. We believe that our commitment to sustainability, through our products and services and everyday operations has helped us to reduce our impact on the environment.
 
Through Repwest Insurance Company (“Repwest”), our property and casualty insurance subsidiary, we manage the property, liability and related insurance claims processing for U-Haul. Oxford Life Insurance Company (“Oxford”), our life insurance subsidiary, sells life insurance, Medicare supplement insurance, annuities and other related products to non U-Haul customers.
 
 Available Information
 
AMERCO and U-Haul are each incorporated in Nevada. U-Haul’s internet address is uhaul.com. On AMERCO’s investor relations web site, amerco.com, we post the following filings as soon as practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”): our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K, our proxy statement related to our annual meeting of stockholders, and any amendments to those reports or statements filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). All such filings on our web site are available free of charge. Additionally, you will find these materials on the SEC’s website at sec.gov.
 
 Products and Rental Equipment
 
Our customers are primarily “do-it-yourself” household movers. U-Haul moving equipment is specifically designed, engineered and manufactured for the “do-it-yourself” household mover. These “do-it-yourself” movers include individuals and families moving their belongings from one home to another, college students moving their belongings, vacationers and sports enthusiasts needing extra space or having special towing needs, people trying to save on home furniture and home appliance delivery costs, and “do-it-yourself” home remodeling and gardening enthusiasts who need to transport materials.



  


2





  



 
As of March 31, 2012, our rental fleet consisted of approximately 106,000 trucks, 83,000 trailers and 33,000 towing devices. This equipment and our U-Haul brand of self-moving products and services are available through our network of managed retail moving centers and independent U-Haul dealers. Independent U-Haul dealers receive rental equipment from the Company, act as rental agents and are paid a commission based on gross revenues generated from their U-Haul rentals.
 
Our rental truck chassis are manufactured by domestic and foreign truck manufacturers. These chassis are joined with the U-Haul designed and manufactured van boxes primarily at U-Haul operated manufacturing and assembly facilities strategically located throughout the United States. U-Haul rental trucks feature our proprietary Lowest DeckSM, which provides our customers with extra ease of loading. The loading ramps on our trucks are the widest in the industry, which reduce the effort needed to move belongings. Our trucks are fitted with convenient, padded rub rails with tie downs on every interior wall. Our Gentle Ride SuspensionSM helps our customers safely move delicate and prized possessions. Also, the engineers at our U-Haul Technical Center determined that the softest ride in our trucks was at the front of the van box. Consequently, we designed the part of the van box that hangs over the front cab of the truck to be the location for our customers to place their most fragile items during their move. We call this area Mom’s AtticSM.
 
Our distinctive trailers are also manufactured at these same U-Haul operated manufacturing and assembly facilities. These trailers are well suited to the low profile of many of today’s newly manufactured automobiles. Our engineering staff is committed to making our trailers easy to tow, safe, aerodynamic and fuel efficient.
 
To provide our self-move customers with added value, our rental trucks and trailers are designed with fuel efficiency in mind. Many of our newer trucks are fitted with fuel economy gauges, another tool that assists our customers in conserving fuel. To help make our rental equipment more reliable, we routinely perform extensive preventive maintenance and repairs.
 
We also provide customers with equipment to transport their vehicle. We provide two towing options; auto transport, in which all four wheels are off the ground and a tow dolly, in which the front wheels of the towed vehicle are off the ground.
 
To help our customers load their boxes and larger household appliances and furniture, we offer several accessory rental items. Our utility dolly has a lightweight design and is easy to maneuver. Another rental accessory is our four wheel dolly, which provides a large, flat surface for moving dressers, wall units, pianos and other large household items. U-Haul appliance dollies provide the leverage needed to move refrigerators, freezers, washers and dryers easily and safely. These utility, furniture and appliance dollies, along with the low decks and the wide loading ramps on U-Haul trucks and trailers, are designed for easy loading and unloading of our customers’ belongings.
 
The total package U-Haul offers the “do-it-yourself” household mover doesn’t end with trucks, trailers and accessory rental items. Our moving supplies include a wide array of affordably priced U-Haul brand boxes, tape and packing materials. We also provide specialty boxes for dishes, computers and sensitive electronic equipment, as well as tape, security locks, and packing supplies. U-Haul brand boxes are specifically sized to make loading easier.
 
We estimate that U-Haul is North America’s largest seller and installer of hitches and towing systems. In addition to towing U-Haul equipment, these hitching and towing systems can tow jet skis, motorcycles, boats, campers and horse trailers. Our hitches, ball mounts, and hitch balls undergo stringent testing requirements. Each year, more than one million customers visit our locations for expertise on complete towing systems, trailer rentals and the latest in towing accessories.
 
U-Haul has one of North America’s largest propane refilling networks, with over 1,060 locations providing this convenient service. We employ trained, certified personnel to refill all propane cylinders and alternative fuel vehicles. Our network of propane dispensing locations is one of the largest automobile alternative refueling networks in North America.
 
Our self-storage business was a natural outgrowth of our self-moving operations. Conveniently located U-Haul self-storage rental facilities provide clean, dry and secure space for storage of household and commercial goods. Storage units range in size from 6 square feet to over 1,000 square feet. We operate 1,140 self-storage locations in North America, with over 423,000 rentable rooms comprising 37.8 million square feet of rentable storage space. Our self-storage centers feature a wide array of security



  


3





  



 
measures, ranging from electronic property access control gates to individually alarmed storage units. At many centers, we offer climate controlled storage rooms to protect temperature sensitive goods such as video tapes, albums, photographs and precious wood furniture.
 
Another extension of our strategy to make “do-it-yourself” moving and storage easier is our U-BoxTM program.  A storage container is delivered to a location of our customer’s choosing either by Company personnel or by the customers themselves through the use of a U-Box trailer. This option provides the customer with the greatest scheduling convenience. Once the container is filled it can be stored at the customer’s location, or taken to any of our corporate locations or moved to a location of the customer’s choice.
 
Additionally, we offer moving and storage protection packages such as Safemove and Safetow. These programs provide moving and towing customers with a damage waiver, cargo protection and medical and life insurance coverage. Safestor provides protection for storage customers from loss on their goods in storage. For our customers who desire additional coverage over and above the standard Safemove protection, we also offer our Super Safemove product. This package provides the rental customer with a layer of primary liability protection.
 
Our eMove® web site, eMove.com, is the largest network of customers and independent businesses in the self-moving and self-storage industry. The eMove network consists of channels where customers, businesses and service providers transact business. The eMove Moving Help marketplace connects “do-it-yourself” movers with independent service providers to assist movers in packing, loading, unloading, cleaning, driving and performing other services. Thousands of independent service providers participate in the eMove network.
 
Through the eMove Storage Affiliate Program, independent storage businesses can join the world’s largest self-storage reservation system. Self-storage customers making a reservation through eMove can access all of the U-Haul self-storage centers and all of our independent storage affiliate partners for even greater convenience to meet their self-storage needs.
 
 Description of Operating Segments
 
AMERCO’s three reportable segments are:
 




·  


Moving and Storage, comprised of AMERCO, U-Haul, and Real Estate and the subsidiaries of U-Haul and Real Estate,



 




·  


Property and Casualty Insurance, comprised of Repwest and its subsidiaries and ARCOA, and



 




·  


Life Insurance, comprised of Oxford and its subsidiaries.



 
Financial information for each of our operating segments is included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as part of Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
Moving and Storage Operating Segment
 
Our Moving and Storage operating segment consists of the rental of trucks, trailers, portable storage boxes, specialty rental items and self-storage spaces primarily to the household mover as well as sales of moving supplies, towing accessories and propane. Operations are conducted under the registered trade name U-Haul® throughout the United States and Canada.
 
Net revenue from our Moving and Storage operating segment was approximately 86.1%, 88.1% and 90.6% of consolidated net revenue in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
During fiscal 2012, the Company placed approximately 22,600 new trucks in service. These replacements were a combination of U-Haul manufactured vehicles and purchases. Typically as new trucks are added to the fleet the Company removes older trucks from the fleet. The total number of rental trucks in the fleet increased during fiscal 2012 as we increased the pace of new additions while trucks removed for retirement and sale were generally consistent with fiscal 2011.
 
Within our truck and trailer rental operation we are focused on expanding our independent dealer network to provide added convenience for our customers. U-Haul maximizes vehicle utilization by effective distribution of the truck and trailer fleets among the 1,450 Company operated centers and approximately 15,500 independent dealers. Utilizing its proprietary reservations management system, the



  


4





  



 
Company’s centers and dealers electronically report their inventory in real-time, which facilitates matching equipment to customer demand. Approximately 55% of all U-Move rental revenue originates from the Company operated centers.
 
At our owned and operated retail centers we are implementing new initiatives to improve customer service. These initiatives include improving management of our rental equipment to provide our retail centers with the right type of rental equipment, at the right time and at the most convenient location for our customers, effective marketing of our broad line of self-moving related products and services, maintaining longer hours of operation to provide more convenience to our customers, and enhancing our ability to properly staff locations during our peak hours of operations by attracting and retaining “moonlighters” (part-time U-Haul employees with full-time jobs elsewhere) during our peak hours of operation.
 
Our self-moving related products and services, such as boxes, pads and insurance, help our customers have a better moving experience and help them to protect their belongings from potential damage during the moving process. We are committed to providing a complete line of products selected with the “do-it-yourself” moving and storage customer in mind.
 
Our self-storage business operations consist of the rental of self-storage rooms, portable storage boxes, sales of self-storage related products, the facilitation of sales of services, and the management of self-storage facilities owned by others.
 
U-Haul is one of the largest North American operators of self-storage and has been a leader in the self-storage industry since 1974. U-Haul operates over 423,000 storage rooms, comprising 37.8 million square feet of storage space with locations in 49 states and 10 Canadian provinces. U-Haul’s owned and managed self-storage facility locations range in size up to 184,600 square feet of storage space, with individual storage units in sizes ranging from 6 square feet to over 1,000 square feet.
 
The primary market for storage rooms is the storage of household goods. We believe that our self-storage services provide a competitive advantage through such things as Max Security, an electronic system that monitors the storage facility 24 hours a day, climate control, individually alarmed rooms, extended hours access, and an internet-based customer reservation and account management system.
 
eMove is an online marketplace that connects consumers to independent Moving Help™ service providers and thousands of independent Self-Storage Affiliates. Our network of customer-rated affiliates provides pack and load help, cleaning help, self-storage and similar services all over North America. Our goal is to further utilize our web-based technology platform to increase service to consumers and businesses in the moving and storage market.
 
Our Moving and Storage operating segment business is seasonal and our results of operations and cash flows fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Historically, revenues have been stronger in the first and second fiscal quarters due to the overall increase in moving activity during the spring and summer months. The fourth fiscal quarter is generally weakest, due to a greater potential for adverse weather conditions.
 
Property and Casualty Insurance Operating Segment
 
Our Property and Casualty Insurance operating segment provides loss adjusting and claims handling for U-Haul through regional offices across North America. Property and Casualty Insurance also underwrites components of the Safemove, Safetow, Super Safemove and Safestor protection packages to U-Haul customers. We continue to focus on increasing the penetration of these products into the moving and storage market. The business plan for Property and Casualty Insurance includes offering property and casualty products in other U-Haul related programs.
 
Net revenue from our Property and Casualty Insurance operating segment was approximately 1.6%, 1.7% and 1.6% of consolidated net revenue in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Life Insurance Operating Segment
 
Our Life Insurance operating segment provides life and health insurance products primarily to the senior market through the direct writing and reinsuring of life insurance, Medicare supplement and annuity policies.



  


5





  



 
Net revenue from our Life Insurance operating segment was approximately 12.3%, 10.2% and 7.8% of consolidated net revenue in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
 Employees
 
As of March 31, 2012, we employed over 17,700 people throughout North America with approximately 98% of these employees working within our Moving and Storage operating segment and approximately 57% of these employees work on a part-time basis.
 
 Sales and Marketing
 
We promote U-Haul brand awareness through direct and co-marketing arrangements. Our direct marketing activities consist of web based advertising, print and yellow pages as well as trade events, movie cameos of our rental fleet and boxes, and industry and consumer communications. Our rental equipment is our best form of advertisement.  We support our independent U-Haul dealers through advertising of U-Haul moving and self-storage rentals, products and services.
 
Our marketing plan focuses on maintaining our leadership position in the “do-it-yourself” moving and storage industry by continually improving the ease of use and efficiency of our rental equipment, by providing added convenience to our retail centers through independent U-Haul dealers, and by expanding the capabilities of our eMove web sites.
 
A significant driver of U-Haul’s rental transaction volume is our utilization of an online reservation and sales system, through uhaul.com, eMove.com and our 24-hour 1-800-GO-U-HAUL telephone reservations system. These points of contact are prominently featured and are a major driver of customer lead sources.
 
 Competition
 
Moving and Storage Operating Segment
 
The truck rental industry is highly competitive and includes a number of significant national, regional and local competitors. Generally speaking, we consider there to be two distinct users of rental trucks: commercial and “do-it-yourself” residential users. We primarily focus on the “do-it-yourself” residential user. Within this segment, we believe the principal competitive factors are convenience of rental locations, availability of quality rental moving equipment, breadth of essential products and services, and total cost to the user. Our major national competitors in both the In-Town and one-way moving equipment rental market are Avis Budget Group, Inc. and Penske Truck Leasing. Additionally, we have numerous small local competitors throughout North America who compete with us in the In-Town market.
 
The self-storage market is large and very fragmented. We believe the principal competitive factors in this industry are convenience of storage rental locations, cleanliness, security and price. Our largest competitors in the self-storage market are Public Storage Inc., Extra Space Storage, Inc., and Sovran Self-Storage Inc.
 
Insurance Operating Segments
 
The insurance industry is highly competitive. In addition, the marketplace includes financial services firms offering both insurance and financial products. Some of the insurance companies are owned by stockholders and others are owned by policyholders. Many competitors have been in business for a longer period of time or possess substantially greater financial resources and broader product portfolios than our insurance companies. We compete in the insurance business based upon price, product design, and services rendered to agents and policyholders.
 
 Recent Developments
 
Related Party
 
In April 2012, the Company received $52.2 million from SAC Holding Corporation as full repayment of principal and accrued interest for one of its junior notes. Also in April 2012 and May 2012, the Company received $46.0 million and $20.4 million, respectively from SAC Holding II Corporation as partial repayment on its junior note.



  


6





  



 
Financial Strength Ratings
 
In February 2012, A.M. Best downgraded the financial strength rating to B (Fair) for Repwest, and has been placed under review with negative implications. The business lines that Repwest currently operates in are generally not ratings sensitive; therefore, we do not believe the downgrade will significantly impact Repwest’s current marketing plans or its financial condition. The downgrade could negatively effect certain expansion opportunities in the future or result in additional costs.
 
In April 2012, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength rating of B++ (Good) for Oxford and upgraded its outlook from stable to positive.
 
Financial Data of Segment and Geographic Areas
 
For financial data of our segments and geographic areas please see Note 23 Financial Information by Geographic Area and Note 23A Consolidating Financial Information by Industry Segment to our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
This Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Annual Report”), contains “forward-looking statements” regarding future events and our future results of operations. We may make additional written or oral forward-looking statements from time to time in filings with the SEC or otherwise. We believe such forward-looking statements are within the meaning of the safe-harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Such statements may include, but are not limited to, projections of revenues, earnings or loss, estimates of capital expenditures, plans for future operations, products or services, financing needs and plans, our perceptions of our legal positions and anticipated outcomes of government investigations and pending litigation against us, liquidity, goals and strategies, plans for new business, storage occupancy, growth rate assumptions, pricing, costs, and access to capital and leasing markets as well as assumptions relating to the foregoing. The words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date the statement was made.
 
Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified. Factors that could significantly affect results include, without limitation, the risk factors enumerated at the end of this section, as well as the following: our ability to operate pursuant to the terms of its credit facilities; our ability to maintain contracts that are critical to our operations; the costs and availability of financing; our ability to execute our business plan; our ability to attract, motivate and retain key employees; general economic conditions; fluctuations in our costs to maintain and update our fleet and facilities; our ability to refinance our debt; changes in government regulations, particularly environmental regulations; our credit ratings; the availability of credit; changes in demand for our products; changes in the general domestic economy; the degree and nature of our competition; the resolution of pending litigation against us; changes in accounting standards and other factors described in this Annual Report or the other documents we file with the SEC. The above factors, the following disclosures, as well as other statements in this Annual Report and in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, could contribute to or cause such risks or uncertainties, or could cause our stock price to fluctuate dramatically. Consequently, the forward-looking statements should not be regarded as representations or warranties by us that such matters will be realized. We assume no obligation to update or revise any of the forward-looking statements, whether in response to new information, unforeseen events, changed circumstances or otherwise.
 
Item 1A.   Risk Factors
 
The following discussion of risk factors should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes.  These risk factors may be important in understanding this Annual Report or elsewhere.



  


7





  



 
We operate in a highly competitive industry.
 
The truck rental industry is highly competitive and includes a number of significant national, regional and local competitors. We believe the principal competitive factors in this industry are convenience of rental locations, availability of quality rental moving equipment, breadth of essential services and products and total cost. Financial results for the Company can be adversely impacted by aggressive pricing from our competitors. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources than we have. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain existing rental prices or implement price increases. Moreover, if our competitors reduce prices and we are not able or willing to do so as well, we may lose rental volume, which would likely have a materially adverse affect on our results of operations.
 
The self-storage industry is large and highly fragmented. We believe the principal competitive factors in this industry are convenience of storage rental locations, cleanliness, security and price. Competition in the market areas in which we operate is significant and affects the occupancy levels, rental rates and operating expenses of our facilities. Competition might cause us to experience a decrease in occupancy levels, limit our ability to raise rental rates or require us to offer discounted rates that would have a material affect on results of operations and financial condition. Entry into the self-storage business may be accomplished through the acquisition of existing facilities by persons or institutions with the required initial capital. Development of new self-storage facilities is more difficult however, due to land use, zoning, environmental and other regulatory requirements. The self-storage industry has in the past experienced overbuilding in response to perceived increases in demand. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete in existing markets or expand into new markets.
 
We are highly leveraged.
 
As of March 31, 2012, we had total debt outstanding of $1,486.2 million and total undiscounted lease commitments of $325.4 million. Although we believe, based on existing information, that additional leverage can be supported by our operations and revenues, our existing debt could impact us in the following ways among other considerations:
 




·  


require us to allocate a considerable portion of cash flows from operations to debt service payments;



 




·  


limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;



 




·  


limit our ability to obtain additional financing; and



 




·  


place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who may have less debt.



 
Our ability to make payments on our debt depends upon our ability to maintain and improve our operating performance and generate cash flow. To some extent, this is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt and meet our other cash needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. If we must sell our assets, it may negatively affect our ability to generate revenue. In addition, we may incur additional debt that would exacerbate the risks associated with our indebtedness.
 
Economic conditions, including those related to the credit markets, may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations.
 
The United States economy has undergone a period of slowdown and unprecedented volatility, which resulted in a recession.  It is difficult to gauge the pace of the economic recovery or if such recovery may stall or reverse course in the future.  Consumer and commercial spending is generally affected by the health of the economy, which places some of the factors affecting the success of our business beyond our control.  Our industries, although not as traditionally cyclical as some, could experience significant downturns in connection with or in anticipation of, declines, or sustained lack of recovery, in general economic conditions.  In times of declining consumer spending we may be driven, along with our competitors, to reduce pricing which would have a negative impact on gross profit.  We cannot predict if another downturn, or sustained lack of recovery, in the economy may occur which could result in reduced revenues and working capital.



  


8





  



 
Should credit markets in the United States tighten or if interest rates increase significantly we may not be able to refinance existing debt or find additional financing on favorable terms, if at all.  If one or more of the financial institutions that support our existing credit facilities fails, we may not be able to find a replacement, which would negatively impact our ability to borrow under credit facilities.  While we believe that we have adequate sources of liquidity to meet our anticipated requirement for working capital, debt servicing and capital expenditures through fiscal 2013, if our operating results were to worsen significantly and our cash flows or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates increase significantly, we could face liquidity problems that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.
 
Our fleet rotation program can be adversely affected by financial market conditions.
 
To meet the needs of our customers, U-Haul maintains a large fleet of rental equipment. Our rental truck fleet rotation program is funded internally through operations and externally from debt and lease financing. Our ability to fund our routine fleet rotation program could be adversely affected if financial market conditions limit the general availability of external financing. This could lead us to operate trucks longer than initially planned and/or reducing the size of the fleet, either of which could materially and negatively affect our results of operations.
 
Another important aspect of our fleet rotation program is the sale of used rental equipment. The sale of used equipment provides us with funds that can be used to purchase new equipment. Conditions may arise that could lead to the decrease in resale values for our used equipment. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, which would result in losses on the sale of equipment and decreases in cash flows from the sales of equipment.
 
We obtain our rental trucks from a limited number of manufacturers.
 
Over the last ten years, we purchased the majority of our rental trucks from Ford Motor Company and General Motors Corporation. Our fleet can be negatively affected by issues our manufacturers may face within their own supply chain. Also, it is possible that our suppliers may face financial difficulties or organizational changes which could negatively impact their ability to accept future orders or fulfill existing orders. Although we believe that we could contract with alternative manufacturers for our rental trucks, we cannot guarantee or predict how long that would take. In addition, termination of our existing relationship with these suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations for an indefinite period of time.
 
We may not be able to effectively hedge against interest rate changes in our variable debt.
 
In certain instances, the Company seeks to manage its exposure to interest rate risk through the use of hedging instruments including interest rate swap agreements and forward swaps. We enter into these arrangements with counterparties that are significant financial institutions with whom we generally have other financial arrangements. We are exposed to credit risk should these counterparties not be able to perform on their obligations. Additionally, a failure on our part to effectively hedge against interest rate changes may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are required to record these financial instruments at their fair value. Changes in interest rates can significantly impact the valuation of the instruments resulting in non-cash changes to our financial position.
 
We are controlled by a small contingent of stockholders.
 
As of March 31, 2012, Edward J. Shoen, President and Chairman of the Board of AMERCO, James P. Shoen, a director of AMERCO, and Mark V. Shoen collectively are the owners of 9,222,365 shares (approximately 47.0%) of the outstanding common stock of AMERCO. In addition, Edward J. Shoen, James P. Shoen, Mark V. Shoen, Rosmarie T. Donovan (Trustee of the Shoen Irrevocable Trusts) and Dunham Trust Company (Successor Trustee of the Irrevocable “C” Trusts) (collectively, the “Reporting Persons”) are parties to a stockholder agreement dated June 30, 2006 in which the Reporting Persons agreed to vote as one as provided in this agreement (the “Stockholder Agreement”).  Pursuant to the Stockholder Agreement, a collective 10,897,088 shares (approximately 55.6%) of the Company’s common stock are voted at the direction of a majority in interest of the Reporting Persons.  For additional information, refer to the Schedule 13Ds filed on July 13, 2006, March 9, 2007 and on June 26, 2009 with the SEC. In addition, 1,482,344 shares (approximately 7.6%) of the outstanding common stock of AMERCO are held by our Employee Savings and Employee Stock Ownership Trust.



  


9





  



 
As a result of their stock ownership and the Stockholder Agreement, Edward J. Shoen, Mark V. Shoen and James P. Shoen are in a position to significantly influence our business affairs and policies of the Company, including the approval of significant transactions, the election of the members of our Board of Directors (the “Board”) and other matters submitted to our stockholders. There can be no assurance that the interests of the Reporting Persons will not conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Furthermore, as a result of the Reporting Persons’ voting power, the Company is a “controlled company” as defined in the Nasdaq Listing Rules and, therefore, may avail itself of certain exemptions under Nasdaq rules, including exemptions from the rules that require us to have (i) a majority of independent directors on the Board; (ii) independent director oversight of executive officer compensation; and (iii) independent director oversight of director nominations.  Of the above available exemptions, we currently avail ourself of the exemption from independent director oversight of executive officer compensation, other than with respect to the compensation of the President of AMERCO.
 
We bear certain risks related to our notes receivable from SAC Holdings.
 
At March 31, 2012, we held $195.4 million of notes receivable from SAC Holding Corporation and its subsidiaries (“SAC Holding Corporation”) and SAC Holding II Corporation and its subsidiaries (“SAC Holding II”) (collectively “SAC Holdings”), which consist of junior unsecured notes. SAC Holdings is highly leveraged with significant indebtedness to others. If SAC Holdings is unable to meet its obligations to its senior lenders, it could trigger a default of its obligations to us. In such an event of default, we could suffer a loss to the extent the value of the underlying collateral of SAC Holdings is inadequate to repay SAC Holdings senior lenders and our junior unsecured notes.  We cannot assure you that SAC Holdings will not default on its loans to its senior lenders or that the value of SAC Holdings assets upon liquidation would be sufficient to repay us in full. Due to repayments in April 2012 and May 2012 the total notes receivable balance decreased by $113.5 million, and accrued interest decreased by $5.1 million.
 
Our quarterly results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with our industry.
 
Our business is seasonal and our results of operations and cash flows fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Historically, revenues have been stronger in the first and second fiscal quarters due to the overall increase in moving activity during the spring and summer months. The fourth fiscal quarter is generally weakest, due to a greater potential for adverse weather conditions and other factors that are not necessarily seasonal. As a result, our operating results for any given quarterly period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year.
 
Our operations subject us to numerous environmental regulations and the possibility that environmental liability in the future could adversely affect our operations.
 
Compliance with environmental requirements of federal, state and local governments significantly affects our business. Among other things, these requirements regulate the discharge of materials into the air, land and water and govern the use and disposal of hazardous substances. Under environmental laws or common law principles, we can be held liable for hazardous substances that are found on real property we have owned or operated. We are aware of issues regarding hazardous substances on some of our real estate and we have put in place a remediation plan at each site where we believe such a plan is necessary. See Note 20, Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We regularly make capital and operating expenditures to stay in compliance with environmental laws. In particular, we have managed a testing and removal program since 1988 for our underground storage tanks.  Despite these compliance efforts, we believe that risk of environmental liability is part of the nature of our business.
 
Environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and could become more stringent in the future. We cannot assure you that future compliance with these regulations, future environmental liabilities, the cost of defending environmental claims, conducting any environmental remediation or generally resolving liabilities caused by us or related third parties will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.



  


10





  



 
We operate in a highly regulated industry and changes in existing regulations or violations of existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability.
 
Our truck and trailer rental business is subject to regulation by various federal, state and foreign governmental entities. Specifically, the U.S. Department of Transportation and various state and federal agencies exercise broad powers over our motor carrier operations, safety, and the generation, handling, storage, treatment and disposal of waste materials. In addition, our storage business is also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. The failure to adhere to these laws and regulations may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent such property or to use the property as collateral for future borrowings. Compliance with changing regulations could substantially impair real property and equipment productivity and increase our costs. In addition, the Federal government may institute some regulation that limits carbon emissions by setting a maximum amount of carbon entities can emit without penalty. This would likely affect everyone who uses fossil fuels and would disproportionately affect users in the highway transportation industries. While there are too many variables at this time to assess the impact of the various proposed federal and state regulations that could affect carbon emissions, many experts believe these proposed rules could significantly affect the way companies operate in their industries.
 
Our ability to attract and retain qualified employees, and changes in laws or other labor issues could adversely affect our business and our results of operations.
 
The success of our business is predicated upon our workforce providing excellent customer service. Our ability to attract and retain this employee base may be inhibited due to prevailing wage rates, benefit costs and the adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. Should this occur we may be unable to provide service in certain areas or we may experience significantly increased costs of labor that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.
 
We are highly dependent upon our automated systems and the Internet for managing our business.
 
Our information systems are largely Internet-based, including our point-of-sale reservation system and telephone systems. While our reliance on this technology lowers our cost of providing service and expands our abilities to serve, it exposes us to various risks including natural and man-made disasters. We have put into place backup systems and alternative procedures to mitigate this risk.  However, disruptions or breaches in any portion of these systems could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.
 
A.M. Best financial strength ratings are crucial to our life insurance business.
 
In April 2012, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength rating for Oxford, Christian Fidelity Life Insurance Company, North American Insurance Company and Dallas General Life Insurance Company of B++ and upgraded the outlook to positive. Financial strength ratings are important external factors that can affect the success of Oxford’s business plans. Accordingly, if Oxford’s ratings, relative to its competitors, are not maintained or do not continue to improve, Oxford may not be able to retain and attract business as currently planned, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.
 
We may incur losses due to our reinsurers’ or counterparties’ failure to perform under existing contracts or we may be unable to secure sufficient reinsurance or hedging protection in the future.
 
We use reinsurance and derivative contracts to mitigate our risk of loss in various circumstances; primarily at Repwest and for our Moving and Storage operating segment. These agreements do not release us from our primary obligations and therefore we remain ultimately responsible for these potential costs. We cannot provide assurance that these reinsurers or counterparties will fulfill their obligations. Their inability or unwillingness to make payments to us under the terms of the contracts may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.
 
At December 31, 2011, Repwest reported $1.1 million of reinsurance recoverables, net of allowances and $223.9 million of reserves and liabilities ceded to reinsurers. Of this, Repwest’s largest exposure to a single reinsurer was $62.7 million.



  


11





  



 
Item 1B.   Unresolved Staff Comments
 
We have no unresolved staff comments at March 31, 2012.
 
Item 2.   Properties
 
The Company, through its legal subsidiaries, owns property, plant and equipment that are utilized in the manufacturing, repair and rental of U-Haul equipment and storage space, as well as providing office space for us. Such facilities exist throughout the United States and Canada. We also manage storage facilities owned by others. We operate 1,450 U-Haul retail centers of which 481 are managed for other owners, and operates 12 manufacturing and assembly facilities. We also operate 175 fixed-site repair facilities located throughout the United States and Canada. These facilities are used primarily for the benefit of our Moving and Storage operating segment.
 
Item 3.   Legal Proceedings
 
Shoen
 
In September 2002, Paul F. Shoen filed a shareholder derivative lawsuit in the Second Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada, Washoe County, captioned Paul F. Shoen vs. SAC Holding Corporation et al., CV 02-05602, seeking damages and equitable relief on behalf of AMERCO from SAC Holdings and certain current and former members of the AMERCO Board of Directors, including Edward J. Shoen, Mark V. Shoen and James P. Shoen as Defendants. AMERCO is named as a nominal Defendant in the case. The complaint alleges breach of fiduciary duty, self-dealing, usurpation of corporate opportunities, wrongful interference with prospective economic advantage and unjust enrichment and seeks the unwinding of sales of self-storage properties by subsidiaries of AMERCO to SAC prior to the filing of the complaint. The complaint seeks a declaration that such transfers are void as well as unspecified damages. In October 2002, the Defendants filed motions to dismiss the complaint. Also in October 2002, Ron Belec filed a derivative action in the Second Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada, Washoe County, captioned Ron Belec vs. William E. Carty, et al., CV 02-06331 and in January 2003, M.S. Management Company, Inc. filed a derivative action in the Second Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada, Washoe County, captioned M.S. Management Company, Inc. vs. William E. Carty, et al., CV 03-00386. Two additional derivative suits were also filed against these parties. Each of these suits is substantially similar to the Paul F. Shoen case. The Court consolidated the five cases and thereafter dismissed these actions in May 2003, concluding that the AMERCO Board of Directors had the requisite level of independence required in order to have these claims resolved by the Board. Plaintiffs appealed this decision and, in July 2006, the Nevada Supreme Court reversed the ruling of the trial court and remanded the case to the trial court for proceedings consistent with its ruling, allowing the Plaintiffs to file an amended complaint and plead in addition to substantive claims, demand futility.
 
In November 2006, the Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint. In December 2006, the Defendants filed motions to dismiss, based on various legal theories. In March 2007, the Court denied AMERCO’s motion to dismiss regarding the issue of demand futility, stating that “Plaintiffs have satisfied the heightened pleading requirements of demand futility by showing a majority of the members of the AMERCO Board of Directors were interested parties in the SAC transactions.” The Court heard oral argument on the remainder of the Defendants’ motions to dismiss, including the motion (“Goldwasser Motion”) based on the fact that the subject matter of the lawsuit had been settled and dismissed in earlier litigation known as Goldwasser v. Shoen, C.V.N.-94-00810-ECR (D.Nev), Washoe County, Nevada. In addition, in September and October 2007, the Defendants filed Motions for Judgment on the Pleadings or in the Alternative Summary Judgment, based on the fact that the stockholders of the Company had ratified the underlying transactions at the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders of AMERCO. In December 2007, the Court denied this motion. This ruling does not preclude a renewed motion for summary judgment after discovery and further proceedings on these issues. On April 7, 2008, the litigation was dismissed, on the basis of the Goldwasser Motion. On May 8, 2008, the Plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal of such dismissal to the Nevada Supreme Court. On May 20, 2008, AMERCO filed a cross appeal relating to the denial of its Motion to Dismiss in regard to demand futility.



  


12





  



 
On May 12, 2011, the Nevada Supreme Court affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded the case for further proceedings.  First, the Court ruled that the Goldwasser settlement did not release claims that arose after the agreement and, therefore, reversed the trial court’s dismissal of the Complaint on that ground. Second, the Court affirmed the district court’s determination that the in pari delicto defense is available in a derivative suit and reversed and remanded to the district court to determine if the defense applies to this matter.  Third, the Court remanded to the district court to conduct an evidentiary hearing to determine whether demand upon the AMERCO Board was, in fact, futile.  Fourth, the Court invited AMERCO to seek a ruling from the district court as to the legal effect of the AMERCO Shareholders’ 2008 ratification of the underlying AMERCO/SAC transactions.
 
Last, as to individual claims for relief, the Court affirmed the district court’s dismissal of the breach of fiduciary duty of loyalty claims as to all defendants except Mark Shoen.  The Court affirmed the district court’s dismissal of the breach of fiduciary duty: ultra vires Acts claim as to all defendants. The Court reversed the district court’s dismissal of aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment claims against the SAC entities.  The Court reversed the trial court’s dismissal of the claim for wrongful interference with prospective economic advantage as to all defendants.
 
On remand, on July 22, 2011, AMERCO filed a Motion for Summary Judgment based upon the Shareholder’s Ratification of the SAC transactions. In addition, on August 29, 2011, certain defendants filed a Motion to Dismiss Plaintiffs’ Claim for Wrongful Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage. On August 31, 2011, the trial court held a status conference and entered an order setting forth the briefing schedule for the two motions. On December 23, 2011, the trial court denied AMERCO’s motion for summary judgment and certain defendants’ motion to dismiss. The court has set a discovery schedule on the limited issue of demand futility. A four day evidentiary hearing on demand futility is scheduled to begin on August 20, 2012.
 
Environmental
 
Compliance with environmental requirements of federal, state and local governments may significantly affect the operation of Real Estate’s business. Among other things, these requirements regulate the discharge of materials into the air, land and water and govern the use and disposal of hazardous substances. Real Estate is aware of issues regarding hazardous substances on some of its properties. Real Estate regularly makes capital and operating expenditures to stay in compliance with environmental laws and has put in place a remedial plan at each site where it believes such a plan is necessary. Since 1988, Real Estate has managed a testing and removal program for underground storage tanks.
 
Based upon the information currently available to Real Estate, compliance with the environmental laws and its share of the costs of investigation and cleanup of known hazardous waste sites are not expected to result in a material adverse effect on AMERCO’s financial position or results of operations.
 
Other
 
The Company is named as a defendant in various other litigation and claims arising out of the normal course of business. In management’s opinion, none of these other matters will have a material effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations.
 
Item 4.   Mine Safety Disclosure
 
Not applicable.



  


13





  



 
PART II
 
 
Item 5.   Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 
As of June 1, 2012, there were approximately 3,500 holders of record of our common stock. We derived the number of our stockholders using internal stock ledgers and utilizing Mellon Investor Services Stockholder listings. AMERCO’s common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the trading symbol “UHAL”.
 
The following table sets forth the high and the low sales price of the common stock of AMERCO for the periods indicated:



  
 

Year Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 

  
 

High

 
 

Low

 
 

High

 
 

Low

 


First quarter

 
$
103.36
 
 
$
83.90
 
 
$
64.42
 
 
$
43.43
 


Second quarter

 
$
97.25
 
 
$
60.18
 
 
$
83.83
 
 
$
53.04
 


Third quarter

 
$
90.45
 
 
$
60.44
 
 
$
109.11
 
 
$
76.02
 


Fourth quarter

 
$
126.14
 
 
$
89.34
 
 
$
104.00
 
 
$
86.29
 


 
 Dividends
 
AMERCO does not have a formal dividend policy. The Board periodically considers the advisability of declaring and paying dividends to common stockholders in light of existing circumstances.
 
On December 7, 2011, the Company declared a special cash dividend on its Common Stock of $1.00 per share to holders of record on December 23, 2011. The dividend was paid on January 3, 2012.
 
See Note 22, Statutory Financial Information of Insurance Subsidiaries of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of certain statutory restrictions on the ability of the insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to AMERCO.



  


14





  



 
 Performance Graph
 
The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on the Company’s common stock for the period March 31, 2007 through March 31, 2012 with the cumulative total return on the Dow Jones US Total Market and the Dow Jones US Transportation Average. The comparison assumes that $100 was invested on March 31, 2007 in the Company’s common stock and in each of the comparison indices. The graph reflects the value of the investment based on the closing price of the common stock trading on NASDAQ on March 31, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012.
 

 




Fiscal year ended March 31:

 

2007

 
 

2008

 
 

2009

 
 

2010

 
 

2011

 
 

2012

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


AMERCO

 
$
100
 
 
$
82
 
 
$
48
 
 
$
78
 
 
$
139
 
 
$
152
 


Dow Jones US Total Market

 
 
100
 
 
 
95
 
 
 
59
 
 
 
90
 
 
 
105
 
 
 
113
 


Dow Jones US Transportation Average

 
 
100
 
 
 
101
 
 
 
58
 
 
 
96
 
 
 
118
 
 
 
119
 


 





  


15





  



 
 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 
On December 3, 2008, the Board authorized us, using management’s discretion, to buy back shares from former employees who were participants in our Employee Stock Ownership Plan (“ESOP”). To be eligible for consideration, the employee’s ESOP account balance(s) must be valued at more than $1,000 at the then-prevailing market prices but have less than 100 shares. No such shares have been purchased.
 
On June 1, 2011, we redeemed all 6,100,000 shares of our issued and outstanding Series A 8½% Preferred Stock (“Series A Preferred”) at a redemption price of $25 per share plus accrued dividends through that date.  Pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 260 - Earnings Per Share (“ASC 260”), for earnings per share purposes, we recognized the deficit of the carrying amount of the Series A Preferred over the consideration paid to redeem the shares.
 
The Series A Preferred was recorded in our Additional Paid-In Capital account, net of original issue costs at $146.3 million prior to the redemption. We paid $152.5 million to redeem the shares on June 1, 2011 of which $7.7 million was paid to our insurance subsidiaries in exchange for their holdings. The difference between what was paid to redeem the shares less their carrying amount on our balance sheet, reduced by our insurance subsidiaries holdings was $5.9 million. This amount was recognized as a reduction to our earnings available to our common shareholders for the purposes of computing earnings per share for fiscal 2012.
 
From January 1, 2009 through March 31, 2011, our insurance subsidiaries purchased 308,300 shares of Series A Preferred on the open market for $7.2 million. Pursuant to ASC 260 for earnings per share purposes, we recognize the excess or deficit of the carrying amount of the Series A Preferred over the fair value of the consideration paid. For fiscal 2011, this resulted in a $0.2 million charge to net earnings as the amount paid by the insurance companies exceeded the carrying value, net of a prorated portion of original issue costs of the preferred stock. For fiscal 2010, we recognized a $0.4 million gain as the amount paid was less than our adjusted carrying value.
 





  


16





  



 
Item 6.   Selected Financial Data
 
The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the MD&A, and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in this Annual Report.
 
Listed below is selected financial data for AMERCO and consolidated subsidiaries for each of the last five years ended March 31:
 



  
 

Years Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 
 

2010

 
 

2009

 
 
 
2008(a), (b)

  
 

(In thousands, except share and per share data)

 


Summary of Operations:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Self-moving equipment rentals

 
$
1,678,256
 
 
$
1,547,015
 
 
$
1,419,726
 
 
$
1,423,022
 
 
$
1,451,292
 


Self-storage revenues

 
 
134,376
 
 
 
120,698
 
 
 
110,369
 
 
 
110,548
 
 
 
122,248
 


Self-moving and self-storage products and service sales

 
 
213,854
 
 
 
205,570
 
 
 
198,785
 
 
 
199,394
 
 
 
217,798
 


Property management fees

 
 
23,266
 
 
 
22,132
 
 
 
21,632
 
 
 
23,192
 
 
 
22,820
 


Life insurance premiums

 
 
277,562
 
 
 
206,992
 
 
 
134,345
 
 
 
109,572
 
 
 
111,996
 


Property and casualty insurance premiums

 
 
32,631
 
 
 
30,704
 
 
 
27,625
 
 
 
28,337
 
 
 
28,388
 


Net investment and interest income

 
 
64,200
 
 
 
52,661
 
 
 
49,989
 
 
 
58,021
 
 
 
62,110
 


Other revenue

 
 
78,530
 
 
 
55,503
 
 
 
39,534
 
 
 
40,180
 
 
 
32,522
 


Total revenues

 
 
2,502,675
 
 
 
2,241,275
 
 
 
2,002,005
 
 
 
1,992,266
 
 
 
2,049,174
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Operating expenses

 
 
1,093,190
 
 
 
1,026,577
 
 
 
1,022,061
 
 
 
1,057,880
 
 
 
1,089,543
 


Commission expenses

 
 
212,190
 
 
 
190,981
 
 
 
169,104
 
 
 
171,303
 
 
 
167,945
 


Cost of sales

 
 
116,542
 
 
 
106,024
 
 
 
104,049
 
 
 
114,387
 
 
 
120,210
 


Benefits and losses

 
 
310,839
 
 
 
190,429
 
 
 
121,105
 
 
 
97,617
 
 
 
98,760
 


Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs

 
 
13,791
 
 
 
9,494
 
 
 
7,569
 
 
 
12,394
 
 
 
13,181
 


Lease expense

 
 
131,215
 
 
 
150,809
 
 
 
156,951
 
 
 
152,424
 
 
 
133,931
 


Depreciation, net of (gains) losses on disposals (d)

 
 
208,901
 
 
 
189,266
 
 
 
227,629
 
 
 
265,213
 
 
 
221,882
 


Total costs and expenses

 
 
2,086,668
 
 
 
1,863,580
 
 
 
1,808,468
 
 
 
1,871,218
 
 
 
1,845,452
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Earnings from operations

 
 
416,007
 
 
 
377,695
 
 
 
193,537
 
 
 
121,048
 
 
 
203,722
 


Interest expense

 
 
(90,371
)
 
 
(88,381
)
 
 
(93,347
)
 
 
(98,470
)
 
 
(101,420
)


Pretax earnings

 
 
325,636
 
 
 
289,314
 
 
 
100,190
 
 
 
22,578
 
 
 
102,302
 


Income tax expense

 
 
(120,269
)
 
 
(105,739
)
 
 
(34,567
)
 
 
(9,168
)
 
 
(34,518
)


Net earnings

 
 
205,367
 
 
 
183,575
 
 
 
65,623
 
 
 
13,410
 
 
 
67,784
 


Less: Excess of redemption value over carrying value of preferred shares redeemed

 
 
(5,908
)
 
 
(178
)
 
 
388
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 


Less:  Preferred stock dividends (c)

 
 
(2,913
)
 
 
(12,412
)
 
 
(12,856
)
 
 
(12,963
)
 
 
(12,963
)


Earnings available to common shareholders

 
$
196,546
 
 
$
170,985
 
 
$
53,155
 
 
$
447
 
 
$
54,821
 


Basic and diluted earnings per common share

 
$
10.09
 
 
$
8.80
 
 
$
2.74
 
 
$
0.02
 
 
$
2.78
 


Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic and diluted

 
 
19,476,187
 
 
 
19,432,781
 
 
 
19,386,791
 
 
 
19,350,041
 
 
 
19,740,571
 


Cash dividends declared and accrued Preferred stock (c)

 
$
2,913
 
 
$
12,412
 
 
$
12,856
 
 
$
12,963
 
 
$
12,963
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Balance Sheet Data:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Property, plant and equipment, net

 
$
2,372,365
 
 
$
2,094,573
 
 
$
1,948,388
 
 
$
2,013,928
 
 
$
2,011,176
 


Total assets

 
 
4,654,051
 
 
 
4,176,154
 
 
 
3,762,454
 
 
 
3,825,073
 
 
 
3,832,487
 


Notes, loans and leases payable

 
 
1,486,211
 
 
 
1,397,842
 
 
 
1,347,635
 
 
 
1,546,490
 
 
 
1,504,677
 


Stockholders' equity

 
 
1,035,820
 
 
 
993,020
 
 
 
812,911
 
 
 
717,629
 
 
 
758,431
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(a) Fiscal 2008 summary of operations includes 7 months of activity for SAC Holding II which was deconsolidated effective October 31, 2007.

 
 


(b) Fiscal 2008 balance sheet data does not include SAC Holding II which was deconsolidated effective October 31, 2007.

 
 


(c) Fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 reflect eliminations of $0.3 million, $0.6 million and $0.1 million, respectivley paid to affiliates.

 
 


(d) (Gains) losses were ($20.9) million, ($23.1) million, ($2.0) million, $16.6 million and ($5.9) million for fiscal 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

 




 



  


17





  



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 General
 
We begin this MD&A with the overall strategy of AMERCO, followed by a description of and strategy related to, our operating segments to give the reader an overview of the goals of our businesses and the direction in which our businesses and products are moving. We then discuss our critical accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. Next, we discuss our results of operations for fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011, and for fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010 which are followed by an analysis of changes in our balance sheets and cash flows, and a discussion of our financial commitments in the sections entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources and Disclosures about Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments. We conclude this MD&A by discussing our outlook for fiscal 2013.
 
This MD&A should be read in conjunction with the other sections of this Annual Report, including Item 1: Business, Item 6: Selected Financial Data and Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The various sections of this MD&A contain a number of forward-looking statements, as discussed under the caption, Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, all of which are based on our current expectations and could be affected by the uncertainties and risk factors described throughout this Annual Report and particularly under the section Item 1A: Risk Factors. Our actual results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements.
 
AMERCO has a fiscal year that ends on the 31st of March for each year that is referenced. Our insurance company subsidiaries have fiscal years that end on the 31st of December for each year that is referenced. They have been consolidated on that basis. Our insurance companies’ financial reporting processes conform to calendar year reporting as required by state insurance departments. Management believes that consolidating their calendar year into our fiscal year financial statements does not materially affect the presentation of financial position or results of operations. We disclose all material events, if any, occurring during the intervening period. Consequently, all references to our insurance subsidiaries’ years 2011, 2010 and 2009 correspond to fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 for AMERCO.
 
 Overall Strategy
 
Our overall strategy is to maintain our leadership position in the North American “do-it-yourself” moving and storage industry. We accomplish this by providing a seamless and integrated supply chain to the “do-it-yourself” moving and storage market. As part of executing this strategy, we leverage the brand recognition of U-Haul with our full line of moving and self-storage related products and services and the convenience of our broad geographic presence.
 
Our primary focus is to provide our customers with a wide selection of moving rental equipment, convenient self-storage rental facilities and related moving and self-storage products and services. We are able to expand our distribution and improve customer service by increasing the amount of moving equipment and storage rooms and portable storage boxes available for rent, expanding the number of independent dealers in our network and expanding and taking advantage of our eMove capabilities.
 
Our Property and Casualty Insurance operating segment is focused on providing and administering property and casualty insurance to U-Haul and its customers, its independent dealers and affiliates.
 
Our Life Insurance operating segment is focused on long-term capital growth through direct writing and reinsuring of life, Medicare supplement and annuity products in the senior marketplace.
 
 Description of Operating Segments
 
AMERCO’s three reportable segments are:
 




·  


Moving and Storage, comprised of AMERCO, U-Haul, and Real Estate and the subsidiaries of U-Haul and Real Estate,



 




·  


Property and Casualty Insurance, comprised of Repwest and its subsidiaries and ARCOA, 



 




·  


Life Insurance, comprised of Oxford and its subsidiaries.






  


18





  



 
See Note 1, Basis of Presentation, Note 23, Financial Information by Geographic Area and Note 23A, Consolidating Financial Information by Industry Segment of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.
 
Moving and Storage Operating Segment
 
Our Moving and Storage operating segment consists of the rental of trucks, trailers, portable storage boxes, specialty rental items and self-storage spaces primarily to the household mover as well as sales of moving supplies, towing accessories and propane. Operations are conducted under the registered trade name U-Haul® throughout the United States and Canada.
 
With respect to our truck, trailer, specialty rental items and self-storage rental business, we are focused on expanding our dealer network, which provides added convenience for our customers and expanding the selection and availability of rental equipment to satisfy the needs of our customers.
 
U-Haul brand self-moving related products and services, such as boxes, pads and tape allow our customers to, among other things; protect their belongings from potential damage during the moving process. We are committed to providing a complete line of products selected with the “do-it-yourself” moving and storage customer in mind.
 
eMove is an online marketplace that connects consumers to independent Moving Help® service providers and thousands of independent Self-Storage Affiliates. Our network of customer rated affiliates and service providers furnish pack and load help, cleaning help, self-storage and similar services, all over North America. Our goal is to further utilize our web-based technology platform to increase service to consumers and businesses in the moving and storage market.
 
Since 1945 U-Haul has incorporated sustainable practices into its everyday operations. We believe that our basic business premise of equipment sharing helps reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reduces the need for total large capacity vehicles. We continue to look for ways to reduce waste within our business and are dedicated to manufacturing reusable components and recyclable products. We believe that our commitment to sustainability, through our products and services and everyday operations has helped us to reduce our impact on the environment.
 
Property and Casualty Insurance Operating Segment
 
Our Property and Casualty Insurance operating segment provides loss adjusting and claims handling for U-Haul through regional offices across North America. Property and Casualty Insurance also underwrites components of the Safemove, Safetow, Super Safemove and Safestor protection packages to U-Haul customers. We continue to focus on increasing the penetration of these products into the moving and storage market. The business plan for our Property and Casualty Insurance operating segment includes offering property and casualty products in other U-Haul related programs.
 
Life Insurance Operating Segment
 
Our Life Insurance operating segment provides life and health insurance products primarily to the senior market through the direct writing and reinsuring of life insurance, Medicare supplement and annuity policies.
 
 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
 
Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) in the United States. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies can have a significant impact on the results we report in our financial statements. Note 3, Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report summarizes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Certain accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments and assumptions, often as a result of the need to estimate matters that are inherently uncertain.
 
In the following pages we have set forth, with a detailed description, the accounting policies that we deem most critical to us and that require management’s most difficult and subjective judgments. These estimates are based on historical experience, observance of trends in particular areas, information and valuations available from outside sources and on various other assumptions that are believed to be



  


19





  



 
reasonable under the circumstances and which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual amounts may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions; such differences may be material.
 
We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies, such as revenue recognition; however, these policies do not meet the definition of critical accounting estimates, because they do not generally require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective. The accounting policies that we deem most critical to us, and involve the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments include the following:
 
Principles of Consolidation
 
We apply ASC 810 - Consolidation (“ASC 810”) in our principles of consolidation. ASC 810 addresses arrangements where a company does not hold a majority of the voting or similar interests of a variable interest entity (“VIE”). A company is required to consolidate a VIE if it has determined it is the primary beneficiary. ASC 810 also addresses the policy when a company owns a majority of the voting or similar rights and exercises effective control.
 
As promulgated by ASC 810, a VIE is not self-supportive due to having one or both of the following conditions: (i) it has an insufficient amount of equity for it to finance its activities without receiving additional subordinated financial support or (ii) its owners do not hold the typical risks and rights of equity owners. This determination is made upon the creation of a variable interest and is re-assessed on an on-going basis should certain changes in the operations of a VIE, or its relationship with the primary beneficiary trigger a reconsideration under the provisions of ASC 810. After a triggering event occurs the most recent facts and circumstances are utilized in determining whether or not a company is a VIE, which other company(s) have a variable interest in the entity, and whether or not the company’s interest is such that it is the primary beneficiary.
 
In fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002, SAC Holdings were considered special purpose entities and were consolidated based on the provisions of Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 90-15, Impact of Nonsubstantive Lessors, Residual Value Guarantees and Other Provisions in Leasing Transactions. In fiscal 2004, we evaluated our interests in SAC Holdings and we concluded that SAC Holdings were VIE’s and that we were the primary beneficiary. Accordingly, we continued to include SAC Holdings in our consolidated financial statements.
 
Triggering events in February and March of 2004 for SAC Holding Corporation required AMERCO to reassess its involvement in specific SAC Holding Corporation entities. During these reassessments it was concluded that AMERCO was no longer the primary beneficiary, resulting in the deconsolidation of SAC Holding Corporation in fiscal 2004.
 
In November 2007, Blackwater contributed additional capital to its wholly-owned subsidiary, SAC Holding II. This contribution was determined by us to be material with respect to the capitalization of SAC Holding II; therefore, triggering a requirement under FASB Interpretation 46(R) for us to reassess our involvement with those entities. This required reassessment led to the conclusion that SAC Holding II had the ability to fund its own operations and execute its business plan without any future subordinated financial support; therefore, we were no longer the primary beneficiary of SAC Holding II as of the date of Blackwater’s contribution.
 
Accordingly, at the date AMERCO ceased to be considered the primary beneficiary of SAC Holding II and its current subsidiaries, it deconsolidated these entities. The deconsolidation was accounted for as a distribution of SAC Holding II’s interests to the sole shareholder of the SAC entities. Because of AMERCO’s continuing involvement with SAC Holding II and its subsidiaries, the distribution does not qualify as discontinued operations.
 
It is possible that SAC Holdings could take actions that would require us to re-determine whether SAC Holdings remains a VIE and we continually monitor whether we have become the primary beneficiary of SAC Holdings.  None of the events delineated in ASC 810-10-35-4 which would require a redetermination occurred during the period being reported upon in this Annual Report. Should we determine in the future that we are the primary beneficiary of SAC Holdings, we could be required to consolidate some or all of SAC Holdings within our financial statements.



  


20





  



 
The consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2012 and 2011 include the accounts of AMERCO and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. The March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 statements of operations, comprehensive income and cash flows include AMERCO and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
 
 Recoverability of Property, Plant and Equipment
 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Interest expense incurred during the initial construction of buildings and rental equipment is considered part of cost. Depreciation is computed for financial reporting purposes using the straight-line or an accelerated method based on a declining balance formula over the following estimated useful lives: rental equipment 2-20 years and buildings and non-rental equipment 3-55 years. We follow the deferral method of accounting based on ASC 908 - Airlines for major overhauls in which engine overhauls are capitalized and amortized over five years and transmission overhauls are capitalized and amortized over three years. Routine maintenance costs are charged to operating expense as they are incurred. Gains and losses on dispositions of property, plant and equipment are netted against depreciation expense when realized. Equipment depreciation is recognized in amounts expected to result in the recovery of estimated residual values upon disposal, i.e., minimize gains or losses. In determining the depreciation rate, historical disposal experience, holding periods and trends in the market for vehicles are reviewed.
 
We regularly perform reviews to determine whether facts and circumstances exist which indicate that the carrying amount of assets, including estimates of residual value, may not be recoverable or that the useful life of assets are shorter or longer than originally estimated. Reductions in residual values (i.e., the price at which we ultimately expect to dispose of revenue earning equipment) or useful lives will result in an increase in depreciation expense over the life of the equipment. Reviews are performed based on vehicle class, generally subcategories of trucks and trailers. We assess the recoverability of our assets by comparing the projected undiscounted net cash flows associated with the related asset or group of assets over their estimated remaining lives against their respective carrying amounts. We consider factors such as current and expected future market price trends on used vehicles and the expected life of vehicles included in the fleet. Impairment, if any, is based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of those assets. In fiscal 2010, the Company reduced the carrying value of certain older trucks by $9.1 million or $0.47 per share before taxes, in which the tax effect was $0.17 per share. If asset residual values are determined to be recoverable, but the useful lives are shorter or longer than originally estimated, the net book value of the assets is depreciated over the newly determined remaining useful lives.
 
In fiscal 2006, management performed an analysis of the expected economic value of new rental trucks and determined that additions to the fleet resulting from purchase should be depreciated on an accelerated method based upon a declining formula. The salvage value and useful life assumptions of the rental truck fleet remain unchanged. Under the declining balances method (2.4 times declining balance), the book value of a rental truck is reduced approximately 16%, 13%, 11%, 9%, 8%, 7%, and 6% during years one through seven, respectively and then reduced on a straight line basis an additional 10% by the end of year fifteen. Whereas, a standard straight line approach would reduce the book value by approximately 5.3% per year over the life of the truck. For the affected equipment, the accelerated depreciation was $54.6 million, $44.8 million and $49.1 million greater than what it would have been if calculated under a straight line approach for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Although we intend to sell our used vehicles for prices approximating book value, the extent to which we realize a gain or loss on the sale of used vehicles is dependent upon various factors including but not limited to, the general state of the used vehicle market, the age and condition of the vehicle at the time of its disposal and the depreciation rates with respect to the vehicle. We typically sell our used vehicles at our sales centers throughout North America, on our web site at uhaul.com/trucksales or by phone at 1-866-404-0355. Additionally, we sell a large portion of our pickup and cargo van fleet at automobile dealer auctions.
 
 Insurance Reserves
 
Liabilities for life insurance and certain annuity and health policies are established to meet the estimated future obligations of policies in force, and are based on mortality, morbidity and withdrawal assumptions from recognized actuarial tables which contain margins for adverse deviation. In addition, liabilities for health, disability and other policies include estimates of payments to be made on insurance claims for reported losses and estimates of losses incurred, but not yet reported. Liabilities for annuity contracts consist of contract account balances that accrue to the benefit of the policyholders.



  


21





  



 
Insurance reserves for our Property and Casualty Insurance operating segment and U-Haul take into account losses incurred based upon actuarial estimates and are management’s best approximation of future payments.  These estimates are based upon past claims experience and current claim trends as well as social and economic conditions such as changes in legal theories and inflation.  These reserves consist of case reserves for reported losses and a provision for losses incurred but not reported (“IBNR”), both reduced by applicable reinsurance recoverables, resulting in a net liability
 
Due to the nature of the underlying risks and high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of the liability for future policy benefits and claims, the amounts to be ultimately paid to settle these liabilities cannot be precisely determined and may vary significantly from the estimated liability, especially for long-tailed casualty lines of business such as excess workers’ compensation.  As a result of the long-tailed nature of the excess workers’ compensation policies written by Repwest during 1983 through 2002, and similar policies assumed by Repwest during 2001 through 2003, it may take a number of years for claims to be fully reported and finally settled.
 
On a regular basis insurance reserve adequacy is reviewed by management to determine if existing assumptions need to be updated.  In the third quarter of fiscal 2012, Repwest conducted a more in-depth review of its excess workers’ compensation claims as new information regarding recent loss trends emerged.  This review also included a review of reinsured claims handled by a third party administrator related to the same line of business. Based upon these reviews Repwest strengthened its reserves for its excess workers’ compensation business by $48.3 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2012.  After the estimated tax effect of $16.9 million this reduced earnings per share for fiscal 2012 by $1.61 per share.  While management is continually monitoring the status of expected losses through a rolling review of the claim inventory and regularly reviews the adequacy of the established liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense, there can be no assurance that our loss reserves will not develop adversely and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  As a result of our review during the third quarter of fiscal 2012, it was determined that there was a need to strengthen loan loss reserves, reflecting adverse development in prior accident years in lines of business with long reporting tails.  The excess workers’ compensation line comprises a majority of the total charge.  These adjustments represent management’s current best estimate of the ultimate losses of the underlying claims and were recognized in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 based upon the timing of when the information developed.
 
In determining the assumptions for calculating workers’ compensation reserves, management considers multiple factors including the following:
 




·  


Claimant longevity



 




·  


Cost trends associated with claimant treatments



 




·  


Changes in ceding entity and third party administrator reporting practices



 




·  


Changes in environmental factors including legal and regulatory



 




·  


Current conditions affecting claim settlements



 




·  


Future economic conditions including inflation



 
Significant variables that led to the third quarter reserve strengthening were cost trends associated with claimant treatments, changes related to ceding entity and third party administrator reporting practices, projected longevity of claimants terms and assumptions for future claim settlements.
 
As part of this latest review, the Company has reserved each claim based upon the accumulation of current claim costs projected through the claimants’ life expectancy, and then adjusted for applicable reinsurance arrangements.  Management reviews each claim bi-annually to determine if the estimated life-time claim costs have increased and then adjusts the reserve estimate accordingly at that time.  We have factored in an estimate of what the potential cost increases could be in our IBNR liability.  We have not assumed settlement of the existing claims in calculating the reserve amount, unless it is in the final stages of completion.
 
Continued increases in claim costs, including medical inflation and new treatments and medications could lead to future adverse development resulting in additional reserve strengthening.  Conversely, settlement of existing claims or if injured workers return to work or expire prematurely, could lead to future positive development.



  


22





  



 
 Impairment of Investments
 
Investments are evaluated pursuant to guidance contained in ASC 320 - Investments - Debt and Equity Securities to determine if and when a decline in market value below amortized cost is other-than-temporary. Management makes certain assumptions or judgments in its assessment including but not limited to: ability and intent to hold the security, quoted market prices, dealer quotes or discounted cash flows, industry factors, financial factors, and issuer specific information such as credit strength. Other-than-temporary impairment in value is recognized in the current period operating results. We recognized other-than-temporary impairments of $0.1 million, $0.8 million and $2.2 million for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
 Income Taxes
 
Our tax returns are periodically reviewed by various taxing authorities. The final outcome of these audits may cause changes that could materially impact our financial results.
 
AMERCO files a consolidated tax return with all of its legal subsidiaries.
 
 Fair Values
 
Fair values of cash equivalents approximate carrying value due to the short period of time to maturity. Fair values of short term investments, investments available-for-sale, long term investments, mortgage loans and notes on real estate, and interest rate swap contracts are based on quoted market prices, dealer quotes or discounted cash flows. Fair values of trade receivables approximate their recorded value.
 
Our financial instruments that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of temporary cash investments, trade receivables, reinsurance recoverables and notes receivable. Limited credit risk exists on trade receivables due to the diversity of our customer base and their dispersion across broad geographic markets. We place our temporary cash investments with financial institutions and limits the amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution.
 
We have mortgage receivables, which potentially expose us to credit risk. The portfolio of notes is principally collateralized by self-storage facilities and commercial properties. We have not experienced any material losses related to the notes from individual or groups of notes in any particular industry or geographic area. The estimated fair values were determined using the discounted cash flow method and using interest rates currently offered for similar loans to borrowers with similar credit ratings.
 
The carrying amount of long term debt and short term borrowings are estimated to approximate fair value as the actual interest rate is consistent with the rate estimated to be currently available for debt of similar term and remaining maturity.
 
Other investments including short term investments are substantially current or bear reasonable interest rates. As a result, the carrying values of these financial instruments approximate fair value.
 
Subsequent Events
 
Our management has evaluated subsequent events occurring after March 31, 2012, the date of our most recent balance sheet date, through the date our financial statements were issued. We do not believe any other subsequent events have occurred that would require further disclosure or adjustment to our financial statements other than those stated below.
 
Related Party
 
In April 2012, the Company received $52.2 million from SAC Holding Corporation as full repayment of principal and accrued interest for one of its junior notes. Also in April 2012 and May 2012, the Company received $46.0 million and $20.4 million, respectively from SAC Holding II Corporation as partial repayment on its junior note. Please see Note 21 Related Party Transactions of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Financial Strength Ratings
 
In April 2012, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength rating of B++ (Good) for Oxford and upgraded its outlook from stable to positive.



  


23





  



 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 
In October 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-26, Financial Services – Insurance (Topic 944) which amended FASB ASC 944-30 to provide further guidance regarding the capitalization of costs relating to the acquisition or renewal of insurance contracts. Specifically, only qualifying costs associated with successful contract acquisitions are permitted to be deferred. The amended guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011 (and for interim periods within such years), with early adoption permitted as of the beginning of the entity's annual reporting period. The amended guidance should be applied prospectively, but retrospective application for all prior periods is allowed. The Company does not believe that the adoption of this statement will have a material impact on our financial statements.
 
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-04, Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) (“ASU 2011-04”). This pronouncement was issued to provide a consistent definition of fair value and ensure that the fair value measurement and disclosure requirements are similar between U.S. GAAP and IFRS. ASU 2011-04 changes certain fair value measurement principles and enhances the disclosure requirements particularly for Level 3 fair value measurements. This pronouncement is effective for reporting periods beginning on or after December 15, 2011, with early adoption prohibited. The new guidance will require prospective application. The Company does not believe that the adoption of this statement will have a material impact on our financial statements.
 
In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05, Presentation of Comprehensive Income (“ASU 2011-05”). ASU 2011-05 requires the presentation of comprehensive income in either (1) a continuous statement of comprehensive income or (2) two separate but consecutive statements. ASU 2011-05 eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of equity. In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-12, Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05 (“ASU 2011-12”), which defers the requirement within ASU 2011-05 to present on the face of the financial statements the effects of reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income on the components of net income and other comprehensive income for all periods presented. During the deferral, entities should continue to report reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income consistent with the presentation requirements in effect prior to the issuance of ASU 2011-05. The standards will be effective for public companies during the interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted.  The adoption of the standards did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
 
From time to time, new accounting pronouncements are issued by the FASB or the SEC that are adopted by the Company as of the specified effective date. Unless otherwise discussed, these ASU’s entail technical corrections to existing guidance or affect guidance related to specialized industries or entities and therefore will have minimal, if any, impact on our financial position or results of operations upon adoption.



  


24





  



 
AMERCO and Consolidated Subsidiaries
 
Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011
 
 
Listed below, on a consolidated basis, are revenues for our major product lines for fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011:
 



  
 

Year Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


 Self-moving equipment rentals

 
$
1,678,256
 
 
$
1,547,015
 


 Self-storage revenues

 
 
134,376
 
 
 
120,698
 


 Self-moving and self-storage products and service sales

 
 
213,854
 
 
 
205,570
 


 Property management fees

 
 
23,266
 
 
 
22,132
 


 Life insurance premiums

 
 
277,562
 
 
 
206,992
 


 Property and casualty insurance premiums

 
 
32,631
 
 
 
30,704
 


 Net investment and interest income

 
 
64,200
 
 
 
52,661
 


 Other revenue

 
 
78,530
 
 
 
55,503
 


 Consolidated revenue

 
$
2,502,675
 
 
$
2,241,275
 


 
Self-moving equipment rental revenues increased $131.2 million for fiscal 2012, compared with fiscal 2011.  The largest contributor to the revenue improvement was the increase in both In-Town and one-way moving transactions across both our truck and trailer fleets.  We believe the growth in the number of transactions was influenced by our continuing customer service enhancements which allowed us to better serve the existing customer base combined with an increase in overall demand for our services.  We were also better able to serve our customers through an increase in the amount of equipment in our fleet throughout the year.  On average the number of rental trucks in the fleet grew approximately 4% compared to fiscal 2011.  Other factors that contributed to the revenue improvement included an increase in our average revenue per transaction and utilization of the fleet.  Factors which contribute to changes in revenue per transaction include the mix of equipment type rented and rental rates charged.
 
Self-storage revenues increased $13.7 million for fiscal 2012, compared with fiscal 2011 due primarily to an increase in the number of rooms rented combined with a modest improvement in overall rates per occupied square foot.  The average amount of occupied square feet increased by approximately 10% for fiscal 2012 compared to the same period last year.  A portion of this improvement comes from the additional capacity added to the portfolio; total net rentable square feet increased by 1.4 million over the last twelve months.
 
Sales of self-moving and self-storage products and services increased $8.3 million for fiscal 2012, compared with fiscal 2011.  Increases were recognized in the sale of propane and towing accessories/installation with the majority of the improvement coming from the sales of moving supplies.
 
Life insurance premiums increased $70.6 million for fiscal 2012, compared with fiscal 2011 primarily from entering into a new reinsurance agreement for a block of life insurance policies combined with increased Medicare supplement premiums from last year’s acquisition.
 
Property and casualty insurance premiums increased $1.9 million for fiscal 2012, compared with fiscal 2011 due to increases in Safestor and Safemove which resulted from the increase in equipment rental transactions and self storage rentals.
 
Net investment and interest income increased $11.5 million for fiscal 2012, compared with fiscal 2011 primarily due to an increased asset base at the Life Insurance segment combined with improved yields across all three segments due to the investment of excess cash balances.
 
Other revenue increased $23.0 million for fiscal 2012, compared with fiscal 2011 primarily due to the expansion of new business initiatives including our U-BoxTM program.
 
As a result of the items mentioned above, revenues for AMERCO and its consolidated subsidiaries were $2,502.7 million for fiscal 2012, compared with $2,241.3 million for fiscal 2011.



  


25





  



 
Listed below are revenues and earnings (loss) from operations at each of our operating segments for fiscal 2012 and 2011. The insurance companies’ years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 



  
 

Year Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


 Moving and storage

 
 
 
 
 
 


 Revenues

 
$
2,156,923
 
 
$
1,977,826
 


 Earnings from operations before equity in earnings of subsidiaries

 
 
432,766
 
 
 
355,173
 


 Property and casualty insurance

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Revenues

 
 
42,586
 
 
 
38,663
 


 Earnings (loss) from operations

 
 
(36,426
)
 
 
5,638
 


 Life insurance

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Revenues

 
 
307,922
 
 
 
229,911
 


 Earnings from operations

 
 
20,149
 
 
 
17,435
 


 Eliminations

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Revenues

 
 
(4,756
)
 
 
(5,125
)


 Earnings from operations before equity in earnings of subsidiaries

 
 
(482
)
 
 
(551
)


 Consolidated Results

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Revenues

 
 
2,502,675
 
 
 
2,241,275
 


 Earnings from operations

 
 
416,007
 
 
 
377,695
 


 
Total costs and expenses increased $223.1 million for fiscal 2012, compared with fiscal 2011.  Life Insurance accounted for $75.3 million of the increase primarily due to entering into the new reinsurance agreement.  Property and Casualty Insurance accounted for $46.0 million of the increase largely due to the reserve increases associated with their closed block of workers’ compensation policies.
 
Operating expenses for Moving and Storage increased $101.5 million due largely to spending on personnel, rental equipment maintenance and operating costs associated with the U-Box program.  Cost of sales and commission expenses increased in relation to the associated revenues.  Depreciation expense, before gains on the disposal of equipment, increased $17.5 million while lease expense decreased $19.6 million.  Over the last several years the Company has decreased its use of leases for funding new equipment acquisitions and increased its use of term loans and securitizations, which are the primary causes of the decrease in lease expense and increase in depreciation expense.
 
As a result of the above mentioned changes in revenues and expenses, earnings from operations increased to $416.0 million for fiscal 2012, compared with $377.7 million for fiscal 2011.
 
Interest expense for fiscal 2012 was $90.4 million, compared with $88.4 million for fiscal 2011 due to an increase in average borrowings partially offset by a decrease in average borrowing costs.
 
Income tax expense was $120.3 million for fiscal 2012, compared with $105.7 million for fiscal 2011. The increase was due to higher pretax earnings for fiscal 2012.
 
Dividends paid or accrued on our Series A Preferred were $2.9 million and $12.4 million for fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. Fiscal 2012 included a $5.9 million non-recurring charge related to the redemption of the Series A Preferred Stock. All of our Series A Preferred stock was redeemed on June 1, 2011; therefore, no dividends were accrued with respect to the Series A Preferred for the second, third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2012.
 
As a result of the above mentioned items, earnings available to common shareholders were $196.5 million for fiscal 2012, compared with $171.0 million for fiscal 2011.
 
Basic and diluted earnings per common share for fiscal 2012 were $10.09, compared with $8.80 for fiscal 2011.
 
The weighted average common shares outstanding basic and diluted were 19,476,187 for fiscal 2012, compared with 19,432,781 for fiscal 2011.



  


26





  



 
AMERCO and Consolidated Subsidiaries
 
Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010
 
 
Listed below, on a consolidated basis, are revenues for our major product lines for fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010:
 



  
 

Year Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2011

 
 

2010

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


 Self-moving equipment rentals

 
$
1,547,015
 
 
$
1,419,726
 


 Self-storage revenues

 
 
120,698
 
 
 
110,369
 


 Self-moving and self-storage products and service sales

 
 
205,570
 
 
 
198,785
 


 Property management fees

 
 
22,132
 
 
 
21,632
 


 Life insurance premiums

 
 
206,992
 
 
 
134,345
 


 Property and casualty insurance premiums

 
 
30,704
 
 
 
27,625
 


 Net investment and interest income

 
 
52,661
 
 
 
49,989
 


 Other revenue

 
 
55,503
 
 
 
39,534
 


Consolidated revenue

 
$
2,241,275
 
 
$
2,002,005
 


 
Self-moving equipment rental revenues increased $127.3 million for fiscal 2011, compared with fiscal 2010.  The growth in revenue came from both In-Town and one-way business and has been spread across both truck and trailer rentals.  The increase was due primarily to growth in transactions along with improvements in our average revenue per transaction.  We believe the growth in transactions was influenced by an increase in demand for our services as well as from enhancements to our customer service capabilities.
 
Self-storage revenues increased $10.3 million for fiscal 2011, compared with fiscal 2010 due primarily to an increase in the number of rooms rented combined with a modest improvement in overall rates per occupied square foot. Our average occupancy during fiscal 2011 increased by approximately 610,000 square feet compared with fiscal 2010.  During fiscal 2011 we added over 820,000 of new net rentable square feet to our portfolio compared to just over 582,000 of new net rentable square feet in fiscal 2010.
 
Sales of self-moving and self-storage products and services increased $6.8 million for fiscal 2011, compared with fiscal 2010.  We experienced increased sales in each of our three major product categories including moving supplies, propane, and hitches and towing accessories.
 
Life insurance premiums increased $72.6 for fiscal 2011, compared with fiscal 2010. Continued expansion of its single premium whole life product accounted for $22.1 million of the increase with the remaining increase of $50.5 million primarily due to two reinsurance transactions completed in the third quarter.
 
Property and casualty insurance premiums increased $3.1 million for fiscal 2011, compared with fiscal 2010. A portion of Repwest’s premiums are from policies sold in conjunction with U-Haul rental transactions. As moving transactions have increased this year so have the related property and casualty insurance premiums.
 
Other revenue increased $16.0 million for fiscal 2011, compared with fiscal 2010 primarily due to the expansion of new business initiatives including our U-BoxTM program.
 
As a result of the items mentioned above, revenues for AMERCO and its consolidated subsidiaries were $2,241.3 million for fiscal 2011, compared with $2,002.0 million for fiscal 2010.



  


27





  



 
Listed below are revenues and earnings from operations at each of our operating segments for fiscal 2011 and 2010. The insurance companies’ years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009.
 



  
 

Year Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2011

 
 

2010

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


 Moving and storage

 
 
 
 
 
 


 Revenues

 
$
1,977,826
 
 
$
1,816,322
 


 Earnings from operations before equity in earnings of subsidiaries

 
 
355,173
 
 
 
170,507
 


 Property and casualty insurance

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Revenues

 
 
38,663
 
 
 
34,390
 


 Earnings from operations

 
 
5,638
 
 
 
6,279
 


 Life insurance

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Revenues

 
 
229,911
 
 
 
155,725
 


 Earnings from operations

 
 
17,435
 
 
 
16,858
 


 Eliminations

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Revenues

 
 
(5,125
)
 
 
(4,432
)


 Earnings from operations before equity in earnings of subsidiaries

 
 
(551
)
 
 
(107
)


 Consolidated Results

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Revenues

 
 
2,241,275
 
 
 
2,002,005
 


 Earnings from operations

 
 
377,695
 
 
 
193,537
 


 
Total costs and expenses increased $55.1 million for fiscal 2011, compared with fiscal 2010. The increase in benefit costs were primarily due to the two reinsurance transactions entered into by Oxford during fiscal 2011 as well as from additional reserves and commissions associated with their single premium whole life business. Total costs at the life insurance segment increased $73.6 million for fiscal 2011, compared with fiscal 2010.
 
Operating expenses for Moving and Storage decreased $2.5 million primarily from reduced liability costs associated with the rental equipment fleet offset by increases in personnel costs resulting from the increase in the rental business.  Liability costs have improved as expected losses from prior years continue to develop positively. Depreciation expense, primarily related to the rental equipment fleet, decreased $38.4 million. Included in this decrease is a $21.1 million improvement in the gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment. Cost of sales and commission expenses are increasing in relation to the associated revenues.
 
As a result of the above mentioned changes in revenues and expenses, earnings from operations increased to $377.7 million for fiscal 2011, compared with $193.5 million for fiscal 2010.
 
Interest expense for fiscal 2011 was $88.4 million, compared with $93.3 million for fiscal 2010. The average amount of outstanding notes, loans and capital leases payable has decreased during fiscal 2011, compared with fiscal 2010.
 
Income tax expense was $105.7 million for fiscal 2011, compared with $34.6 million for fiscal 2010 due to higher pretax earnings for fiscal 2011.
 
Dividends accrued on our Series A Preferred were $12.4 million and $12.9 million for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
As a result of the above mentioned items, earnings available to common shareholders were $171.0 million for fiscal 2011, compared with $53.2 million for fiscal 2010.
 
Basic and diluted earnings per common share for fiscal 2011 were $8.80, compared with $2.74 for fiscal 2010.
 
The weighted average common shares outstanding basic and diluted were 19,432,781 for fiscal 2011, compared with 19,386,791 for fiscal 2010.



  


28





  



 
 Moving and Storage
 
Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011
 
Listed below are revenues for the major product lines at our Moving and Storage operating segment for fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011:
 



  
 

Year Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


 Self-moving equipment rentals

 
$
1,679,963
 
 
$
1,549,058
 


 Self-storage revenues

 
 
134,376
 
 
 
120,698
 


 Self-moving and self-storage products and service sales

 
 
213,854
 
 
 
205,570
 


 Property management fees

 
 
23,266
 
 
 
22,132
 


 Net investment and interest income

 
 
27,132
 
 
 
25,702
 


 Other revenue

 
 
78,332
 
 
 
54,666
 


 Moving and Storage revenue

 
$
2,156,923
 
 
$
1,977,826
 


 
Self-moving equipment rental revenues increased $130.9 million for fiscal 2012, compared with fiscal 2011.  The largest contributor to the revenue improvement was the increase in both In-Town and one-way moving transactions across both our truck and trailer fleets.  We believe the growth in the number of transactions was influenced by our continuing customer service enhancements which allowed us to better serve the existing customer base combined with an increase in overall demand for our services.  We were also better able to serve our customers through an increase in the amount of equipment in our fleet throughout the year.  On average the number of rental trucks in the fleet grew approximately 4% compared to fiscal 2011.  Other factors that contributed to the revenue improvement included an increase in our average revenue per transaction and utilization of the fleet.  Factors which contribute to changes in revenue per transaction include the mix of equipment type rented and rental rates charged.
 
Self-storage revenues increased $13.7 million for fiscal 2012, compared with fiscal 2011 due primarily to an increase in the number of rooms rented combined with a modest improvement in overall rates per occupied square foot.  The average amount of occupied square feet increased by approximately 10% for fiscal 2012 compared to the same period last year.  A portion of this improvement comes from the additional capacity added to the portfolio; total net rentable square feet increased by 1.4 million over the last twelve months.
 
Sales of self-moving and self-storage products and services increased $8.3 million for fiscal 2012, compared with fiscal 2011.  Increases were recognized in the sale of propane and towing accessories and installation with the majority of the improvement coming from the sales of moving supplies.
 
Other revenue increased $23.7 million for fiscal 2012, compared with fiscal 2011 primarily from the expansion of new business initiatives including our U-BoxTM program.
 
The Company owns and manages self-storage facilities. Self-storage revenues reported in the consolidated financial statements represent Company-owned locations only. Self-storage data for our owned storage locations follows:
 



  
 

Year Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 

  
 

(In thousands, except occupancy rate)

 


Room count as of March 31

 
 
165
 
 
 
153
 


Square footage as of March 31

 
 
13,889
 
 
 
12,534
 


Average number of rooms occupied

 
 
123
 
 
 
113
 


Average occupancy rate based on room count

 
 
76.9
%
 
 
75.8
%


Average square footage occupied

 
 
10,401
 
 
 
9,437
 


 
Total costs and expenses increased $101.5 million for fiscal 2012, compared with fiscal 2011.  Operating expenses increased $69.8 million due largely to spending on personnel, rental equipment maintenance and operating costs associated with the U-Box program.  Cost of sales and commission expenses increased in relation to the associated revenues.  Depreciation expense, before gains on the disposal of equipment, increased $17.5 million while lease expense decreased $19.6 million.  Over the



  


29





  



 
last several years the Company has decreased its use of leases for funding new equipment acquisitions and increased its use of term loans and securitizations, which are the primary causes of the decrease in lease expense and increase in depreciation expense.
 
As a result of the above mentioned changes in revenues and expenses, earnings from operations for Moving and Storage before consolidation of the equity in the earnings of the insurance subsidiaries, increased to $432.8 million for fiscal 2012, compared with $355.2 million for the fiscal 2011.
 
Equity in the earnings of AMERCO’s insurance subsidiaries decreased $25.3 million for fiscal 2012, compared with fiscal 2011 as a result of the reserve strengthening at the Property and Casualty Insurance operating segment.
 
As a result of the above mentioned changes in revenues and expenses, earnings from operations increased to $422.4 million for fiscal 2012, compared with $370.1 million for fiscal 2011.
 
 Moving and Storage
 
Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010
 
Listed below are revenues for the major product lines at our Moving and Storage operating segment for fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010:
 



  
 

Year Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2011

 
 

2010

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


 Self-moving equipment rentals

 
$
1,549,058
 
 
$
1,421,331
 


 Self-storage revenues

 
 
120,698
 
 
 
110,369
 


 Self-moving and self-storage products and service sales

 
 
205,570
 
 
 
198,785
 


 Property management fees

 
 
22,132
 
 
 
21,632
 


 Net investment and interest income

 
 
25,702
 
 
 
26,055
 


 Other revenue

 
 
54,666
 
 
 
38,150
 


 Moving and Storage revenue

 
$
1,977,826
 
 
$
1,816,322
 


 
Self-moving equipment rental revenues increased $127.7 million for fiscal 2011, compared with fiscal 2010.  The growth in revenue came from both In-Town and one-way business and has been spread across both truck and trailer rentals.  The increase was due primarily to growth in transactions along with improvements in our average revenue per transaction.  We believe the growth in transactions was influenced by an increase in demand for our services as well as from enhancements to our customer service capabilities.
 
Self-storage revenues increased $10.3 million for fiscal 2011, compared with fiscal 2010 due primarily to an increase in the number of rooms rented combined with a modest improvement in overall rates per occupied square foot. Our average occupancy during fiscal 2011 increased by approximately 610,000 square feet compared with fiscal 2010.  During fiscal 2011, we added over 820,000 of new net rentable square feet to our portfolio compared to just over 582,000 of new net rentable square feet in fiscal 2010.
 
Sales of self-moving and self-storage products and services increased $6.8 million for fiscal 2011, compared with fiscal 2010. In particular we experienced increased sales in each of our three major product categories including propane, hitches and towing accessories and moving supplies.
 
Other revenue increased $16.5 million for fiscal 2011, compared with fiscal 2010 primarily from the expansion of new business initiatives including our U-BoxTM program.



  


30





  



 
The Company owns and manages self-storage facilities. Self-storage revenues reported in the consolidated financial statements represent Company-owned locations only. Self-storage data for our owned storage locations follows:
 



  
 

Year Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2011

 
 

2010

 

  
 

(In thousands, except occupancy rate)

 


Room count as of March 31

 
 
153
 
 
 
144
 


Square footage as of March 31

 
 
12,534
 
 
 
11,713
 


Average number of rooms occupied

 
 
113
 
 
 
106
 


Average occupancy rate based on room count

 
 
75.8
%
 
 
75.2
%


Average square footage occupied

 
 
9,437
 
 
 
8,827
 


 
Total costs and expenses decreased $23.2 million for fiscal 2011, compared with fiscal 2010. Operating expenses decreased $2.5 million primarily from reduced liability costs associated with the rental equipment fleet offset by increases in personnel costs resulting from the increase in the rental business.  Liability costs have improved as expected losses from prior years continue to develop positively. Depreciation expense, primarily related to the rental equipment fleet, decreased $38.4 million. Included in this decrease is a $21.1 million improvement in the gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment. Cost of sales and commission expenses are increasing in relation to the associated revenues.
 
Equity in the earnings of AMERCO’s insurance subsidiaries increased $0.1 million for fiscal 2011, compared with fiscal 2010.
 
As a result of the above mentioned changes in revenues and expenses, earnings from operations increased to $370.1 million for fiscal 2011, compared with $185.3 million for fiscal 2010.
 
Property and Casualty Insurance
 
2011 Compared with 2010
 
Net premiums were $32.6 million and $30.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. A portion of Repwest’s premiums are from policies sold in conjunction with U-Haul rental transactions. The increase corresponded with the increased moving and storage transactions at U-Haul.
 
Net investment income was $10.0 million and $8.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase was due to $1.0 million of gains on assets disposed and higher returns from assets invested in mortgage loans.
 
Net operating expenses were $13.3 million and $15.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. The decrease was due to a $1.1 million payment related to an excess workers’ compensation treaty payment in 2010 with no similar expense in 2011 and a $1.2 million decrease in net loss adjusting expense in 2011.
 
Benefits and losses incurred were $65.7 million and $17.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase was primarily due to reserve strengthening on terminated workers’ compensation programs originally written or reinsured between 1983 and 2003. Losses in this line of business increased $53.8 million of which $48.3 million was recognized in the third quarter of fiscal 2012. The Company determined that claims have been developing much more adversely than previously anticipated. A combination of issues including medical inflation, additional treatments, longer claim terms and underestimation of claims costs by third party administrators and reinsurers contributed to these adjustments. These updated assumptions led to the revision in the Company’s loss assumptions for this business.
 
As a result of the above mentioned changes in revenues and expenses, pretax earnings (loss) from operations were ($36.4) million and $5.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Property and Casualty Insurance
 
2010 Compared with 2009
 
Net premiums were $30.7 million and $27.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. A portion of Repwest’s premiums are from policies sold in conjunction with U-Haul rental transactions. As moving transactions have increased this year so have the related premiums.



  


31





  



 
Net investment income was $8.0 million and $6.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase was primarily due to a reallocation of invested assets between short and long term investment opportunities.
 
Net operating expenses were $15.8 million and $13.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase was due to a $1.1 million payment related to an excess workers’ compensation treaty payment and a $1.1 million increase in underwriting expenses.
 
Benefits and losses incurred were $17.2 million and $14.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase was due to the increase in premiums on the “Safe” product line of business and the strengthening of reserves on terminated programs. Also contributing to the increase was a $1.0 million increase in terminated lines offset by a $1.1 million decrease in claims expenses.
 
As a result of the above mentioned changes in revenues and expenses, pretax earnings from operations were $5.6 million and $6.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Life Insurance
 
2011 Compared with 2010
 
Net premiums were $277.6 million and $207.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  During 2011 we entered in a coinsurance arrangement for a block of whole life policies resulting in a one-time increase in premiums of $83.5 million due to the transfer of liabilities.  Likewise, 2010 included a $30.8 million increase in premiums related to a coinsurance agreement entered into for a block of final expense whole life policies acquired.  Medicare supplement premiums increased $27.1 million, of which $32.6 million was attributable to the 2010 acquisition of a block of existing policies.  This was offset by policy terminations which exceeded rate increases on existing business.  Other life insurance premiums and annuitizations accounted for a decrease of $9.1 million during the year.
 
Net investment income was $28.8 million and $20.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase was due to an additional $2.9 million in gains on the sale of securities and increased income due to a larger invested asset base.
 
Net operating expenses were $28.9 million and $29.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. An increase in general administrative and commission expense related to current year annuity sales and last year’s Medicare supplement acquisition was offset by a reduction in life insurance commissions.
 
Benefits and losses incurred were $245.1 million and $173.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  There was a net increase of $52.7 million in Life benefits due to the transfer of liabilities for the coinsurance of new blocks of business during both quarters ending December 31, 2011 and 2010.  Medicare supplement benefits increased $24.1 million.  An increase of $31.1 million was due to the acquisition of last year’s Medicare supplement block of business, which was partially offset by a reduction of $7.0 million in benefits on the existing business.  All other business had a net decrease in benefits of $4.9 million for the year.
 
Amortization of deferred acquisition costs (“DAC”) and the value of business acquired (“VOBA”) was $13.8 million and $9.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Approximately $1.2 million of the increase was due to additional annuity DAC amortization resulting from realized capital gains recognized during the year. An additional $1.5 million was from the acquisition of last year’s Medicare supplement and final expense policies. The remaining increase was spread across various life insurance and annuity products.
 
As a result of the above mentioned changes in revenues and expenses, pretax earnings from operations were $20.1 million and $17.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.



  


32





  



 
Life Insurance
 
2010 Compared with 2009
 
Net premiums were $207.0 million and $134.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Of the increase, $30.8 million resulted from the coinsurance agreement entered into on September 30, 2010 to reinsure a block of final expense life insurance policies.  As part of the transaction, assets were transferred to us and classified as premium upon such transfer.  Medicare supplement premiums increased by $13.6 million primarily due to the acquisition of a Medicare supplement block of business and rate increases on existing policies, offset by policy lapses and terminations.  Sales of the company’s single premium whole life product accounted for an increase of $22.1 million.
 
Net investment income was $20.7 million and $18.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The improvement was due to an increased asset base and from gains on sale of securities. 
 
Net operating expenses were $29.8 million and $24.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  The growth was a result of commissions paid on increased sales of the single premium life product plus commissions on the Medicare supplement block of business purchased in September 2010.
 
Benefits and losses incurred were $173.2 million and $106.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Life insurance benefits increased $59.1 million, of which $19.7 million was due to expanded sales of the single premium life product, $6.6 million from increased sales of final expense life insurance, and $30.8 million from reserves that were transferred under the new coinsurance agreement.  Medicare supplement increased by a net of $8.9 million, of which $14.9 million was due to the acquisition of a Medicare supplement block of business offset by policy lapses and terminations.
 
Amortization of deferred acquisition costs DAC and the value of business acquired VOBA was $9.5 million and $7.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
As a result of the above mentioned changes in revenues and expenses, pretax earnings from operations were $17.4 million and $16.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
 Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
We believe our current capital structure is a positive factor that will enable us to pursue our operational plans and goals and provide us with sufficient liquidity for the foreseeable future. The majority of our obligations currently in place mature at the end of fiscal years 2016 or 2019. However, since there are many factors which could affect our liquidity, including some which are beyond our control, there is no assurance that future cash flows and liquidity resources will be sufficient to meet our outstanding debt obligations and our other future capital needs.
 
At March 31, 2012, cash and cash equivalents totaled $350.1 million, compared with $375.5 million on March 31, 2011. The assets of our insurance subsidiaries are generally unavailable to fulfill the obligations of non-insurance operations (AMERCO, U-Haul and Real Estate). As of March 31, 2012 (or as otherwise indicated), cash and cash equivalents, other financial assets (receivables, short-term investments, other investments, fixed maturities, and related party assets) and debt obligations of each operating segment were:
 



  
 

Moving & Storage

 
 

Property and Casualty Insurance (a)

 
 

Life Insurance (a)

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Cash and cash equivalents

 
$
309,228
 
 
$
15,462
 
 
$
25,410
 


Other financial assets

 
 
424,654
 
 
 
452,860
 
 
 
779,097
 


Debt obligations

 
 
1,486,211
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(a) As of December 31, 2011

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 





  


33





  



 
At March 31, 2012, our Moving and Storage segment had cash available under existing credit facilities of $299.9 million as well as $19.1 million of a term loan to be used for new equipment purchases.
 
A summary of our consolidated cash flows for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 is shown in the table below:
 



  
 

Years Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 
 

2010

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


 Net cash provided by operating activities

 
$
664,605
 
 
$
572,863
 
 
$
402,521
 


 Net cash used by investing activities

 
 
(576,962
)
 
 
(380,988
)
 
 
(117,978
)


 Net cash used by financing activities

 
 
(112,745
)
 
 
(60,768
)
 
 
(283,656
)


 Effects of exchange rate on cash

 
 
(294
)
 
 
271
 
 
 
2,644
 


 Net cash flow

 
 
(25,396
)
 
 
131,378
 
 
 
3,531
 


 Cash at the beginning of the period

 
 
375,496
 
 
 
244,118
 
 
 
240,587
 


 Cash at the end of the period

 
$
350,100
 
 
$
375,496
 
 
$
244,118
 


 
Net cash provided by operating activities increased $91.7 million in fiscal 2012, compared with fiscal 2011 primarily due to improved profitability at the Moving and Storage segment. The improvement at Moving and Storage was primarily due to increased revenues. Operating cash flows from the Life Insurance operating segment increased $31.8 million primarily due to a reinsurance arrangement entered into during fiscal 2012 combined with new premiums.
 
Net cash used in investing activities increased $196.0 million in fiscal 2012, compared with fiscal 2011.  Purchases of property, plant and equipment, which are reported net of cash from leases, increased $109.4 million. Cash from new leases increased $75.4 million and cash used to purchase new equipment and invest in construction and real estate increased $154.9 million. Cash from the sales of property, plant and equipment decreased $11.5 million. Cash used for investing activities at the insurance companies increased $74.9 million primarily due to the investing of cash generated from operations, including cash from the reinsurance agreement entered into by Oxford.
 
Net cash used by financing activities increased $52.0 million in fiscal 2012, as compared with fiscal 2011. The redemption of our Preferred stock and the Common stock dividend paid were offset by the net change of $88 million in securitization deposits in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011. The securitization deposit line represents net inflows or outflows of proceeds received from the initial funding of our fleet securitization loans.  When the loans are initially funded for the full amount of the loan, a portion of the proceeds are set aside as a deposit until such time that we use the funds for the acquisition of equipment.  In fiscal 2011 we had a net increase in these deposits of $46.0 million while in fiscal 2012 we had a net decrease in these deposits of $42.1 million. Net annuity withdrawals at the Life Insurance operating segment have decreased $7.9 million.
 
 Liquidity and Capital Resources and Requirements of Our Operating Segments
 
Moving and Storage
 
To meet the needs of our customers, U-Haul maintains a large fleet of rental equipment. Capital expenditures have primarily reflected new rental equipment acquisitions and the buyouts of existing fleet from leases. The capital to fund these expenditures has historically been obtained internally from operations and the sale of used equipment and externally from debt and lease financing. In the future, we anticipate that our internally generated funds will be used to service the existing debt and fund operations. U-Haul estimates that during fiscal 2013 the Company will reinvest in its truck and trailer rental fleet approximately $325 million, net of equipment sales and excluding any lease buyouts. For fiscal 2012, the Company invested, net of sales, approximately $338 million before any lease buyouts in its truck and trailer fleet. Fleet investments in fiscal 2013 and beyond will be dependent upon several factors including availability of capital, the truck rental environment and the used-truck sales market. We anticipate that the fiscal 2013 investments will be funded largely through debt financing, external lease financing and cash from operations. Management considers several factors including cost and tax consequences when selecting a method to fund capital expenditures. Our allocation between debt and lease financing can change from year to year based upon financial market conditions which may alter the cost or availability of financing options.



  


34





  



 
Real Estate has traditionally financed the acquisition of self-storage properties to support U-Haul's growth through debt financing and funds from operations and sales. The Company’s plan for the expansion of owned storage properties includes the acquisition of existing self-storage locations from third parties, the acquisition and development of bare land, and the acquisition and redevelopment of existing buildings not currently used for self-storage. The Company is funding these development projects through construction loans and internally generated funds. For fiscal 2012, the Company invested nearly $102 million in real estate acquisitions, new construction and renovation and repair. For fiscal 2013, the timing of new projects will be dependent upon several factors including the entitlement process, availability of capital, weather, and the identification and successful acquisition of target properties. U-Haul's growth plan in self-storage also includes the expansion of the eMove program, which does not require significant capital.
 
Net capital expenditures (purchases of property, plant and equipment less proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment) were $420.9 million, $300.0 million and $116.6 million for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company entered into new equipment leases of $120.3 million, $44.9 million and $74.9 million during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
The Moving and Storage operating segment continues to hold significant cash and has access to additional liquidity. Management may invest these funds in our existing operations, expand our product lines or pursue external opportunities in the self-moving and storage market place, or reduce existing indebtedness where possible.
 
Property and Casualty Insurance
 
State insurance regulations restrict the amount of dividends that can be paid to stockholders of insurance companies. As a result, Property and Casualty Insurance’s assets are generally not available to satisfy the claims of AMERCO or its legal subsidiaries.
 
The Company believes that stockholders equity at the Property and Casualty operating segment remains sufficient following the third quarter reserve strengthening adjustment and we do not believe that its ability to pay ordinary dividends to AMERCO or per state regulations will be restricted.
 
Stockholder’s equity was $123.8 million, $154.6 million, and $151.7 million at December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The decrease in 2011 compared with 2010 resulted from net losses of $23.6 million, a dividend distributed to AMERCO of $6.8 million in property and a decrease in other comprehensive income of $0.4 million. Property and Casualty Insurance does not use debt or equity issues to increase capital and therefore has no direct exposure to capital market conditions other than through its investment portfolio.
 
Life Insurance
 
The Life Insurance operating segment manages its financial assets to meet policyholder and other obligations including investment contract withdrawals. Life Insurance’s net withdrawals for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $14.2 million. State insurance regulations restrict the amount of dividends that can be paid to stockholders of insurance companies. As a result, Life Insurance’s funds are generally not available to satisfy the claims of AMERCO or its legal subsidiaries.
 
Life Insurance’s stockholder’s equity was $215.8 million, $188.7 million, and $173.2 million at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in 2011 compared with 2010 resulted from earnings of $13.2 million and an increase in other comprehensive income of $13.9 million. Life Insurance does not use debt or equity issues to increase capital and therefore has no direct exposure to capital market conditions other than through its investment portfolio.
 
 Cash Provided from Operating Activities by Operating Segments
 
Moving and Storage
 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $536.9 million, $471.0 million and $367.7 million in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase in self-moving equipment rental revenues, storage revenues and product and service sales was primarily responsible for the improved operating cash flows.



  


35





  



 
Property and Casualty Insurance
 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $4.7 million, $4.3 million, and $3.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The increase was primarily due to the collection of reinsurance receivables.
 
Property and Casualty Insurance’s cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment portfolios amounted to $44.1 million, $76.2 million, and $106.3 million at December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. This balance reflects funds in transition from maturity proceeds to long term investments. Management believes this level of liquid assets, combined with budgeted cash flow, is adequate to meet foreseeable cash needs. Capital and operating budgets allow Property and Casualty Insurance to schedule cash needs in accordance with investment and underwriting proceeds.
 
Life Insurance
 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $128.6 million, $98.1 million and $31.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. An increase of $28.3 million was due to additional cash received in the year ended December 31, 2011 from the coinsurance of a new block of life insurance business compared to the net cash received in the period ended December 31, 2010 for the assumption of a Medicare block of business and coinsurance of a block of final expense life insurance policies. Offsetting this was reduced sales of single premium life insurance policies.
 
In addition to cash flows from operating activities and financing activities, a substantial amount of liquid funds are available through Life Insurance’s short-term portfolio. At December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments amounted to $54.1 million, $53.6 million and $57.5 million, respectively. Management believes that the overall sources of liquidity are adequate to meet foreseeable cash needs.
 
 Liquidity and Capital Resources - Summary
 
We believe we have the financial resources needed to meet our business plans including our working capital needs. The Company continues to hold significant cash and has access to existing credit facilities and additional liquidity to meet our anticipated capital expenditure requirements for investment in our rental fleet, rental equipment and storage acquisitions and build outs.
 
Our borrowing strategy is primarily focused on asset-backed financing and rental equipment operating leases. As part of this strategy, we seek to ladder maturities and hedge floating rate loans through the use of interest rate swaps. While each of these loans typically contains provisions governing the amount that can be borrowed in relation to specific assets, the overall structure is flexible with no limits on overall Company borrowings. Management feels it has adequate liquidity between cash and cash equivalents and unused borrowing capacity in existing credit facilities to meet the current and expected needs of the Company over the next several years. At March 31, 2012, we had cash availability under existing credit facilities of $299.9 million as well as $19.1 million from a term loan to be used for new equipment purchases. It is possible that circumstances beyond our control could alter the ability of the financial institutions to lend us the unused lines of credit. We believe that there are additional opportunities for leverage in our existing capital structure. For a more detailed discussion of our long-term debt and borrowing capacity, please see Note 9, Borrowings of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
 
Assets and liabilities are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets and are measured and classified based upon a three tiered approach to valuation. ASC 820 requires that financial assets and liabilities recorded at fair value be classified and disclosed in a Level 1, Level 2 or Level 3 category. For more information, please see Note 17, Fair Value Measurements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
The available-for-sale securities held by the Company are recorded at fair value. These values are determined primarily from actively traded markets where prices are based either on direct market quotes or observed transactions. Liquidity is a factor considered during the determination of the fair value of these securities. Market price quotes may not be readily available for certain securities or the market for them has slowed or ceased. In situations where the market is determined to be illiquid, fair value is determined based upon limited available information and other factors including expected cash flows. At March 31, 2012, we had $1.2 million of available-for-sale assets classified in Level 3.



  


36





  



 
The interest rate swaps held by the Company as hedges against interest rate risk for our variable rate debt are recorded at fair value. These values are determined using pricing valuation models which include broker quotes for which significant inputs are observable. They include adjustments for counterparty credit quality and other deal-specific factors, where appropriate and are classified as Level 2.
 
 Disclosures about Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments
 
The following table provides contractual commitments and contingencies as of March 31, 2012:
 



  
 
 
 
 

Payment due by Period (as of March 31, 2012)

 


Contractual Obligations

 

Total

 
 

Prior to
03/31/13

 
 

04/01/13
03/31/15

 
 

04/01/15
03/31/17

 
 

April 1, 2017
and Thereafter

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Notes, loans and leases payable - Principal

 
$
1,467,611
 
 
$
184,040
 
 
$
268,834
 
 
$
747,121
 
 
$
267,616
 


Notes, loans and leases payable - Interest

 
 
194,248
 
 
 
56,147
 
 
 
95,150
 
 
 
35,262
 
 
 
7,689
 


Revolving credit agreements - Principal

 
 
23,920
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
23,920
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 


Revolving credit agreements - Interest

 
 
490
 
 
 
420
 
 
 
70
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 


Operating leases

 
 
470,731
 
 
 
147,001
 
 
 
196,853
 
 
 
96,999
 
 
 
29,878
 


Property and casualty obligations (a)

 
 
158,463
 
 
 
15,186
 
 
 
19,834
 
 
 
15,316
 
 
 
108,127
 


Life, health and annuity obligations (b)

 
 
2,632,979
 
 
 
186,011
 
 
 
327,450
 
 
 
274,116
 
 
 
1,845,402
 


Self insurance accruals (c)

 
 
380,140
 
 
 
109,865
 
 
 
165,462
 
 
 
73,062
 
 
 
31,751
 


Post retirement benefit liability

 
 
9,627
 
 
 
503
 
 
 
1,258
 
 
 
1,679
 
 
 
6,187
 


Total contractual obligations

 
$
5,338,209
 
 
$
699,173
 
 
$
1,098,831
 
 
$
1,243,555
 
 
$
2,296,650
 


 
(a) These estimated obligations for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses include case reserves for reported claims and IBNR claims estimates and are net of expected reinsurance recoveries. The ultimate amount to settle both the case reserves and IBNR is an estimate based upon historical experience and current trends and such estimates could materially differ from actual results. The assumptions do not include future premiums. Due to the significant assumptions employed in this model, the amounts shown could materially differ from actual results.
 
(b) These estimated obligations are based on mortality, morbidity, withdrawal and lapse assumptions drawn from our historical experience and adjusted for any known trends. These obligations include expected interest crediting but no amounts for future annuity deposits or premiums for life and Medicare supplement policies.  The cash flows shown are undiscounted for interest and as a result total outflows for all years shown significantly exceed the corresponding liabilities of $623.8 million included in our consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2012. Life Insurance expects to fully fund these obligations from their invested asset portfolio. Due to the significant assumptions employed in this model, the amounts shown could materially differ from actual results. 
 
(c) These estimated obligations are primarily the Company’s self insurance accruals for portions of the liability coverage for our rental equipment. The estimates for future settlement are based upon historical experience and current trends. Due to the significant assumptions employed in this model, the amounts shown could materially differ from actual results.
 
As presented above, contractual obligations on debt and guarantees represent principal payments while contractual obligations for operating leases represent the notional payments under the lease arrangements.
 
ASC 740 - Income Taxes liabilities and interest of $15.8 million is not included above due to uncertainty surrounding ultimate settlements, if any.
 
 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements
 
The Company uses off-balance sheet arrangements in situations where management believes that the economics and sound business principles warrant their use.
 
AMERCO utilizes operating leases for certain rental equipment and facilities with terms expiring substantially through 2018. In the event of a shortfall in proceeds from the sales of the underlying rental equipment assets, AMERCO has guaranteed $145.3 million of residual values at March 31, 2012 for these assets at the end of their respective lease terms. AMERCO has been leasing rental equipment since 1987. To date, we have not experienced residual value shortfalls related to these leasing arrangements. Using the average cost of fleet related debt as the discount rate, the present value of AMERCO’s minimum lease payments and residual value guarantees were $391.1 million at March 31, 2012.



  


37





  



 
Historically, AMERCO has used off-balance sheet arrangements in connection with the expansion of our self-storage business. For more information please see Note 21, Related Party Transactions of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These arrangements were primarily used when the Company’s overall borrowing structure was more limited. The Company does not face similar limitations currently and off-balance sheet arrangements have not been utilized in our self-storage expansion in recent years. In the future, we will continue to identify and consider off-balance sheet opportunities to the extent such arrangements would be economically advantageous to us and our stockholders.
 
WE currently manage the self-storage properties owned or leased by SAC Holdings, Mercury Partners, L.P. (“Mercury”), Four SAC Self-Storage Corporation (“4 SAC”), Five SAC Self-Storage Corporation (“5 SAC”), Galaxy Investments, L.P. (“Galaxy”) and Private Mini Storage Realty, L.P. (“Private Mini”) pursuant to a standard form of management agreement, under which we receive a management fee of between 4% and 10% of the gross receipts plus reimbursement for certain expenses. We received management fees, exclusive of reimbursed expenses, of $22.5 million, $22.0 million and $22.6 million from the above mentioned entities during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. This management fee is consistent with the fee received for other properties we previously managed for third parties. SAC Holdings, 4 SAC, 5 SAC, Galaxy and Private Mini are substantially controlled by Blackwater Investments, Inc. (“Blackwater”). Blackwater is wholly-owned by Mark V. Shoen, a significant shareholder of AMERCO. Mercury is substantially controlled by Mark V. Shoen. James P. Shoen, a significant shareholder and director of AMERCO, has an interest in Mercury.
 
We lease space for marketing company offices, vehicle repair shops and hitch installation centers from subsidiaries of SAC Holdings, 5 SAC and Galaxy. Total lease payments pursuant to such leases were $2.4 million, $2.5 million and $2.5 million in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The terms of the leases are similar to the terms of leases for other properties owned by unrelated parties that are leased by us.
 
At March 31, 2012, subsidiaries of SAC Holdings, 4 SAC, 5 SAC, Galaxy and Private Mini acted as U-Haul independent dealers. The financial and other terms of the dealership contracts with the aforementioned companies and their subsidiaries are substantially identical to the terms of those with the Company’s other independent dealers whereby commissions are paid by us based on equipment rental revenues. We paid the above mentioned entities $41.7 million, $37.3 million and $34.7 million in commissions pursuant to such dealership contracts during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
During fiscal 2012, subsidiaries of the Company held various junior unsecured notes of SAC Holdings. Substantially all of the equity interest of SAC Holdings is controlled by Blackwater. The Company does not have an equity ownership interest in SAC Holdings. We recorded interest income of $19.4 million, $19.2 million and $18.9 million and received cash interest payments of $17.8 million, $15.8 million and $13.9 million from SAC Holdings during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The largest aggregate amount of notes receivable outstanding during fiscal 2012 was $196.2 million and the aggregate notes receivable balance at March 31, 2012 was $195.4 million. In accordance with the terms of these notes, SAC Holdings may prepay the notes without penalty or premium at any time. The scheduled maturities of these notes are between 2019 and 2024. Due to the repayments in April 2012 and May 2012 the total notes receivable balance decreased by $113.5 million.
 
These agreements along with notes with subsidiaries of SAC Holdings, 4 SAC, 5 SAC, Galaxy and Private Mini, excluding Dealer Agreements, provided revenues of $45.3 million, expenses of $2.4 million and cash flows of $41.8 million during fiscal 2012. Revenues and commission expenses related to the Dealer Agreements were $194.1 million and $41.7 million, respectively during fiscal 2012.
 
In April 2012, we received $52.2 million from SAC Holding Corporation as full repayment of principal and accrued interest for one of its junior notes. Also in April 2012 and May 2012, we received $46.0 million and $20.4 million, respectively from SAC Holding II Corporation as partial repayment on its junior note.



  


38





  



 
Fiscal 2013 Outlook
 
We will continue to focus our attention on increasing transaction volume and improving pricing, product and utilization for self-moving equipment rentals.  Maintaining an adequate level of new investment in our truck fleet is an important component of our plan to meet our operational goals. Revenue in the U-Move program could be adversely impacted should we fail to execute in any of these areas. Even if we execute our plans, we could see declines in revenues primarily due to the economic conditions or competitive pressures that are beyond our control.
 
We have added new storage locations and expanded at existing locations. In fiscal 2013, we are looking to continue to acquire new locations, complete current projects and increase occupancy in our existing portfolio of locations. New projects and acquisitions will be considered and pursued if they fit our long-term plans and meet our financial objectives. In the current environment we have focused fewer resources on new construction than in recent history. We will continue to invest capital and resources in the U-BoxTM storage container program throughout fiscal 2013.
 
The Property and Casualty Insurance operating segment will continue to provide loss adjusting and claims handling for U-Haul and underwrite components of the Safemove, Safetow, Super Safemove and Safestor protection packages to U-Haul customers.
 
The Life Insurance operating segment is pursuing its goal of expanding its presence in the senior market through the sales of its Medicare supplement, life and annuity policies. This strategy includes growing its agency force, expanding its new product offerings, and pursuing business acquisition opportunities.
 
Quarterly Results (unaudited)
 
The quarterly results shown below are derived from unaudited financial statements for the eight quarters beginning April 1, 2010 and ending March 31, 2012. We believe that all necessary adjustments have been included in the amounts stated below to present fairly, and in accordance with GAAP, such results. Moving and Storage operations are seasonal and proportionally more of the Company’s revenues and net earnings from its Moving and Storage operations are generated in the first and second quarters of each fiscal year (April through September). The operating results for the periods presented are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period.
 





  
 

Quarter Ended

 

  
 

March 31,
2012

 
 

December 31,
2011

 
 

September 30,
2011

 
 

June 30,
2011

 

  
 

(In thousands, except for share and per share data)

 


Total revenues

 
$
523,440
 
 
$
633,089
 
 
$
703,181
 
 
$
642,965
 


Earnings from operations

 
 
58,338
 
 
 
24,873
 
 
 
184,433
 
 
 
148,363
 


Net earnings

 
 
25,405
 
 
 
728
 
 
 
101,011
 
 
 
78,223
 


Earnings available to common shareholders

 
 
25,405
 
 
 
728
 
 
 
101,175
 
 
 
69,238
 


Basic and diluted earings per common share

 
$
1.29
 
 
$
0.04
 
 
$
5.20
 
 
$
3.56
 


Weighted average common shares outstanding: basic and diluted

 
 
19,492,159
 
 
 
19,481,614
 
 
 
19,470,948
 
 
 
19,460,126
 




 



  


39





  





 



  
 

Quarter Ended

 

  
 

March 31,
2011

 
 

December 31,
2010

 
 

September 30,
2010

 
 

June 30,
2010

 

  
 

(In thousands, except for share and per share data)

 


Total revenues

 
$
488,370
 
 
$
529,982
 
 
$
636,976
 
 
$
585,947
 


Earnings from operations

 
 
40,188
 
 
 
51,277
 
 
 
158,121
 
 
 
128,109
 


Net earnings

 
 
13,246
 
 
 
18,608
 
 
 
85,219
 
 
 
66,502
 


Earnings available to common shareholders

 
 
10,163
 
 
 
15,529
 
 
 
81,978
 
 
 
63,315
 


Basic and diluted earings per common share

 
$
0.52
 
 
$
0.80
 
 
$
4.22
 
 
$
3.26
 


Weighted average common shares outstanding: basic and diluted

 
 
19,449,243
 
 
 
19,439,622
 
 
 
19,427,595
 
 
 
19,414,815
 


 
Item 7A.   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
 
We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. To mitigate these risks, we may utilize derivative financial instruments, among other strategies. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
 
 Interest Rate Risk
 
The exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our variable rate debt obligations and one variable rate operating lease.  We have used interest rate swap agreements and forward swaps to reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates. We enter into these arrangements with counterparties that are significant financial institutions with whom we generally have other financial arrangements. We are exposed to credit risk should these counterparties not be able to perform on their obligations.
 




Notional Amount

 

Fair Value

 

Effective Date

 

Expiration Date

 

Fixed Rate

 

Floating Rate



(In thousands)

 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  

$
22,560
 

(a),(b)

 
$
(91
)

5/10/2006

 

4/10/2012

 
 
5.06
%

1 Month LIBOR


 
51,949
 

(a),(b)

 
 
(1,058
)

10/10/2006

 

10/10/2012

 
 
5.57
%

1 Month LIBOR


 
17,821
 

(a)

 
 
(1,102
)

7/10/2006

 

7/10/2013

 
 
5.67
%

1 Month LIBOR


 
244,165
 

(a)

 
 
(48,925
)

8/18/2006

 

8/10/2018

 
 
5.43
%

1 Month LIBOR


 
11,600
 

(a)

 
 
(946
)

2/12/2007

 

2/10/2014

 
 
5.24
%

1 Month LIBOR


 
7,795
 

(a)

 
 
(615
)

3/12/2007

 

3/10/2014

 
 
4.99
%

1 Month LIBOR


 
7,800
 

(a)

 
 
(576
)

3/12/2007

 

3/10/2014

 
 
4.99
%

1 Month LIBOR


 
9,100
 

(a),(b)

 
 
(727
)

8/15/2008

 

6/15/2015

 
 
3.62
%

1 Month LIBOR


 
9,342
 

(a)

 
 
(800
)

8/29/2008

 

7/10/2015

 
 
4.04
%

1 Month LIBOR


 
14,090
 

(a)

 
 
(1,369
)

9/30/2008

 

9/10/2015

 
 
4.16
%

1 Month LIBOR


 
7,688
 

(a),(b)

 
 
(348
)

3/30/2009

 

3/30/2016

 
 
2.24
%

1 Month LIBOR


 
10,500
 

(a),(b)

 
 
(392
)

8/15/2010

 

7/15/2017

 
 
2.15
%

1 Month LIBOR


 
22,188
 

(a),(b)

 
 
(948
)

6/1/2011

 

6/1/2018

 
 
2.38
%

1 Month LIBOR


 
44,167
 

(a),(b)

 
 
(1,035
)

8/15/2011

 

8/15/2018

 
 
1.86
%

1 Month LIBOR


 
18,000
 

(a),(b)

 
 
(334
)

9/12/2011

 

9/10/2018

 
 
1.75
%

1 Month LIBOR


 
15,099
 

(a),(c)

 
 
(47
)

3/28/2012

 

3/28/2019

 
 
1.42
%

1 Month LIBOR


 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  


(a) interest rate swap agreement

 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  


(b) forward swap

 
  
 
 
 
 
  


(c) operating lease

 
  
 
 
 
 
  


 
As of March 31, 2012, we had $538.6 million of variable rate debt obligations and $15.1 million of a variable rate operating lease. If the London Inter-Bank Offer Rate were to increase 100 basis points, the increase in interest expense on the variable rate debt and a variable rate operating lease would decrease future earnings and cash flows by $0.4 million annually (after consideration of the effect of the above derivative contracts).



  


40





  



 
Additionally, our insurance subsidiaries’ fixed income investment portfolios expose us to interest rate risk. This interest rate risk is the price sensitivity of a fixed income security to changes in interest rates. As part of our insurance companies’ asset and liability management, actuaries estimate the cash flow patterns of our existing liabilities to determine their duration. These outcomes are compared to the characteristics of the assets that are currently supporting these liabilities assisting management in determining an asset allocation strategy for future investments that management believes will mitigate the overall effect of interest rates.
 
 Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk
 
The exposure to market risk for changes in foreign currency exchange rates relates primarily to our Canadian business. Approximately 5.9%, 5.8% and 5.7% of our revenue was generated in Canada in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The result of a 10.0% change in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Canadian dollar would not be material to net income. We typically do not hedge any foreign currency risk since the exposure is not considered material.
 
Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
The Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm and Consolidated Financial Statements of AMERCO and its consolidated subsidiaries including the notes to such statements and the related schedules are set forth on the “F” pages hereto and are incorporated herein.
 
Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
 
Not applicable.
 
Item 9A.   Controls and Procedures
 
Attached as exhibits to this Annual Report are certifications of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Accounting Officer (“CAO”), which are required in accordance with Rule 13a-14 of the Exchange Act. This "Controls and Procedures" section includes information concerning the controls and procedures evaluation referred to in the certifications and it should be read in conjunction with the certifications for a more complete understanding of the topics presented in the section Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.
 
Following this discussion is the report of BDO USA, LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, regarding its audit of AMERCO’s internal control over financial reporting as set forth below in this section. This section should be read in conjunction with the certifications of our CEO and CAO and the BDO USA, LLP report for a more complete understanding of the topics presented.
 
 Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
 
The Company’s management, with the participation of the CEO and CAO, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s "disclosure controls and procedures" (as such term is defined in the Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) (“Disclosure Controls”) as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report. Our Disclosure Controls are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Exchange Act, such as this Annual Report, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms. Our Disclosure Controls are also designed to reasonably assure that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the CEO and CAO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Based upon the controls evaluation, our CEO and CAO have concluded that as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report, our Disclosure Controls were effective related to the above stated design purposes.
 
 Inherent Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls
 
The Company's management, including the CEO and CAO, does not expect that our Disclosure Controls or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. The design of a control system must reflect the



  


41





  



 
fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Further, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Projections of any evaluation of controls effectiveness to future periods are subject to risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures.
 
 Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
 
There have not been any changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) during the most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
 
 Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
 
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP. Internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Management assessed our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2012, the end of our fiscal year. Management based its assessment on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Management's assessment included evaluation of such elements as the design and operating effectiveness of key financial reporting controls, process documentation, accounting policies, and our overall control environment. This assessment is supported by testing and monitoring performed both by our Internal Audit organization and our Finance organization.
 
Based on our assessment, management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of the end of the fiscal year 2012. We reviewed the results of management's assessment with the Audit Committee of our Board.
 
Our independent registered public accounting firm, BDO USA, LLP, has audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting and has issued their report, which is included on the following page.





  


42





  



Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
Board of Directors and Stockholders
AMERCO
Reno, Nevada
 
We have audited AMERCO and consolidated subsidiaries’ (the “Company”) internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria).  The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Item 9A, Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2012, based on the COSO criteria.
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of March 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders’ equity, comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2012 and our report dated June 6, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
 
 
/s/ BDO USA, LLP
 
Phoenix, Arizona
June 6, 2012



  


43





  





 
Item 9B.   Other Information
 
Not applicable.
 PART III
 
Item 10.   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
 
The information required to be disclosed under this Item 10 is incorporated herein by reference to AMERCO’s definitive proxy statement, in connection with its annual meeting of stockholders (the “Proxy Statement”), which will be filed with the SEC within 120 days after the close of the 2012 fiscal year.
 
The Company has adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to all directors, officers and employees of the Company, including the Company’s principal executive officer and principal accounting officer. A copy of our Code of Ethics is posted on AMERCO’s web site at amerco.com/governance.aspx.  We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements of Current Report on Form 8-K regarding any amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of our Code of Ethics by posting such information on the Company’s website, at the web address and location specified above, unless otherwise required to file a Current Report on Form 8-K by NASDAQ rules and regulations.
 
Item 11.   Executive Compensation
 
The information required to be disclosed under this Item 11 is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy Statement, which will be filed with the SEC within 120 days after the close of the 2012 fiscal year.
 
Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
 
The information required to be disclosed under this Item 12 is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy Statement, which will be filed with the SEC within 120 days after the close of the 2012 fiscal year.
 
Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
 
The information required to be disclosed under this Item 13 is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy Statement, which will be filed with the SEC within 120 days after the close of the 2012 fiscal year.
 
Item 14.   Principal Accounting Fees and Services
 
The information required to be disclosed under this Item 14 is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy Statement, which will be filed with the SEC within 120 days after the close of the 2012 fiscal year.



  


44





  



 
PART IV
 
 
Item 15.   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
 
 
The following documents are filed as part of this Report:





  

Page



Financial Statements:

  


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


F-1



Consolidated Balance Sheets - March 31, 2012 and 2011


F-2



Consolidated Statements of Operations - Years Ended March 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010


F-3



Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss) - Years Ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010


F-4



Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity - Years Ended March 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010


F-5



Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows - Years Ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010


F-6



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


F-7



Financial Statement Schedules required to be filed by Item 8:

  


Schedule I - Condensed Financial Information of AMERCO


F-54



Schedule II - AMERCO and Consolidated Subsidiaries Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


F-58



Schedule V - AMERCO and Consolidated Subsidiaries Supplemental Information (Concerning Property-Casualty Insurance Operations)


F-59





 
 
All other schedules are omitted because they are not required, inapplicable, or the information is otherwise shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.
 
Exhibits:






Exhibit Number

 

Description

 

Page or Method of Filing



3.1

 

Restated Articles of Incorporation of AMERCO

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Registration Statement on form S-4 filed March 30, 2004, file no. 1-11255



3.2

 

Restated Bylaws of AMERCO

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 10, 2010, file no. 1-11255



4.1

 

Termination of Rights Agreement, dated as of March 5, 2008

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on March 11, 2008, file no. 1-11255



4.2

 

U-Haul Investors Club Base Indenture, dated February 12, 2011 by and between AMERCO and U. S. Bank National Association

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on February 22, 2011, file no. 1-11255



4.3

 

First Supplemental Indenture, dated February 17, 2011, by and among AMERCO and U.S. Bank National Association

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on February 22, 2011, file no. 1-11255



4.4

 

Second Supplemental Indenture, dated February 17, 2011, by and among AMERCO and U.S. Bank National Association

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on February 22, 2011, file no. 1-11255



4.5

 

Third Supplemental Indenture, dated March 1, 2011, by and among AMERCO and U.S. Bank National Association

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on March 4, 2011, file no. 1-11255








  


45





  









Exhibit Number

 

Description

 

Page or Method of Filing



4.6

 

Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated March 15, 2011, by and among AMERCO and U.S. Bank National Association

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on March 22, 2011, file no. 1-11255



4.7

 

Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated March 15, 2011, by and among AMERCO and U.S. Bank National Association

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on March 22, 2011, file no. 1-11255



4.8

 

Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated March 29, 2011, by and among AMERCO and U.S. Bank National Association

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on April 1, 2011, file no. 1-11255



4.9

 

Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated March 29, 2011, by and among AMERCO and U.S. Bank National Association

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on April 1, 2011, file no. 1-11255



4.10

 

Ninth Supplemental Indenture, dated April 19, 2011, by and among AMERCO and U.S. Bank National Association

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on April 22, 2011, file no. 1-11255



4.11

 

Tenth Supplemental Indenture, dated June 7, 2011 by and between AMERCO and U.S. Bank National Association

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on June 23, 2011, file no. 1-11255



4.12

 

Eleventh Supplemental Indenture dated June 7, 2011 by and between AMERCO and U.S. Bank National Association

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on October 31, 2011, file no. 1-11255



4.13

 

Twelfth Supplemental Indenture dated June 14, 2011 by and between AMERCO and U.S. Bank National Association

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on June 23, 2011, file no. 1-11255



4.14

 

Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture dated June 28, 2011 by and between AMERCO and U.S. Bank National Association

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on July 20, 2011, file no. 1-11255



4.15

 

Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture dated July 20, 2011 by and between AMERCO and U.S. Bank National Association

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on August 17, 2011, file no. 1-11255



4.16

 

Fifteenth Supplemental Indenture dated July 27, 2011 by and between AMERCO and U.S. Bank National Association

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on August 17, 2011, file no. 1-11255



4.17

 

Sixteenth Supplemental Indenture dated August 31, 2011 by and between AMERCO and U.S. Bank National Association

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on September 28, 2011, file no. 1-11255



4.18

 

Seventeenth Supplemental Indenture dated November 8, 2011 by and between AMERCO and U. S. Bank National Association

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on January 18, 2012, file no. 1-11255



4.19

 

Eighteenth Supplemental Indenture dated January 7, 2012 by and between AMERCO and U. S. Bank National Association

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on March 26, 2012, file no. 1-11255



4.20

 

Nineteenth Supplemental Indenture dated May 14, 2012 by and between AMERCO and U. S. Bank National Association

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 14, 2012, file no. 1-11255



4.21

 

Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated April 12, 2011, by and between AMERCO and U.S. Bank National Association

 

Filed herewith








  


46





  









Exhibit Number

 

Description

 

Page or Method of Filing



5.1

 

Opinion of Jennifer M. Settles, Secretary of AMERCO

 

Filed herewith



10.1

 

SAC Participation and Subordination Agreement, dated as of March 15, 2004 among SAC Holding Corporation, SAC Holding II Corporation, AMERCO, U-Haul International, Inc., and Law Debenture Trust Company of New York

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 26, 2004, file no. 1-11255



10.2

 

U-Haul Dealership Contract

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year end March 31, 1993, file no. 1-11255



10.3

 

Share Repurchase and Registration Rights Agreement with Paul F. Shoen

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 1993, file no. 1-11255



10.4

 

ESOP Loan Credit Agreement

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 1990, file no. 1-11255



10.5

 

ESOP Loan Agreement

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 1990, file no. 1-11255



10.6

 

Trust Agreement for the AMERCO Employee Savings, Profit Sharing and Employee Stock Ownership Plan

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 1990, file no. 1-11255



10.7

 

Amended Indemnification Agreement

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 1990, file no. 1-11255



10.8

 

Indemnification Trust Agreement

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 1990, file no. 1-11255



10.9

 

Management Agreement between Four SAC Self-Storage Corporation and subsidiaries of AMERCO

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 1997, file no. 1-11255



10.10

 

Management Agreement between Five SAC Self-Storage Corporation and subsidiaries of AMERCO

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 1999, file no. 1-11255



10.11

 

Management Agreement between Nineteen SAC Self-Storage Limited Partnership and U-Haul

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2002, file no. 1-11255



10.12

 

Amended and Restated Promissory Note between SAC Holding Corporation and U-Haul International, Inc. (in an aggregate principal amount up to $47,500,000)

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Form S-4 Registration Statement filed on March 30, 2004, no. 333-114042



10.13

 

Amended and Restated Promissory Note between SAC Holding Corporation and U-Haul International, Inc. (in an aggregate principal amount up to $76,000,000)

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Form S-4 Registration Statement filed on March 30, 2004, no. 333-114042



10.14

 

Property Management Agreement

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2004, file no. 1-11255








  


47





  









Exhibit Number

 

Description

 

Page or Method of Filing



10.15

 

Property Management Agreements among Three-A through Three-D SAC Self-Storage Limited Partnership and the subsidiaries of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004, file no. 1-11255



10.16

 

U-Haul Dealership Contract between U-Haul Leasing & Sales Co., and U-Haul Moving Partners, Inc.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004, file no. 1-11255



10.17

 

Property Management Agreement between Mercury Partners, LP, Mercury 99, LLC and U-Haul Self-Storage Management (WPC), Inc.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004, file no. 1-11255



10.18

 

Property Management Agreement between Three-SAC Self-Storage Corporation and U-Haul Co. (Canada), Ltd.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004, file no. 1-11255



10.19

 

Property Management Agreement among subsidiaries of U-Haul International and Galaxy Storage Two, L.P.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2004, file no. 1-11255



10.20

 

Merrill Lynch Commitment Letter (re first mortgage loan)

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 13, 2005, file no. 1-11255



10.21

 

Morgan Stanley Commitment Letter

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 13, 2005, file no. 1-11255



10.22

 

Merrill Lynch Commitment Letter (re loan to Amerco Real Estate Company)

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 13, 2005, file no. 1-11255



10.23

 

Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated June 8, 2005, among Amerco Real Estate Company, Amerco Real Estate Company of Texas, Inc., Amerco Real Estate Company of Alabama Inc., U-Haul Co. of Florida, Inc., U-Haul International, Inc. and Merrill Lynch Commercial Finance Corp.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed June 14, 2005, file no. 1-11255



10.24

 

Security Agreement dated June 8, 2005, by Amerco Real Estate Company, Amerco Real Estate Company of Texas, Inc., Amerco Real Estate Company of Alabama, Inc., U-Haul Co. of Florida, Inc., U-Haul International, Inc. and the Marketing Grantors named therein in favor of Merrill Lynch Commercial Finance Corp.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed June 14, 2005, file no. 1-11255



10.25

 

Guarantee, dated June 8, 2005, by U-Haul International, Inc. in favor of Merrill Lynch Commercial Finance Corp.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed June 14, 2005, file no. 1-11255



10.26

 

Promissory Note, dated June 8, 2005 by Amerco Real Estate Company, Amerco Real Estate Company of Texas, Inc., Amerco Real Estate Company of Alabama, Inc., U-Haul Co. of Florida, Inc. and U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed June 14, 2005, file no. 1-11255








  


48





  









Exhibit Number

 

Description

 

Page or Method of Filing



10.27

 

Form of Mortgage, Security Agreement, Assignment of Rents and Fixture Filing, dated June 8, 2005 in favor of Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed June 14, 2005, file no. 1-11255



10.28

 

Form of Promissory Note, dated June 8, 2005, in favor of Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed June 14, 2005, file no. 1-11255



10.29

 

Form of Mortgage, Security Agreement, Assignment of Rents and Fixture Filing, dated June 8, 2005, in favor of Merrill Lynch Mortgage Lending, Inc.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed June 14, 2005, file no. 1-11255



10.30

 

Form of Promissory Note, dated June 8, 2005, in favor of Merrill Lynch Mortgage Lending, Inc.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed June 14, 2005, file no. 1-11255



10.31

 

Property Management Agreement between Subsidiaries of U-Haul and Five SAC RW MS, LLC., dated August 17, 2005.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, file no. 1-11255



10.32

 

Credit agreement, dated November 10, 2005, among U-Haul Leasing & Sales Co., U-Haul Company of Arizona and U-Haul International, Inc. and Merrill Lynch Commercial Finance Corporation.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed November 17, 2005, file no. 1-11255



10.33

 

Property Management Agreement between Subsidiaries of U-Haul and Five SAC 905, LLC., dated September 23, 2005.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2005, file no. 1-11255



10.34

 

Property Management Agreements between Subsidiaries of U-Haul and subsidiaries of PM Partners, LP, dated June 25, 2005.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2006, file no. 1-11255



10.35

 

Promissory note, dated December 1, 2005, by Private Mini Storage Realty, LP in favor of AMERCO.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2006, file no. 1-11255



10.36

 

Promissory note dated December 1, 2005 by PMSI Investments, LP in favor of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2006, file no. 1-11255



10.37

 

Property Management Agreements between Subsidiaries of U-Haul and subsidiaries of PM Preferred Properties, LP., dated June 25, 2005

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2006, file no. 1-11255



10.38

 

Credit Agreement executed June 7, 2006, among U-Haul Leasing & Sales Co., U-Haul Co. of Arizona and U-Haul International, Inc. and BTMU Capital Corporation.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2006, file no. 1-11255



10.39

 

Security and Collateral Agreement executed June 7, 2006, by U-Haul International, Inc., U-Haul Leasing and Sales Co., U-Haul Co. of Arizona, BTMU Capital Corporation, and Orange Truck Trust 2006

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2006, file no. 1-11255



10.40

 

Guarantee executed June 7, 2006, made by U-Haul International, Inc. and AMERCO in favor of BTMU Capital Corp. and Orange Truck Trust 2006.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2006, file no. 1-11255








  


49





  









Exhibit Number

 

Description

 

Page or Method of Filing



10.41

 

First Amendment to Security Agreement (New Truck Term Loan Facility) executed June 7, 2006, among U-Haul Leasing and Sales Co., U-Haul Co. of Arizona, and U-Haul International, Inc., in favor of Merrill Lynch Commercial Finance Corp.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2006, file no. 1-11255



10.42

 

Credit Agreement dated June 6, 2006, among U-Haul Leasing and Sales Co., U-Haul Co. of Arizona, and U-Haul International, Inc., and HVB

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2006, file no. 1-11255



10.43

 

Security Agreement dated June 6, 2006, among U-Haul Leasing and Sales Co., U-Haul Co. of Arizona, and U-Haul International, Inc. in favor of HVB

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2006, file no. 1-11255



10.44

 

Guarantee dated June 6, 2006, made by U-Haul International, Inc. in favor of HVB

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2006, file no. 1-11255



10.45

 

Stockholder Agreement dated June 30, 2006 between Edward J. Shoen, James P. Shoen, Mark V. Shoen, Rosmarie T. Donovan, as Trustee, and Southwest Fiduciary, Inc., as Trustee

 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2, filed with the Schedule 13-D, filed on July 13, 2006, file number 5-39669



10.46

 

Amendment No. 1 to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and Security Agreement, dated as of August 18, 2006, to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of June 8, 2005, among Amerco Real Estate Company of Texas, Inc., Amerco Real Estate Company of Alabama, Inc., U-Haul Co. of Florida, Inc., U-Haul International, Inc. and the Marketing Grantors named therein in favor of Merrill Lynch Commercial Financial Corp.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed August 23, 2006, file no. 1-11255



10.47

 

Stockholder Agreement dated March 9, 2007 between Edward J. Shoen, James P. Shoen, Mark V. Shoen, Rosmarie T. Donovan, as Trustee, and Adagio Trust Company, as Trustee

 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2, filed with the Schedule 13-D, filed on March 9, 2007, file number 5-39669



10.48

 

Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of March 12, 2007, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of June 28, 2005, among U-Haul Leasing & Sales Co., U-Haul Company of Arizona and U-Haul International, Inc. and Merrill Lynch Commercial Finance Corporation.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2007, file no. 1-11255



10.49

 

Amended and Restated Security Agreement, dated as of March 12, 2007, to the Security Agreement, dated June 28, 2005, among U-Haul Leasing & Sales Co., U-Haul Company of Arizona and U-Haul International, Inc. in favor of Merrill Lynch Commercial Finance Corporation.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2007, file no. 1-11255



10.50

 

2007-1 BOX TRUCK BASE INDENTURE, dated as of June 1, 2007, among U-HAUL S FLEET, LLC, 2007 TM-1, LLC, 2007 DC-1, LLC, and 2007 EL-1, LLC and U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2007, file no. 1-11255



10.51

 

SCHEDULE I TO 2007-1 BOX TRUCK BASE INDENTURE, dated as of June 1, 2007.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2007, file no. 1-11255








  


50





  









Exhibit Number

 

Description

 

Page or Method of Filing



10.52

 

SERIES 2007-1 SUPPLEMENT, dated as of June 1, 2007, among U-HAUL S FLEET, LLC, 2007 TM-1, LLC, 2007 DC-1, LLC, and 2007 EL-1, LLC, and U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, to the 2007-1 Box Truck Base Indenture.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2007, file no. 1-11255



10.53

 

Amended and Restated Property Management Agreement among Six-A SAC Self-Storage Corporation and subsidiaries of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, file no. 1-11255



10.54

 

Amended and Restated Property Management Agreement among Six-B SAC Self-Storage Corporation and subsidiaries of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, file no. 1-11255



10.55

 

Amended and Restated Property Management Agreement among Six-C SAC Self-Storage Corporation and subsidiaries of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, file no. 1-11255



10.56

 

Amended and Restated Property Management Agreement among Eight SAC Self-Storage Corporation and subsidiaries of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, file no. 1-11255



10.57

 

Amended and Restated Property Management Agreement among Nine SAC Self-Storage Corporation and subsidiaries of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, file no. 1-11255



10.58

 

Amended and Restated Property Management Agreement among Ten SAC Self-Storage Corporation and subsidiaries of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, file no. 1-11255



10.59

 

Amended and Restated Property Management Agreement among Eleven SAC Self-Storage Corporation and Eleven SAC Self-Storage Odenton, Inc. and subsidiaries of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, file no. 1-11255



10.60

 

Amended and Restated Property Management Agreement among Twelve SAC Self-Storage Corporation and subsidiaries of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, file no. 1-11255



10.61

 

Amended and Restated Property Management Agreement among Thirteen SAC Self-Storage Corporation and subsidiaries of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, file no. 1-11255



10.62

 

Amended and Restated Property Management Agreement among Fourteen SAC Self-Storage Corporation and subsidiaries of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, file no. 1-11255



10.63

 

Amended and Restated Property Management Agreement among Fifteen SAC Self-Storage Corporation and subsidiaries of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, file no. 1-11255








  


51





  









Exhibit Number

 

Description

 

Page or Method of Filing



10.64

 

Amended and Restated Property Management Agreement among Sixteen SAC Self-Storage Corporation and subsidiaries of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, file no. 1-11255



10.65

 

Amended and Restated Property Management Agreement among Seventeen SAC Self-Storage Corporation and subsidiaries of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, file no. 1-11255



10.66

 

Promissory Note. SAC Holding Corporation, a Nevada corporation ("Borrower"), pay to U-Haul International, Inc., a Nevada corporation

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, file no. 1-11255



10.67

 

Omnibus Termination and Release (Aged Truck Revolving Loan Facility), dated February 8, 2008 among U-Haul Leasing & Sales Co., U-Haul Co. of Arizona and U-Haul International, Inc. and Merrill Lynch Commercial Finance Corporation

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 13, 2008, file no. 1-11255



10.68

 

Stockholder Agreement dated January 1, 2009 between Edward J. Shoen, James P. Shoen, Mark V. Shoen, Rosmarie T. Donovan, as Trustee, and Dunham Trust Company, as Trustee

 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2, filed with the Schedule 13-D, filed on June 26, 2009, file number 5-39669



10.69

 

2010-1 BOX TRUCK BASE INDENTURE, dated as of October 1, 2010, among 2010 U-HAUL S FLEET, LLC, 2010 TM-1, LLC, 2010 DC-1, LLC, and 2010 TT-1, LLC, and U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking association, as trustee.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, file number 1-11255



10.70

 

Schedule I to 2010-1 Base Indenture – Definitions List

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, file number 1-11255



10.71

 

SERIES 2010-1 SUPPLEMENT, dated as of October 1, 2010, among 2010 U-HAUL S FLEET, LLC, 2010 TM-1, LLC, 2010 DC-1, LLC, and 2010 TT-1, LLC, and U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking association, as trustee.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, file number 1-11255



10.72

 

Pledge and Security Agreement, dated February 17, 2011, by and among AMERCO, U-Haul Leasing and Sales Co. and U.S. Bank National Association

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on February 22, 2011, file no. 1-11255



10.73

 

Pledge and Security Agreement, dated February 17, 2011, by and among AMERCO, U-Haul Leasing and Sales Co. and U.S. Bank National Association

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on February 22, 2011, file no. 1-11255



10.74

 

Amended and Restated AMERCO Employee Savings and Profit and Sharing Plan*

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the year ended March 31, 2011, file no. 1-11255



10.75

 

Amended and Restated AMERCO Employee Stock Ownership Plan*

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the year ended March 31, 2011, file no. 1-11255



10.76

 

Credit Agreement, dated April 29, 2011, among Amerco Real Estate Company, U-Haul Company of Florida and J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A.

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the year ended March 31, 2011, file no. 1-11255








  


52





  









Exhibit Number

 

Description

 

Page or Method of Filing



10.77

 

Amended and Restated Property Management Agreement among Eighteen SAC Self-Storage Corporation and subsidiaries of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Filed herewith



10.78

 

Amended and Restated Property Management Agreement among Twenty SAC Self-Storage Corporation and subsidiaries of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Filed herewith



10.79

 

Amended and Restated Property Management Agreement among Twenty-One SAC Self-Storage Corporation and subsidiaries of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Filed herewith



10.80

 

Amended and Restated Property Management Agreement among Twenty-Two SAC Self-Storage Corporation and subsidiaries of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Filed herewith



10.81

 

Amended and Restated Property Management Agreement among Twenty-Three SAC Self-Storage Corporation and subsidiaries of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Filed herewith



10.82

 

Amended and Restated Property Management Agreement among Twenty-Four SAC Self-Storage Corporation and subsidiaries of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Filed herewith



10.83

 

Amended and Restated Property Management Agreement among Twenty-Five SAC Self-Storage Corporation and subsidiaries of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Filed herewith



10.84

 

Amended and Restated Property Management Agreement among Twenty-Six SAC Self-Storage Corporation and subsidiaries of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Filed herewith



10.85

 

Amended and Restated Property Management Agreement among Twenty-Seven SAC Self-Storage Corporation and subsidiaries of U-Haul International, Inc.

 

Filed herewith



10.86

 

Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated March 15, 2012, among Amerco Real Estate Company, U-Haul Co. of Florida and J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A.

 

Filed herewith


10.87
 
U-Haul Dealership Contract Addendum
 
Filed herewith


14

 

Code of Ethics

 

Incorporated by reference to AMERCO’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 5, 2004, file no. 1-11255



21

 

Subsidiaries of AMERCO

 

Filed herewith



23.1

 

Consent of BDO USA, LLP

 

Filed herewith



23.2

 

Consent of Jennifer M. Settles, Secretary of AMERCO (Included in Exhibit 5.1)

 

Filed herewith



24

 

Power of Attorney

 

Refer to signature page








  


53





  









Exhibit Number

 

Description

 

Page or Method of Filing



31.1

 

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certificate of Edward J. Shoen, President and Chairman of the Board of AMERCO

 

Filed herewith



31.2

 

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certificate of Jason A. Berg, Principal Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer of AMERCO

 

Filed herewith



32.1

 

Certificate of Edward J. Shoen, President and Chairman of the Board of AMERCO pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

 

Furnished herewith



32.2

 

Certificate of Jason A. Berg, Principal Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer of AMERCO pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

 

Furnished herewith



101.INS

 

XBRL Instance Document

 

Furnished herewith



101.SCH

 

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema

 

Furnished herewith



101.CAL

 

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase

 

Furnished herewith



101.LAB

 

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase

 

Furnished herewith



101.PRE

 

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase

 

Furnished herewith



101.DEF

 

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase

 

Furnished herewith



 
* Indicates compensatory plan arrangement.



  


54





  



 
 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
Board of Directors and Stockholders
AMERCO
Reno, Nevada
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AMERCO and consolidated subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of March 31, 2012 and 2011 and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders’ equity, comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2012. In connection with our audits of the financial statements, we have also audited the financial statement schedules listed in the accompanying index.  These financial statements and schedules are the responsibility of the Company’s management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedules based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements and schedules.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at March 31, 2012 and 2011, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2012, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
 
Also, in our opinion, the financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) and our report dated June 6, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
 
/s/ BDO USA, LLP
 
Phoenix, Arizona
 
June 6, 2012




 

  


F-1





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 



  
 

March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 

  
 

(In thousands, except share data)

 


ASSETS

 
 
 
 
 
 


Cash and cash equivalents

 
$
350,100
 
 
$
375,496
 


Reinsurance recoverables and trade receivables, net

 
 
297,974
 
 
 
220,650
 


Inventories, net

 
 
58,735
 
 
 
59,942
 


Prepaid expenses

 
 
41,858
 
 
 
57,624
 


Investments, fixed maturities and marketable equities

 
 
766,792
 
 
 
659,809
 


Investments, other

 
 
265,631
 
 
 
201,868
 


Deferred policy acquisition costs, net

 
 
63,914
 
 
 
52,870
 


Other assets

 
 
120,525
 
 
 
166,633
 


Related party assets

 
 
316,157
 
 
 
301,968
 

  
 
 
2,281,686
 
 
 
2,096,860
 


Property, plant and equipment, at cost:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Land

 
 
281,140
 
 
 
239,177
 


Buildings and improvements

 
 
1,087,119
 
 
 
1,024,669
 


Furniture and equipment

 
 
308,120
 
 
 
310,671
 


Rental trailers and other rental equipment

 
 
255,010
 
 
 
249,700
 


Rental trucks

 
 
1,856,433
 
 
 
1,611,763
 

  
 
 
3,787,822
 
 
 
3,435,980
 


Less: Accumulated depreciation

 
 
(1,415,457
)
 
 
(1,341,407
)


Total property, plant and equipment

 
 
2,372,365
 
 
 
2,094,573
 


Total assets

 
$
4,654,051
 
 
$
4,191,433
 


LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Liabilities:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Accounts payable and accrued expenses

 
$
335,326
 
 
$
304,006
 


Notes, loans and leases payable

 
 
1,486,211
 
 
 
1,397,842
 


Policy benefits and losses, claims and loss expenses payable

 
 
1,145,943
 
 
 
934,234
 


Liabilities from investment contracts

 
 
240,961
 
 
 
255,134
 


Other policyholders' funds and liabilities

 
 
7,273
 
 
 
8,731
 


Deferred income

 
 
31,525
 
 
 
27,209
 


Deferred income taxes

 
 
370,992
 
 
 
271,257
 


Total liabilities

 
 
3,618,231
 
 
 
3,198,413
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Commitments and contingencies (notes 9, 18, 19, 20 and 21)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Stockholders' equity:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Series preferred stock, with or without par value, 50,000,000 shares authorized:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Series A preferred stock, with no par value, 6,100,000 shares authorized;

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


6,100,000 and 5,791,700 shares issued and none and 5,791,700 outstanding as of March 31, 2012 and 2011

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 


Series B preferred stock, with no par value, 100,000 shares authorized; none

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


issued and outstanding as of March 31, 2012 and 2011

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 


Series common stock, with or without par value, 150,000,000 shares authorized:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Series A common stock of $0.25 par value, 10,000,000 shares authorized;

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


none issued and outstanding as of March 31, 2012 and 2011

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 


Common stock of $0.25 par value, 150,000,000 shares authorized; 41,985,700

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


issued and 19,607,788 outstanding as of March 31, 2012 and 2011

 
 
10,497
 
 
 
10,497
 


Additional paid-in capital

 
 
433,743
 
 
 
425,212
 


Accumulated other comprehensive loss

 
 
(45,436
)
 
 
(46,467
)


Retained earnings

 
 
1,317,064
 
 
 
1,140,002
 


Cost of common shares in treasury, net (22,377,912 shares as of March 31, 2012 and 2011)

 
 
(525,653
)
 
 
(525,653
)


Cost of preferred shares in treasury, net (6,100,000 and 308,300 shares as of March 31, 2012 and 2011)

 
 
(151,997
)
 
 
(7,189
)


Unearned employee stock ownership plan shares

 
 
(2,398
)
 
 
(3,382
)


Total stockholders' equity

 
 
1,035,820
 
 
 
993,020
 


Total liabilities and stockholders' equity

 
$
4,654,051
 
 
$
4,191,433
 




 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 




 

  


F-2





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 



  
 

Years Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 
 

2010

 

  
 

(In thousands, except share and per share data)

 


Revenues:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Self-moving equipment rentals

 
$
1,678,256
 
 
$
1,547,015
 
 
$
1,419,726
 


Self-storage revenues

 
 
134,376
 
 
 
120,698
 
 
 
110,369
 


Self-moving and self-storage products and service sales

 
 
213,854
 
 
 
205,570
 
 
 
198,785
 


Property management fees

 
 
23,266
 
 
 
22,132
 
 
 
21,632
 


Life insurance premiums

 
 
277,562
 
 
 
206,992
 
 
 
134,345
 


Property and casualty insurance premiums

 
 
32,631
 
 
 
30,704
 
 
 
27,625
 


Net investment and interest income

 
 
64,200
 
 
 
52,661
 
 
 
49,989
 


Other revenue

 
 
78,530
 
 
 
55,503
 
 
 
39,534
 


Total revenues

 
 
2,502,675
 
 
 
2,241,275
 
 
 
2,002,005
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Costs and expenses:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Operating expenses

 
 
1,093,190
 
 
 
1,026,577
 
 
 
1,022,061
 


Commission expenses

 
 
212,190
 
 
 
190,981
 
 
 
169,104
 


Cost of sales

 
 
116,542
 
 
 
106,024
 
 
 
104,049
 


Benefits and losses

 
 
310,839
 
 
 
190,429
 
 
 
121,105
 


Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs

 
 
13,791
 
 
 
9,494
 
 
 
7,569
 


Lease expense

 
 
131,215
 
 
 
150,809
 
 
 
156,951
 


Depreciation, net of (gains) losses on disposals of (($20,888), ($23,058) and ($1,960), respectively)

 
 
208,901
 
 
 
189,266
 
 
 
227,629
 


Total costs and expenses

 
 
2,086,668
 
 
 
1,863,580
 
 
 
1,808,468
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Earnings from operations

 
 
416,007
 
 
 
377,695
 
 
 
193,537
 


Interest expense

 
 
(90,371
)
 
 
(88,381
)
 
 
(93,347
)


Pretax earnings

 
 
325,636
 
 
 
289,314
 
 
 
100,190
 


Income tax expense

 
 
(120,269
)
 
 
(105,739
)
 
 
(34,567
)


Net earnings

 
 
205,367
 
 
 
183,575
 
 
 
65,623
 


Less: Excess of redemption value over carrying value of preferred shares redeemed

 
 
(5,908
)
 
 
(178
)
 
 
388
 


Less: Preferred stock dividends

 
 
(2,913
)
 
 
(12,412
)
 
 
(12,856
)


Earnings available to common shareholders

 
$
196,546
 
 
$
170,985
 
 
$
53,155
 


Basic and diluted earnings per common share

 
$
10.09
 
 
$
8.80
 
 
$
2.74
 


Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic and diluted

 
 
19,476,187
 
 
 
19,432,781
 
 
 
19,386,791
 




 
Related party revenues for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, net of eliminations, were $48.1 million, $46.7 million and $45.9 million, respectively.
 
Related party costs and expenses for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, net of eliminations, were $44.1 million, $39.7 million and $37.2 million, respectively.
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 




 

  


F-3





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
 






Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2012

 

Pre-tax

 
 

Tax

 
 

Net

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Comprehensive income:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings

 
$
325,636
 
 
$
(120,269
)
 
$
205,367
 


Other comprehensive income:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Foreign currency translation

 
 
(2,854
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(2,854
)


Unrealized gain on investments

 
 
15,094
 
 
 
(5,089
)
 
 
10,005
 


Change in fair value of cash flow hedges

 
 
(9,179
)
 
 
3,488
 
 
 
(5,691
)


Postretirement benefit obligation loss

 
 
(692
)
 
 
263
 
 
 
(429
)


Total comprehensive income

 
$
328,005
 
 
$
(121,607
)
 
$
206,398
 








Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2011

 

Pre-tax

 
 

Tax

 
 

Net

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Comprehensive income:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings

 
$
289,314
 
 
$
(105,739
)
 
$
183,575
 


Other comprehensive income:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Foreign currency translation

 
 
3,114
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
3,114
 


Unrealized gain on investments

 
 
7,468
 
 
 
(2,538
)
 
 
4,930
 


Change in fair value of cash flow hedges

 
 
2,411
 
 
 
(916
)
 
 
1,495
 


Postretirement benefit obligation gain

 
 
324
 
 
 
(123
)
 
 
201
 


Total comprehensive income

 
$
302,631
 
 
$
(109,316
)
 
$
193,315
 








Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2010

 

Pre-tax

 
 

Tax

 
 

Net

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Comprehensive income:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net earnings

 
$
100,190
 
 
$
(34,567
)
 
$
65,623
 


Other comprehensive income:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Foreign currency translation

 
 
14,471
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
14,471
 


Unrealized gain on investments

 
 
20,546
 
 
 
(7,292
)
 
 
13,254
 


Change in fair value of cash flow hedges

 
 
23,352
 
 
 
(8,874
)
 
 
14,478
 


Postretirement benefit obligation loss

 
 
(661
)
 
 
251
 
 
 
(410
)


Total comprehensive income

 
$
157,898
 
 
$
(50,482
)
 
$
107,416
 






The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 


 


 




 

  


F-4





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
 




Description

 

Common Stock, $0.25 Par Value

 
 

Additional Paid-In Capital

 
 

Accumulated Other Comprehensive
Income (Loss)

 
 

Retained Earnings

 
 

Less: Treasury Common Stock

 
 

Less: Treasury Preferred Stock

 
 

Less: Unearned Employee Stock Ownership Plan Shares

 
 

Total Stockholders' Equity

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Balance as of March 31, 2009

 
$
10,497
 
 
$
420,588
 
 
$
(98,000
)
 
$
915,862
 
 
$
(525,653
)
 
 
-
 
 
$
(5,665
)
 
$
717,629
 


Increase in market value of released ESOP shares

 
 
-
 
 
 
1,336
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
1,336
 


Release of unearned ESOP shares

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
1,111
 
 
 
1,111
 


Foreign currency translation

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
14,471
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
14,471
 


Unrealized gain on investments, net of tax

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
13,254
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
13,254
 


Fair market value of cash flow hedges, net of tax

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
14,478
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
14,478
 


Adjustment to post retirement benefit obligation

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(410
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(410
)


Net earnings

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
65,623
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
65,623
 


Less: Excess of redemption value over carrying value of preferred shares redeemed

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
388
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
388
 


Preferred stock dividends: Series A ($2.13 per share for fiscal 2010)

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(12,856
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(12,856
)


Redemption of preferred shares

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(2,185
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(2,185
)


Contribution to related party

 
 
-
 
 
 
72
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
72
 


Net activity

 
 
-
 
 
 
1,408
 
 
 
41,793
 
 
 
53,155
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(2,185
)
 
 
1,111
 
 
 
95,282
 


Balance as of March 31, 2010

 
$
10,497
 
 
$
421,996
 
 
$
(56,207
)
 
$
969,017
 
 
$
(525,653
)
 
 
(2,185
)
 
$
(4,554
)
 
$
812,911
 


Increase in market value of released ESOP shares

 
 
-
 
 
 
3,038
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
3,038
 


Release of unearned ESOP shares

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
1,172
 
 
 
1,172
 


Foreign currency translation

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
3,114
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
3,114
 


Unrealized gain on investments, net of tax

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
4,930
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
4,930
 


Fair market value of cash flow hedges, net of tax

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
1,495
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
1,495
 


Adjustment to post retirement benefit obligation

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
201
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
201
 


Net earnings

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
183,575
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
183,575
 


Less: Excess of redemption value over carrying value of preferred shares redeemed

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(178
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(178
)


Preferred stock dividends: Series A ($2.13 per share for fiscal 2011)

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(12,412
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(12,412
)


Redemption of preferred shares

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(5,004
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(5,004
)


Contribution to related party

 
 
-
 
 
 
178
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
178
 


Net activity

 
 
-
 
 
 
3,216
 
 
 
9,740
 
 
 
170,985
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(5,004
)
 
 
1,172
 
 
 
180,109
 


Balance as of March 31, 2011

 
$
10,497
 
 
$
425,212
 
 
$
(46,467
)
 
$
1,140,002
 
 
$
(525,653
)
 
 
(7,189
)
 
$
(3,382
)
 
$
993,020
 


Increase in market value of released ESOP shares

 
 
-
 
 
 
3,141
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
3,141
 


Release of unearned ESOP shares

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
984
 
 
 
984
 


Foreign currency translation

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(2,854
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(2,854
)


Unrealized gain on investments, net of tax

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
10,005
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
10,005
 


Fair market value of cash flow hedges, net of tax

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(5,691
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(5,691
)


Adjustment to post retirement benefit obligation

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(429
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(429
)


Net earnings

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
205,367
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
205,367
 


Less: Excess of redemption value over carrying value of preferred shares redeemed

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(5,908
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(5,908
)


Preferred stock dividends: Series A ($0.53 per share for fiscal 2012)

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(2,913
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(2,913
)


Common stock dividends: ($1.00 per share for fiscal 2012)

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(19,484
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(19,484
)


Redemption of preferred shares

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(144,808
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(144,808
)


Contribution to related party

 
 
-
 
 
 
5,390
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
5,390
 


Net activity

 
 
-
 
 
 
8,531
 
 
 
1,031
 
 
 
177,062
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(144,808
)
 
 
984
 
 
 
42,800
 


Balance as of March 31, 2012

 
$
10,497
 
 
$
433,743
 
 
$
(45,436
)
 
$
1,317,064
 
 
$
(525,653
)
 
 
(151,997
)
 
$
(2,398
)
 
$
1,035,820
 


 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 




 

  


F-5





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 



  
 

Years Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 
 

2010

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


 Cash flows from operating activities:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net earnings

 
$
205,367
 
 
$
183,575
 
 
$
65,623
 


 Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to cash provided by operations:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Depreciation

 
 
229,789
 
 
 
212,324
 
 
 
229,589
 


 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs

 
 
13,791
 
 
 
9,494
 
 
 
7,569
 


 Change in allowance for losses on trade receivables

 
 
(208
)
 
 
28
 
 
 
(163
)


 Change in allowance for losses on mortgage notes

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(6
)


 Change in allowance for inventory reserves

 
 
1,382
 
 
 
(674
)
 
 
1,153
 


 Net gain on sale of real and personal property

 
 
(20,888
)
 
 
(23,058
)
 
 
(1,960
)


 Net (gain) loss on sale of investments

 
 
(5,579
)
 
 
(1,135
)
 
 
332
 


 Deferred income taxes

 
 
104,360
 
 
 
80,898
 
 
 
15,497
 


 Net change in other operating assets and liabilities:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Reinsurance recoverables and trade receivables

 
 
(77,115
)
 
 
(5,966
)
 
 
18,112
 


 Inventories

 
 
(173
)
 
 
(6,431
)
 
 
16,759
 


 Prepaid expenses

 
 
15,748
 
 
 
(4,244
)
 
 
822
 


 Capitalization of deferred policy acquisition costs

 
 
(23,166
)
 
 
(25,239
)
 
 
(13,934
)


 Other assets

 
 
5,992
 
 
 
28,715
 
 
 
34,626
 


 Related party assets

 
 
(24,684
)
 
 
(87
)
 
 
2,369
 


 Accounts payable and accrued expenses

 
 
19,469
 
 
 
12,547
 
 
 
(3,096
)


 Policy benefits and losses, claims and loss expenses payable

 
 
212,330
 
 
 
109,334
 
 
 
33,371
 


 Other policyholders' funds and liabilities

 
 
(1,458
)
 
 
566
 
 
 
(3,811
)


 Deferred income

 
 
4,367
 
 
 
1,967
 
 
 
396
 


 Related party liabilities

 
 
5,281
 
 
 
249
 
 
 
(727
)


 Net cash provided by operating activities

 
 
664,605
 
 
 
572,863
 
 
 
402,521
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash flow from investing activities:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Purchase of:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property, plant and equipment

 
 
(589,799
)
 
 
(480,418
)
 
 
(259,491
)


 Short term investments

 
 
(286,385
)
 
 
(260,766
)
 
 
(322,666
)


 Fixed maturity investments

 
 
(220,104
)
 
 
(215,931
)
 
 
(149,746
)


 Equity securities

 
 
(9,048
)
 
 
(11,550
)
 
 
(17,815
)


 Preferred stock

 
 
(2,717
)
 
 
(14,352
)
 
 
(2,185
)


 Real estate

 
 
(7,829
)
 
 
(193
)
 
 
(2,310
)


 Mortgage loans

 
 
(127,163
)
 
 
(38,558
)
 
 
(1,501
)


 Other investments

 
 
-
 
 
 
(2,000
)
 
 
-
 


 Proceeds from sales of:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property, plant and equipment

 
 
168,912
 
 
 
180,411
 
 
 
142,869
 


 Short term investments

 
 
300,831
 
 
 
310,195
 
 
 
319,258
 


 Fixed maturity investments

 
 
128,486
 
 
 
131,981
 
 
 
163,654
 


 Equity securities

 
 
10,222
 
 
 
1,198
 
 
 
-
 


 Preferred stock

 
 
2,352
 
 
 
1,914
 
 
 
5,077
 


 Real estate

 
 
440
 
 
 
1,925
 
 
 
771
 


 Mortgage loans

 
 
54,840
 
 
 
15,156
 
 
 
6,107
 


 Net cash used by investing activities

 
 
(576,962
)
 
 
(380,988
)
 
 
(117,978
)

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash flow from financing activities:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Borrowings from credit facilities

 
 
237,780
 
 
 
321,862
 
 
 
72,153
 


 Principal repayments on credit facilities

 
 
(201,888
)
 
 
(288,882
)
 
 
(301,966
)


 Debt issuance costs

 
 
(2,004
)
 
 
(1,987
)
 
 
(2,345
)


 Capital lease payments

 
 
(8,328
)
 
 
(11,522
)
 
 
(4,057
)


 Leveraged Employee Stock Ownership Plan - Repayment from loan

 
 
984
 
 
 
1,172
 
 
 
1,111
 


 Securitization deposits

 
 
42,088
 
 
 
(46,031
)
 
 
-
 


 Preferred stock redemption paid

 
 
(144,289
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 


 Preferred stock dividends paid

 
 
(2,913
)
 
 
(12,412
)
 
 
(12,856
)


 Common stock dividends paid

 
 
(19,484
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 


 Contribution to related party

 
 
(518
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 


 Investment contract deposits

 
 
13,854
 
 
 
11,580
 
 
 
12,856
 


 Investment contract withdrawals

 
 
(28,027
)
 
 
(34,548
)
 
 
(48,552
)


 Net cash used by financing activities

 
 
(112,745
)
 
 
(60,768
)
 
 
(283,656
)

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Effects of exchange rate on cash

 
 
(294
)
 
 
271
 
 
 
2,644
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

 
 
(25,396
)
 
 
131,378
 
 
 
3,531
 


 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of period

 
 
375,496
 
 
 
244,118
 
 
 
240,587
 


 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of period

 
$
350,100
 
 
$
375,496
 
 
$
244,118
 


 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 




 

  


F-6





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
 
Note 1.  Basis of Presentation
 
AMERCO, a Nevada Corporation (“AMERCO”), has a fiscal year that ends on the 31st of March for each year that is referenced. Our insurance company subsidiaries have fiscal years that end on the 31st of December for each year that is referenced. They have been consolidated on that basis. Our insurance companies’ financial reporting processes conform to calendar year reporting as required by state insurance departments. Management believes that consolidating their calendar year into our fiscal year financial statements does not materially affect the financial position or results of operations. We disclose any material events occurring during the intervening period. Consequently, all references to our insurance subsidiaries’ years 2011, 2010 and 2009 correspond to fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 for AMERCO.
 
Accounts denominated in non-U.S. currencies have been translated into U.S. dollars. Certain amounts reported in previous years have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
 
Note 2.  Principles of Consolidation
 
We apply Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 810 - Consolidation (“ASC 810”) in our principles of consolidation. ASC 810 addresses arrangements where a company does not hold a majority of the voting or similar interests of a variable interest entity (“VIE”). A company is required to consolidate a VIE if it has determined it is the primary beneficiary. ASC 810 also addresses the policy when a company owns a majority of the voting or similar rights and exercises effective control.
 
As promulgated by ASC 810, a VIE is not self-supportive due to having one or both of the following conditions: (i) it has an insufficient amount of equity for it to finance its activities without receiving additional subordinated financial support or (ii) its owners do not hold the typical risks and rights of equity owners. This determination is made upon the creation of a variable interest and is re-assessed on an on-going basis should certain changes in the operations of a VIE, or its relationship with the primary beneficiary trigger a reconsideration under the provisions of ASC 810. After a triggering event occurs the most recent facts and circumstances are utilized in determining whether or not a company is a VIE, which other company(s) have a variable interest in the entity, and whether or not the company’s interest is such that it is the primary beneficiary.
 
In fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002, SAC Holding Corporation and its subsidiaries (“SAC Holding Corporation”) and SAC Holding II Corporation and its subsidiaries (“SAC Holding II”) (collectively, “SAC Holdings”) were considered special purpose entities and were consolidated based on the provisions of Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 90-15, Impact of Nonsubstantive Lessors, Residual Value Guarantees and Other Provisions in Leasing Transactions. In fiscal 2004, we evaluated our interests in SAC Holdings and we concluded that SAC Holdings were VIE’s and that we were the primary beneficiary. Accordingly, we continued to include SAC Holdings in our consolidated financial statements.
 
Triggering events in February and March of 2004 for SAC Holding Corporation required AMERCO to reassess its involvement in specific SAC Holding Corporation entities. During these reassessments it was concluded that AMERCO was no longer the primary beneficiary, resulting in the deconsolidation of SAC Holding Corporation in fiscal 2004.
 
In November 2007, Blackwater contributed additional capital to its wholly-owned subsidiary, SAC Holding II. This contribution was determined by us to be material with respect to the capitalization of SAC Holding II; therefore, triggering a requirement under FASB Interpretation 46(R) for us to reassess our involvement with those entities. This required reassessment led to the conclusion that SAC Holding II had the ability to fund its own operations and execute its business plan without any future subordinated financial support; therefore, the we were no longer the primary beneficiary of SAC Holding II as of the date of Blackwater’s contribution.
 
Accordingly, at the date AMERCO ceased to be considered the primary beneficiary of SAC Holding II and its current subsidiaries, it deconsolidated these entities. The deconsolidation was accounted for as a distribution of SAC Holding II’s interests to the sole shareholder of the SAC entities. Because of AMERCO’s continuing involvement with SAC Holding II and its subsidiaries, the distribution did not qualify as discontinued operations.
 
 
 
 




 

  


F-7





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
It is possible that SAC Holdings could take actions that would require us to re-determine whether SAC Holdings remains a VIE and we continually monitor whether we have become the primary beneficiary of SAC Holdings.  None of the events delineated in ASC 810-10-35-4 which would require a redetermination occurred during the period being reported upon in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Annual Report”). Should we determine in the future that we are the primary beneficiary of SAC Holdings, we could be required to consolidate some or all of SAC Holdings within our financial statements.
 
Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
 
Description of Legal Entities
 
AMERCO is the holding company for:
 
U-Haul International, Inc. (“U-Haul”),
 
Amerco Real Estate Company (“Real Estate”),
 
Repwest Insurance Company (“Repwest”), and
 
Oxford Life Insurance Company (“Oxford”).
 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the term “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” refers to AMERCO and all of its legal subsidiaries.
 
Description of Operating Segments
 
AMERCO has three reportable segments. They are Moving and Storage, Property and Casualty Insurance and Life Insurance.
 
The Moving and Storage operating segment includes AMERCO, U-Haul, and Real Estate and the wholly-owned subsidiaries of U-Haul and Real Estate. Operations consist of the rental of trucks and trailers, sales of moving supplies, sales of towing accessories, sales of propane, rental of self-storage spaces to the “do-it-yourself” mover and management of self-storage properties owned by others. Operations are conducted under the registered trade name U-Haul® throughout the United States and Canada.
 
The Property and Casualty Insurance operating segment includes Repwest and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and ARCOA risk retention group (“ARCOA”). Property and Casualty Insurance provides loss adjusting and claims handling for U-Haul through regional offices across North America. The Property and Casualty Insurance operating segment also underwrites components of the Safemove, Safetow, Super Safemove and Safestor protection packages to U-Haul customers. The business plan for the Property and Casualty Insurance operating segment includes offering property and casualty products in other U-Haul related programs. ARCOA is a group captive insurer owned by us and our wholly-owned subsidiaries whose purpose is to provide insurance products related to the moving and storage business.
 
The Life Insurance operating segment includes Oxford and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Oxford provides life and health insurance products primarily to the senior market through the direct writing and reinsuring of life insurance, Medicare supplement and annuity policies.
 
Note 3.  Accounting Policies
 
Use of Estimates
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with the generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) in the United States requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. The accounting policies that we deem most critical to us and that require management’s most difficult and subjective judgments include the principles of consolidation, the recoverability of property, plant and equipment, the adequacy of insurance reserves, the recognition and measurement of impairments for investments accounted for under ASC 320 - Investments - Debt and Equity Securities and the recognition and measurement of income tax assets and liabilities. The actual results experienced by us may differ from management’s estimates.
 




 

  


F-8





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
We consider cash equivalents to be highly liquid debt securities with insignificant interest rate risk with original maturities from the date of purchase of three months or less.
 
Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash deposits. Accounts at each United States financial institution are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) up to $250,000. Accounts at each Canadian financial institution are insured by the Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation (“CDIC”) up to $100,000 CAD per account. At March 31, 2012 and March 31, 2011, we had $294.6 million and $343.9 million, respectively, in excess of insured limits. To mitigate this risk, we select financial institutions based on their credit ratings and financial strength.
 
Investments
 
Fixed Maturities and Marketable Equities. Fixed maturity investments consist of either marketable debt, equity or redeemable preferred stocks. As of the balance sheet dates, all of our investments in these securities were classified as available-for-sale. Available-for-sale investments are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains or losses recorded net of taxes and applicable adjustments to deferred policy acquisition costs in stockholders’ equity. Fair value for these investments is based on quoted market prices, dealer quotes or discounted cash flows. The cost of investments sold is based on the specific identification method.
 
In determining if and when a decline in market value below carrying value is an other-than-temporary impairment, management makes certain assumptions or judgments in its assessment including but not limited to: ability to hold the security, quoted market prices, dealer quotes, discounted cash flows, industry factors, financial factors, and issuer specific information. Other-than-temporary impairments, to the extent of the decline, as well as realized gains or losses on the sale or exchange of investments are recognized in the current period operating results.
 
Mortgage Loans and Notes on Real Estate. Mortgage loans and notes on real estate are reported at their unpaid balance, net of any allowance for possible losses and any unamortized premium or discount.
 
Recognition of Investment Income. Interest income from bonds and mortgage notes is recognized when earned. Dividends on common and preferred stocks are recognized on the ex-dividend dates. Realized gains and losses on the sale or exchange of investments are recognized at the trade date.
 
Fair Values
 
Fair values of cash equivalents approximate carrying value due to the short period of time to maturity. Fair values of short-term investments, investments available-for-sale, long-term investments, mortgage loans and notes on real estate, and interest rate swap contracts are based on quoted market prices, dealer quotes or discounted cash flows. Fair values of trade receivables approximate their recorded value.
 
Our financial instruments that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of temporary cash investments, trade receivables, reinsurance recoverables and notes receivable. Limited credit risk exists on trade receivables due to the diversity of our customer base and their dispersion across broad geographic markets. We place our temporary cash investments with financial institutions and limits the amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution.
 
We have mortgage receivables, which potentially expose us to credit risk. The portfolio of notes is principally collateralized by self-storage facilities and commercial properties. We have not experienced any material losses related to the notes from individual notes or groups of notes in any particular industry or geographic area. The estimated fair values were determined using the discounted cash flow method and using interest rates currently offered for similar loans to borrowers with similar credit ratings.
 
The carrying amount of long-term debt and short-term borrowings are estimated to approximate fair value as the actual interest rate is consistent with the rate estimated to be currently available for debt of similar term and remaining maturity.
 
Other investments including short-term investments are substantially current or bear reasonable interest rates. As a result, the carrying values of these financial instruments approximate fair value.
 




 

  


F-9





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
 
Derivative Financial Instruments
 
Our objective for holding derivative financial instruments is to manage interest rate risk exposure primarily through entering interest rate swap agreements. An interest rate swap is a contractual exchange of interest payments between two parties. A standard interest rate swap involves the payment of a fixed rate times a notional amount by one party in exchange for a floating rate times the same notional amount from another party. As interest rates change, the difference to be paid or received is accrued and recognized as interest expense or income over the life of the agreement.  We do not enter into these instruments for trading purposes. Counterparties to the our interest rate swap agreements are major financial institutions. In accordance with ASC 815 - Derivatives and Hedging, we recognize interest rate swap agreements on the balance sheet at fair value, which is classified as prepaid expenses (asset) or accrued expenses (liability). Derivatives that are not designated as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes must be adjusted to fair value through income. If the derivative qualifies and is designated as a cash flow hedge, changes in its fair value will either be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged item through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. See Note 11, Derivatives of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Inventories, net
 
Inventories, net were as follows:
 



  
 

March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Truck and trailer parts and accessories (a)

 
$
52,973
 
 
$
53,212
 


Hitches and towing components (b)

 
 
13,877
 
 
 
12,797
 


Moving supplies and propane (b)

 
 
7,156
 
 
 
7,822
 


Subtotal

 
 
74,006
 
 
 
73,831
 


Less: LIFO reserves

 
 
(14,541
)
 
 
(13,294
)


Less: excess and obsolete reserves

 
 
(730
)
 
 
(595
)


Total

 
$
58,735
 
 
$
59,942
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(a) Primarily held for internal usage, including equipment manufacturing and repair

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(b) Primarily held for retail sales

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
Inventories consist primarily of truck and trailer parts and accessories used to manufacture and repair rental equipment as well as products and accessories available for retail sale. Inventory is held at our owned locations; our independent dealers do not hold any of our inventory.
 
Inventory cost is primarily determined using the last-in first-out method (“LIFO”). Inventories valued using LIFO consisted of approximately 96% and 95% of the total inventories for March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Had we utilized the first-in first-out method (“FIFO”), stated inventory balances would have been $14.5 million and $13.3 million higher at March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In fiscal 2012, the positive effect on income due to liquidation of a portion of the LIFO inventory was $0.8 million. 
 
Property, Plant and Equipment
 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Interest expense incurred during the initial construction of buildings and rental equipment is considered part of cost. Depreciation is computed for financial reporting purposes using the straight line or an accelerated method based on a declining balance formula over the following estimated useful lives: rental equipment 2-20 years and buildings and non-rental equipment 3-55 years. We follow the deferral method of accounting based on ASC 908 - Airlines for major overhauls in which engine overhauls are capitalized and amortized over five years and transmission overhauls are capitalized and amortized over three years. Routine maintenance costs are charged to operating expense as they are incurred. Gains and losses on dispositions of property, plant and equipment are netted against
 




 

  


F-10





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
depreciation expense when realized. The net amount of (gains) or losses netted against depreciation expense were ($20.9) million, ($23.1) million and ($2.0) million during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Equipment depreciation is recognized in amounts expected to result in the recovery of estimated residual values upon disposal, i.e., minimize gains or losses. In determining the depreciation rate, historical disposal experience, holding periods and trends in the market for vehicles are reviewed.
 
We regularly perform reviews to determine whether facts and circumstances exist which indicate that the carrying amount of assets, including estimates of residual value, may not be recoverable or that the useful life of assets are shorter or longer than originally estimated. Reductions in residual values (i.e., the price at which we ultimately expect to dispose of revenue earning equipment) or useful lives will result in an increase in depreciation expense over the life of the equipment. Reviews are performed based on vehicle class, generally subcategories of trucks and trailers. We assess the recoverability of our assets by comparing the projected undiscounted net cash flows associated with the related asset or group of assets over their estimated remaining lives against their respective carrying amounts. We consider factors such as current and expected future market price trends on used vehicles and the expected life of vehicles included in the fleet. Impairment, if any, is based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of those assets. In fiscal 2010, we reduced the carrying value of certain older trucks by $9.1 million or $0.47 per share before income taxes, in which the tax effect was $0.17 per share. If asset residual values are determined to be recoverable, but the useful lives are shorter or longer than originally estimated, the net book value of the assets is depreciated over the newly determined remaining useful lives.
 
In fiscal 2006, management performed an analysis of the expected economic value of new rental trucks and determined that additions to the fleet resulting from purchase should be depreciated on an accelerated method based upon a declining formula. The salvage value and useful life assumptions of the rental truck fleet remain unchanged. Under the declining balances method (2.4 times declining balance), the book value of a rental truck is reduced approximately 16%, 13%, 11%, 9%, 8%, 7%, and 6% during years one through seven, respectively and then reduced on a straight line basis an additional 10% by the end of year fifteen. Whereas, a standard straight line approach would reduce the book value by approximately 5.3% per year over the life of the truck. For the affected equipment, the accelerated depreciation was $54.6 million, $44.8 million and $49.1 million greater than what it would have been if calculated under a straight line approach for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Although we intend to sell our used vehicles for prices approximating book value, the extent to which we realize a gain or loss on the sale of used vehicles is dependent upon various factors including but not limited to, the general state of the used vehicle market, the age and condition of the vehicle at the time of its disposal and the depreciation rates with respect to the vehicle. We typically sell our used vehicles at our sales centers throughout North America, on our web site at uhaul.com/trucksales or by phone at 1-866-404-0355. Additionally, we sell a large portion of our pickup and cargo van fleet at automobile dealer auctions.
 
The carrying value of surplus real estate, which is lower than market value at the balance sheet date, was $14.8 million and $9.7 million for fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively, and is included in Investments, other.
 
Receivables
 
Accounts receivable include trade accounts from moving and self-storage customers and dealers, insurance premiums and amounts due from re-insurers, less management’s estimate of uncollectible accounts.
 
Insurance premiums receivable for policies that are billed through contracted agents are recorded net of commission’s payable. A commission payable is recorded as a separate liability for those premiums that are billed direct.
 
Reinsurance recoverables include case reserves and actuarial estimates of claims incurred but not reported. These receivables are not expected to be collected until after the associated claim has been adjudicated and billed to the re-insurer. The reinsurance recoverables may have little or no allowance for doubtful accounts due to the fact that reinsurance is typically procured from carriers with strong credit ratings. Furthermore, we do not cede losses to a re-insurer if the carrier is deemed financially unable to perform on the contract. Reinsurance recoverables also include insurance ceded to other insurance companies.
 




 

  


F-11





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Notes and mortgage receivables include accrued interest and are reduced by discounts and amounts considered by management to be uncollectible.
 
Policy Benefits and Losses, Claims and Loss Expenses Payable
 
Life Insurance’s liabilities for life insurance and certain annuity and health policies are established to meet the estimated future obligations of policies in force, and are based on mortality, morbidity and withdrawal assumptions from recognized actuarial tables which contain margins for adverse deviation. Liabilities for health, disability and other policies include estimates of payments to be made on insurance claims for reported losses and estimates of losses incurred, but not yet reported. Oxford’s liabilities for deferred annuity contracts consist of contract account balances that accrue to the benefit of the policyholders.
 
Repwest’s liability for reported and unreported losses is based on Repwest’s historical data along with industry averages. The liability for unpaid loss adjustment expenses is based on historical ratios of loss adjustment expenses paid to losses paid. Amounts recoverable from re-insurers on unpaid losses are estimated in a manner consistent with the claim liability associated with the re-insured policy. Adjustments to the liability for unpaid losses and loss expenses as well as amounts recoverable from re-insurers on unpaid losses are charged or credited to expense in the periods in which they are made.
 
Due to the nature of the underlying risks and high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of the liability for future policy benefits and claims, the amounts to be ultimately paid to settle these liabilities cannot be precisely determined and may vary significantly from the estimated liability, especially for long-tailed casualty lines of business such as excess workers’ compensation.  As a result of the long-tailed nature of the excess workers’ compensation policies written by Repwest during 1983 through 2002, and similar policies assumed by Repwest during 2001 through 2003, it may take a number of years for claims to be fully reported and finally settled.
 
On a regular basis insurance reserve adequacy is reviewed by management to determine if existing assumptions need to be updated.  In the third quarter of fiscal 2012, Repwest conducted a more in-depth review of its excess workers’ compensation claims as new information regarding recent loss trends emerged.  This review also included a review of reinsured claims handled by a third party administrator related to the same line of business. Based upon these reviews Repwest strengthened its reserves for its excess workers’ compensation business by $48.3 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2012.  After the estimated tax effect of $16.9 million this reduced earnings per share for fiscal 2012 by $1.61 per share.  While management is continually monitoring the status of expected losses through a rolling review of the claim inventory and regularly reviews the adequacy of the established liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense, there can be no assurance that our loss reserves will not develop adversely and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  As a result of our review during the third quarter of fiscal 2012, it was determined that there was a need to strengthen loan loss reserves, reflecting adverse development in prior accident years in lines of business with long reporting tails.  The excess workers’ compensation line comprises a majority of the total charge.  These adjustments represent management’s current best estimate of the ultimate losses of the underlying claims and were recognized in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 based upon the timing of when the information developed.
 
In determining the assumptions for calculating workers’ compensation reserves, management considers multiple factors including the following:
 




·  


Claimant longevity



 




·  


Cost trends associated with claimant treatments



 




·  


Changes in ceding entity and third party administrator reporting practices



 




·  


Changes in environmental factors including legal and regulatory



 




·  


Current conditions affecting claim settlements



 




·  


Future economic conditions including inflation



 
Significant variables that led to the third quarter reserve strengthening were cost trends associated with claimant treatments, changes related to ceding entity and third party administrator reporting practices, projected longevity of claimants terms and assumptions for future claim settlements.
 




 

  


F-12





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
As part of this latest review, we have reserved each claim based upon the accumulation of current claim costs projected through the claimants’ life expectancy, and then adjusted for applicable reinsurance arrangements.  Management reviews each claim bi-annually to determine if the estimated life-time claim costs have increased and then adjusts the reserve estimate accordingly at that time.  We have factored in an estimate of what the potential cost increases could be in our IBNR liability.  We have not assumed settlement of the existing claims in calculating the reserve amount, unless it is in the final stages of completion.
 
Continued increases in claim costs, including medical inflation and new treatments and medications could lead to future adverse development resulting in additional reserve strengthening.  Conversely, settlement of existing claims or if injured workers return to work or expire prematurely, could lead to future positive development.
 
Self-Insurance Reserves
 
U-Haul retains the risk for certain public liability and property damage programs related to the rental equipment. The consolidated balance sheets include $380.1 million and $397.4 million of liabilities related to these programs as of March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. These liabilities are recorded in Policy benefits and losses, claims and loss expenses payable. Management takes into account losses incurred based upon actuarial estimates, past experience, current claim trends, as well as social and economic conditions. This liability is subject to change in the future based upon changes in the underlying assumptions including claims experience, frequency of incidents, and severity of incidents. Based upon additional claims information obtained through the passage of time, we reduced our self-insurance reserve balance associated with prior accident years by $20 million and $15 million in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 
Additionally, as of March 31, 2012 and 2011, the consolidated balance sheets include liabilities of $6.7 million and $6.9 million, respectively, related to our provided medical plan benefits for eligible employees. We estimate this liability based on actual claims outstanding as of the balance sheet date as well as an actuarial estimate of claims incurred but not reported. This liability is reported net of estimated recoveries from excess loss reinsurance policies with unaffiliated insurers of $0.1 million and $0.3 million for fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. These amounts are recorded in Accounts payable and accrued expenses on the consolidated balance sheets.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
Self-moving rentals are recognized for the period that trucks and moving equipment are rented. Self-storage revenues, based upon the number of paid storage contract days, are recognized as earned during the period.  Sales of self-moving and self-storage related products are recognized at the time that title passes and the customer accepts delivery. Property and casualty, traditional life and Medicare supplement insurance premiums are recognized as revenue over the policy periods. For products where premiums are due over a significantly shorter duration than the period over which benefits are provided, such as our single premium whole life product, premiums are recognized when received and excess profits are deferred and recognized in relation to the insurance in force. Interest and investment income are recognized as earned.
 
Amounts collected from customers for sales tax are recorded on a net basis.
 
Advertising
 
All advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising expense was $10.3 million, $14.9 million and $20.2 million in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs
 
Commissions and other costs that fluctuate with and are primarily related to the acquisition or renewal of certain insurance premiums are deferred. For the Life Insurance operating segment’s life and health insurance products, these costs are amortized, with interest, in relation to revenue such that costs are realized as a constant percentage of revenue. For its annuity insurance products the costs are amortized, with interest, in relation to the present value of actual and expected gross profits.
 




 

  


F-13





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
 
Environmental Costs
 
Liabilities are recorded when environmental assessments and remedial efforts, if applicable, are probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. The amount of the liability is based on management’s best estimate of undiscounted future costs. Certain recoverable environmental costs related to the removal of underground storage tanks or related contamination are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful lives of the properties. These costs improve the safety or efficiency of the property or are incurred in preparing the property for sale.
 
Income Taxes
 
AMERCO files a consolidated tax return with all of its legal subsidiaries. In accordance with ASC 740 - Income Taxes (“ASC 740”), the provision for income taxes reflects deferred income taxes resulting from changes in temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements.
 
Comprehensive Income (Loss)
 
Comprehensive income (loss) consists of net earnings, foreign currency translation adjustments, unrealized gains and losses on investments, the change in fair value of cash flow hedges and the change in postretirement benefit obligation.
 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 
In October 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-26, Financial Services – Insurance (Topic 944) which amended FASB ASC 944-30 to provide further guidance regarding the capitalization of costs relating to the acquisition or renewal of insurance contracts. Specifically, only qualifying costs associated with successful contract acquisitions are permitted to be deferred. The amended guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011 (and for interim periods within such years), with early adoption permitted as of the beginning of the entity's annual reporting period. The amended guidance should be applied prospectively, but retrospective application for all prior periods is allowed. We do not believe that the adoption of this statement will have a material impact on our financial statements.
 
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-04, Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) (“ASU 2011-04”). This pronouncement was issued to provide a consistent definition of fair value and ensure that the fair value measurement and disclosure requirements are similar between U.S. GAAP and IFRS. ASU 2011-04 changes certain fair value measurement principles and enhances the disclosure requirements particularly for Level 3 fair value measurements. This pronouncement is effective for reporting periods beginning on or after December 15, 2011, with early adoption prohibited. The new guidance will require prospective application. We do not believe that the adoption of this statement will have a material impact on our financial statements.
 
In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05, Presentation of Comprehensive Income (“ASU 2011-05”). ASU 2011-05 requires the presentation of comprehensive income in either (1) a continuous statement of comprehensive income or (2) two separate but consecutive statements. ASU 2011-05 eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of equity. In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-12, Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05 (“ASU 2011-12”), which defers the requirement within ASU 2011-05 to present on the face of the financial statements the effects of reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income on the components of net income and other comprehensive income for all periods presented. During the deferral, entities should continue to report reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income consistent with the presentation requirements in effect prior to the issuance of ASU 2011-05. The standards will be effective for public companies during the interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted.  The adoption of the standards did not have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.
 




 

  


F-14





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
From time to time, new accounting pronouncements are issued by the FASB or the SEC that are adopted by us as of the specified effective date. Unless otherwise discussed, these ASU’s entail technical corrections to existing guidance or affect guidance related to specialized industries or entities and therefore will have minimal, if any, impact on our financial position or results of operations upon adoption.
 
Note 4.  Earnings Per Share
 
Net earnings for purposes of computing earnings per common share are net earnings less preferred stock dividends paid, adjusted for the price paid by us for the redemption of our preferred stock less its carrying value on our balance sheet. Preferred stock dividends include accrued dividends of AMERCO. Preferred stock dividends paid to or accrued for entities that are part of the consolidated group are eliminated in consolidation.
 
The weighted average common shares outstanding exclude post-1992 shares of the employee stock ownership plan that have not been committed to be released. The unreleased shares, net of shares committed to be released, were 110,504; 153,069; and 199,363 as of March 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.
 
On June 1, 2011, we redeemed all 6,100,000 shares of our issued and outstanding Series A 8½% Preferred Stock (“Series A Preferred”) at a redemption price of $25 per share plus accrued dividends through that date.  Pursuant to ASC 260 – Earnings Per Share (“ASC 260”), for earnings per share purposes, we recognized the deficit of the carrying amount of the Series A Preferred over the consideration paid to redeem the shares.
 
The Series A Preferred was recorded in our Additional Paid-In Capital account, net of original issue costs at $146.3 million prior to the redemption.  We paid $152.5 million to redeem the shares on June 1, 2011, of which $7.7 million was paid to our insurance subsidiaries in exchange for their holdings.  The difference between what was paid to redeem the shares less their carrying amount on our balance sheet, reduced by our insurance subsidiaries holdings was $5.9 million.  This amount was recognized as a reduction to our earnings available to our common shareholders for the purposes of computing earnings per share for fiscal 2012.
 
From January 1, 2009 through March 31, 2011, our insurance subsidiaries purchased 308,300 shares of our Series A Preferred on the open market for $7.2 million. Pursuant to ASC 260 we recognized $0.2 million charge to net earnings for fiscal 2011 in connection with these purchases, and we recognized a $0.4 million gain as the amount paid was less than our adjusted carrying value.
 
Note 5.  Reinsurance Recoverables and Trade Receivables, Net
 
Reinsurance recoverables and trade receivables, net were as follows:
 



  
 

March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Reinsurance recoverable

 
$
240,824
 
 
$
183,786
 


Trade accounts receivable

 
 
37,323
 
 
 
19,615
 


Paid losses recoverable

 
 
1,124
 
 
 
1,048
 


Accrued investment income

 
 
9,911
 
 
 
7,963
 


Premiums and agents' balances

 
 
1,717
 
 
 
1,297
 


Independent dealer receivable

 
 
402
 
 
 
424
 


Other receivable

 
 
7,801
 
 
 
7,853
 

  
 
 
299,102
 
 
 
221,986
 


Less: Allowance for doubtful accounts

 
 
(1,128
)
 
 
(1,336
)

  
 
$
297,974
 
 
$
220,650
 




 




 

  


F-15





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
 
Note 6.  Investments
 
Expected maturities may differ from contractual maturities as borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.
 
We deposit bonds with insurance regulatory authorities to meet statutory requirements. The adjusted cost of bonds on deposit with insurance regulatory authorities was $16.1 million and $13.9 million at March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 
Available-for-Sale Investments
 
Available-for-sale investments at March 31, 2012 were as follows:
 



  
 

Amortized
Cost

 
 

Gross
Unrealized
Gains

 
 

Gross
Unrealized
Losses More than 12 Months

 
 

Gross
Unrealized
Losses Less than 12 Months

 
 

Estimated
Market
Value

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


U.S. treasury securities and government obligations

 
$
29,152
 
 
$
2,964
 
 
$
(18
)
 
$
(9
)
 
$
32,089
 


U.S. government agency mortgage-backed securities

 
 
48,938
 
 
 
4,866
 
 
 
(1
)
 
 
(7
)
 
 
53,796
 


Obligations of states and political subdivisions

 
 
142,824
 
 
 
9,435
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(147
)
 
 
152,112
 


Corporate securities

 
 
445,433
 
 
 
33,350
 
 
 
(619
)
 
 
(2,236
)
 
 
475,928
 


Mortgage-backed securities

 
 
11,572
 
 
 
282
 
 
 
(38
)
 
 
(5
)
 
 
11,811
 


Redeemable preferred stocks

 
 
24,370
 
 
 
1,066
 
 
 
(1,627
)
 
 
(632
)
 
 
23,177
 


Common stocks

 
 
27,736
 
 
 
37
 
 
 
(9,720
)
 
 
(174
)
 
 
17,879
 

  
 
$
730,025
 
 
$
52,000
 
 
$
(12,023
)
 
$
(3,210
)
 
$
766,792
 




 
Available-for-sale investments at March 31, 2011 were as follows:
 



  
 

Amortized
Cost

 
 

Gross
Unrealized
Gains

 
 

Gross
Unrealized
Losses More than 12 Months

 
 

Gross
Unrealized
Losses Less than 12 Months

 
 

Estimated
Market
Value

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


U.S. treasury securities and government obligations

 
$
34,522
 
 
$
2,021
 
 
$
(20
)
 
$
(4
)
 
$
36,519
 


U.S. government agency mortgage-backed securities

 
 
74,721
 
 
 
6,208
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(4
)
 
 
80,925
 


Obligations of states and political subdivisions

 
 
79,020
 
 
 
1,203
 
 
 
(389
)
 
 
(3,113
)
 
 
76,721
 


Corporate securities

 
 
389,167
 
 
 
21,559
 
 
 
(794
)
 
 
(1,177
)
 
 
408,755
 


Mortgage-backed securities

 
 
6,740
 
 
 
223
 
 
 
(108
)
 
 
(7
)
 
 
6,848
 


Redeemable preferred stocks

 
 
31,190
 
 
 
1,910
 
 
 
(934
)
 
 
(86
)
 
 
32,080
 


Common stocks

 
 
28,293
 
 
 
8,153
 
 
 
(108
)
 
 
(10,380
)
 
 
25,958
 


Less: Preferred stock of AMERCO held by subsidiaries

 
 
(7,190
)
 
 
(807
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(7,997
)

  
 
$
636,463
 
 
$
40,470
 
 
$
(2,353
)
 
$
(14,771
)
 
$
659,809
 




 
The tables above include gross unrealized losses that are not deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired, aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position.
 
We sold available-for-sale securities with a fair value of $141.1 million, $134.7 million and $168.6 million in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The gross realized gains on these sales totaled $5.9 million, $2.0 million and $2.8 million in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We realized gross losses on these sales of $0.2 million, $0.2 million and $2.0 million in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 




 

  


F-16





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
The unrealized losses of more than twelve months in the table on the previous page are considered temporary declines. The majority of this unrealized loss is related to the our long term investments in 1.8 million shares of Bank of America common stock. We track each investment with an unrealized loss and evaluate them on an individual basis for other-than-temporary impairments including obtaining corroborating opinions from third party sources, performing trend analysis and reviewing management’s future plans. Certain of these investments may have declines determined by management to be other-than-temporary and we recognized these write-downs through earnings. We recognized other-than-temporary impairments of $0.1 million, $0.8 million and $2.2 million in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
The investment portfolio primarily consists of corporate securities and U.S. government securities. We believe we monitor our investments as appropriate. Our methodology of assessing other-than-temporary impairments is based on security-specific analysis as of the balance sheet date and considers various factors including the length of time to maturity, the extent to which the fair value has been less than the cost, the financial condition and the near-term prospects of the issuer, and whether the debtor is current on its contractually obligated interest and principal payments. Nothing has come to management’s attention that would lead to the belief that each issuer would not have the ability to meet the remaining contractual obligations of the security, including payment at maturity. We have the ability and intent not to sell its fixed maturity and common stock investments for a period of time sufficient to allow us to recover our costs.
 
The portion of other-than-temporary impairment related to a credit loss is recognized in earnings. The significant inputs utilized in the evaluation of mortgage backed securities credit losses include ratings, delinquency rates, and prepayment activity. The significant inputs utilized in the evaluation of asset backed securities credit losses include the time frame for principal recovery and the subordination and value of the underlying collateral.
 
Credit losses recognized in earnings for which a portion of an other-than-temporary impairment was recognized in other comprehensive income were as follows:
 



  
 

Credit Loss

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Balance at March 31, 2011

 
$
552
 


Additions:

 
 
 
 


Other-than-temporary impairment not previously recognized

 
 
-
 


Balance at March 31, 2012

 
$
552
 




 
The adjusted cost and estimated market value of available-for-sale investments at March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, by contractual maturity, were as follows:
 



  
 

March 31, 2012

 
 

March 31, 2011

 

  
 

Amortized
Cost

 
 

Estimated
Market
Value

 
 

Amortized
Cost

 
 

Estimated
Market
Value

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Due in one year or less

 
$
40,219
 
 
$
40,688
 
 
$
45,149
 
 
$
45,760
 


Due after one year through five years

 
 
157,444
 
 
 
165,852
 
 
 
153,389
 
 
 
161,685
 


Due after five years through ten years

 
 
176,694
 
 
 
188,225
 
 
 
128,973
 
 
 
136,343
 


Due after ten years

 
 
291,990
 
 
 
319,160
 
 
 
249,919
 
 
 
259,132
 

  
 
 
666,347
 
 
 
713,925
 
 
 
577,430
 
 
 
602,920
 


Mortgage backed securities

 
 
11,572
 
 
 
11,811
 
 
 
6,740
 
 
 
6,848
 


Redeemable preferred stocks

 
 
24,370
 
 
 
23,177
 
 
 
31,190
 
 
 
32,080
 


Equity securities

 
 
27,736
 
 
 
17,879
 
 
 
28,293
 
 
 
25,958
 


Less: Preferred stock of AMERCO held by subsidiaries

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(7,190
)
 
 
(7,997
)

  
 
$
730,025
 
 
$
766,792
 
 
$
636,463
 
 
$
659,809
 




 




 

  


F-17





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Investments, other
 
The carrying value of other investments was as follows:
 



  
 

March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Mortgage loans, net

 
$
166,249
 
 
$
94,554
 


Short-term investments

 
 
57,319
 
 
 
77,745
 


Real estate

 
 
20,032
 
 
 
18,777
 


Policy loans

 
 
15,677
 
 
 
4,404
 


Other equity investments

 
 
6,354
 
 
 
6,388
 

  
 
$
265,631
 
 
$
201,868
 




 
Short-term investments consist primarily of investments in money market funds, mutual funds and any other investments with short-term characteristics that have original maturities of less than one year at acquisition. These investments are recorded at cost, which approximates fair value.
 
Mortgage loans are carried at the unpaid balance, less an allowance for probable losses and any unamortized premium or discount. The allowance for probable losses was $0.4 million as of March 31, 2012 and 2011. The estimated fair value of these loans as of March 31, 2012 and 2011 approximated the carrying value. These loans represent first lien mortgages held by us.
 
Real estate obtained through foreclosure and held for sale is carried at the lower of fair value at time of foreclosure or current estimated fair value less cost to sell. Equity investments are carried at cost and assessed for impairment.
 
Insurance policy loans are carried at their unpaid balance.
 
Note 7.  Other Assets
 
Other assets were as follows:
 



  
 

March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Deposits (debt-related)

 
$
61,154
 
 
$
103,191
 


Cash surrender value of life insurance policies

 
 
29,785
 
 
 
28,784
 


Excess of loss reinsurance recoverable

 
 
15,000
 
 
 
15,000
 


Deferred charges

 
 
10,647
 
 
 
13,076
 


Income taxes recoverable

 
 
470
 
 
 
2,850
 


Other

 
 
3,469
 
 
 
3,732
 

  
 
$
120,525
 
 
$
166,633
 




 




 

  


F-18





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
 
Note 8.  Net Investment and Interest Income
 
Net investment and interest income, were as follows:
 



  
 

Years Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 
 

2010

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Fixed maturities

 
$
41,439
 
 
$
32,782
 
 
$
31,234
 


Real estate

 
 
81
 
 
 
361
 
 
 
(56
)


Insurance policy loans

 
 
489
 
 
 
259
 
 
 
262
 


Mortgage loans

 
 
7,002
 
 
 
5,249
 
 
 
5,226
 


Short-term, amounts held by ceding reinsurers, net and other investments

 
 
1,084
 
 
 
749
 
 
 
1,110
 


Investment income

 
 
50,095
 
 
 
39,400
 
 
 
37,776
 


Less: investment expenses

 
 
(1,338
)
 
 
(1,269
)
 
 
(1,020
)


Less: interest credited on annuity policies

 
 
(9,352
)
 
 
(10,084
)
 
 
(11,000
)


Investment income - Related party

 
 
24,795
 
 
 
24,614
 
 
 
24,233
 


Net investment and interest income

 
$
64,200
 
 
$
52,661
 
 
$
49,989
 




 
 
Note 9.  Borrowings
 
Long-Term Debt
 
Long-term debt was as follows:
 



  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

March 31,

 

  
 

2012 Rate (a)

 
 

Maturities

 
 

2012

 
 

2011

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

(In thousands)

 


Real estate loan (amortizing term)

 
 
6.93
%
 
 
2018
 
 
$
245,000
 
 
$
255,000
 


Real estate loan (revolving credit)

 
 
-
 
 
 
2018
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 


Real estate loan (amortizing term)

 
 
2.14
%
 
 
2016
 
 
 
25,451
 
 
 
11,222
 


Real estate loan (revolving credit)

 
 
1.74
%
 
 
2013
 
 
 
23,920
 
 
 
-
 


Senior mortgages

 
 
5.47% - 5.75
%
 
 
2015
 
 
 
459,822
 
 
 
476,783
 


Working capital loan (revolving credit)

 
 
-
 
 
 
2013
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 


Fleet loans (amortizing term)

 
 
3.52% - 7.95
%
 
 
2012-2018
 
 
 
384,888
 
 
 
325,591
 


Fleet loan (securitization)

 
 
4.90% - 5.56
%
 
 
2014-2017
 
 
 
228,655
 
 
 
271,290
 


Other obligations

 
 
3.00% - 9.57
%
 
 
2012-2042
 
 
 
118,475
 
 
 
57,956
 


Total notes, loans and leases payable

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
1,486,211
 
 
$
1,397,842
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(a) Interest rate as of March 31, 2012, including the effect of applicable hedging instruments

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




Real Estate Backed Loans
 
Real Estate Loan
 
Amerco Real Estate Company and certain of its subsidiaries and U-Haul Company of Florida are borrowers under a Real Estate Loan. The loan has a final maturity date of August 2018. The loan is comprised of a term loan facility with initial availability of $300.0 million and a revolving credit facility with current availability of $198.8 million. As of March 31, 2012, the outstanding balance on the Real Estate Loan was $245.0 million and we had the full $198.8 million available to be drawn. U-Haul International, Inc. is a guarantor of this loan.
 
The amortizing term portion of the Real Estate Loan requires monthly principal and interest payments, with the unpaid loan balance and accrued and unpaid interest due at maturity. The revolving credit portion of the Real Estate Loan requires monthly interest payments when drawn, with the unpaid loan balance and any accrued and unpaid interest due at maturity. The Real Estate Loan is secured by various properties owned by the borrowers.
 




 

  


F-19





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
The interest rate for the amortizing term portion, per the provisions of the amended loan agreement, is the applicable London Inter-Bank Offer Rate (“LIBOR”) plus the applicable margin. At March 31, 2012, the applicable LIBOR was 0.25% and the applicable margin was 1.50%, the sum of which was 1.75%. The rate on the term facility portion of the Real Estate Loan is hedged with an interest rate swap fixing the rate at 6.93% based on current margin.
 
The interest rate for the revolving credit facility, per the provision of the amended loan agreement, is the applicable LIBOR plus the applicable margin. The margin ranges from 1.50% to 2.00%.
 
The default provisions of the Real Estate Loan include non-payment of principal or interest and other standard reporting and change-in-control covenants. There are limited restrictions regarding our use of the funds.
 
Amerco Real Estate Company and a subsidiary of U-Haul International, Inc. entered into a revolving credit construction loan effective June 29, 2006. This loan was modified and extended on June 27, 2011. The loan is now comprised of a term loan facility with an initial availability of $26.1 million and a final maturity of June 2016. As of March 31, 2012, the outstanding balance was $25.5 million.
 
This Real Estate Loan requires monthly principal and interest payments, with the unpaid loan balance and any accrued and unpaid interest due at maturity. The interest rate, per the provision of this loan agreement, is the applicable LIBOR plus a margin of 1.90%. At March 31, 2012, the applicable LIBOR was 0.24% and the margin was 1.90%, the sum of which was 2.14%. U-Haul International, Inc. and AMERCO are guarantors of this loan. The default provisions of the loan include non-payment of principal or interest and other standard reporting and change-in-control covenants.
 
On April 29, 2011, Amerco Real Estate Company and U-Haul Company of Florida entered into a revolving credit agreement for $100.0 million. This agreement was amended in March 2012 and the maturity extended to April 2013 with an option for a one year extension. As of March 31, 2012, we had $76.1 million available to be drawn. The interest rate is the applicable LIBOR plus a margin of 1.50%. At March 31, 2012, the applicable LIBOR was 0.24% and the margin was 1.50%, the sum of which was 1.74%. The amended agreement decreased the margin to 1.25% for any subsequent borrowings on the revolving credit facility. AMERCO and U-Haul International, Inc. are guarantors of this facility. The default provisions of the loan include non-payment of principal or interest and other standard reporting and change-in-control covenants.
 
Senior Mortgages
 
Various subsidiaries of Amerco Real Estate Company and U-Haul International, Inc. are borrowers under certain senior mortgages. These senior mortgage loan balances as of March 31, 2012 were in the aggregate amount of $459.8 million and mature in 2015. The senior mortgages require average monthly principal and interest payments with the unpaid loan balance and accrued and unpaid interest due at maturity. The senior mortgages are secured by certain properties owned by the borrowers. The interest rates, per the provisions of the senior mortgages, range between 5.47% and 5.75%. Amerco Real Estate Company and U-Haul International, Inc. have provided limited guarantees of the senior mortgages. The default provisions of the senior mortgages include non-payment of principal or interest and other standard reporting and change-in-control covenants. There are limited restrictions regarding our use of the funds.
 
Working Capital Loans
 
Amerco Real Estate Company is a borrower under an asset backed working capital loan. The maximum amount that can be drawn at any one time is $25.0 million. At March 31, 2012, we had the full $25.0 million available to be drawn. This loan is secured by certain properties owned by the borrower. This loan agreement provides for revolving loans, subject to the terms of the loan agreement. This agreement was amended in March 2012 and the maturity extended to November 2013 with an option for a one year extension. This loan requires monthly interest payments with the unpaid loan balance and accrued and unpaid interest due at maturity. U-Haul International, Inc. and AMERCO are the guarantors of this loan. The default provisions of the loan include non-payment of principal or interest and other standard reporting and change-in-control covenants. The interest rate, per the provision of this loan agreement, is the applicable LIBOR plus a margin of 1.25%.
 




 

  


F-20





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
 
Fleet Loans
 
Rental Truck Amortizing Loans
 
U-Haul International, Inc. and several of its subsidiaries are borrowers under amortizing term loans. The balance of the loans as of March 31, 2012 was $269.9 million with the final maturities between April 2012 and December 2018.
 
The Amortizing Loans require monthly principal and interest payments, with the unpaid loan balance and accrued and unpaid interest due at maturity. These loans were used to purchase new trucks. The interest rates, per the provision of the Loan Agreements, are the applicable LIBOR plus a margin between 0.90% and 2.63%. At March 31, 2012, the applicable LIBOR was between 0.24% and 0.25% and applicable margins were between 0.90% and 2.63%. The interest rates are hedged with interest rate swaps fixing the rates between 3.85% and 6.92% based on current margins. Additionally, $25.6 million of these loans are carried at a fixed rate ranging between 3.94% and 7.95%.
 
AMERCO and U-Haul International, Inc. are guarantors of these loans. The default provisions of these loans include non-payment of principal or interest and other standard reporting and change-in-control covenants.
 
On December 31, 2009, a subsidiary of U-Haul International, Inc. entered into an $85.0 million term note that was used to fund cargo van and pickup acquisitions for the past two years. This term note was amended on August 26, 2011. The amount of the term note was increased to $95.0 million. On December 22, 2011, we entered into another term loan for $20.0 million. The final maturity date of these notes is August 2016.  The agreement contains options to extend the maturity through May 2017. These notes are secured by the purchased equipment and the corresponding operating cash flows associated with their operation.  These notes have fixed interest rates between 3.52% and 3.53%. At March 31, 2012, the outstanding balance was $115.0 million.
 
AMERCO and U-Haul International, Inc. are guarantors of these loans. The default provisions of these loans include non-payment of principal or interest and other standard reporting and change-in-control covenants.
 
Rental Truck Securitizations
 
U-Haul S Fleet and its subsidiaries (collectively, “USF”) issued a $217.0 million asset-backed note (“2007 Box Truck Note”) on June 1, 2007. USF is a bankruptcy-remote special purpose entity wholly-owned by U-Haul International, Inc. The net proceeds from the securitized transaction were used to finance new box truck purchases throughout fiscal 2008. U.S. Bank, NA acts as the trustee for this securitization.
 
The 2007 Box Truck Note has a fixed interest rate of 5.56% with an expected final maturity of February 2014. At March 31, 2012, the outstanding balance was $100.0 million. The note is secured by the box trucks that were purchased and the corresponding operating cash flows associated with their operation.
 
The 2007 Box Truck Note has the benefit of a financial guaranty insurance policy which guarantees the timely payment of interest on and the ultimate payment of the principal of this note.
 
2010 U-Haul S Fleet and its subsidiaries (collectively, “2010 USF”) issued a $155.0 million asset-backed note (“2010 Box Truck Note”) on October 28, 2010. 2010 USF is a bankruptcy-remote special purpose entity wholly-owned by U-Haul International, Inc. The net proceeds from the securitized transaction were used to finance new box truck purchases. U.S. Bank, NA acts as the trustee for this securitization.
 
The 2010 Box Truck Note has a fixed interest rate of 4.90% with an expected final maturity of October 2017. At March 31, 2012, the outstanding balance was $128.6 million. The note is secured by the box trucks being purchased and the corresponding operating cash flows associated with their operation.
 
 The 2007 Box Truck Note and 2010 Box Truck Note are subject to certain covenants with respect to liens, additional indebtedness of the special purpose entities, the disposition of assets and other customary covenants of bankruptcy-remote special purpose entities. The default provisions of these notes include non-payment of principal or interest and other standard reporting and change-in-control covenants.
 




 

  


F-21





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
 
Other Obligations
 
We entered into capital leases for new equipment between April 2008 and March 2012, with terms of the leases between 3 and 7 years. At March 31, 2012, the balance of these leases was $110.3 million.
 
In February 2011, the Company and US Bank, National Association (the “Trustee”) entered into the U-Haul Investors Club Indenture.  The Company and the Trustee entered into this indenture to provide for the issuance of notes (“U-Notes”) by us directly to investors over our proprietary website, uhaulinvestorsclub.com. The U-Notes are secured by various types of collateral including rental equipment and real estate.  U-Notes are issued in smaller series that vary as to principal amount, interest rate and maturity.  U-Notes are obligations of the Company and secured by the associated collateral; they are not guaranteed by any of the Company’s affiliates or subsidiaries.
 
At March 31, 2012 the aggregate outstanding principal balance of the U-Notes issued was $13.5 million of which $5.3 million is with our insurance subsidiaries with interest rates between 3.00% and 8.00% and maturity dates between 2013 and 2042.
 
Annual Maturities of Notes, Loans and Leases Payable


The annual maturities of long-term debt as of March 31, 2012 for the next five years and thereafter are as follows:
 



  
 

March 31,

 

  
 

2013

 
 

2014

 
 

2015

 
 

2016

 
 

2017

 
 

Thereafter

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Notes, loans and leases payable, secured

 
$
182,949
 
 
$
215,273
 
 
$
75,822
 
 
$
485,986
 
 
$
259,829
 
 
$
266,352
 


 
 
Note 10.  Interest on Borrowings
 
Interest Expense
 
Components of interest expense include the following:
 



  
 

Years Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 
 

2010

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Interest expense

 
$
63,523
 
 
$
60,701
 
 
$
63,516
 


Capitalized interest

 
 
(221
)
 
 
(425
)
 
 
(609
)


Amortization of transaction costs

 
 
4,428
 
 
 
4,249
 
 
 
5,198
 


Interest expense resulting from derivatives

 
 
22,641
 
 
 
23,856
 
 
 
25,242
 


Total interest expense

 
$
90,371
 
 
$
88,381
 
 
$
93,347
 




 
Interest paid in cash, including payments related to derivative contracts, amounted to $87.0 million, $84.7 million and $89.8 million for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Interest Rates
 
Interest rates and our borrowings were as follows:
 



  
 

Revolving Credit Activity

 

  
 

Years Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 
 

2010

 

  
 

(In thousands, except interest rates)

 


Weighted average interest rate during the year

 
 
1.73
%
 
 
1.75
%
 
 
1.79
%


Interest rate at year end

 
 
1.74
%
 
 
-
%
 
 
1.74
%


Maximum amount outstanding during the year

 
$
38,920
 
 
$
111,000
 
 
$
207,280
 


Average amount outstanding during the year

 
$
24,494
 
 
$
36,942
 
 
$
184,036
 


Facility fees

 
$
521
 
 
$
227
 
 
$
906
 






 

  


F-22





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
 
Note 11.  Derivatives
 
We manage exposure to changes in market interest rates. Our use of derivative instruments is limited to highly effective interest rate swaps to hedge the risk of changes in cash flows (future interest payments) attributable to changes in LIBOR swap rates, the designated benchmark interest rate being hedged on certain of our LIBOR indexed variable rate debt and a variable rate operating lease. The interest rate swaps effectively fix our interest payments on certain LIBOR indexed variable rate debt. We monitor our positions and the credit ratings of its counterparties and does not currently anticipate non-performance by the counterparties. Interest rate swap agreements are not entered into for trading purposes.
 




Original variable rate debt and lease amount

 

Agreement Date

 

Effective Date

 

Expiration Date

 

Designated cash flow hedge date



(In millions)

 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  

$
142.3
 

(a), (b)

 

11/15/2005

 

5/10/2006

 

4/10/2012

 

5/31/2006


 
50.0
 

(a)

 

6/21/2006

 

7/10/2006

 

7/10/2013

 

6/9/2006


 
144.9
 

(a), (b)

 

6/9/2006

 

10/10/2006

 

10/10/2012

 

6/9/2006


 
300.0
 

(a)

 

8/16/2006

 

8/18/2006

 

8/10/2018

 

8/4/2006


 
30.0
 

(a)

 

2/9/2007

 

2/12/2007

 

2/10/2014

 

2/9/2007


 
20.0
 

(a)

 

3/8/2007

 

3/12/2007

 

3/10/2014

 

3/8/2007


 
20.0
 

(a)

 

3/8/2007

 

3/12/2007

 

3/10/2014

 

3/8/2007


 
19.3
 

(a), (b)

 

4/8/2008

 

8/15/2008

 

6/15/2015

 

3/31/2008


 
19.0
 

(a)

 

8/27/2008

 

8/29/2008

 

7/10/2015

 

4/10/2008


 
30.0
 

(a)

 

9/24/2008

 

9/30/2008

 

9/10/2015

 

9/24/2008


 
15.0
 

(a), (b)

 

3/24/2009

 

3/30/2009

 

3/30/2016

 

3/25/2009


 
14.7
 

(a), (b)

 

7/6/2010

 

8/15/2010

 

7/15/2017

 

7/6/2010


 
25.0
 

(a), (b)

 

4/26/2011

 

6/1/2011

 

6/1/2018

 

6/1/2011


 
50.0
 

(a), (b)

 

7/29/2011

 

8/15/2011

 

8/15/2018

 

7/29/2011


 
20.0
 

(a), (b)

 

8/3/2011

 

9/12/2011

 

9/10/2018

 

8/3/2011


 
15.1
 

(a), (c)

 

3/27/2012

 

3/28/2012

 

3/28/2019

 

3/26/2012


 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  


(a) interest rate swap agreement

 
  
 
  
 
  


(b) forward swap

 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  


(c) operating lease

 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  




 
As of March 31, 2012, the total notional amount of our variable interest rate swaps on debt and an operating lease was $498.8 million and $15.1 million, respectively.
 
The derivative fair values located in Accounts payable and accrued expenses in the balance sheets were as follows:
 



  
 

Liability Derivative Fair Value as of

 

  
 

March 31, 2012

 
 

March 31, 2011

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Interest rate contracts designated as hedging instruments

 
$
59,313
 
 
$
51,052
 




 



  
 

The Effect of Interest Rate

 

  
 

Contracts on the Statements of Operations

 

  
 

March 31, 2012

 
 

March 31, 2011

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Loss recognized in income on interest rate contracts

 
$
22,641
 
 
$
23,856
 


(Gain) loss recognized in AOCI on interest rate contracts (effective portion)

 
$
9,179
 
 
$
(2,411
)


Loss reclassified from AOCI into income (effective portion)

 
$
23,559
 
 
$
24,632
 


Gain recognized in income on interest rate contracts (ineffective portion and amount excluded from effectiveness testing)

 
$
(918
)
 
$
(775
)






 

  


F-23





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Gains or losses recognized in income on derivatives are recorded as interest expense in the statement of operations. At March 31, 2012, we expect to reclassify $19.2 million of net losses on interest rate contracts from accumulated other comprehensive income to earnings that will offset interest payments over the next twelve months. Please see Note 3, Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Note 12.  Stockholders’ Equity
 
On June 1, 2011, we redeemed all 6,100,000 shares of our issued and outstanding Series A Preferred at a redemption price of $25 per share plus accrued dividends through that date.  Pursuant to ASC 260, for earnings per share purposes, we recognized the deficit of the carrying amount of the Series A Preferred over the consideration paid to redeem the shares.
 
The Series A Preferred was recorded in our Additional Paid-In Capital account, net of original issue costs at $146.3 million prior to the redemption.  We paid $152.5 million to redeem the shares on June 1, 2011, of which $7.7 million was paid to our insurance subsidiaries in exchange for their holdings.  The difference between what was paid to redeem the shares less their carrying amount on our balance sheet, reduced by our insurance subsidiaries holdings was $5.9 million.  This amount was recognized as a reduction to our earnings available to our common shareholders for the purposes of computing earnings per share for fiscal 2012.
 
From January 1, 2009 through March 31, 2011, our insurance subsidiaries purchased 308,300 shares of our Series A Preferred on the open market for $7.2 million.
 
On December 7, 2011, we declared a special cash dividend on our Common Stock of $1.00 per share to holders of record on December 23, 2011. The dividend was paid on January 3, 2012.
 
Note 13.  Comprehensive Income (Loss)
 
A summary of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) components, net of taxes, were as follows:
 



  
 

Foreign
Currency
Translation

 
 

Unrealized
Gain (Loss)
on Investments

 
 

Fair Market
Value of
Cash Flow
Hedge

 
 

Postretirement Benefit Obligation Gain (Loss)

 
 

Accumulated
Other
Comprehensive
Income (Loss)

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Balance at March 31, 2009

 
$
(43,613
)
 
$
(7,323
)
 
$
(48,411
)
 
$
1,347
 
 
$
(98,000
)


Foreign currency translation

 
 
14,471
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
14,471
 


Unrealized loss on investments

 
 
-
 
 
 
13,254
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
13,254
 


Change in fair value of cash flow hedge

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
14,478
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
14,478
 


Change in postretirement benefit obligation

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(410
)
 
 
(410
)


Balance at March 31, 2010

 
 
(29,142
)
 
 
5,931
 
 
 
(33,933
)
 
 
937
 
 
 
(56,207
)


Foreign currency translation

 
 
3,114
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
3,114
 


Unrealized gain on investments

 
 
-
 
 
 
4,930
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
4,930
 


Change in fair value of cash flow hedge

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
1,495
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
1,495
 


Change in postretirement benefit obligation

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
201
 
 
 
201
 


Balance at March 31, 2011

 
 
(26,028
)
 
 
10,861
 
 
 
(32,438
)
 
 
1,138
 
 
 
(46,467
)


Foreign currency translation

 
 
(2,854
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(2,854
)


Unrealized gain on investments

 
 
-
 
 
 
10,005
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
10,005
 


Change in fair value of cash flow hedge

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(5,691
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(5,691
)


Change in postretirement benefit obligation

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(429
)
 
 
(429
)


Balance at March 31, 2012

 
$
(28,882
)
 
$
20,866
 
 
$
(38,129
)
 
$
709
 
 
$
(45,436
)




 




 

  


F-24





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
 
Note 14.  Change in Excess Workers’ Compensation Reserves Estimate
 
Our policy is to regularly review the adequacy of loss reserves associated with the lines of business of its insurance subsidiaries.  A current review of the underlying claims of Repwest’s excess workers’ compensation business indicated that claims have been developing more adversely than previously anticipated based on a combination of issues including medical inflation, additional treatments, longer claim terms and changes in ceding entity and third party administrator reporting practices.  As a result, Repwest adjusted its estimate for excess workers’ compensation reserves in the third quarter of fiscal 2012. The effect of this change increased benefits and losses expense by $48.3 million and decreased net earnings by $31.4 million, or $1.61 per share, for fiscal 2012.
 
Note 15.  Provision for Taxes
 
Earnings before taxes and the provision for taxes consisted of the following:
 



  
 

Years Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 
 

2010

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Pretax earnings:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


U.S.

 
$
302,748
 
 
$
270,695
 
 
$
89,350
 


Non-U.S.

 
 
22,888
 
 
 
18,619
 
 
 
10,840
 


Total pretax earnings

 
$
325,636
 
 
$
289,314
 
 
$
100,190
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Current provision (benefit)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Federal

 
$
10,899
 
 
$
14,784
 
 
$
(23,965
)


State

 
 
5,514
 
 
 
7,475
 
 
 
1,965
 


Non-U.S.

 
 
4,786
 
 
 
3,861
 
 
 
34
 

  
 
 
21,199
 
 
 
26,120
 
 
 
(21,966
)


Deferred provision (benefit)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Federal

 
 
89,327
 
 
 
70,653
 
 
 
53,174
 


State

 
 
8,310
 
 
 
7,300
 
 
 
3,472
 


Non-U.S.

 
 
1,433
 
 
 
1,666
 
 
 
(113
)

  
 
 
99,070
 
 
 
79,619
 
 
 
56,533
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Provision for income tax expense

 
$
120,269
 
 
$
105,739
 
 
$
34,567
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Income taxes paid (net of income tax refunds received)

 
$
10,739
 
 
$
14,265
 
 
$
1,558
 




 
The difference between the tax provision at the statutory federal income tax rate and the tax provision attributable to income before taxes was as follows:
 



  
 

Years Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 
 

2010

 

  
 

(In percentages)

 


Statutory federal income tax rate

 
 
35.00
%
 
 
35.00
%
 
 
35.00
%


Increase (reduction) in rate resulting from:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


State taxes, net of federal benefit

 
 
2.70
%
 
 
3.24
%
 
 
3.50
%


Foreign rate differential

 
 
(0.55
)%
 
 
(0.34
)%
 
 
(1.17
)%


Federal tax credits

 
 
(0.21
)%
 
 
(0.18
)%
 
 
(0.46
)%


Interest on deferred tax

 
 
0.12
%
 
 
0.13
%
 
 
0.52
%


Dividend received deduction

 
 
(0.06
)%
 
 
(0.08
)%
 
 
(0.09
)%


Change in valuation allowance

 
 
-
%
 
 
-
%
 
 
(2.70
)%


Other

 
 
(0.07
)%
 
 
(1.22
)%
 
 
(0.10
)%


Actual tax expense of operations

 
 
36.93
%
 
 
36.55
%
 
 
34.50
%






 

  


F-25





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows:
 



  
 

March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Deferred tax assets:

 
 
 
 
 
 


Net operating loss and credit carry forwards

 
$
3,080
 
 
$
3,559
 


Accrued expenses

 
 
126,361
 
 
 
132,140
 


Policy benefit and losses, claims and loss expenses payable, net

 
 
15,493
 
 
 
10,355
 


Unrealized gains

 
 
6,649
 
 
 
8,834
 


Other

 
 
-
 
 
 
583
 


Total deferred tax assets

 
$
151,583
 
 
$
155,471
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Deferred tax liabilities:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Property, plant and equipment

 
$
519,409
 
 
$
421,521
 


Deferred policy acquisition costs

 
 
2,838
 
 
 
5,207
 


Other

 
 
328
 
 
 
-
 


Total deferred tax liabilities

 
 
522,575
 
 
 
426,728
 


Net deferred tax liability

 
$
370,992
 
 
$
271,257
 




 
The net operating loss and credit carry-forwards in the above table are primarily attributable to $27.7 million of state net operating losses that will begin to expire March 31, 2013 if not utilized.
 
ASC 740 prescribes a minimum recognition and measurement methodology that a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements. The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits at April 1, 2011 was $9.5 million. This entire amount of unrecognized tax benefits if resolved in our favor, would favorably impact our effective tax rate. During the current year we recorded tax expense (net of settlements), resulting from uncertain tax positions in the amount of $2.3 million. At March 31, 2012, the amount of unrecognized tax benefits and the amount that would favorably affect our effective tax rate was $11.8 million.
 
A reconciliation of the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits at the beginning and end of the period are as follows:
 



  
 

Unrecognized Tax Benefits

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 

  
 
 
 


Unrecognized tax benefits as of March 31, 2011

 
$
9,503
 


Additions based on tax positions related to the current year

 
 
2,424
 


Reductions for tax positions of prior years

 
 
-
 


Settlements

 
 
(147
)


Unrecognized tax benefits as of March 31, 2012

 
$
11,780
 




 
We recognize interest related to unrecognized tax benefits as interest expense, and penalties as operating expenses. At April 1, 2011, the amount of interest and penalties accrued on unrecognized tax benefits was $3.8 million, net of tax. During the current year we recorded expense from interest in the amount of $0.2 million, net of tax. At March 31, 2012, the amount of interest and penalties accrued on unrecognized tax benefits was $4.0 million, net of tax.
 
We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, and various states and foreign jurisdictions. With some exceptions, we are no longer subject to audit for years prior to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009.
 




 

  


F-26





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
 
Note 16.  Employee Benefit Plans
 
Profit Sharing Plans
 
We provides tax-qualified profit sharing retirement plans for the benefit of eligible employees, former employees and retirees in the U.S. and Canada. The plans are designed to provide employees with an accumulation of funds for retirement on a tax-deferred basis and provide for annual discretionary employer contributions. Amounts to be contributed are determined by the President and Chairman of the Board of the Company under the delegation of authority from the Board, pursuant to the terms of the Profit Sharing Plan. No contributions were made to the profit sharing plan during fiscal 2012, 2011 or 2010.
 
We also provide an employee savings plan which allows participants to defer income under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
 
ESOP Plan
 
We sponsor a leveraged ESOP that generally covers all employees with one year or more of service. The ESOP shares initially were pledged as collateral for its debt which was originally funded by U-Haul. As the debt is repaid, shares are released from collateral and allocated to active employees, based on the proportion of debt service paid in the year. When shares are scheduled to be released from collateral, prorated over the year, we report compensation expense equal to the current market price of the shares scheduled to be released, and the shares become outstanding for earnings per share computations. ESOP compensation expense was $4.4 million, $3.9 million and $2.4 million for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Listed below is a summary of these financing arrangements as of fiscal year-end:
 



  
 

Outstanding as of

 
 

Interest Payments

 


Financing Date

 

March 31, 2012

 
 

2012

 
 

2011

 
 

2010

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


June, 1991

 
$
3,464
 
 
$
299
 
 
$
386
 
 
$
443
 


March, 1999

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
1
 


February, 2000

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
12
 


April, 2001

 
 
-
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
8
 


July, 2009

 
 
493
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
-
 




 
Shares are released from collateral and allocated to active employees based on the proportion of debt service paid in the plan year. Contributions to the Plan Trust during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 were $2.0 million, $2.1 million and $2.0 million, respectively.
 
Shares held by the Plan were as follows:
 



  
 

Years Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Allocated shares

 
 
1,372
 
 
 
1,387
 


Unreleased shares

 
 
124
 
 
 
194
 


Fair value of unreleased shares

 
$
12,841
 
 
$
16,252
 




 
The fair value of unreleased shares issued prior to 1992 is defined as the historical cost of such shares. The fair value of unreleased shares issued subsequent to December 31, 1992 is defined as the trading value of such shares as of March 31, 2012 and March 31, 2011, respectively.
 




 

  


F-27





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
 
Post Retirement and Post Employment Benefits
 
We provide medical and life insurance benefits to its eligible employees and their dependents upon retirement from the Company. The retirees must have attained age sixty-five and earned twenty years of full-time service upon retirement for coverage under the medical plan. The medical benefits are capped at a $20,000 lifetime maximum per covered person. The benefits are coordinated with Medicare and any other medical policies in force. Retirees who have attained age sixty-five and earned at least ten years of full-time service upon retirement from the Company are entitled to group term life insurance benefits. The life insurance benefit is $2,000 plus $100 for each year of employment over ten years. The plan is not funded and claims are paid as they are incurred. We use a March 31 measurement date for our post retirement benefit disclosures.
 
The components of net periodic post retirement benefit cost were as follows:





  
 

Years Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 
 

2010

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Service cost for benefits earned during the period

 
$
515
 
 
$
462
 
 
$
420
 


Interest cost on accumulated postretirement benefit

 
 
568
 
 
 
567
 
 
 
603
 


Other components

 
 
(16
)
 
 
(39
)
 
 
(104
)


Net periodic postretirement benefit cost

 
$
1,067
 
 
$
990
 
 
$
919
 




 
 
The fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011 post retirement benefit liability included the following components:
 





  
 

Years Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Beginning of year

 
$
11,103
 
 
$
10,787
 


Service cost for benefits earned during the period

 
 
515
 
 
 
462
 


Interest cost on accumulated post retirement benefit

 
 
568
 
 
 
567
 


Net benefit payments and expense

 
 
(369
)
 
 
(350
)


Actuarial loss (gain)

 
 
676
 
 
 
(363
)


Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation

 
 
12,493
 
 
 
11,103
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Current liabilities

 
 
503
 
 
 
596
 


Non-current liabilities

 
 
11,990
 
 
 
10,507
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Total post retirement benefit liability recognized in statement of financial position

 
 
12,493
 
 
 
11,103
 


Components included in accumulated other comprehensive income:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Unrecognized net gain

 
 
1,179
 
 
 
1,871
 


Cumulative net periodic benefit cost (in excess of employer contribution)

 
$
13,672
 
 
$
12,974
 




 
The discount rate assumptions in computing the information above were as follows:
 



  
 

Years Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 
 

2010

 

  
 

(In percentages)

 


Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation

 
 
4.17
%
 
 
5.00
%
 
 
5.41
%




 




 

  


F-28





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
In December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 became law. Amounts shown above include the effect of the subsidy. The discount rate represents the expected yield on a portfolio of high grade (AA to AAA rated or equivalent) fixed income investments with cash flow streams sufficient to satisfy benefit obligations under the plan when due. Fluctuations in the discount rate assumptions primarily reflect changes in U.S. interest rates. The assumed health care cost trend rate used to measure the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of the end of fiscal 2012 was 8.1% in the initial year and was projected to decline annually to an ultimate rate of 4.5% in fiscal 2030. The assumed health care cost trend rate used to measure the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of the end of fiscal 2011 (and used to measure the fiscal 2012 net periodic benefit cost) was 8.4% in the initial year and was projected to decline annually to an ultimate rate of 4.5% in fiscal 2030.
 
If the estimated health care cost trend rate assumptions were increased by one percent, the accumulated post retirement benefit obligation as of fiscal year-end would increase by $147,064 and the total of the service cost and interest cost components would increase by $11,388. A decrease in the estimated health care cost trend rate assumption of one percent would decrease the accumulated post retirement benefit obligation as of fiscal year-end by $164,096 and the total of the service cost and interest cost components would decrease by $12,748.
 
Post employment benefits provided by us, other than upon retirement, are not material.
 
Future net benefit payments are expected as follows:
 



  
 

Future Net Benefit Payments

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


       Year-ended:

 
 
 


2013

 
$
503
 


2014

 
 
582
 


2015

 
 
676
 


2016

 
 
783
 


2017

 
 
896
 


2018 through 2022

 
 
6,187
 


Total

 
$
9,627
 




 
Note 17.  Fair Value Measurements
 
Fair values of cash equivalents approximate carrying value due to the short period of time to maturity. Fair values of short term investments, investments available-for-sale, long term investments, mortgage loans and notes on real estate, and interest rate swap contracts are based on quoted market prices, dealer quotes or discounted cash flows. Fair values of trade receivables approximate their recorded value.
 
Our financial instruments that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of temporary cash investments, trade receivables, reinsurance recoverables and notes receivable. Limited credit risk exists on trade receivables due to the diversity of our customer base and their dispersion across broad geographic markets. We place our temporary cash investments with financial institutions and limits the amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution.
 
We have mortgage receivables, which potentially expose us to credit risk. The portfolio of notes is principally collateralized by self-storage facilities and commercial properties. We have not experienced any material losses related to the notes from individual or groups of notes in any particular industry or geographic area. The estimated fair values were determined using the discounted cash flow method and using interest rates currently offered for similar loans to borrowers with similar credit ratings.
 
The carrying amount of long term debt and short term borrowings are estimated to approximate fair value as the actual interest rate is consistent with the rate estimated to be currently available for debt of similar term and remaining maturity.
 




 

  


F-29





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Other investments including short term investments are substantially current or bear reasonable interest rates. As a result, the carrying values of these financial instruments approximate fair value.
 
Assets and liabilities are recorded at fair value on the condensed consolidated balance sheets and are measured and classified based upon a three tiered approach to valuation. ASC 820 - Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”) requires that financial assets and liabilities recorded at fair value be classified and disclosed in one of the following three categories:
 
Level 1 - Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical, unrestricted assets or liabilities;
 
Level 2 – Quoted prices for identical or similar financial instruments in markets that are not considered to be active, or similar financial instruments for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly, or inputs other than quoted prices that are observable, or inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data through correlation or other means;
 
Level 3 – Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and are unobservable. These reflect management’s assumptions about the assumptions a market participant would use in pricing the asset or liability.
 
A financial instrument’s level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The following table represents the financial assets and liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2012, that are subject to ASC 820 and the valuation approach applied to each of these items.
 



  
 

Total

 
 

Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1)

 
 

Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level 2)

 
 

Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3)

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Assets

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Short-term investments

 
$
322,576
 
 
$
322,576
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 


Fixed maturities - available for sale

 
 
725,736
 
 
 
633,953
 
 
 
90,578
 
 
 
1,205
 


Preferred stock

 
 
23,178
 
 
 
23,178
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 


Common stock

 
 
17,878
 
 
 
17,878
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 


Total

 
$
1,089,368
 
 
$
997,585
 
 
$
90,578
 
 
$
1,205
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Liabilities

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Guaranteed residual values of TRAC leases

 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 


Derivatives

 
 
59,313
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
59,313
 
 
 
-
 


Other obligations

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 


Total

 
$
59,313
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
59,313
 
 
$
-
 




 




 

  


F-30





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
The following tables represent the fair value measurements for our assets at March 31, 2012 using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3).
 



  
 

Fixed Maturities - Asset Backed Securities

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Balance at March 31, 2011

 
$
1,377
 

  
 
 
 
 


Fixed Maturities - Asset Backed Securities gain (unrealized)

 
 
126
 


Fixed Maturities - Asset Backed Securities loss (unrealized)

 
 
(166
)


Fixed Maturities - Asset Backed Securities OTTI

 
 
(132
)


Balance at March 31, 2012

 
$
1,205
 




 
Note 18.  Reinsurance and Policy Benefits and Losses, Claims and Loss Expenses Payable
 
During their normal course of business, our insurance subsidiaries assume and cede reinsurance on both a coinsurance and a risk premium basis. They also obtain reinsurance for that portion of risks exceeding their retention limits. The maximum amount of life insurance retained on any one life is $110,000.
 



  
 

Direct
Amount (a)

 
 

Ceded to
Other
Companies

 
 

Assumed
from Other
Companies

 
 

Net
Amount (a)

 
 

Percentage of
Amount
Assumed to Net

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Year ended December 31, 2011

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Life insurance in force

 
$
761,070
 
 
$
14,868
 
 
$
1,142,247
 
 
$
1,888,449
 
 
 
60
%


Premiums earned:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Life

 
$
63,396
 
 
$
6,909
 
 
$
94,982
 
 
$
151,469
 
 
 
63
%


Accident and health

 
 
115,599
 
 
 
503
 
 
 
3,635
 
 
 
118,731
 
 
 
3
%


Annuity

 
 
9,049
 
 
 
1,920
 
 
 
233
 
 
 
7,362
 
 
 
3
%


Property and casualty

 
 
30,145
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
2,486
 
 
 
32,631
 
 
 
8
%


Total

 
$
218,189
 
 
$
9,332
 
 
$
101,336
 
 
$
310,193
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Year ended December 31, 2010

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Life insurance in force

 
$
668,740
 
 
$
3,567
 
 
$
884,932
 
 
$
1,550,105
 
 
 
57
%


Premiums earned:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Life

 
$
77,721
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
37,300
 
 
$
115,021
 
 
 
32
%


Accident and health

 
 
88,441
 
 
 
575
 
 
 
3,815
 
 
 
91,681
 
 
 
4
%


Annuity

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
290
 
 
 
290
 
 
 
100
%


Property and casualty

 
 
28,179
 
 
 
68
 
 
 
2,593
 
 
 
30,704
 
 
 
8
%


Total

 
$
194,341
 
 
$
643
 
 
$
43,998
 
 
$
237,696
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Year ended December 31, 2009

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Life insurance in force

 
$
543,236
 
 
$
4,100
 
 
$
943,371
 
 
$
1,482,507
 
 
 
64
%


Premiums earned:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Life

 
$
49,335
 
 
$
37
 
 
$
5,108
 
 
$
54,406
 
 
 
9
%


Accident and health

 
 
74,271
 
 
 
(803
)
 
 
4,582
 
 
 
79,656
 
 
 
6
%


Annuity

 
 
140
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
143
 
 
 
283
 
 
 
51
%


Property and casualty

 
 
23,260
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
4,378
 
 
 
27,625
 
 
 
16
%


Total

 
$
147,006
 
 
$
(753
)
 
$
14,211
 
 
$
161,970
 
 
 
 
 




 
(a)       Balances are reported net of inter-segment transactions.
 




 

  


F-31





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
To the extent that a reinsurer is unable to meet its obligation under the related reinsurance agreements, Repwest would remain liable for the unpaid losses and loss expenses. Pursuant to certain of these agreements, Repwest holds letters of credit at year end in the amount of $1.8 million from re-insurers and has issued letters of credit in the amount of $5.6 million in favor of certain ceding companies.
 
Policy benefits and losses, claims and loss expenses payable for Property and Casualty Insurance were as follows:
 



  
 

Years Ended December 31,

 

  
 

2011

 
 

2010

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expense

 
$
382,328
 
 
$
276,355
 


Reinsurance losses payable

 
 
611
 
 
 
367
 


Unearned premiums

 
 
-
 
 
 
4
 


Total

 
$
382,939
 
 
$
276,726
 




 
Activity in the liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses for Property and Casualty Insurance is summarized as follows:
 



  
 

Years Ended December 31,

 

  
 

2011

 
 

2010

 
 

2009

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Balance at January 1

 
$
276,355
 
 
$
271,677
 
 
$
287,501
 


Less: reinsurance recoverable

 
 
167,315
 
 
 
162,711
 
 
 
173,098
 


Net balance at January 1

 
 
109,040
 
 
 
108,966
 
 
 
114,403
 


Incurred related to:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Current year

 
 
9,297
 
 
 
9,453
 
 
 
8,043
 


Prior years

 
 
56,445
 
 
 
7,832
 
 
 
6,516
 


Total incurred

 
 
65,742
 
 
 
17,285
 
 
 
14,559
 


Paid related to:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Current year

 
 
5,049
 
 
 
4,971
 
 
 
3,974
 


Prior years

 
 
11,270
 
 
 
12,240
 
 
 
16,022
 


Total paid

 
 
16,319
 
 
 
17,211
 
 
 
19,996
 


Net balance at December 31

 
 
158,463
 
 
 
109,040
 
 
 
108,966
 


Plus: reinsurance recoverable

 
 
223,865
 
 
 
167,315
 
 
 
162,711
 


Balance at December 31

 
$
382,328
 
 
$
276,355
 
 
$
271,677
 




 
The liability for incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses (net of reinsurance recoverable of $223.9 million) increased by $49.4 million in 2011.
 
Note 19.  Contingent Liabilities and Commitments
 
We lease a portion of its rental equipment and certain of its facilities under operating leases with terms that expire at various dates substantially through 2018. As of March 31, 2012, AMERCO has guaranteed $145.3 million of residual values for these rental equipment assets at the end of the respective lease terms. Certain leases contain renewal and fair market value purchase options as well as mileage and other restrictions. At the expiration of the lease, we have the option to renew the lease, purchase the asset for fair market value, or sell the asset to a third party on behalf of the lessor. AMERCO has been leasing equipment since 1987 and has experienced no material losses relating to these types of residual value guarantees.
 




 

  


F-32





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Lease expenses were as follows:
 



  
 

Years Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 
 

2010

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Lease expense

 
$
131,215
 
 
$
150,809
 
 
$
156,951
 




 
Lease commitments for leases having terms of more than one year were as follows:
 



  
 

Property,
Plant and
Equipment

 
 

Rental
Equipment

 
 

Total

 

  
 
 
 
 

(In thousands)

 
 
 
 


Year-ended March 31:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


2012

 
$
14,435
 
 
$
98,068
 
 
$
112,503
 


2013

 
 
12,991
 
 
 
80,399
 
 
 
93,390
 


2014

 
 
2,818
 
 
 
56,868
 
 
 
59,686
 


2015

 
 
645
 
 
 
28,993
 
 
 
29,638
 


2016

 
 
542
 
 
 
10,993
 
 
 
11,535
 


Thereafter

 
 
5,612
 
 
 
13,019
 
 
 
18,631
 


Total

 
$
37,043
 
 
$
288,340
 
 
$
325,383
 




 
Note 20.  Contingencies
 
Shoen
 
In September 2002, Paul F. Shoen filed a shareholder derivative lawsuit in the Second Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada, Washoe County, captioned Paul F. Shoen vs. SAC Holding Corporation et al., CV 02-05602, seeking damages and equitable relief on behalf of AMERCO from SAC Holdings and certain current and former members of the AMERCO Board of Directors, including Edward J. Shoen, Mark V. Shoen and James P. Shoen as Defendants. AMERCO is named as a nominal Defendant in the case. The complaint alleges breach of fiduciary duty, self-dealing, usurpation of corporate opportunities, wrongful interference with prospective economic advantage and unjust enrichment and seeks the unwinding of sales of self-storage properties by subsidiaries of AMERCO to SAC prior to the filing of the complaint. The complaint seeks a declaration that such transfers are void as well as unspecified damages. In October 2002, the Defendants filed motions to dismiss the complaint. Also in October 2002, Ron Belec filed a derivative action in the Second Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada, Washoe County, captioned Ron Belec vs. William E. Carty, et al., CV 02-06331 and in January 2003, M.S. Management Company, Inc. filed a derivative action in the Second Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada, Washoe County, captioned M.S. Management Company, Inc. vs. William E. Carty, et al., CV 03-00386. Two additional derivative suits were also filed against these parties. Each of these suits is substantially similar to the Paul F. Shoen case. The Court consolidated the five cases and thereafter dismissed these actions in May 2003, concluding that the AMERCO Board of Directors had the requisite level of independence required in order to have these claims resolved by the Board. Plaintiffs appealed this decision and, in July 2006, the Nevada Supreme Court reversed the ruling of the trial court and remanded the case to the trial court for proceedings consistent with its ruling, allowing the Plaintiffs to file an amended complaint and plead in addition to substantive claims, demand futility.
 
In November 2006, the Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint. In December 2006, the Defendants filed motions to dismiss, based on various legal theories. In March 2007, the Court denied AMERCO’s motion to dismiss regarding the issue of demand futility, stating that “Plaintiffs have satisfied the heightened pleading requirements of demand futility by showing a majority of the members of the AMERCO Board of Directors were interested parties in the SAC transactions.” The Court heard oral argument on the remainder of the Defendants’ motions to dismiss, including the motion (“Goldwasser Motion”) based on the fact that the subject matter of the lawsuit had been settled and dismissed in earlier litigation known as Goldwasser v. Shoen, C.V.N.-94-00810-ECR (D.Nev), Washoe County, Nevada. In addition, in September and October 2007, the Defendants filed
 




 

  


F-33





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Motions for Judgment on the Pleadings or in the Alternative Summary Judgment, based on the fact that the stockholders of the Company had ratified the underlying transactions at the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders of AMERCO. In December 2007, the Court denied this motion. This ruling does not preclude a renewed motion for summary judgment after discovery and further proceedings on these issues. On April 7, 2008, the litigation was dismissed, on the basis of the Goldwasser Motion. On May 8, 2008, the Plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal of such dismissal to the Nevada Supreme Court. On May 20, 2008, AMERCO filed a cross appeal relating to the denial of its Motion to Dismiss in regard to demand futility.
 
On May 12, 2011, the Nevada Supreme Court affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded the case for further proceedings.  First, the Court ruled that the Goldwasser settlement did not release claims that arose after the agreement and, therefore, reversed the trial court’s dismissal of the Complaint on that ground. Second, the Court affirmed the district court’s determination that the in pari delicto defense is available in a derivative suit and reversed and remanded to the district court to determine if the defense applies to this matter.  Third, the Court remanded to the district court to conduct an evidentiary hearing to determine whether demand upon the AMERCO Board was, in fact, futile.  Fourth, the Court invited AMERCO to seek a ruling from the district court as to the legal effect of the AMERCO Shareholders’ 2008 ratification of the underlying AMERCO/SAC transactions.
 
Last, as to individual claims for relief, the Court affirmed the district court’s dismissal of the breach of fiduciary duty of loyalty claims as to all defendants except Mark Shoen.  The Court affirmed the district court’s dismissal of the breach of fiduciary duty: ultra vires Acts claim as to all defendants. The Court reversed the district court’s dismissal of aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment claims against the SAC entities.  The Court reversed the trial court’s dismissal of the claim for wrongful interference with prospective economic advantage as to all defendants.
 
On remand, on July 22, 2011, AMERCO filed a Motion for Summary Judgment based upon the Shareholder’s Ratification of the SAC transactions. In addition, on August 29, 2011, certain defendants filed a Motion to Dismiss Plaintiffs’ Claim for Wrongful Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage. On August 31, 2011, the trial court held a status conference and entered an order setting forth the briefing schedule for the two motions. On December 23, 2011, the trial court denied AMERCO’s motion for summary judgment and certain defendants’ motion to dismiss. The court has set a discovery schedule on the limited issue of demand futility.  A four day evidentiary hearing on demand futility is scheduled to begin on August 20, 2012.
 
Environmental
 
Compliance with environmental requirements of federal, state and local governments may significantly affect Real Estate’s business operations. Among other things, these requirements regulate the discharge of materials into the air, land and water and govern the use and disposal of hazardous substances. Real Estate is aware of issues regarding hazardous substances on some of its properties. Real Estate regularly makes capital and operating expenditures to stay in compliance with environmental laws and has put in place a remedial plan at each site where it believes such a plan is necessary. Since 1988, Real Estate has managed a testing and removal program for underground storage tanks.
 
Based upon the information currently available to Real Estate, compliance with the environmental laws and its share of the costs of investigation and cleanup of known hazardous waste sites are not expected to result in a material adverse effect on AMERCO’s financial position or results of operations.
 
Other
 
We are named as a defendant in various other litigation and claims arising out of the normal course of business. In management’s opinion, none of these other matters will have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations.
 
Note 21.  Related Party Transactions
 
As set forth in the Audit Committee Charter and consistent with NASDAQ Listing Rules, the Company’s Audit Committee (the “Audit Committee”) reviews and maintains oversight over related party transactions which are required to be disclosed under the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) rules and regulations. Accordingly, all such related party transactions are submitted to the Audit Committee for ongoing review and oversight. Our internal processes ensure that our legal and finance departments identify and monitor potential related party transactions which may require disclosure and Audit Committee oversight.
 




 

  


F-34





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
AMERCO has engaged in related party transactions and has continuing related party interests with certain major stockholders, directors and officers of the consolidated group as disclosed below. Management believes that the transactions described below and in the related notes were completed on terms substantially equivalent to those that would prevail in arm’s-length transactions.
 
SAC Holdings was established in order to acquire self-storage properties. These properties are being managed by us pursuant to management agreements. In the past, we sold various self-storage properties to SAC Holdings, and such sales provided significant cash flows to us.
 
Management believes that the sales of self-storage properties to SAC Holdings has provided a unique structure for us to earn moving equipment rental revenues and property management fee revenues from the SAC Holdings self-storage properties that we manage.
 
Related Party Revenues
 



  
 

Years Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 
 

2010

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


U-Haul interest income revenue from SAC Holdings

 
$
19,364
 
 
$
19,163
 
 
$
18,900
 


U-Haul interest income revenue from Private Mini

 
 
5,431
 
 
 
5,451
 
 
 
5,333
 


U-Haul management fee revenue from SAC Holdings

 
 
18,306
 
 
 
16,873
 
 
 
16,321
 


U-Haul management fee revenue from Private Mini

 
 
2,226
 
 
 
2,174
 
 
 
2,202
 


U-Haul management fee revenue from Mercury

 
 
2,734
 
 
 
3,085
 
 
 
3,109
 

  
 
$
48,061
 
 
$
46,746
 
 
$
45,865
 




 
During fiscal 2012, subsidiaries of the Company held various junior unsecured notes of SAC Holdings. Substantially all of the equity interest of SAC Holdings is controlled by Blackwater Investments, Inc. (“Blackwater”). Blackwater is wholly-owned by Mark V. Shoen, a significant shareholder of AMERCO. We do not have an equity ownership interest in SAC Holdings. We received cash interest payments of $17.8 million, $15.8 million and $13.9 million, from SAC Holdings during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The largest aggregate amount of notes receivable outstanding during fiscal 2012 was $196.2 million and the aggregate notes receivable balance at March 31, 2012 was $195.4 million. In accordance with the terms of these notes, SAC Holdings may prepay the notes without penalty or premium at any time. The scheduled maturities of these notes are between 2019 and 2024. Due to repayments in April 2012 and May 2012 the total notes receivable balance decreased by $113.5 million.
 
Interest accrues on the outstanding principal balance of junior notes of SAC Holdings that we hold at a 9.0% rate per annum. A fixed portion of that basic interest is paid on a monthly basis. Additional interest can be earned on notes totaling $122.1 million of principal depending upon the amount of remaining basic interest and the cash flow generated by the underlying property. After the April 2012 and May 2012 repayments this amount has been reduced to $8.7 million. This amount is referred to as the “cash flow-based calculation.”
 
To the extent that this cash flow-based calculation exceeds the amount of remaining basic interest, contingent interest would be paid on the same monthly date as the fixed portion of basic interest. To the extent that the cash flow-based calculation is less than the amount of remaining basic interest, the additional interest payable on the applicable monthly date is limited to the amount of that cash flow-based calculation. In such a case, the excess of the remaining basic interest over the cash flow-based calculation is deferred. In addition, subject to certain contingencies, the junior notes provide that the holder of the note is entitled to receive a portion of the appreciation realized upon, among other things, the sale of such property by SAC Holdings. To date, no excess cash flows related to these arrangements have been earned or paid.
 
During fiscal 2012, AMERCO and U-Haul held various junior notes issued by Private Mini Storage Realty, L.P. (“Private Mini”). The equity interests of Private Mini are ultimately controlled by Blackwater. We received cash interest payments of $5.4 million, $5.5 million and $5.3 million, from Private Mini during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The largest aggregate amount outstanding during fiscal 2012 was $66.7 million. The balance of notes receivable from Private Mini at March 31, 2012 was $66.3 million.
 




 

  


F-35





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
We currently manage the self-storage properties owned or leased by SAC Holdings, Mercury Partners, L.P. (“Mercury”), Four SAC Self-Storage Corporation (“4 SAC”), Five SAC Self-Storage Corporation (“5 SAC”), Galaxy Investments, L.P. (“Galaxy”) and Private Mini pursuant to a standard form of management agreement, under which we receive a management fee of between 4% and 10% of the gross receipts plus reimbursement for certain expenses. We received management fees, exclusive of reimbursed expenses, of $22.5 million, $22.0 million and $22.6 million from the above mentioned entities during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. This management fee is consistent with the fee received for other properties we previously managed for third parties. SAC Holdings, 4 SAC, 5 SAC, Galaxy and Private Mini are substantially controlled by Blackwater. Mercury is substantially controlled by Mark V. Shoen.  James P. Shoen, a significant shareholder and director of AMERCO, has an interest in Mercury.
 
Related Party Costs and Expenses
 



  
 

Years Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 
 

2010

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


U-Haul lease expenses to SAC Holdings

 
$
2,430
 
 
$
2,491
 
 
$
2,446
 


U-Haul commission expenses to SAC Holdings

 
 
39,167
 
 
 
34,858
 
 
 
32,621
 


U-Haul commission expenses to Private Mini

 
 
2,523
 
 
 
2,399
 
 
 
2,116
 

  
 
$
44,120
 
 
$
39,748
 
 
$
37,183
 




 
We lease space for marketing company offices, vehicle repair shops and hitch installation centers from subsidiaries of SAC Holdings, 5 SAC and Galaxy. The terms of the leases are similar to the terms of leases for other properties owned by unrelated parties that are leased to us.
 
At March 31, 2012, subsidiaries of SAC Holdings, 4 SAC, 5 SAC, Galaxy and Private Mini acted as U-Haul independent dealers. The financial and other terms of the dealership contracts with the aforementioned companies and their subsidiaries are substantially identical to the terms of those with our other independent dealers whereby commissions are paid by us based upon equipment rental revenue.
 
These agreements and notes with subsidiaries of SAC Holdings, 4 SAC, 5 SAC, Galaxy and Private Mini, excluding Dealer Agreements, provided revenues of $45.3 million, expenses of $2.4 million and cash flows of $41.8 million during fiscal 2012. Revenues and commission expenses related to the Dealer Agreements were $194.1 million and $41.7 million, respectively for fiscal 2012.
 
We adopted ASU 2009-17, which amends the FASB ASC for the issuance of FASB Statement 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation 46(R), as of April 1, 2010. Management determined that the junior notes of SAC Holdings and Private Mini and the management agreements with SAC Holdings, Mercury, 4 SAC, 5 SAC, Galaxy, and Private Mini represent potential variable interests for us. Management evaluated whether it should be identified as the primary beneficiary of one or more of these VIE’s using a two step approach in which management (i) identified all other parties that hold interests in the VIE’s, and (ii) determined if any variable interest holder has the power to direct the activities of the VIE’s that most significantly impact their economic performance.
 
Management determined that they do not have a variable interest in the holding entities Mercury, 4 SAC, 5 SAC, or Galaxy through management agreements which are with the individual operating entities or through the issuance of junior debt therefore we are precluded from consolidating these entities, which is consistent with the accounting treatment immediately prior to adopting ASU 2009-17.
 
We have junior debt with the holding entities SAC Holding Corporation, SAC Holding II Corporation, and Private Mini which represents a variable interest in each individual entity. Though we have certain protective rights within these debt agreements, we have no present influence or control over these holding entities unless their protective rights become exercisable, which management considers unlikely based on their payment history. As a result, we have no basis under ASC 810 - Consolidation (“ASC 810”) to consolidate these entities, which is consistent with the accounting treatment immediately prior to adopting ASU 2009-17.
 




 

  


F-36





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
We do not have the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of the individual operating entities which have management agreements with U-Haul. Through control of the holding entities assets, and its ability and history of making key decisions relating to the entity and its assets, Blackwater, and its owner, are the variable interest holder with the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact each of the individual holding entities and the individual operating entities’ performance.  As a result, we have no basis under ASC 810 to consolidate these entities, which is consistent with the accounting treatment immediately prior to adopting ASU 2009-17.
 
We have not provided financial or other support explicitly or implicitly during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 to any of these entities that it was not previously contractually required to provide. The carrying amount and classification of the assets and liabilities in our balance sheets that relate to our variable interests in the aforementioned entities are as follows, which approximate the maximum exposure to loss as a result of our involvement with these entities:
 
Related Party Assets
 



  
 

March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


U-Haul notes, receivables and interest from Private Mini

 
$
68,798
 
 
$
69,201
 


U-Haul notes receivable from SAC Holdings

 
 
195,426
 
 
 
196,191
 


U-Haul interest receivable from SAC Holdings

 
 
18,667
 
 
 
17,096
 


U-Haul receivable from SAC Holdings

 
 
30,297
 
 
 
16,346
 


U-Haul receivable from Mercury

 
 
3,195
 
 
 
3,534
 


Other (a)

 
 
(226
)
 
 
(400
)

  
 
$
316,157
 
 
$
301,968
 




 




(a)  


Timing differences for intercompany balances with insurance subsidiaries.



 
Between January 1, 2009 and March 31, 2011 our insurance subsidiaries purchased 308,300 shares of Series A Preferred on the open market for $7.2 million.
 
In April 2012, we received $52.2 million from SAC Holding Corporation as full repayment of principal and accrued interest for one of its junior notes. Also in April 2012 and May 2012, we received $46.0 million and $20.4 million, respectively from SAC Holding II Corporation as partial repayment on its junior note.
 




 

  


F-37





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
 
Note 22.  Statutory Financial Information of Insurance Subsidiaries
 
Applicable laws and regulations of the State of Arizona require Property and Casualty Insurance and Life Insurance to maintain minimum capital and surplus determined in accordance with statutory accounting principles. Audited statutory net income (loss) and statutory capital and surplus for the years ended are listed below:
 



  
 

Years Ended December 31,

 

  
 

2011

 
 

2010

 
 

2009

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Repwest:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Audited statutory net income (loss)

 
$
(37,417
)
 
$
6,946
 
 
$
6,016
 


Audited statutory capital and surplus

 
 
77,285
 
 
 
125,102
 
 
 
118,447
 


NAFCIC*:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Audited statutory net income (loss)

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(6
)


Audited statutory capital and surplus

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
3,019
 


ARCOA:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Audited statutory net income (loss)

 
 
(362
)
 
 
(773
)
 
 
96
 


Audited statutory capital and surplus

 
 
2,469
 
 
 
2,769
 
 
 
3,566
 


Oxford:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Audited statutory net income

 
 
1,677
 
 
 
4,640
 
 
 
3,277
 


Audited statutory capital and surplus

 
 
129,445
 
 
 
129,173
 
 
 
133,867
 


CFLIC:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Audited statutory net income

 
 
8,513
 
 
 
4,347
 
 
 
6,439
 


Audited statutory capital and surplus

 
 
36,200
 
 
 
32,799
 
 
 
39,784
 


NAI:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Audited statutory net income (loss)

 
 
(4,151
)
 
 
(857
)
 
 
847
 


Audited statutory capital and surplus

 
 
11,564
 
 
 
11,265
 
 
 
9,301
 


DGLIC:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Audited statutory net income

 
 
1,828
 
 
 
796
 
 
 
347
 


Audited statutory capital and surplus

 
 
7,276
 
 
 
5,966
 
 
 
5,115
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


  *  Dissolved in August 2010.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
The amount of dividends that can be paid to shareholders by insurance companies domiciled in the State of Arizona is limited. Any dividend in excess of the limit requires prior regulatory approval. The statutory surplus for Repwest at December 31, 2011 that could be distributed as ordinary dividends was $7.7 million. Repwest distributed a dividend of $6.8 million in property to AMERCO in December 2011. The statutory surplus for Oxford at December 31, 2011 that could be distributed as ordinary dividends was $3.2 million. Oxford did not pay a dividend to AMERCO in 2011.
 




 

  


F-38





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
 
Note 23.  Financial Information by Geographic Area
 



  
 

United States

 
 

Canada

 
 

Consolidated

 

  
 

(All amounts are in thousands U.S. $'s)

 


Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2012

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Total revenues

 
$
2,355,208
 
 
$
147,467
 
 
$
2,502,675
 


Depreciation and amortization, net of (gains) losses on disposal

 
 
214,800
 
 
 
7,892
 
 
 
222,692
 


Interest expense

 
 
89,730
 
 
 
641
 
 
 
90,371
 


Pretax earnings

 
 
302,748
 
 
 
22,888
 
 
 
325,636
 


Income tax expense

 
 
114,050
 
 
 
6,219
 
 
 
120,269
 


Identifiable assets

 
 
4,518,772
 
 
 
135,279
 
 
 
4,654,051
 




 



  
 

United States

 
 

Canada

 
 

Consolidated

 

  
 

(All amounts are in thousands U.S. $'s)

 


Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2011

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Total revenues

 
$
2,110,513
 
 
$
130,762
 
 
$
2,241,275
 


Depreciation and amortization, net of (gains) losses on disposal

 
 
192,328
 
 
 
6,432
 
 
 
198,760
 


Interest expense

 
 
87,717
 
 
 
664
 
 
 
88,381
 


Pretax earnings

 
 
270,695
 
 
 
18,619
 
 
 
289,314
 


Income tax expense

 
 
100,212
 
 
 
5,527
 
 
 
105,739
 


Identifiable assets

 
 
4,061,648
 
 
 
129,785
 
 
 
4,191,433
 




 



  
 

United States

 
 

Canada

 
 

Consolidated

 

  
 

(All amounts are in thousands U.S. $'s)

 


Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2010

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Total revenues

 
$
1,886,990
 
 
$
115,015
 
 
$
2,002,005
 


Depreciation and amortization, net of (gains) losses on disposal

 
 
229,136
 
 
 
6,062
 
 
 
235,198
 


Interest expense

 
 
92,756
 
 
 
591
 
 
 
93,347
 


Pretax earnings

 
 
89,350
 
 
 
10,840
 
 
 
100,190
 


Income tax expense (benefit)

 
 
34,646
 
 
 
(79
)
 
 
34,567
 


Identifiable assets

 
 
3,646,684
 
 
 
115,770
 
 
 
3,762,454
 




Note 23A.  Consolidating Financial Information by Industry Segment
 
 




  


AMERCO’s three reportable segments are:



 




·  


Moving and Storage, comprised of AMERCO, U-Haul, and Real Estate and the subsidiaries of U-Haul and Real Estate,



 




·  


Property and Casualty Insurance, comprised of Repwest and its subsidiaries and ARCOA,



 




·  


Life Insurance, comprised of Oxford and its subsidiaries.





 
Management tracks revenues separately, but does not report any separate measure of the profitability for rental vehicles, rentals of self-storage spaces and sales of products that are required to be classified as a separate operating segment and accordingly does not present these as separate reportable segments. Deferred income taxes are shown as liabilities on the condensed consolidating statements.
 
The information includes elimination entries necessary to consolidate AMERCO, the parent, with its subsidiaries.
 
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for by the parent using the equity method of accounting.
 




 

  


F-39





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Note 23A. Financial Information by Consolidating Industry Segment:


Consolidating balance sheets by industry segment as of March 31, 2012 are as follows:
 



  
 

Moving & Storage

 
  
 
  AMERCO Legal Group
 

  
 

AMERCO

 
 

U-Haul

 
 

Real Estate

 
 

Eliminations

 
  
 

Moving & Storage
Consolidated

 
 

Property & Casualty Insurance (a)

 
 

Life
Insurance (a)

 
 

Eliminations

 
  
 

AMERCO
Consolidated

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Assets:

 
 
 


Cash and cash equivalents

 
$
201,502
 
 
$
106,951
 
 
$
775
 
 
$
-
 
  
 
$
309,228
 
 
$
15,462
 
 
$
25,410
 
 
$
-
 
  
 
$
350,100
 


Reinsurance recoverables and trade receivables, net

 
 
-
 
 
 
37,103
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
37,103
 
 
 
231,211
 
 
 
29,660
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
297,974
 


Inventories, net

 
 
-
 
 
 
58,735
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
58,735
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
58,735
 


Prepaid expenses

 
 
9,496
 
 
 
32,051
 
 
 
311
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
41,858
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
41,858
 


Investments, fixed maturities and marketable equities

 
 
17,028
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
17,028
 
 
 
132,270
 
 
 
617,494
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
766,792
 


Investments, other

 
 
-
 
 
 
9,880
 
 
 
42,453
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
52,333
 
 
 
81,837
 
 
 
131,461
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
265,631
 


Deferred policy acquisition costs, net

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
63,914
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
63,914
 


Other assets

 
 
483
 
 
 
91,761
 
 
 
26,571
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
118,815
 
 
 
1,507
 
 
 
203
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
120,525
 


Related party assets

 
 
1,201,385
 
 
 
261,341
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
(1,144,545
)

(c)

 
 
318,190
 
 
 
7,542
 
 
 
482
 
 
 
(10,057
)

(c)

 
 
316,157
 

  
 
 
1,429,894
 
 
 
597,822
 
 
 
70,119
 
 
 
(1,144,545
)
  
 
 
953,290
 
 
 
469,829
 
 
 
868,624
 
 
 
(10,057
)
  
 
 
2,281,686
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Investment in subsidiaries

 
 
8,168
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
331,461
 

(b)

 
 
339,629
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(339,629
)

(b)

 
 
-
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Property, plant and equipment, at cost:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Land

 
 
-
 
 
 
67,558
 
 
 
213,582
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
281,140
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
281,140
 


Buildings and improvements

 
 
-
 
 
 
162,351
 
 
 
924,768
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
1,087,119
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
1,087,119
 


Furniture and equipment

 
 
138
 
 
 
289,601
 
 
 
18,381
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
308,120
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
308,120
 


Rental trailers and other rental equipment

 
 
-
 
 
 
255,010
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
255,010
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
255,010
 


Rental trucks

 
 
-
 
 
 
1,856,433
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
1,856,433
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
1,856,433
 

  
 
 
138
 
 
 
2,630,953
 
 
 
1,156,731
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
3,787,822
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
3,787,822
 


Less:  Accumulated depreciation

 
 
(115
)
 
 
(1,056,854
)
 
 
(358,488
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(1,415,457
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(1,415,457
)


Total property, plant and equipment

 
 
23
 
 
 
1,574,099
 
 
 
798,243
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
2,372,365
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
2,372,365
 


Total assets

 
$
1,438,085
 
 
$
2,171,921
 
 
$
868,362
 
 
$
(813,084
)
  
 
$
3,665,284
 
 
$
469,829
 
 
$
868,624
 
 
$
(349,686
)
  
 
$
4,654,051
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


(a)  Balances as of December 31, 2011

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


(b) Eliminate investment in subsidiaries

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


(c) Eliminate intercompany receivables and payables

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 








 

  


F-40





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Consolidating balance sheets by industry segment as of March 31, 2012 are as follows:





  
 

Moving & Storage

 
  
 
  AMERCO Legal Group
 

  
 

AMERCO

 
 

U-Haul

 
 

Real Estate

 
 

Eliminations

 
  
 

Moving & Storage
Consolidated

 
 

Property & Casualty Insurance (a)

 
 

Life
Insurance (a)

 
 

Eliminations

 
  
 

AMERCO
Consolidated

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Liabilities:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 


Accounts payable and accrued expenses

 
$
1,875
 
 
$
319,780
 
 
$
3,611
 
 
$
-
 
  
 
$
325,266
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
10,060
 
 
$
-
 
  
 
$
335,326
 


Notes, loans and leases payable

 
 
-
 
 
 
769,497
 
 
 
716,714
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
1,486,211
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
1,486,211
 


Policy benefits and losses, claims and loss expenses payable

 
 
-
 
 
 
380,140
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
380,140
 
 
 
382,939
 
 
 
382,864
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
1,145,943
 


Liabilities from investment contracts

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
240,961
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
240,961
 


Other policyholders' funds and liabilities

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
3,438
 
 
 
3,835
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
7,273
 


Deferred income

 
 
-
 
 
 
31,525
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
31,525
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
31,525
 


Deferred income taxes

 
 
397,992
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
397,992
 
 
 
(41,945
)
 
 
14,945
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
370,992
 


Related party liabilities

 
 
-
 
 
 
855,016
 
 
 
297,859
 
 
 
(1,144,545
)

(c)

 
 
8,330
 
 
 
1,555
 
 
 
172
 
 
 
(10,057
)

(c)

 
 
-
 


Total liabilities

 
 
399,867
 
 
 
2,355,958
 
 
 
1,018,184
 
 
 
(1,144,545
)
  
 
 
2,629,464
 
 
 
345,987
 
 
 
652,837
 
 
 
(10,057
)
  
 
 
3,618,231
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Stockholders' equity :

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Series preferred stock:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Series A preferred stock

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 


Series B preferred stock

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 


Series A common stock

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 


Common stock

 
 
10,497
 
 
 
540
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
(541
)

(b)

 
 
10,497
 
 
 
3,301
 
 
 
2,500
 
 
 
(5,801
)

(b)

 
 
10,497
 


Additional paid-in capital

 
 
433,953
 
 
 
121,230
 
 
 
147,941
 
 
 
(269,171
)

(b)

 
 
433,953
 
 
 
89,620
 
 
 
26,271
 
 
 
(116,101
)

(b)

 
 
433,743
 


Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

 
 
(45,436
)
 
 
(66,302
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
66,302
 

(b)

 
 
(45,436
)
 
 
2,255
 
 
 
23,888
 
 
 
(26,143
)

(b)

 
 
(45,436
)


Retained earnings (deficit)

 
 
1,316,854
 
 
 
(237,107
)
 
 
(297,764
)
 
 
534,871
 

(b)

 
 
1,316,854
 
 
 
28,666
 
 
 
163,128
 
 
 
(191,584
)

(b)

 
 
1,317,064
 


Cost of common shares in treasury, net

 
 
(525,653
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(525,653
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(525,653
)


Cost of preferred shares in treasury, net

 
 
(151,997
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(151,997
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(151,997
)


Unearned employee stock ownership plan shares

 
 
-
 
 
 
(2,398
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(2,398
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(2,398
)


Total stockholders' equity (deficit)

 
 
1,038,218
 
 
 
(184,037
)
 
 
(149,822
)
 
 
331,461
 
  
 
 
1,035,820
 
 
 
123,842
 
 
 
215,787
 
 
 
(339,629
)
  
 
 
1,035,820
 


Total liabilities and stockholders' equity

 
$
1,438,085
 
 
$
2,171,921
 
 
$
868,362
 
 
$
(813,084
)
  
 
$
3,665,284
 
 
$
469,829
 
 
$
868,624
 
 
$
(349,686
)
  
 
$
4,654,051
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


(a)  Balances as of December 31, 2011

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


(b) Eliminate investment in subsidiaries

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


(c) Eliminate intercompany receivables and payables

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 








 

  


F-41





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Consolidating balance sheets by industry segment as of March 31, 2011 are as follows:
 



  
 

Moving & Storage

 
  
 
  AMERCO Legal Group
 

  
 

AMERCO

 
 

U-Haul

 
 

Real Estate

 
 

Eliminations

 
  
 

Moving & Storage
Consolidated

 
 

Property & Casualty Insurance (a)

 
 

Life
Insurance (a)

 
 

Eliminations

 
  
 

AMERCO
Consolidated

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Assets:

 
 
 


Cash and cash equivalents

 
$
250,104
 
 
$
72,634
 
 
$
757
 
 
$
-
 
  
 
$
323,495
 
 
$
14,700
 
 
$
37,301
 
 
$
-
 
  
 
$
375,496
 


Reinsurance recoverables and trade receivables, net

 
 
-
 
 
 
19,210
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
19,210
 
 
 
173,256
 
 
 
28,184
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
220,650
 


Inventories, net

 
 
-
 
 
 
59,942
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
59,942
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
59,942
 


Prepaid expenses

 
 
15,966
 
 
 
41,533
 
 
 
125
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
57,624
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
57,624
 


Investments, fixed maturities and marketable equities

 
 
22,946
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
22,946
 
 
 
126,240
 
 
 
518,620
 
 
 
(7,997
)

(d)

 
 
659,809
 


Investments, other

 
 
-
 
 
 
10,385
 
 
 
18,605
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
28,990
 
 
 
90,615
 
 
 
82,263
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
201,868
 


Deferred policy acquisition costs, net

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
52,870
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
52,870
 


Other assets

 
 
2,863
 
 
 
134,330
 
 
 
28,251
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
165,444
 
 
 
877
 
 
 
312
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
166,633
 


Related party assets

 
 
1,146,296
 
 
 
247,024
 
 
 
72
 
 
 
(1,089,457
)

(c)

 
 
303,935
 
 
 
2,801
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(4,768
)

(c)

 
 
301,968
 

  
 
 
1,438,175
 
 
 
585,058
 
 
 
47,810
 
 
 
(1,089,457
)
  
 
 
981,586
 
 
 
408,489
 
 
 
719,550
 
 
 
(12,765
)
  
 
 
2,096,860
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Investment in subsidiaries

 
 
(138,714
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
482,025
 

(b)

 
 
343,311
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(343,311
)

(b)

 
 
-
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Property, plant and equipment, at cost:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Land

 
 
-
 
 
 
46,651
 
 
 
192,526
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
239,177
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
239,177
 


Buildings and improvements

 
 
-
 
 
 
150,585
 
 
 
874,084
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
1,024,669
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
1,024,669
 


Furniture and equipment

 
 
203
 
 
 
292,242
 
 
 
18,226
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
310,671
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
310,671
 


Rental trailers and other rental equipment

 
 
-
 
 
 
249,700
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
249,700
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
249,700
 


Rental trucks

 
 
-
 
 
 
1,611,763
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
1,611,763
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
1,611,763
 

  
 
 
203
 
 
 
2,350,941
 
 
 
1,084,836
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
3,435,980
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
3,435,980
 


Less:  Accumulated depreciation

 
 
(176
)
 
 
(996,192
)
 
 
(345,039
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(1,341,407
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(1,341,407
)


Total property, plant and equipment

 
 
27
 
 
 
1,354,749
 
 
 
739,797
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
2,094,573
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
2,094,573
 


Total assets

 
$
1,299,488
 
 
$
1,939,807
 
 
$
787,607
 
 
$
(607,432
)
  
 
$
3,419,470
 
 
$
408,489
 
 
$
719,550
 
 
$
(356,076
)
  
 
$
4,191,433
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


(a)  Balances as of December 31, 2010

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


(b) Eliminate investment in subsidiaries

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


(c) Eliminate intercompany receivables and payables

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


(d) Eliminate intercompany preferred stock investment

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 








 

  


F-42





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Consolidating balance sheets by industry segment as of March 31, 2011 are as follows:





  
 

Moving & Storage

 
  
 
  AMERCO Legal Group
 

  
 

AMERCO

 
 

U-Haul

 
 

Real Estate

 
 

Eliminations

 
  
 

Moving & Storage
Consolidated

 
 

Property & Casualty Insurance (a)

 
 

Life
Insurance (a)

 
 

Eliminations

 
 
 
 

AMERCO
Consolidated

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 

  
 
 
 


Liabilities:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Accounts payable and accrued expenses

 
$
854
 
 
$
294,387
 
 
$
3,729
 
 
$
-
 
  
 
$
298,970
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
5,036
 
 
$
-
 
 
 
 
$
304,006
 


Notes, loans and leases payable

 
 
-
 
 
 
693,801
 
 
 
704,041
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
1,397,842
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
1,397,842
 


Policy benefits and losses, claims and loss expenses payable

 
 
-
 
 
 
397,381
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
397,381
 
 
 
276,726
 
 
 
260,127
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
934,234
 


Liabilities from investment contracts

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
255,134
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
255,134
 


Other policyholders' funds and liabilities

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
4,820
 
 
 
3,911
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
8,731
 


Deferred income

 
 
-
 
 
 
27,209
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
27,209
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
27,209
 


Deferred income taxes

 
 
294,518
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
294,518
 
 
 
(29,519
)
 
 
6,541
 
 
 
(283
)

(d)

 
 
 
271,257
 


Related party liabilities

 
 
-
 
 
 
858,655
 
 
 
233,618
 
 
 
(1,089,457
)

(c)

 
 
2,816
 
 
 
1,816
 
 
 
136
 
 
 
(4,768
)

(c)

 
 
 
-
 


Total liabilities

 
 
295,372
 
 
 
2,271,433
 
 
 
941,388
 
 
 
(1,089,457
)
  
 
 
2,418,736
 
 
 
253,843
 
 
 
530,885
 
 
 
(5,051
)
 
 
 
 
3,198,413
 


Stockholders' equity:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Series preferred stock:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Series A preferred stock

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
-
 


Series B preferred stock

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
-
 


Series A common stock

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
-
 


Common stock

 
 
10,497
 
 
 
540
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
(541
)

(b)

 
 
10,497
 
 
 
3,301
 
 
 
2,500
 
 
 
(5,801
)

(b)

 
 
 
10,497
 


Additional paid-in capital

 
 
432,611
 
 
 
121,230
 
 
 
147,941
 
 
 
(269,171
)

(b)

 
 
432,611
 
 
 
89,620
 
 
 
26,271
 
 
 
(123,290
)
(b,d
)
 
 
425,212
 


Accumulated other comprehensive loss

 
 
(45,942
)
 
 
(57,328
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
57,328
 

(b)

 
 
(45,942
)
 
 
2,707
 
 
 
9,951
 
 
 
(13,183
)
(b,d
)
 
 
(46,467
)


Retained earnings (deficit)

 
 
1,139,792
 
 
 
(392,686
)
 
 
(301,723
)
 
 
694,409
 

(b)

 
 
1,139,792
 
 
 
59,018
 
 
 
149,943
 
 
 
(208,751
)
(b,d
)
 
 
1,140,002
 


Cost of common shares in treasury, net

 
 
(525,653
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(525,653
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
(525,653
)


Cost of preferred shares in treasury, net

 
 
(7,189
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(7,189
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
(7,189
)


Unearned employee stock ownership plan shares

 
 
-
 
 
 
(3,382
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(3,382
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
(3,382
)


Total stockholders' equity (deficit)

 
 
1,004,116
 
 
 
(331,626
)
 
 
(153,781
)
 
 
482,025
 
  
 
 
1,000,734
 
 
 
154,646
 
 
 
188,665
 
 
 
(351,025
)
 
 
 
 
993,020
 


Total liabilities and stockholders' equity

 
$
1,299,488
 
 
$
1,939,807
 
 
$
787,607
 
 
$
(607,432
)
  
 
$
3,419,470
 
 
$
408,489
 
 
$
719,550
 
 
$
(356,076
)
 
 
 
$
4,191,433
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(a)  Balances as of December 31, 2010

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(b) Eliminate investment in subsidiaries

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(c) Eliminate intercompany receivables and payables

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(d) Eliminate intercompany preferred stock investment

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








 

  


F-43





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Consolidating statements of operations by industry segment for period ending March 31, 2012 are as follows:


 



  
 

Moving & Storage

 
  
 
  AMERCO Legal Group
 

  
 

AMERCO

 
 

U-Haul

 
 

Real Estate

 
 

Eliminations

 
  
 

Moving & Storage
Consolidated

 
 

Property & Casualty Insurance (a)

 
 

Life
Insurance (a)

 
 

Eliminations

 
 
 
 

AMERCO
Consolidated

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Revenues:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Self-moving equipment rentals

 
$
-
 
 
$
1,679,963
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 
  
 
$
1,679,963
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
(1,707
)

(c)

 
 
$
1,678,256
 


Self-storage revenues

 
 
-
 
 
 
133,070
 
 
 
1,306
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
134,376
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
134,376
 


Self-moving & self-storage products & service sales

 
 
-
 
 
 
213,854
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
213,854
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
213,854
 


Property management fees

 
 
-
 
 
 
23,266
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
23,266
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
23,266
 


Life insurance premiums

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
277,562
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
277,562
 


Property and casualty insurance premiums

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
32,631
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
32,631
 


Net investment and interest income

 
 
5,857
 
 
 
20,577
 
 
 
698
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
27,132
 
 
 
9,955
 
 
 
28,775
 
 
 
(1,662
)
(b,e
)
 
 
64,200
 


Other revenue

 
 
228
 
 
 
83,894
 
 
 
80,318
 
 
 
(86,108
)

(b)

 
 
78,332
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
1,585
 
 
 
(1,387
)

(b)

 
 
 
78,530
 


Total revenues

 
 
6,085
 
 
 
2,154,624
 
 
 
82,322
 
 
 
(86,108
)
  
 
 
2,156,923
 
 
 
42,586
 
 
 
307,922
 
 
 
(4,756
)
 
 
 
 
2,502,675
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Costs and expenses:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Operating expenses

 
 
9,081
 
 
 
1,121,681
 
 
 
9,468
 
 
 
(86,108
)

(b)

 
 
1,054,122
 
 
 
13,270
 
 
 
28,885
 
 
 
(3,087
)
(b,c
)
 
 
1,093,190
 


Commission expenses

 
 
-
 
 
 
212,190
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
212,190
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
212,190
 


Cost of sales

 
 
-
 
 
 
116,542
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
116,542
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
116,542
 


Benefits and losses

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
65,742
 
 
 
245,097
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
310,839
 


Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
13,791
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
13,791
 


Lease expense

 
 
93
 
 
 
132,286
 
 
 
23
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
132,402
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(1,187
)

(b)

 
 
 
131,215
 


Depreciation, net of (gains) losses on disposals

 
 
5
 
 
 
195,469
 
 
 
13,427
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
208,901
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
208,901
 


Total costs and expenses

 
 
9,179
 
 
 
1,778,168
 
 
 
22,918
 
 
 
(86,108
)
  
 
 
1,724,157
 
 
 
79,012
 
 
 
287,773
 
 
 
(4,274
)
 
 
 
 
2,086,668
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Earnings (loss) from operations before equity in earnings of subsidiaries

 
 
(3,094
)
 
 
376,456
 
 
 
59,404
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
432,766
 
 
 
(36,426
)
 
 
20,149
 
 
 
(482
)
 
 
 
 
416,007
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Equity in earnings of subsidiaries

 
 
149,160
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(159,538
)

(d)

 
 
(10,378
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
10,378
 

(d)

 
 
 
-
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Earnings (loss) from operations

 
 
146,066
 
 
 
376,456
 
 
 
59,404
 
 
 
(159,538
)
  
 
 
422,388
 
 
 
(36,426
)
 
 
20,149
 
 
 
9,896
 
 
 
 
 
416,007
 


Interest income (expense)

 
 
94,278
 
 
 
(132,781
)
 
 
(52,022
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(90,525
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
154
 

(b)

 
 
 
(90,371
)


Pretax earnings (loss)

 
 
240,344
 
 
 
243,675
 
 
 
7,382
 
 
 
(159,538
)
  
 
 
331,863
 
 
 
(36,426
)
 
 
20,149
 
 
 
10,050
 
 
 
 
 
325,636
 


Income tax benefit (expense)

 
 
(34,649
)
 
 
(88,096
)
 
 
(3,423
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(126,168
)
 
 
12,863
 
 
 
(6,964
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
(120,269
)


Net earnings (loss)

 
 
205,695
 
 
 
155,579
 
 
 
3,959
 
 
 
(159,538
)
  
 
 
205,695
 
 
 
(23,563
)
 
 
13,185
 
 
 
10,050
 
 
 
 
 
205,367
 


Less: Excess of redemption value over carrying value of preferred shares redeemed

 
 
(5,908
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(5,908
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
(5,908
)


Less:  Preferred stock dividends

 
 
(3,241
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(3,241
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
328
 

(e)

 
 
 
(2,913
)


Earnings (loss) available to common shareholders

 
$
196,546
 
 
$
155,579
 
 
$
3,959
 
 
$
(159,538
)
  
 
$
196,546
 
 
$
(23,563
)
 
$
13,185
 
 
$
10,378
 
 
 
 
$
196,546
 


(a)  Balances for the year ended December 31, 2011

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(b) Eliminate intercompany lease / interest income

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(c) Eliminate intercompany premiums

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(d) Eliminate equity in earnings of subsidiaries

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(e) Eliminate preferred stock dividends paid to affiliates

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








 

  


F-44





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Consolidating statements of operations by industry segment for period ending March 31, 2011 are as follows:

 



  
 

Moving & Storage

 
  
 
  AMERCO Legal Group
 

  
 

AMERCO

 
 

U-Haul

 
 

Real Estate

 
 

Eliminations

 
  
 

Moving & Storage
Consolidated

 
 

Property & Casualty Insurance (a)

 
 

Life
Insurance (a)

 
 

Eliminations

 
 
 
 

AMERCO
Consolidated

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Revenues:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Self-moving equipment rentals

 
$
-
 
 
$
1,549,058
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 
  
 
$
1,549,058
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
(2,043
)

(c)

 
 
$
1,547,015
 


Self-storage revenues

 
 
-
 
 
 
119,359
 
 
 
1,339
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
120,698
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
120,698
 


Self-moving & self-storage products & service sales

 
 
-
 
 
 
205,570
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
205,570
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
205,570
 


Property management fees

 
 
-
 
 
 
22,132
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
22,132
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
22,132
 


Life insurance premiums

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
206,992
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
206,992
 


Property and casualty insurance premiums

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
30,704
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
30,704
 


Net investment and interest income

 
 
5,140
 
 
 
20,562
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
25,702
 
 
 
7,959
 
 
 
20,738
 
 
 
(1,738
)
(b,e
)
 
 
52,661
 


Other revenue

 
 
20
 
 
 
60,230
 
 
 
77,947
 
 
 
(83,531
)

(b)

 
 
54,666
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
2,181
 
 
 
(1,344
)

(b)

 
 
 
55,503
 


Total revenues

 
 
5,160
 
 
 
1,976,911
 
 
 
79,286
 
 
 
(83,531
)
  
 
 
1,977,826
 
 
 
38,663
 
 
 
229,911
 
 
 
(5,125
)
 
 
 
 
2,241,275
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Costs and expenses:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Operating expenses

 
 
7,489
 
 
 
1,050,921
 
 
 
9,473
 
 
 
(83,531
)

(b)

 
 
984,352
 
 
 
15,824
 
 
 
29,754
 
 
 
(3,353
)
(b,c
)
 
 
1,026,577
 


Commission expenses

 
 
-
 
 
 
190,981
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
190,981
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
190,981
 


Cost of sales

 
 
-
 
 
 
106,024
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
106,024
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
106,024
 


Benefits and losses

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
17,201
 
 
 
173,228
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
190,429
 


Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
9,494
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
9,494
 


Lease expense

 
 
90
 
 
 
151,918
 
 
 
22
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
152,030
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(1,221
)

(b)

 
 
 
150,809
 


Depreciation, net of (gains) losses on disposals

 
 
9
 
 
 
177,116
 
 
 
12,141
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
189,266
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
189,266
 


Total costs and expenses

 
 
7,588
 
 
 
1,676,960
 
 
 
21,636
 
 
 
(83,531
)
  
 
 
1,622,653
 
 
 
33,025
 
 
 
212,476
 
 
 
(4,574
)
 
 
 
 
1,863,580
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Earnings (loss) from operations before equity in earnings of subsidiaries

 
 
(2,428
)
 
 
299,951
 
 
 
57,650
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
355,173
 
 
 
5,638
 
 
 
17,435
 
 
 
(551
)
 
 
 
 
377,695
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Equity in earnings of subsidiaries

 
 
132,570
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(117,643
)

(d)

 
 
14,927
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(14,927
)

(d)

 
 
 
-
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Earnings from operations

 
 
130,142
 
 
 
299,951
 
 
 
57,650
 
 
 
(117,643
)
  
 
 
370,100
 
 
 
5,638
 
 
 
17,435
 
 
 
(15,478
)
 
 
 
 
377,695
 


Interest income (expense)

 
 
85,584
 
 
 
(129,516
)
 
 
(44,449
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(88,381
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
(88,381
)


Pretax earnings (loss)

 
 
215,726
 
 
 
170,435
 
 
 
13,201
 
 
 
(117,643
)
  
 
 
281,719
 
 
 
5,638
 
 
 
17,435
 
 
 
(15,478
)
 
 
 
 
289,314
 


Income tax benefit (expense)

 
 
(31,600
)
 
 
(60,342
)
 
 
(5,651
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(97,593
)
 
 
(1,831
)
 
 
(6,315
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
(105,739
)


Net earnings (loss)

 
 
184,126
 
 
 
110,093
 
 
 
7,550
 
 
 
(117,643
)
  
 
 
184,126
 
 
 
3,807
 
 
 
11,120
 
 
 
(15,478
)
 
 
 
 
183,575
 


Less: Excess of redemption value over carrying value of preferred shares redeemed

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(178
)
 
 
 
 
(178
)


Less:  Preferred stock dividends

 
 
(12,963
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(12,963
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
551
 

(e)

 
 
 
(12,412
)


Earnings (loss) available to common shareholders

 
$
171,163
 
 
$
110,093
 
 
$
7,550
 
 
$
(117,643
)
  
 
$
171,163
 
 
$
3,807
 
 
$
11,120
 
 
$
(15,105
)
 
 
 
$
170,985
 


(a)  Balances for the year ended December 31, 2010

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(b) Eliminate intercompany lease income

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(c) Eliminate intercompany premiums

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(d) Eliminate equity in earnings of subsidiaries

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(e) Elimination of preferred stock dividend paid to affiliate

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








 

  


F-45





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Consolidating statements of operations by industry segment for period ending March 31, 2010 are as follows:


 



  
 

Moving & Storage

 
  
 
  AMERCO Legal Group
 

  
 

AMERCO

 
 

U-Haul

 
 

Real Estate

 
 

Eliminations

 
  
 

Moving & Storage
Consolidated

 
 

Property & Casualty Insurance (a)

 
 

Life
Insurance (a)

 
 

Eliminations

 
 
 
 
 

AMERCO
Consolidated

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Revenues:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Self-moving equipment rentals

 
$
-
 
 
$
1,421,331
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 
  
 
$
1,421,331
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
(1,605
)
 

(c)

 
 
$
1,419,726
 


Self-storage revenues

 
 
-
 
 
 
109,047
 
 
 
1,322
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
110,369
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
110,369
 


Self-moving & self-storage products & service sales

 
 
-
 
 
 
198,785
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
198,785
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
198,785
 


Property management fees

 
 
-
 
 
 
21,632
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
21,632
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
21,632
 


Life insurance premiums

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
134,345
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
134,345
 


Property and casualty insurance premiums

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
27,625
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
27,625
 


Net investment and interest income

 
 
4,390
 
 
 
21,665
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
26,055
 
 
 
6,765
 
 
 
18,463
 
 
 
(1,294
)
 
(b,e
)
 
 
49,989
 


Other revenue

 
 
-
 
 
 
43,836
 
 
 
74,481
 
 
 
(80,167
)

(b)

 
 
38,150
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
2,917
 
 
 
(1,533
)
 

(b)

 
 
 
39,534
 


Total revenues

 
 
4,390
 
 
 
1,816,296
 
 
 
75,803
 
 
 
(80,167
)
  
 
 
1,816,322
 
 
 
34,390
 
 
 
155,725
 
 
 
(4,432
)
 
 
 
 
 
2,002,005
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Costs and expenses:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Operating expenses

 
 
8,120
 
 
 
1,050,844
 
 
 
8,064
 
 
 
(80,167
)

(b)

 
 
986,861
 
 
 
13,552
 
 
 
24,752
 
 
 
(3,104
)
 
(b,c
)
 
 
1,022,061
 


Commission expenses

 
 
-
 
 
 
169,104
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
169,104
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
169,104
 


Cost of sales

 
 
-
 
 
 
104,049
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
104,049
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
104,049
 


Benefits and losses

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
14,559
 
 
 
106,546
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
121,105
 


Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
7,569
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
7,569
 


Lease expense

 
 
85
 
 
 
158,079
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
158,172
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(1,221
)
 

(b)

 
 
 
156,951
 


Depreciation, net of (gains) losses on disposals

 
 
17
 
 
 
214,625
 
 
 
12,987
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
227,629
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
227,629
 


Total costs and expenses

 
 
8,222
 
 
 
1,696,701
 
 
 
21,059
 
 
 
(80,167
)
  
 
 
1,645,815
 
 
 
28,111
 
 
 
138,867
 
 
 
(4,325
)
 
 
 
 
 
1,808,468
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Earnings (loss) from operations before equity in earnings of subsidiaries

 
 
(3,832
)
 
 
119,595
 
 
 
54,744
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
170,507
 
 
 
6,279
 
 
 
16,858
 
 
 
(107
)
 
 
 
 
 
193,537
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Equity in earnings of subsidiaries

 
 
7,208
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
7,614
 

(d)

 
 
14,822
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(14,822
)
 

(d)

 
 
 
-
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Earnings from operations

 
 
3,376
 
 
 
119,595
 
 
 
54,744
 
 
 
7,614
 
  
 
 
185,329
 
 
 
6,279
 
 
 
16,858
 
 
 
(14,929
)
 
 
 
 
 
193,537
 


Interest income (expense)

 
 
96,274
 
 
 
(155,519
)
 
 
(34,102
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(93,347
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
(93,347
)


Pretax earnings (loss)

 
 
99,650
 
 
 
(35,924
)
 
 
20,642
 
 
 
7,614
 
  
 
 
91,982
 
 
 
6,279
 
 
 
16,858
 
 
 
(14,929
)
 
 
 
 
 
100,190
 


Income tax benefit (expense)

 
 
(33,920
)
 
 
16,368
 
 
 
(8,700
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(26,252
)
 
 
(1,796
)
 
 
(6,519
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
(34,567
)


Net earnings (loss)

 
 
65,730
 
 
 
(19,556
)
 
 
11,942
 
 
 
7,614
 
  
 
 
65,730
 
 
 
4,483
 
 
 
10,339
 
 
 
(14,929
)
 
 
 
 
 
65,623
 


Less: Excess of redemption value over carrying value of preferred shares redeemed

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
388
 
 
 
 
 
 
388
 


Less: Preferred stock dividends

 
 
(12,963
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(12,963
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
107
 
 

(e)

 
 
 
(12,856
)


Earnings (loss) available to common shareholders

 
$
52,767
 
 
$
(19,556
)
 
$
11,942
 
 
$
7,614
 
  
 
$
52,767
 
 
$
4,483
 
 
$
10,339
 
 
$
(14,434
)
 
 
 
 
$
53,155
 


(a)  Balances for the year ended December 31, 2009

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(b) Eliminate intercompany lease income

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(c) Eliminate intercompany premiums

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(d) Eliminate equity in earnings of subsidiaries

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(e) Elimination of preferred stock dividend paid to affiliate

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








 

  


F-46





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Consolidating cash flow statements by industry segment for the year ended March 31, 2012, are as follows:
 



  
 

Moving & Storage

 
 
  AMERCO Legal Group
 

  
 

AMERCO

 
 

U-Haul

 
 

Real Estate

 
 

Elimination

 
 

Moving & Storage
Consolidated

 
 

Property &
Casualty
Insurance (a)

 
 

Life
Insurance (a)

 
 

Elimination

 
  
 

AMERCO
Consolidated

 

  
 
 
 


Cash flows from operating activities:

 

(In thousands)

 


Net earnings (loss)

 
$
205,695
 
 
$
155,579
 
 
$
3,959
 
 
$
(159,538
)
 
$
205,695
 
 
$
(23,563
)
 
$
13,185
 
 
$
10,050
 
  
 
$
205,367
 


Earnings from consolidated entities

 
 
(149,160
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
159,538
 
 
 
10,378
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(10,378
)
  
 
 
-
 


Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to the cash provided by operations:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Depreciation

 
 
5
 
 
 
216,116
 
 
 
13,668
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
229,789
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
229,789
 


Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
13,791
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
13,791
 


Change in allowance for losses on trade receivables

 
 
-
 
 
 
(206
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(206
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(2
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(208
)


Change in allowance for inventory reserve

 
 
-
 
 
 
1,382
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
1,382
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
1,382
 


Net gain on sale of real and personal property

 
 
-
 
 
 
(20,647
)
 
 
(241
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(20,888
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(20,888
)


Net gain on sale of investments

 
 
(488
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(488
)
 
 
(810
)
 
 
(4,281
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(5,579
)


Deferred income taxes

 
 
109,680
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
109,680
 
 
 
(12,181
)
 
 
6,861
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
104,360
 


Net change in other operating assets and liabilities:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Reinsurance recoverables and trade receivables

 
 
-
 
 
 
(17,683
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(17,683
)
 
 
(57,955
)
 
 
(1,477
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(77,115
)


Inventories

 
 
-
 
 
 
(173
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(173
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(173
)


Prepaid expenses

 
 
6,470
 
 
 
9,464
 
 
 
(186
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
15,748
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
15,748
 


Capitalization of deferred policy acquisition costs

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(23,166
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(23,166
)


Other assets

 
 
2,380
 
 
 
1,852
 
 
 
2,282
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
6,514
 
 
 
(630
)
 
 
108
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
5,992
 


Related party assets

 
 
-
 
 
 
(14,301
)
 
 
63
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(14,238
)
 
 
(4,730
)
 
 
(479
)
 
 
(5,237
)

(b)

 
 
(24,684
)


Accounts payable and accrued expenses

 
 
4,163
 
 
 
14,215
 
 
 
(228
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
18,150
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
1,319
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
19,469
 


Policy benefits and losses, claims and loss expenses payable

 
 
-
 
 
 
(16,621
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(16,621
)
 
 
106,213
 
 
 
122,738
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
212,330
 


Other policyholders' funds and liabilities

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(1,382
)
 
 
(76
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(1,458
)


Deferred income

 
 
-
 
 
 
4,367
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
4,367
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
4,367
 


Related party liabilities

 
 
-
 
 
 
5,514
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
5,514
 
 
 
(272
)
 
 
39
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
5,281
 


Net cash provided (used) by operating activities

 
 
178,745
 
 
 
338,858
 
 
 
19,317
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
536,920
 
 
 
4,690
 
 
 
128,560
 
 
 
(5,565
)
  
 
 
664,605
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Cash flows from investing activities:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Purchases of:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Property, plant and equipment

 
 
(1
)
 
 
(524,298
)
 
 
(65,500
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(589,799
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(589,799
)


Short term investments

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(63,126
)
 
 
(228,496
)
 
 
5,237
 

(b)

 
 
(286,385
)


Fixed maturities investments

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(34,965
)
 
 
(185,139
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(220,104
)


Equity securities

 
 
(8,855
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(8,855
)
 
 
(193
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(9,048
)


Preferred stock

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(2,717
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(2,717
)


Real estate

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(5,064
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(5,064
)
 
 
(165
)
 
 
(2,600
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(7,829
)


Mortgage loans

 
 
-
 
 
 
(8,758
)
 
 
(64,469
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(73,227
)
 
 
(45,189
)
 
 
(33,184
)
 
 
24,437
 

(b)

 
 
(127,163
)


Proceeds from sales of:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Property, plant and equipment

 
 
-
 
 
 
168,386
 
 
 
526
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
168,912
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
168,912
 


Short term investments

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
95,971
 
 
 
204,860
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
300,831
 


Fixed maturities investments

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
22,982
 
 
 
105,504
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
128,486
 


Equity securities

 
 
8,800
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
8,800
 
 
 
1,422
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
10,222
 


Preferred stock

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
7,352
 
 
 
2,708
 
 
 
(7,708
)

(b)

 
 
2,352
 


Real estate

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
310
 
 
 
130
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
440
 


Mortgage loans

 
 
-
 
 
 
9,263
 
 
 
45,685
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
54,948
 
 
 
14,390
 
 
 
9,939
 
 
 
(24,437
)

(b)

 
 
54,840
 


Net cash provided (used) by investing activities

 
 
(56
)
 
 
(355,407
)
 
 
(88,822
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(444,285
)
 
 
(3,928
)
 
 
(126,278
)
 
 
(2,471
)
  
 
 
(576,962
)

  
 

(page1of2)

 


(a) Balance for the period ended December 31, 2011

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


(b) Eliminate intercompany investments

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 








 

  


F-47





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Continuation of consolidating cash flow statements by industry segment for the year ended March 31, 2012, are as follows:
 



  
 

Moving & Storage

 
 
  AMERCO Legal Group
 

  
 

AMERCO

 
 

U-Haul

 
 

Real Estate

 
 

Elimination

 
 

Moving & Storage
Consolidated

 
 

Property &
Casualty
Insurance (a)

 
 

Life
Insurance (a)

 
 

Elimination

 
  
 

AMERCO
Consolidated

 

  
 
 
 


Cash flows from financing activities:

 

(In thousands)

 


Borrowings from credit facilities

 
 
-
 
 
 
153,860
 
 
 
83,920
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
237,780
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
237,780
 


Principal repayments on credit facilities

 
 
-
 
 
 
(130,641
)
 
 
(71,247
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(201,888
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(201,888
)


Debt issuance costs

 
 
-
 
 
 
(1,402
)
 
 
(602
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(2,004
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(2,004
)


Capital lease payments

 
 
-
 
 
 
(8,328
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(8,328
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(8,328
)


Leveraged Employee Stock Ownership Plan - repayments from loan

 
 
-
 
 
 
984
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
984
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
984
 


Securitization deposits

 
 
-
 
 
 
42,088
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
42,088
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
42,088
 


Proceeds from (repayment of) intercompany loans

 
 
(52,051
)
 
 
(5,401
)
 
 
57,452
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 


Preferred stock redemption paid

 
 
(151,997
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(151,997
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
7,708
 

(b)

 
 
(144,289
)


Preferred stock dividends paid

 
 
(3,241
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(3,241
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
328
 

(c)

 
 
(2,913
)


Common stock dividends paid

 
 
(19,484
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(19,484
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(19,484
)


Contribution to related party

 
 
(518
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(518
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(518
)


Investment contract deposits

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
13,854
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
13,854
 


Investment contract withdrawals

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(28,027
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(28,027
)


Net cash provided (used) by financing activities

 
 
(227,291
)
 
 
51,160
 
 
 
69,523
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(106,608
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(14,173
)
 
 
8,036
 
  
 
 
(112,745
)

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Effects of exchange rate on cash

 
 
-
 
 
 
(294
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(294
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(294
)

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

 
 
(48,602
)
 
 
34,317
 
 
 
18
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(14,267
)
 
 
762
 
 
 
(11,891
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(25,396
)


Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

 
 
250,104
 
 
 
72,634
 
 
 
757
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
323,495
 
 
 
14,700
 
 
 
37,301
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
375,496
 


Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

 
$
201,502
 
 
$
106,951
 
 
$
775
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
309,228
 
 
$
15,462
 
 
$
25,410
 
 
$
-
 
  
 
$
350,100
 

  
 

(page 2 of 2)

 


(a) Balance for the period ended December 31, 2011

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


(b) Eliminate intercompany investments

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


(c) Eliminate preferred stock dividends paid to affiliate

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 








 

  


F-48





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Consolidating cash flow statements by industry segment for the year ended March 31, 2011, are as follows:
 



  
 

Moving & Storage

 
 
  AMERCO Legal Group
 

  
 

AMERCO

 
 

U-Haul

 
 

Real Estate

 
 

Elimination

 
 

Moving & Storage
Consolidated

 
 

Property &
Casualty
Insurance (a)

 
 

Life
Insurance (a)

 
 

Elimination

 
  
 

AMERCO
Consolidated

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Cash flows from operating activities:

 
 
 


Net earnings

 
$
184,126
 
 
$
110,093
 
 
$
7,550
 
 
$
(117,643
)
 
$
184,126
 
 
$
3,807
 
 
$
11,120
 
 
$
(15,478
)
  
 
$
183,575
 


Earnings from consolidated subsidiaries

 
 
(132,570
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
117,643
 
 
 
(14,927
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
14,927
 
  
 
 
-
 


Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to the cash provided by operations:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Depreciation

 
 
9
 
 
 
198,991
 
 
 
13,324
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
212,324
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
212,324
 


Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
9,494
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
9,494
 


Change in allowance for losses on trade receivables

 
 
-
 
 
 
30
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
30
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(2
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
28
 


Change in allowance for inventory reserve

 
 
-
 
 
 
(674
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(674
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(674
)


Net gain on sale of real and personal property

 
 
-
 
 
 
(21,875
)
 
 
(1,183
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(23,058
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(23,058
)


Net (gain) loss on sale of investments

 
 
(65
)
 
 
(11
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(76
)
 
 
285
 
 
 
(1,344
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(1,135
)


Deferred income taxes

 
 
73,790
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
73,790
 
 
 
1,960
 
 
 
5,148
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
80,898
 


Net change in other operating assets and liabilities:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Reinsurance recoverables and trade receivables

 
 
-
 
 
 
(1,443
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(1,443
)
 
 
(5,137
)
 
 
614
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(5,966
)


Inventories

 
 
-
 
 
 
(6,431
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(6,431
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(6,431
)


Prepaid expenses

 
 
(15,966
)
 
 
11,773
 
 
 
(51
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(4,244
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(4,244
)


Capitalization of deferred policy acquisition costs

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(25,239
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(25,239
)


Other assets

 
 
34,937
 
 
 
(6,695
)
 
 
238
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
28,480
 
 
 
30
 
 
 
205
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
28,715
 


Related party assets

 
 
273
 
 
 
55
 
 
 
(64
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
264
 
 
 
(351
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(87
)


Accounts payable and accrued expenses

 
 
(8,603
)
 
 
18,923
 
 
 
(486
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
9,834
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
2,713
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
12,547
 


Policy benefits and losses, claims and loss expenses payable

 
 
-
 
 
 
10,994
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
10,994
 
 
 
4,288
 
 
 
94,052
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
109,334
 


Other policyholders' funds and liabilities

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(789
)
 
 
1,355
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
566
 


Deferred income

 
 
-
 
 
 
1,967
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
1,967
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
1,967
 


Related party liabilities

 
 
-
 
 
 
83
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
83
 
 
 
157
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
249
 


Net cash provided (used) by operating activities

 
 
135,931
 
 
 
315,780
 
 
 
19,328
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
471,039
 
 
 
4,250
 
 
 
98,125
 
 
 
(551
)
  
 
 
572,863
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Cash flows from investing activities:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Purchases of:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Property, plant and equipment

 
 
(5
)
 
 
(407,526
)
 
 
(72,887
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(480,418
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(480,418
)


Short term investments

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(76,381
)
 
 
(184,385
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(260,766
)


Fixed maturities investments

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(34,580
)
 
 
(181,351
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(215,931
)


Equity securities

 
 
(8,253
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(8,253
)
 
 
(3,297
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(11,550
)


Preferred stock

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(11,644
)
 
 
(2,708
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(14,352
)


Real estate

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(76
)
 
 
(117
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(193
)


Mortgage loans

 
 
-
 
 
 
(13,117
)
 
 
(8,692
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(21,809
)
 
 
(13,244
)
 
 
(7,395
)
 
 
3,890
 

(b)

 
 
(38,558
)


Other investments

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(2,000
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(2,000
)


Proceeds from sales of:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Property, plant and equipment

 
 
-
 
 
 
179,043
 
 
 
1,368
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
180,411
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
180,411
 


Short term investments

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
99,112
 
 
 
211,083
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
310,195
 


Fixed maturities investments

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
23,275
 
 
 
108,706
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
131,981
 


Equity securities

 
 
1,065
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
1,065
 
 
 
133
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
1,198
 


Preferred stock

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
1,914
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
1,914
 


Real estate

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
125
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
125
 
 
 
309
 
 
 
1,491
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
1,925
 


Mortgage loans

 
 
-
 
 
 
5,412
 
 
 
2,995
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
8,407
 
 
 
6,106
 
 
 
4,533
 
 
 
(3,890
)

(b)

 
 
15,156
 


Net cash provided (used) by investing activities

 
 
(7,193
)
 
 
(236,188
)
 
 
(77,091
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(320,472
)
 
 
(8,373
)
 
 
(52,143
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(380,988
)

  
 

(page 1 of 2)

 


(a) Balance for the period ended December 31, 2010

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


(b) Eliminate intercompany investments

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 








 

  


F-49





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Continuation of consolidating cash flow statements by industry segment for the year ended March 31, 2011, are as follows:
 



  
 

Moving & Storage

 
 
  AMERCO Legal Group
 

  
 

AMERCO

 
 

U-Haul

 
 

Real Estate

 
 

Elimination

 
 

Moving & Storage
Consolidated

 
 

Property &
Casualty
Insurance (a)

 
 

Life
Insurance (a)

 
 

Elimination

 
  
 

AMERCO
Consolidated

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Cash flows from financing activities:

 
 
 


Borrowings from credit facilities

 
 
-
 
 
 
257,728
 
 
 
64,134
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
321,862
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
321,862
 


Principal repayments on credit facilities

 
 
-
 
 
 
(90,084
)
 
 
(198,798
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(288,882
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(288,882
)


Debt issuance costs

 
 
-
 
 
 
(1,987
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(1,987
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(1,987
)


Capital lease payments

 
 
-
 
 
 
(11,522
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(11,522
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(11,522
)


Leveraged Employee Stock Ownership Plan - repayments from loan

 
 
-
 
 
 
1,172
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
1,172
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
1,172
 


Securitization deposits

 
 
-
 
 
 
(46,031
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(46,031
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(46,031
)


Proceeds from (repayment of) intercompany loans

 
 
30,566
 
 
 
(223,746
)
 
 
193,180
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 


Preferred stock dividends paid

 
 
(12,963
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(12,963
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
551
 

(b)

 
 
(12,412
)


Dividend from (to) related party

 
 
3,303
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
3,303
 
 
 
(3,303
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 


Investment contract deposits

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
11,580
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
11,580
 


Investment contract withdrawals

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(34,548
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(34,548
)


Net cash provided (used) by financing activities

 
 
20,906
 
 
 
(114,470
)
 
 
58,516
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(35,048
)
 
 
(3,303
)
 
 
(22,968
)
 
 
551
 
  
 
 
(60,768
)

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Effects of exchange rate on cash

 
 
-
 
 
 
271
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
271
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
271
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

 
 
149,644
 
 
 
(34,607
)
 
 
753
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
115,790
 
 
 
(7,426
)
 
 
23,014
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
131,378
 


Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

 
 
100,460
 
 
 
107,241
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
207,705
 
 
 
22,126
 
 
 
14,287
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
244,118
 


Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

 
$
250,104
 
 
$
72,634
 
 
$
757
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
323,495
 
 
$
14,700
 
 
$
37,301
 
 
$
-
 
  
 
$
375,496
 

  
 

(page 2 of 2)

 


(a) Balance for the period ended December 31, 2010

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


(b) Eliminate preferred stock dividends paid to affiliates

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 




 


 




 

  


F-50





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Consolidating cash flow statements by industry segment for the year ended March 31, 2010 are as follows:
 



  
 

Moving & Storage

 
 
  AMERCO Legal Group
 

  
 

AMERCO

 
 

U-Haul

 
 

Real Estate

 
 

Elimination

 
 

Moving & Storage
Consolidated

 
 

Property &
Casualty
Insurance (a)

 
 

Life
Insurance (a)

 
 

Elimination

 
 

AMERCO
Consolidated

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Cash flows from operating activities:

 
 
 


Net earnings (loss)

 
$
65,730
 
 
$
(19,556
)
 
$
11,942
 
 
$
7,614
 
 
$
65,730
 
 
$
4,483
 
 
$
10,339
 
 
$
(14,929
)
 
$
65,623
 


Earnings from consolidated subsidiaries

 
 
(7,208
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(7,614
)
 
 
(14,822
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
14,822
 
 
 
-
 


Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to cash provided by operations:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Depreciation

 
 
17
 
 
 
216,685
 
 
 
12,887
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
229,589
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
229,589
 


Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
7,569
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
7,569
 


Change in allowance for losses on trade receivables

 
 
-
 
 
 
(158
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(158
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(5
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(163
)


Change in allowance for losses on mortgage notes

 
 
-
 
 
 
(6
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(6
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(6
)


Change in allowance for inventory reserve

 
 
-
 
 
 
1,153
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
1,153
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
1,153
 


Net (gain) loss on sale of real and personal property

 
 
-
 
 
 
(2,060
)
 
 
100
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(1,960
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(1,960
)


Net (gain) loss on sale of investments

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
710
 
 
 
(378
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
332
 


Deferred income taxes

 
 
7,828
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
7,828
 
 
 
1,876
 
 
 
5,793
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
15,497
 


Net change in other operating assets and liabilities:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Reinsurance recoverables and trade receivables

 
 
-
 
 
 
625
 
 
 
31
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
656
 
 
 
16,793
 
 
 
663
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
18,112
 


Inventories

 
 
-
 
 
 
16,759
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
16,759
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
16,759
 


Prepaid expenses

 
 
1,129
 
 
 
(304
)
 
 
(3
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
822
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
822
 


Capitalization of deferred policy acquisition costs

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(13,934
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(13,934
)


Other assets

 
 
5,187
 
 
 
28,076
 
 
 
1,573
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
34,836
 
 
 
(65
)
 
 
(145
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
34,626
 


Related party assets

 
 
665
 
 
 
899
 
 
 
34
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
1,598
 
 
 
771
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
2,369
 


Accounts payable and accrued expenses

 
 
11,604
 
 
 
(7,188
)
 
 
(3,305
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
1,111
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(4,207
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(3,096
)


Policy benefits and losses, claims and loss expenses payable

 
 
-
 
 
 
24,228
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
24,228
 
 
 
(16,011
)
 
 
25,154
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
33,371
 


Other policyholders' funds and liabilities

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(4,167
)
 
 
356
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(3,811
)


Deferred income

 
 
-
 
 
 
396
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
396
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
396
 


Related party liabilities

 
 
-
 
 
 
(62
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(62
)
 
 
(742
)
 
 
77
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(727
)


Net cash provided (used) by operating activities

 
 
84,952
 
 
 
259,487
 
 
 
23,259
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
367,698
 
 
 
3,648
 
 
 
31,282
 
 
 
(107
)
 
 
402,521
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Cash flows from investing activities:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Purchases of:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Property, plant and equipment

 
 
(3
)
 
 
(233,136
)
 
 
(26,352
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(259,491
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(259,491
)


Short term investments

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(130,977
)
 
 
(191,689
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(322,666
)


Fixed maturities investments

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(37,071
)
 
 
(112,675
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(149,746
)


Equity securities

 
 
(17,745
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(17,745
)
 
 
(70
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(17,815
)


Preferred stock

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(2,185
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(2,185
)


Real estate

 
 
-
 
 
 
(1,752
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(1,752
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(558
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(2,310
)


Mortgage loans

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(1,364
)
 
 
(137
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(1,501
)


Proceeds from sales of:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Property, plant and equipment

 
 
-
 
 
 
141,788
 
 
 
1,081
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
142,869
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
142,869
 


Short term investments

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
139,593
 
 
 
179,665
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
319,258
 


Fixed maturities investments

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
31,719
 
 
 
131,935
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
163,654
 


Preferred stock

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
4,061
 
 
 
1,016
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
5,077
 


Real estate

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
707
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
707
 
 
 
64
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
771
 


Mortgage loans

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
75
 
 
 
6,032
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
6,107
 


Net cash provided (used) by investing activities

 
 
(17,748
)
 
 
(93,100
)
 
 
(24,564
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(135,412
)
 
 
3,845
 
 
 
13,589
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(117,978
)

  
 

(page 1 of 2)

 


(a) Balance for the period ended December 31, 2009

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










 

  


F-51





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Continuation of consolidating cash flow statements by industry segment for the year ended March 31, 2010 are as follows:
 



  
 

Moving & Storage

 
 
  AMERCO Legal Group
 

  
 

AMERCO

 
 

U-Haul

 
 

Real Estate

 
 

Elimination

 
 

Moving & Storage
Consolidated

 
 

Property &
Casualty
Insurance (a)

 
 

Life
Insurance (a)

 
 

Elimination

 
  
 

AMERCO
Consolidated

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


Cash flows from financing activities:

 
 
 


Borrowings from credit facilities

 
 
-
 
 
 
42,794
 
 
 
29,359
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
72,153
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
72,153
 


Principal repayments on credit facilities

 
 
-
 
 
 
(187,410
)
 
 
(114,556
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(301,966
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(301,966
)


Debt issuance costs

 
 
-
 
 
 
(2,129
)
 
 
(216
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
(2,345
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(2,345
)


Capital lease payments

 
 
-
 
 
 
(4,057
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(4,057
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(4,057
)


Leveraged Employee Stock Ownership Plan - repayments from loan

 
 
-
 
 
 
1,111
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
1,111
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
1,111
 


Proceeds from (repayment of) intercompany loans

 
 
38,417
 
 
 
(125,139
)
 
 
86,722
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 


Preferred stock dividends paid

 
 
(12,963
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(12,963
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
107
 

(b)

 
 
(12,856
)


Dividend from (to) related party

 
 
7,764
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
7,764
 
 
 
(4,564
)
 
 
(3,200
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
-
 


Investment contract deposits

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
12,856
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
12,856
 


Investment contract withdrawals

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(48,552
)
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
(48,552
)


Net cash provided (used) by financing activities

 
 
33,218
 
 
 
(274,830
)
 
 
1,309
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(240,303
)
 
 
(4,564
)
 
 
(38,896
)
 
 
107
 
  
 
 
(283,656
)

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Effects of exchange rate on cash

 
 
-
 
 
 
2,644
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
2,644
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
2,644
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

 
 
100,422
 
 
 
(105,799
)
 
 
4
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
(5,373
)
 
 
2,929
 
 
 
5,975
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
3,531
 


Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

 
 
38
 
 
 
213,040
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
213,078
 
 
 
19,197
 
 
 
8,312
 
 
 
-
 
  
 
 
240,587
 


Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

 
$
100,460
 
 
$
107,241
 
 
$
4
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
207,705
 
 
$
22,126
 
 
$
14,287
 
 
$
-
 
  
 
$
244,118
 

  
 

(page 2 of 2)

 


(a) Balance for the period ended December 31, 2009

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


(b) Eliminate preferred stock dividends paid to affiliate

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 






 

  


F-52





  



AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
 
Note 24.  Subsequent Events
 
Our management has evaluated subsequent events occurring after March 31, 2012, the date of our most recent balance sheet date, through the date our financial statements were issued. We do not believe any other subsequent events have occurred that would require further disclosure or adjustment to our financial statements than those stated below.
 
Related Party
 
In April 2012, we received $52.2 million from SAC Holding Corporation as full repayment of principal and accrued interest for one of its junior notes. Also in April 2012 and May 2012, we received $46.0 million and $20.4 million, respectively from SAC Holding II Corporation as partial repayment on its junior note.
 
 


 




 

  


F-53





  



 
SCHEDULE I
 
CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF AMERCO
 
BALANCE SHEETS
 



  
 

March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


ASSETS

 


Cash and cash equivalents

 
$
201,502
 
 
$
250,104
 


Investment in subsidiaries

 
 
8,168
 
 
 
(138,714
)


Related party assets

 
 
1,201,385
 
 
 
1,146,296
 


Other assets

 
 
27,030
 
 
 
41,802
 


Total assets

 
$
1,438,085
 
 
$
1,299,488
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

 


Liabilities:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Other liabilities

 
$
399,867
 
 
$
295,372
 

  
 
 
399,867
 
 
 
295,372
 


Stockholders' equity:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Preferred stock

 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 


Common stock

 
 
10,497
 
 
 
10,497
 


Additional paid-in capital

 
 
433,953
 
 
 
432,611
 


Accumulated other comprehensive loss

 
 
(45,436
)
 
 
(45,942
)


Retained earnings:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Beginning of period

 
 
1,139,792
 
 
 
968,629
 


Net earnings

 
 
205,695
 
 
 
184,126
 


Excess of redemption value over carrying value of preferred shares redeemed

 
 
(5,908
)
 
 
-
 


Dividends

 
 
(22,725
)
 
 
(12,963
)


End of period

 
 
1,316,854
 
 
 
1,139,792
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Cost of common shares in treasury

 
 
(525,653
)
 
 
(525,653
)


Cost of preferred shares in treasury

 
 
(151,997
)
 
 
(7,189
)


Total stockholders' equity

 
 
1,038,218
 
 
 
1,004,116
 


Total liabilities and stockholders' equity

 
$
1,438,085
 
 
$
1,299,488
 




 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
 




 

  


F-54





  



CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF AMERCO
 
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 



  
 

Years Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 
 

2010

 

  
 

(In thousands, except share and per share data)

 


Revenues:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Net interest income from subsidiaries

 
$
6,085
 
 
$
5,160
 
 
$
4,390
 


Expenses:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Operating expenses

 
 
9,081
 
 
 
7,489
 
 
 
8,120
 


Other expenses

 
 
98
 
 
 
99
 
 
 
102
 


Total expenses

 
 
9,179
 
 
 
7,588
 
 
 
8,222
 


Equity in earnings of subsidiaries

 
 
149,160
 
 
 
132,570
 
 
 
7,208
 


Interest income

 
 
94,278
 
 
 
85,584
 
 
 
96,274
 


Pretax earnings

 
 
240,344
 
 
 
215,726
 
 
 
99,650
 


Income tax expense

 
 
(34,649
)
 
 
(31,600
)
 
 
(33,920
)


Net earnings

 
 
205,695
 
 
 
184,126
 
 
 
65,730
 


Less: Excess of redemption value over carrying value of preferred shares redeemed

 
 
(5,908
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 


Less: Preferred stock dividends

 
 
(3,241
)
 
 
(12,963
)
 
 
(12,963
)


Earnings available to common shareholders

 
$
196,546
 
 
$
171,163
 
 
$
52,767
 


Basic and diluted earnings per common share

 
$
10.09
 
 
$
8.81
 
 
$
2.72
 


Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic and diluted

 
 
19,476,187
 
 
 
19,432,781
 
 
 
19,386,791
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
 






 

  


F-55





  



CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF AMERCO
 
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOW
 





  
 

Years Ended March 31,

 

  
 

2012

 
 

2011

 
 

2010

 

  
 

(In thousands)

 


 Cash flows from operating activities:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net earnings

 
$
205,695
 
 
$
184,126
 
 
$
65,730
 


 Change in investments in subsidiaries

 
 
(149,160
)
 
 
(132,570
)
 
 
(7,208
)


 Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to cash provided by operations:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Depreciation

 
 
5
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
17
 


 Net gain on sale of investments

 
 
(488
)
 
 
(65
)
 
 
-
 


 Deferred income taxes

 
 
109,680
 
 
 
73,790
 
 
 
7,828
 


 Net change in other operating assets and liabilities:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Prepaid expenses

 
 
6,470
 
 
 
(15,966
)
 
 
1,129
 


 Other assets

 
 
2,380
 
 
 
34,937
 
 
 
5,187
 


 Related party assets

 
 
-
 
 
 
273
 
 
 
665
 


 Accounts payable and accrued expenses

 
 
4,163
 
 
 
(8,603
)
 
 
11,604
 


 Net cash provided by operating activities

 
 
178,745
 
 
 
135,931
 
 
 
84,952
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash flows from investing activities:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Purchases of property, plant and equipment

 
 
(1
)
 
 
(5
)
 
 
(3
)


 Purchases of equity securities

 
 
(8,855
)
 
 
(8,253
)
 
 
(17,745
)


 Proceeds of equity securities

 
 
8,800
 
 
 
1,065
 
 
 
-
 


 Net cash used by investing activities

 
 
(56
)
 
 
(7,193
)
 
 
(17,748
)

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash flows from financing activities:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Proceeds from (repayments) of intercompany loans

 
 
(52,051
)
 
 
30,566
 
 
 
38,417
 


 Preferred stock redemption paid

 
 
(151,997
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 


 Preferred stock dividends paid

 
 
(3,241
)
 
 
(12,963
)
 
 
(12,963
)


 Common stock dividends paid

 
 
(19,484
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 


 Dividend from related party

 
 
-
 
 
 
3,303
 
 
 
7,764
 


 Contribution to related party

 
 
(518
)
 
 
-
 
 
 
-
 


 Net cash provided (used) by financing activities

 
 
(227,291
)
 
 
20,906
 
 
 
33,218
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

 
 
(48,602
)
 
 
149,644
 
 
 
100,422
 


 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

 
 
250,104
 
 
 
100,460
 
 
 
38
 


 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

 
$
201,502
 
 
$
250,104
 
 
$
100,460
 




Income taxes paid, net of income taxes refunds received, amounted to $10.7 million, $14.3 million and $1.6 million for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
 




 

  


F-56





  



CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF AMERCO
 
NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
MARCH 31, 2012, 2011, AND 2010
 
 
1.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
 
AMERCO, a Nevada corporation, was incorporated in April, 1969, and is the holding Company for U-Haul International, Inc., Amerco Real Estate Company, Repwest Insurance Company and Oxford Life Insurance Company. The financial statements of the Registrant should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in this Annual Report.
 
AMERCO is included in a consolidated Federal income tax return with all of its U.S. subsidiaries. Accordingly, the provision for income taxes has been calculated for Federal income taxes of AMERCO and subsidiaries included in the consolidated return of the Registrant. State taxes for all subsidiaries are allocated to the respective subsidiaries.
 
The financial statements include only the accounts of AMERCO, which include certain of the corporate operations of AMERCO. The interest in AMERCO’s majority owned subsidiaries is accounted for on the equity method. The intercompany interest income and expenses are eliminated in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
2.  Guarantees
 
AMERCO has guaranteed performance of certain long-term leases and other obligations. See Note 19, Contingent Liabilities and Commitments and Note 21, Related Party Transactions of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 


 




 

  


F-57





  



SCHEDULE II
 
AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
Years Ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010
 



  
 

Balance at Beginning of Year

 
 

Additions Charged to Costs and Expenses

 
 

Additions Charged to Other Accounts

 
 

Deductions

 
 

Balance at Year End

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Year ended March 31, 2012

 

(In thousands)

 


Allowance for doubtful accounts

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(deducted from trade receivable)

 
$
1,336
 
 
$
1,485
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
(1,693
)
 
$
1,128
 


Allowance for doubtful accounts

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(deducted from notes and mortgage receivable)

 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 


Allowance for obsolescence

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(deducted from inventory)

 
$
595
 
 
$
135
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
730
 


Allowance for probable losses

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(deducted from mortgage loans)

 
$
370
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
370
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Year ended March 31, 2011

 
 
 


Allowance for doubtful accounts

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(deducted from trade receivable)

 
$
1,308
 
 
$
2,611
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
(2,583
)
 
$
1,336
 


Allowance for doubtful accounts

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(deducted from notes and mortgage receivable)

 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 


Allowance for obsolescence

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(deducted from inventory)

 
$
2,600
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
(2,005
)
 
$
595
 


Allowance for probable losses

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(deducted from mortgage loans)

 
$
370
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
370
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Year ended March 31, 2010

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Allowance for doubtful accounts

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(deducted from trade receivable)

 
$
1,471
 
 
$
2,141
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
(2,304
)
 
$
1,308
 


Allowance for doubtful accounts

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(deducted from notes and mortgage receivable)

 
$
6
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
(6
)
 
$
-
 


Allowance for obsolescence

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(deducted from inventory)

 
$
941
 
 
$
1,659
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
2,600
 


Allowance for probable losses

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


(deducted from mortgage loans)

 
$
621
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
(251
)
 
$
370
 










 

  


F-58





  



SCHEDULE V
 
AMERCO AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION (FOR PROPERTY-CASUALTY INSURANCE OPERATIONS)
Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 AND 2009
 




Fiscal Year


Affiliation with Registrant

 

Deferred Policy Acquisition Cost

 
 

Reserves for Unpaid Claims and Adjustment Expenses

 
 

Discount if any, Deducted

 
 

Unearned Premiums

 
 

Net Earned Premiums (1)

 
 

Net Investment Income (2)

 
 

Claim and Claim Adjustment Expenses Incurred Related to Current Year

 
 

Claim and Claim Adjustment Expenses Incurred Related to Prior Year

 
 

Amortization of Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs

 
 

Paid Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense

 
 

Net Premiums Written (1)

 

(In thousands)
 


2012


Consolidated property
casualty entity

 
$
-
 
 
$
382,328
 
 
 
N/A
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
32,631
 
 
$
9,664
 
 
$
9,297
 
 
$
56,445
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
16,319
 
 
$
32,627
 


2011


Consolidated property
casualty entity

 
$
-
 
 
$
276,355
 
 
 
N/A
 
 
$
4
 
 
$
30,704
 
 
$
8,234
 
 
$
9,453
 
 
$
7,832
 
 
$
-
 
 
$
17,211
 
 
$
30,706
 


2010


Consolidated property
casualty entity

 
 
-
 
 
 
271,677
 
 
 
N/A
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
27,625
 
 
 
7,411
 
 
 
8,043
 
 
 
6,516
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
19,996
 
 
 
27,608
 






 




  


(1)


The earned and written premiums are reported net of intersegment transactions. There were no earned premiums eliminated for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.



 




  


(2)


Net Investment Income excludes net realized (gains) losses on investments of ($0.3) million, $0.3 million and $0.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.







 

  


F-59





  


 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 


 
AMERCO




Date:  June 6, 2012                                                                                    /s/ Edward J. Shoen                                                                
Edward J. Shoen
President and Chairman of the Board
(Duly Authorized Officer)




Date:  June 6, 2012                                                                                    /s/ Jason A. Berg                                                                
Jason A. Berg
Chief Accounting Officer
(Principal Financial Officer)


 





  


  





  



POWER OF ATTORNEY
 
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Edward J. Shoen his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorney-in-fact and agent, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act or things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully and to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorney-in-fact and agent, or his substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 




Signature


Title


Date



/s/ Edward J. Shoen


President and Chairman of the Board
 (Principal Executive Officer)


June 6, 2012



Edward J. Shoen
 

  
  


/s/ Jason A. Berg


Chief Accounting Officer
 (Principal Financial Officer)


June 6, 2012



Jason A. Berg
 

  
  


/s/ Charles J. Bayer


Director


June 6, 2012



Charles J. Bayer
 

  
  


/s/ John  P. Brogan


Director


June 6, 2012



John P. Brogan
 

  
  


/s/ John M. Dodds


Director


June 6, 2012



John M. Dodds
 

  
  


/s/ Michael L. Gallagher


Director


June 6, 2012



Michael L. Gallagher
 

  
  


/s/ M. Frank Lyons


Director


June 6, 2012



M. Frank Lyons
 

  
  


/s/ Daniel R. Mullen


Director


June 6, 2012



Daniel R. Mullen
 

  
  


/s/ James P. Shoen


Director


June 6, 2012



James P. Shoen

  
  





  


  





  







