
10-K
1
body10k.htm
10-K



FY2011 10-K DOC







UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549



FORM 10-K



[X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
     for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 

[   ]    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
        For the transition period from ________ to ________  

             Commission file number    0-21221



                                   MicroVision, Inc.


               (Exact name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

 




Delaware




 91-1600822






  (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization) 




(I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)






                                 6222 185th Ave NE

                              Redmond, Washington      98052


        (Address of Principal Executive Offices including Zip Code)


                               (425) 936-6847


                 (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act:




Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which registered


Common Stock, $.001 par value

NASDAQ Global Market


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act: None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer as defined in Rule 405 of the Act. Yes
o   No  x

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. Yes o  No x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes
x  No o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site,
if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405
of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit
and post such files.  Yes
x  No o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  x 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a
smaller reporting company. See definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company"
in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 



Large accelerated filer     ¨ 



Accelerated filer    x 



                                                                         Non-accelerated filer    ¨ 
(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)



Smaller reporting company    ¨ 



Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).  Yes
o No x


The aggregate market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30, 2011 was
approximately $131.8 million (based on the closing price for the registrant's Common Stock on the NASDAQ Global
Market of $9.76 per share, as adjusted for the reverse stock split discussed herein).
The number of shares of the registrant's common stock outstanding as of March 1, 2012 was 17,019,000.
Documents Incorporated by Reference    
Portions of the registrant's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A in connection
with the registrant's 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference into Part III of this report.






                                   MicroVision, Inc.

                        2011 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                               TABLE OF CONTENTS



Part I.


 

Page



  
Item 1.



Description of Business


2




  
Item 1A.



Risk Factors


8




  
Item 1B.



Unresolved Staff Comments


14




  
Item 2.



Properties


14




  
Item 3.



Legal Proceedings


14




  
Item 4.



Mine Safety Disclosures


14




  
Item 4A.



Executive Officers of the Registrant


14



Part II.


 

 



  
Item 5.



Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securites


15




  
Item 6.



Selected Financial Data


16




  
Item 7.



Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations


17




  
Item 7A.



Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks


28




  
Item 8.



Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


28




  
Item 9.



Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure


54




  
Item 9A.



Controls and Procedures


54




  
Item 9B.



Other Information


54



Part III.


 

 



  
Item 10.



Directors and Executive Officers and Corporate Governance


54




  
Item 11.



Executive Compensation


54




  
Item 12.



Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters


55




  
Item 13.



Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence


55




  
Item 14.



Principal Accounting Fees and Services


55



Part IV.


 

 



  
Item 15.



Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules


56



Signatures



  


58




PART I
Preliminary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

 This report contains forward-looking statements, within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended (the "Securities Act") and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"),
and is subject to the safe harbor created by those sections.  Such statements may include, but are not limited to, projections of
revenues, income or loss, capital expenditures, plans for product development and cooperative arrangements, technology development
by third parties, future operations, financing needs or plans of MicroVision, as well as assumptions relating to the foregoing.  The words
"anticipate," "could," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "goal,"
"may," "plan," "project," "will," and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements include the following:
our ability to obtain financing; market acceptance of our technologies and products; our financial and technical resources relative to
those of our competitors; our ability to keep up with rapid technological change; government regulation of our technologies; our ability to
enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary technologies; the ability to obtain additional contract awards and to
develop partnership opportunities; the timing of commercial product launches; the ability to achieve key technical milestones in key
products; and other risk factors identified below in Item 1A. 

ITEM 1.	BUSINESS

Overview

We are developing high-resolution miniature laser display and imaging engines based upon our proprietary
PicoP® display engine technology.  Our PicoP technology utilizes our widely patented expertise in two dimensional
Micro-Electrical Mechanical Systems (MEMS), lasers, optics, and electronics to create a high quality video or still image from a small
form factor device with lower power needs than conventional display technologies.  Our strategy is to develop and supply PicoP display
engines directly or through licensing arrangements to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) that would embed them into a variety
of consumer, automotive, enterprise and industrial products. 
The primary objective for consumer applications is to provide users of mobile consumer devices such as smartphones, media
players, tablet PCs and other consumer electronics products with a large screen viewing experience produced by a small embedded
projector. These potential products would allow users to watch movies and videos, play video games, and display images and other
data onto a variety of surfaces, freeing users from the limitations of a small, palm-sized screen. The PicoP could be further modified to
be embedded into a pair of glasses to provide the mobile user with a see-through or occluded personal display to view movies, play
games or access other content.
The PicoP with some modification could be embedded into a vehicle or integrated into a portable standalone aftermarket device to
create a high-resolution head-up display (HUD) that could project point-by-point navigation, critical operational, safety and other
information important to the vehicle operator.
The enterprise products employing our technology would allow users in field-based professions such as service repair or sales to
view and share information such as schematics for equipment repair and sales data and orders within CRM applications on a larger,
more user-friendly interface. We also see potential for embedding the PicoP laser display engine in industrial products where our
displays could be used for 3D measuring and digital signage, enhancing the overall user experience of these applications.  
We currently market and sell our SHOWWX™ line of accessory pico projectors that use our PicoP display engine through a
network of global distributors.  We continue to enter into a limited number of development agreements with commercial and U.S.
government customers to develop advanced prototypes and demonstration units based on our light scanning technologies.
We develop and procure intellectual property rights relating to our technologies as a key aspect of our business strategy.  We
generate intellectual property from our ongoing performance on development contracts and our internal research and development
activities.  We also have acquired exclusive rights to various technologies under licensing and acquisition agreements.  
                                                       2



Technology

Our patented PicoP display engine technology includes a single-mirror MEMS scanner, laser light sources, electronics, and optics
combined using our proprietary system control expertise, gained through years of internal research and development.  Our bi-directional
MEMS scanning mirror is a key component of our technology platform and is one of our core competencies.  Our MEMS
design is a silicon device with a tiny mirror at the center. This mirror is connected to small flexures which allow it to oscillate vertically
and horizontally to capture (imaging) or reproduce (display) an image pixel-by-pixel.  Our PicoP display engines create a brilliant, full
color, high contrast, uniform display over the entire field of view, from a small and thin package.  We believe that our proprietary PicoP
display engine technology offers significant advantages over traditional display and imaging systems.  Depending on the specific
product application, these advantages may include:

Small and thin package size
High brightness and contrast with 100% brightness uniformity
Rich, saturated color reproduction
Higher resolution
Clear text readability
Reduced power requirements
Simple optical design that does not require complex focusing lenses
Lower price at volume
Our PicoP display engine currently uses red and blue laser diodes and a frequency-doubled "synthetic"
green laser to create a full color image. Synthetic green lasers are infrared lasers that are manipulated to reduce their wavelength to
produce a green light. This conversion process creates a complex system of multiple components held to tight tolerances making
manufacturing more challenging.  Historically, availability of synthetic green lasers has been constrained due to their complexity and the
existence of only one or two manufacturers. 
During 2011, we simplified our operations to significantly reduce our 2011 cash requirements through a combination of measures
as part of our strategy to focus our efforts on development of the next-generation of our PicoP technology based on direct green lasers.
Direct green lasers are capable of producing green light natively, greatly simplifying laser design and manufacturing. Direct green lasers
are expected to be manufactured in a manner similar to red and blue laser diodes available today, facilitating lower cost and rapid
scalability to commercial quantities and are expected to be introduced by at least one manufacturer by mid-2012. At least five
companies worldwide have announced they are developing direct green lasers for commercial introduction.  
We have begun to provide samples of the new PicoP engine to OEMs for evaluation and plan to introduce our next-generation
PicoP display engine using direct green lasers during 2012 to enable our prospective OEM partners to launch their product using the
PicoP technology.  The combination of smaller size, lower power, and lower cost make direct green lasers an attractive alternative to
synthetic green lasers for use in our PicoP display engine. We have integrated direct green laser samples from three laser
manufacturers into prototypes of our next-generation PicoP display engine.
Business Strategy

Our business strategy is to promote our technology in the form of integrated and embedded components to leading OEMs for
widespread use in display and imaging product applications.  Presently, we are focused on the following steps to implement our
business strategy:

Market and sell accessory projectors and planned future products, through multiple sales channels including distributors and
OEMs.
Continue rapid advancement of our technology platform and value-add applications.
Partner with original design manufacturers (ODMs) and Tier 1 suppliers to produce advanced prototypes and demonstration units
using our PicoP display engines, to market the benefits of our technology by us or our partners to OEM customers while minimizing our
own development costs.
Target leading OEMs to integrate our PicoP technology into their products.  
                                                       3


We have entered into a non-binding Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Pioneer Corporation.
The MOU establishes the framework for a
manufacturing and commercial distribution agreement with Pioneer for display engine subsystems to be used in consumer,
after-market and embedded automotive products.  We have collaborated with Pioneer to develop a laser light source module using
direct red, blue, and green laser diodes and a separate display engine subsystem which is based on our PicoP technology.  Pioneer
has announced that it intends to introduce a commercial in-vehicle head-up display product using the module into the consumer market
in 2012. 
Marketing Focus:
Pico Projector Displays  

The use of mobile devices worldwide has grown significantly in the last decade and consumers' awareness and willingness to use
mobile devices for data services has increased dramatically over the last few years.  Applications such as email, web-browsing,
downloading and playing of videos, social networking and mobile gaming are driving the demand for more capable smartphones and
other mobile devices such as tablets.  Typically, these devices have small screens which limit the utility and enjoyment of the content,
especially in small group settings.  We believe that pico projectors can free mobile device users from the limitations of a palm-sized or
tablet-sized screen and provide a large screen viewing experience to increase the usefulness and enjoyment of watching movies and
videos, mobile gaming, and displaying images and many other applications.  
We are working
with OEMs and others to produce and distribute PicoP-based products.
We currently market and sell our SHOWWX™ line of accessory pico projectors, which use our PicoP display engine.  The
SHOWWX products are battery operated plug-and-play projectors that can project a full color, WVGA (848 X 480 pixels), DVD-quality
image with vivid colors and exceptional contrast that is always in focus. The SHOWWX+ is a "Made for iPod, iPhone, and
iPad" product.  We also sell our PicoP display engine to OEM customers to embed into their products.  Our accessory projector
products and PicoP display engines are manufactured by a high volume contract manufacturer.  
Vehicle Displays  

We believe an automotive head-up display (HUD) improves driver safety by eliminating the driver's need to look away from the road
to read information such as GPS mapping images, audio controls and other automobile instrumentation.   Working independently and
with Tier 1 suppliers, we have produced prototypes that demonstrate our PicoP's ability to project high-resolution images onto the
windshield of an automobile, providing the driver with a variety of information related to the car's operation.  We believe that an
automotive HUD based on our PicoP technology offers three distinct advantages over competing head-up displays:

Size - Our prototype display is less than half the size of current competitive offerings.  This smaller form factor can accommodate a
wider variety of vehicle configurations.  

Contrast Ratio - Our prototype has a contrast ratio an order of magnitude higher than current competitive offerings.  The high
contrast ratio allows the driver to see the display clearly day or night, in any ambient lighting conditions.    

Installation Cost - Our prototype can be electronically customized to match the unique curvature of a particular automobile's
windshield, thereby reducing installation time and cost.  The current competitive offerings must be manually adjusted to match the
curvature of a windshield.  
Working independently and with various ODMs and Tier 1 automotive suppliers, we have developed PicoP-enabled HUD
prototypes and are working to market them to OEM customers.  We expect that our PicoP display engine subsystem could be
integrated by a Tier 1 supplier into their HUD product package for sale to automobile manufacturers or by a product integrator into an
aftermarket product for direct sale to their customers for use in automobiles, specialty vehicles, trucks, buses and motor coaches.
                                                       4


During 2011, we worked with Pioneer Corporation to develop a light source module based on direct red, blue, and green laser
diodes and display engine subsystems which would serve as the basis for an in-vehicle HUD product targeted for commercial
introduction by Pioneer in 2012.  
Wearable Displays

We believe our PicoP technology can be integrated with a light-weight optical design to create a full color near-eye wearable
display platform.  This wearable display platform could be in the form of ruggedized helmet mounted display systems or lightweight
fashionable eyewear.  Wearable displays could be used to provide personal viewing of information from a mobile device through a
wired or wireless connection.  We believe that PicoP based wearable displays could provide the following advantages over competing
wearable display technologies:

See-through performance - See-through eyewear displays enable interaction with the real world and one's personal mobile
services at the same time. Unlike competing wearable displays, a see-through display does not obstruct the wearer's vision or reduce
awareness of what is happening around them. 

Daylight readability - The high-brightness capability of color eyewear based on the PicoP display engine enables images to be
clearly visible in brightly lit ambient environments, including direct sunlight. Current LCD-based head worn displays are difficult to see in
bright light environments. 

Fashion and ergonomics - We are developing thin and lightweight optics that can be integrated with the PicoP display engine so
that our OEM partners can design wearable displays that match conventional eyewear frames in size and weight and provide
significantly improved ergonomics compared to competing wearable displays.  
We have worked with the U.S. military and commercial customers to further develop the optical design and integration of the PicoP
display engine for military applications such as helmet mounted displays and full color see-through eyewear.  We plan to work with
OEMs and system integrators to incorporate the PicoP display engine into integrated solutions for potential military and commercial
customers.  
Bar Code Scanners

We currently sell our ROV hand held bar code scanners, which use our proprietary MEMS technology, and bar code scanner
enabled enterprise solutions. In the second half of 2009, we reduced our sales and marketing efforts on the bar code product and we
do not expect to increase our investment in the bar code product in the future. 
Go-To-Market Strategy
We are evaluating opportunities to widely market our technology using a variety of distribution channels such as establishing
partnerships with OEMs and distributors.  Products using our technology may carry the MicroVision brand or be branded and distributed
by our OEM or distribution partners.  
Certain potential applications using the PicoP display engines, such as an automotive HUD or pico projection for tablet PCs and
mobile phones, require integration of our engine into other technologies.  In markets requiring high volume production of the PicoP
display engine components or subsystems that are to be integrated with other components, we plan to provide designs for components,
subsystems and systems to OEMs under licensing agreements.  
We expect that some customers will require unique designs for their products.  We expect that such relationships will generally
involve a period of co-development during which our customer's engineering, manufacturing and marketing teams would work with our
technical staff to modify the PicoP display engine for their targeted market and application.  We may charge fees to our customers to
fund the costs of the engineering effort incurred on such development projects.  The nature of these relationships may vary from partner
to partner depending on the proposed specifications for the PicoP display engine, the product to be developed, and the customers'
design, manufacturing and distribution capabilities.  We believe that by limiting our own direct manufacturing investment for products,
we will reduce our capital requirements and risks inherent in taking the PicoP display engine to the consumer market. 
                                                       5


To date, the majority of our revenue from pico projection products has been generated primarily through sales of our accessory
projectors through distributors and OEM customers, and to a lesser extent directly to end users through our online store.  In the future,
we expect a larger percentage of our revenue to come from embedded engines sold to OEMs, ODMs and other product integrators, as
well as from royalties associated with licensing reference designs for components, subsystems, and systems under licensing
agreements.
Human Factors, Ergonomics and Safety

We conduct ongoing research on safety factors that must be addressed by products incorporating our technology, including such
issues as the maximum permissible laser exposure limits established by International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) and others.
Independent experts have concluded that laser exposure to the eye resulting from use of the light scanning displays under normal
operating conditions would be below the calculated maximum permissible exposure level set by IEC.  Our accessory pico projectors
products are currently Class 2 laser products, which are products safe for use by consumers.
In addition, we work with and commission third party independent experts in the field of laser safety to assist in meeting safety
specifications as requested by our customers.
Competitive Conditions
The information display industry is highly competitive.  Our potential display products will compete with established
manufacturers of mature display technologies such as miniaturized cathode ray tube and flat panel display devices, as well as
companies developing new display technologies.  Our competitors include companies such as Texas Instruments Incorporated, 3M,
and Light Blue Optics Ltd. in the pico projection display segment and Nippon Seiki, Yazaki Corporation and Johnson Controls
Incorporated in the vehicle displays segment, most of which have much greater financial, technical and other resources than we do.
Many of our competitors are developing alternative miniature display technologies.  Our competitors may succeed in developing
information display technologies and products that could render our technology or our proposed products commercially infeasible or
technologically obsolete.
Pico projectors are an emerging class of miniature projectors that are generally handheld, battery operated, mobile projectors.
Most of the competing projectors currently on the market use either liquid crystal on silicon (LCOS) panel solutions or Texas
Instruments' DLP™ display technology, using primarily light emitting diode light sources.  Each of these solutions can create
images from a small form factor of varying resolution, brightness, image quality, battery life, and ease of use.
The information display industry has been characterized by rapid and significant technological advances.  Our technology and
potential products may not remain competitive with such advances, and we may not have sufficient funds to invest in new technologies,
products or processes.  Although we believe our technology platform and proposed display products could deliver images of a
substantially better quality and resolution from a smaller form factor device than those of commercially available miniaturized liquid
crystal displays and cathode ray tube based display products, manufacturers of liquid crystal displays and cathode ray tubes may
develop further improvements of screen display technology that could reduce or eliminate the anticipated advantages of our proposed
products.
We compete with other companies in the display industry and other technologies for government funding.  In general, our
government customers plan to integrate our technology into larger systems.  Ongoing contracts are awarded based on our past
performance on government contracts, the customer's progress in integrating our technology into the customer's overall program
objectives, and the status of the customer's overall program.  
Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights

We generate intellectual property from our ongoing performance on development contracts, our internal research and development
activities and technology acquisitions.  The inventions covered by our patent applications generally relate to component miniaturization,
specific implementation of various system components and design elements to facilitate mass production.  Protecting these key
enabling technologies and components is a fundamental aspect of our strategy to penetrate diverse markets with unique products.  As
such, we intend to continue to develop our portfolio of proprietary and patented technologies at the system, component and process
levels.
                                                       6


We believe our extensive and highly-rated patent portfolio is the largest, broadest and earliest filed laser pico projection and display
portfolio and includes applications such as automotive head-up display, range finding, portable media devices, image
capture and laptop applications.   MicroVision's total patent count exceeds 500 issued patents, pending patents and licensed patents
worldwide.
Since our inception in 1993, we have acquired under license agreements exclusive rights to various technologies, including, among
others, rights related to the ability to superimpose images on the user's field of view and with a retinal display, and rights related to the
design and fabrication of micro miniature devices using semiconductor fabrication techniques.  In some cases, the licensors have
retained limited, non-commercial rights with respect to the technology, including the right to use the technology for non-commercial
research and for instructional purposes. 
Our ability to compete effectively in the display and image capture market will depend, in part, on our ability
to maintain the proprietary nature of these technologies.
We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology.  To protect our rights in these areas, we require all employees and, where
appropriate, contractors, consultants, advisors and collaborators, to enter into confidentiality and non-compete agreements.  There can
be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other
proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other
proprietary information. 
Among the marks we have registered are "PicoP," "MicroHud" and the "tri-curve" logo with the
United States Patent and Trademark Office.  We have filed for registration of various other marks with the United States Patent and
Trademark Office. 
Additional Information

We perform research and development to design and develop our technology platform and modifications to the PicoP display
engine that will be required for specific applications.  Research and development expense for the fiscal years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 was $15.3 million, $21.6 million, and $24.6 million, respectively.  In 2011, 77% of our
revenue was generated from product sales, and 6% and 17% of revenue was derived from performance on development contracts with
the U.S government and commercial customers, respectively.  One commercial customer accounted for 11% of our revenue in 2011.
In 2010, 81% of our revenue was generated from product sales, 4% and 15% of revenue was derived from performance on
development contracts with the U.S. government and commercial customers, respectively.  One commercial customer accounted for
26% of total revenue in 2010.  Prior to 2010, most of our revenue was generated from development contracts to develop our technology
to meet customer specifications for both the U.S. government and commercial enterprises.  In 2009, 43% and 31% of revenue was
derived from performance on development contracts with the U.S. government and commercial customers, respectively, and the
remainder from sales of bar code scanner and SHOWWX units.  Two government customers accounted for 24% and 17%, respectively,
of total revenue in 2009.  Our contracts with the U.S. government can be terminated for convenience by the U.S. government at any
time.  See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
We had a backlog of $2.1 million at December 31, 2011 compared to a backlog of $13.7 million at December 31, 2010.  The
backlog at December 31, 2011 is composed of $624,000 in development contracts and orders for prototype units and evaluation kits,
and $1.4 million in orders for PicoP display engines, accessory pico projectors, and ROV units.  We plan to complete all of the backlog
contracts within one year.  
Employees 

As of March 1, 2012, we had approximately 103 employees.
Further Information

MicroVision was founded in 1993 as a Washington corporation and reincorporated in 2003 under the laws of the State of Delaware.
Our principal office is located at 6222 185th Avenue NE, Redmond WA 98052 and our telephone number is 425-936-6847.
                                                       7


Our Internet address is www.microvision.com.  We make available free of charge our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports
on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it
to, the SEC.  Investors can access this material by visiting our website, clicking on "Investors" and then on "SEC
Filings." 
ITEM 1A.	RISK FACTORS
Risk Factors Relating to the MicroVision Business

We have a history of operating losses and expect to incur significant losses in the future. 

We have had substantial losses since our inception.  We cannot assure you that we will ever become or remain profitable. 

As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $414.8 million. 
We incurred consolidated net losses of $292.0 million from inception through 2008, $39.5 million in 2009, $47.5 million in 2010,
and $35.8 million in 2011.

The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the expenses, difficulties and delays frequently encountered by
companies formed to develop and market new technologies.  In particular, our operations to date have focused primarily on research
and development of our technology platform and development of demonstration units.  We are unable to accurately estimate future
revenues and operating expenses based upon historical performance. 
We cannot be certain that we will succeed in obtaining additional development contracts or that we will be able to obtain substantial
customer orders for our products.  In light of these factors, we expect to continue to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow at
least through 2012 and likely thereafter.  We cannot be certain that we will achieve positive cash flow at any time in the future. 
We will require additional capital to fund our operations and to implement our business plan.  If we do not
obtain additional capital, we may be required to curtail our operations substantially.  Raising additional capital may dilute the value of
current shareholders' shares. 

Based on our current operating plan, we anticipate that we have sufficient cash and cash equivalents to fund our operations
through June 2012.  We will require additional cash to fund our operating plan past that time.  We are introducing new products into an
emerging market which creates significant uncertainty about our ability to accurately project revenue, costs and cash flows.  If the level
of sales anticipated by our financial plan is not achieved or our working capital requirements are higher than planned, we will need to
raise additional cash sooner or take actions to reduce operating expenses.  We plan to obtain additional cash through the issuance of
equity or debt securities. 
Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, payment terms with suppliers and the rate at which we can, directly or through
arrangements with original equipment manufacturers, introduce products incorporating the PicoP display engine and image capture
technologies and the market acceptance and competitive position of such products.  If revenues are less than we anticipate, if the mix
of revenues varies from anticipated amounts or if expenses exceed the amounts budgeted, we may require additional capital earlier
than expected to fund our operations.  In addition, our operating plan provides for the development of strategic relationships with
systems and equipment manufacturers that may require additional investments by us. 
Additional capital may not be available to us, or if available, on terms acceptable to us or on a timely basis.  Raising additional
capital may involve issuing securities with rights and preferences that are senior to our common stock and may dilute the value of
current shareholders' shares.  If adequate funds are not available on a timely basis we intend to consider limiting our operations
substantially to extend out funds as we pursue other financing opportunities and business relationships. This limitation of operations
could include reducing our planned investment in working capital to fund growth and delaying development projects resulting in
reductions in staff and operating costs as well as reductions in capital expenditures and investment in research and development.
                                                       8



If we cannot manufacture products at competitive prices, our financial results will be adversely affected.

We are currently negotiating component pricing with suppliers for our current and future products.  The cost per unit for PicoP-based
accessory projectors currently exceeds the level at which we could expect to profitably sell these products.  If we cannot lower
our cost of production, we may face increased demands on our financial resources, possibly requiring additional equity and/or debt
financing to sustain our business operations.
We are dependent on third parties in order to develop, manufacture, sell and market our products.

Our strategy for commercializing our technology and products incorporating the PicoP display engine includes entering into
cooperative development, manufacturing, sales and marketing arrangements with corporate partners, original equipment manufacturers
and other third parties.  We cannot be certain that we will be able to negotiate arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all, or that these
arrangements will be successful in yielding commercially viable products.  If we cannot establish these arrangements, we would require
additional capital to undertake such activities on our own and would require extensive manufacturing, sales and marketing expertise
that we do not currently possess and that may be difficult to obtain.  In addition, we could encounter significant delays in introducing the
PicoP display engine or find that the development, manufacture or sale of products incorporating the PicoP display engine would not be
feasible.  To the extent that we enter into cooperative development, sales and marketing or other joint venture arrangements, our
revenues will depend upon the performance of third parties.  We cannot be certain that any such arrangements will be successful.

We cannot be certain that our technology platform or products incorporating our PicoP display engine will achieve market
acceptance.  If products incorporating the PicoP display engine do not achieve market acceptance, our revenues may not grow.

Our success will depend in part on customer acceptance of the PicoP display engine.  The PicoP display engine may not be
accepted by manufacturers who use display technologies in their products, by systems integrators who incorporate our products into
their products or by end users of these products.  To be accepted, the PicoP display engine must meet the expectations of our potential
customers in the consumer, defense, industrial, and medical markets.  If our technology fails to achieve market acceptance, we may not
be able to continue to develop our technology platform.
Our planned future products are dependent on advances in technology by other companies.

We rely on and will continue to rely on technologies, such as light sources, MEMS and optical components that are developed and
produced by other companies.  The commercial success of certain of our planned future products will depend in part on advances in
these and other technologies by other companies.  We may, from time to time, contract with and support companies developing key
technologies in order to accelerate the development of them for our specific uses.  There are no guarantees that such activities will
result in useful technologies or components for us.

We are dependent on a small number of customers for our revenue.  Our quarterly performance may vary substantially and this
variance, as well as general market conditions, may cause our stock price to fluctuate greatly and potentially expose us to
litigation.

Since 2010, most of our revenues have been generated from product sales to a limited number of customers and distribution
partners.  Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly based on:

commercial acceptance of our PicoP-based products;
the rate at which our distributors can achieve sell through of our products;
changes in evaluations and recommendations by any securities analysts following our stock or our industry generally;
announcements by other companies in our industry;
changes in business or regulatory conditions;
announcements or implementation by our competitors of technological innovations or new products;
the status of particular development programs and the timing of performance under specific development agreements;
economic and stock market conditions; or
other factors unrelated to our company or industry.

In one or more future quarters, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors and the
trading price of our common stock may decline as a consequence.  In addition, following periods of volatility in the market price of a
company's securities, shareholders often have instituted securities class action litigation against that company.  If we become involved
in a class action suit, it could divert the attention of management, and, if adversely determined, could require us to pay substantial
damages.
                                                       9



We or our customers may fail to perform under open orders, which could adversely affect our operating results and cash
flows. 

Our backlog of open orders totaled $2.1 million as of December 31, 2011. We may be unable to meet the performance
requirements, including performance specifications or delivery dates, required by such purchase orders.  Further, our customers
may be unable or unwilling to perform their obligations there under on a timely basis or at all if, among other reasons, our
products and technologies do not achieve market acceptance, our customers' products and technologies do not achieve market
acceptance or our customers otherwise fail to achieve their operating goals.  To the extent we are unable to perform under such
purchase orders or to the extent customers are unable or unwilling to perform, our operating results and cash flows could be adversely
affected. 
It may become more difficult to sell our stock in the public market.

Our common stock is listed for quotation on The NASDAQ Global Market.  To keep our listing on this market, we must meet
NASDAQ's listing maintenance standards.  If we are unable to continue to meet NASDAQ's listing maintenance standards, our common
stock could be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market.  If our common stock were delisted, we likely would seek to list the common
stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market, the American Stock Exchange or on a regional stock exchange.  Listing on such other market or
exchange could reduce the liquidity of our common stock.  If our common stock were not listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market or an
exchange, trading of our common stock would be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established
for unlisted securities or directly through market makers in our common stock.  If our common stock were to trade in the over-the-counter
market, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations for the price of, the common stock.
A delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market and failure to obtain listing on such other market or exchange would subject our securities
to so-called penny stock rules that impose additional sales practice and market-making requirements on broker-dealers who sell or
make a market in such securities.  Consequently, removal from The NASDAQ Global Market and failure to obtain listing on another
market or exchange could affect the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell or make a market in our common stock and the ability
of purchasers of our common stock to sell their securities in the secondary market.  In addition, when the market price of our common
stock is less than $5.00 per share, we become subject to penny stock rules even if our common stock is still listed on The NASDAQ
Global Market.  While the penny stock rules should not affect the quotation of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market, these
rules may further limit the market liquidity of our common stock and the ability of investors to sell our common stock in the secondary
market.  The market price of our stock has mostly traded below $5.00 per share during 2011, 2010, and 2009.  On March 1, 2012, the
closing price of our stock was $3.02.
Our lack of financial and technical resources relative to our competitors may limit our revenues, potential profits, overall market
share or value.

Our current products and potential future products will compete with established manufacturers of existing products and companies
developing new technologies.  Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources than we
have.  Because of their greater resources, our competitors may develop products or technologies that are superior to our own.  The
introduction of superior competing products or technologies could result in reduced revenues, lower margins or loss of market share,
any of which could reduce the value of our business.
We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological change and our financial results may suffer.

The information display industry has been characterized by rapidly changing technology, accelerated product obsolescence and
continuously evolving industry standards.  Our success will depend upon our ability to further develop our technology platform and to
cost effectively introduce new products and features in a timely manner to meet evolving customer requirements and compete with
competitors' product advances.
We may not succeed in these efforts because of:

delays in product development;
lack of market acceptance for our products; or
lack of funds to invest in product development and marketing.

The occurrence of any of the above factors could result in decreased revenues, market share and value.
                                                       10


We could face lawsuits related to our use of the PicoP display engine or other technologies.  Defending these suits would be
costly and time consuming.  An adverse outcome in any such matter could limit our ability to commercialize our technology and
products, reduce our revenues and increase our operating expenses.

We are aware of several patents held by third parties that relate to certain aspects of light scanning displays and image capture
products.  These patents could be used as a basis to challenge the validity, limit the scope or limit our ability to obtain additional or
broader patent rights of our patents or patents we have licensed.  A successful challenge to the validity of our patents or patents we
have licensed could limit our ability to commercialize our technology and the PicoP display engine and, consequently, materially reduce
our revenues.  Moreover, we cannot be certain that patent holders or other third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to
current and future technology.  Because U.S. patent applications are held and examined in secrecy, it is also possible that presently
pending U.S. applications will eventually be issued with claims that will be infringed by our products or our technology.  The defense
and prosecution of a patent suit would be costly and time consuming, even if the outcome were ultimately favorable to us.  An adverse
outcome in the defense of a patent suit could subject us to significant costs, to require others and us to
cease selling products that
incorporate the PicoP display engine, to cease licensing our technology or to require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties.
Such licenses, if available, would increase our operating expenses.  Moreover, if claims of infringement are asserted against our future
co-development partners or customers, those partners or customers may seek indemnification from us for damages or expenses they
incur.
If we fail to manage expansion effectively, our revenue and expenses could be adversely affected.

Our ability to successfully offer products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective
planning and management process.  The growth in business and relationships with customers and other third parties has placed, and
will continue to place, a significant strain on our management systems and resources.  We will need to continue to improve our financial
and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures and will need to continue to train and manage our work force.

Our products may be subject to future health and safety regulations that could increase our development and production costs.

Products incorporating the PicoP display engine could become subject to new health and safety regulations that would reduce our
ability to commercialize the PicoP display engine.  Compliance with any such new regulations would likely increase our cost to develop
and produce products using the PicoP display engine and adversely affect our financial results.
Our dependence on sales to distributors increases the risks of managing our supply chain and may result in excess inventory
or inventory shortages.

We expect the majority of our distributor relationships for our accessory pico projector and its accessories to involve the distributor
taking inventory positions and reselling to multiple customers.  With these distributor relationships, we would not recognize revenue
until the distributors sell the product through to their end user customers.  Our distributor relationships may reduce our ability to forecast
sales and increases risks to our business. Since our distributors would act as intermediaries between us and the end user customers,
we would be required to rely on our distributors to accurately report inventory levels and production forecasts. This may require us to
manage a more complex supply chain and monitor the financial condition and credit worthiness of our distributors and the end user
customers. Our failure to manage one or more of these risks could result in excess inventory or shortages that could adversely impact
our operating results and financial condition.
Our future growth will suffer if we do not achieve sufficient market acceptance of our products to compete effectively.

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to gain acceptance of our current and future products by a large number of customers.
Achieving market acceptance for our products will require marketing efforts and the expenditure of financial and other resources to
create product awareness and demand by potential customers.  We may be unable to offer products consistently, or at all, that compete
effectively with products of others on the basis of price or performance.  Failure to achieve broad acceptance of our products by
potential customers and to effectively compete would have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
                                                       11


Our operating results may be adversely impacted by worldwide political and economic uncertainties and
specific conditions in the markets we address. 
In the recent past, general worldwide economic conditions have experienced a downturn due
to slower economic activity, concerns about inflation, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate
profits and capital spending, and adverse business conditions. Any continuation or worsening of the current
global economic and financial conditions could materially adversely affect (i) our ability to raise, or the cost of, needed capital, (ii)
demand for our current and future products and (iii) our ability to commercialize products.
We cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent
economic recovery, worldwide, or in the display industry. 

Because we plan to continue using foreign contract manufacturers, our operating results could be harmed by economic, political,
regulatory and other factors in foreign countries.

We currently use a contract manufacturer in Asia to manufacture our accessory pico projector product, and we plan to use foreign
manufacturers to manufacture future products, where appropriate.  These international operations are subject to inherent risks, which
may adversely affect us, including:

political and economic instability;
high levels of inflation, historically the case in a number of countries in Asia;
burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws;
foreign taxes;
changes in tariff rates or other trade and monetary policies; and
changes or volatility in currency exchange rates.

If we have to qualify a new contract manufacturer or foundry for our products, we may experience delays that result in lost
revenues and damaged customer relationships.

We rely on single suppliers to manufacture our PicoP display engine, our SHOWWX products and our MEMS chips in wafer form.
The lead time required to establish a relationship with a new contract manufacturer or foundry is long, and it takes time to adapt a
product's design to a particular manufacturer's processes.  Accordingly, there is no readily available alternative source of supply for
these products and components in high volumes.  This could cause significant delays in shipping products if we have to change our
source of supply and manufacture quickly, which may result in lost revenues and damaged customer relationships.

If we experience delays or failures in developing commercially viable products, we may have lower revenues.

We have begun sales of units incorporating the PicoP display engine.  However, we must undertake additional research,
development and testing before we are able to develop additional products for commercial sale.  Product development delays by us or
our potential product development partners, or the inability to enter into relationships with these partners, may delay or prevent us from
introducing products for commercial sale.  We intend to rely on third-party developments or to contract with other companies to continue
development of green laser devices we will need for our products.  
Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to secure significant third-party manufacturing resources.

We are developing our capability to manufacture products in commercial quantities.  Our success depends, in part, on our ability to
provide our components and future products in commercial quantities at competitive prices.  Accordingly, we will be required to obtain
access, through business partners or contract manufacturers, to manufacturing capacity and processes for the commercial production
of our expected future products.  We cannot be certain that we will successfully obtain access to sufficient manufacturing resources.
Future manufacturing limitations of our suppliers could result in a limitation on the number of products incorporating our technology that
we are able to produce.
If our licensors and we are unable to obtain effective intellectual property protection for our products and technology, we may
be unable to compete with other companies.

Intellectual property protection for our products is important and uncertain.  If we do not obtain effective intellectual property
protection for our products, processes and technology, we may be subject to increased competition.  Our commercial success will
depend in part on our ability and the ability of our licensors to maintain the proprietary nature of the PicoP display and other key
technologies by securing valid and enforceable patents and effectively maintaining unpatented technology as trade secrets.  We try to
protect our proprietary technology by seeking to obtain United States and foreign patents in our name, or licenses to third-party patents,




                                                       12



related to proprietary technology, inventions, and improvements that may be important to the development of our business.  However,
our patent position and the patent position of our licensors involve complex legal and factual questions.  The standards that the United
States Patent and Trademark Office and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly
and can change.  Additionally, the scope of patents are subject to interpretation by courts and their validity can be subject to challenges
and defenses, including challenges and defenses based on the existence of prior art.  Consequently, we cannot be certain as to the
extent to which we will be able to obtain patents for our new products and technology or the extent to which the patents that we already
own or license from others protect our products and technology.  Reduction in scope of protection or invalidation of our licensed or
owned patents, or our inability to obtain new patents, may enable other companies to develop products that compete with ours on the
basis of the same or similar technology.
We also rely on the law of trade secrets to protect unpatented know-how and technology to maintain our competitive position.  We
try to protect this know-how and technology by limiting access to the trade secrets to those of our employees, contractors and partners
with a need to know such information and by entering into confidentiality agreements with parties that have access to it, such as our
employees, consultants and business partners.  Any of these parties could breach the agreements and disclose our trade secrets or
confidential information, or our competitors might learn of the information in some other way.  If any trade secret not protected by a
patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position could be materially harmed.
We could be exposed to significant product liability claims that could be time-consuming and costly, divert management
attention and adversely affect our ability to obtain and maintain insurance coverage.

We may be subject to product liability claims if any of our product applications are alleged to be defective or cause harmful effects.
For example, because some of our PicoP displays are designed to scan a low power beam of colored light into the user's eye, the
testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of these products involve an inherent risk that product liability claims will be asserted against
us.  Product liability claims or other claims related to our products, regardless of their outcome, could require us to spend significant
time and money in litigation, divert management time and attention, require us to pay significant damages, harm our reputation or
hinder acceptance of our products.  Any successful product liability claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability
insurance in the future on commercially desirable or reasonable terms.  An inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an
acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our
products.
Our development agreements have long sales cycles, which make it difficult to plan our expenses and forecast our
revenues.

Our development agreements have lengthy sales cycles that involve numerous steps including determination of a product
application, exploring the technical feasibility of a proposed product, evaluating the costs of manufacturing a product and manufacturing
or contracting out the manufacturing of the product.  Our long sales cycle, which can last several years, makes it difficult to predict the
quarter in which contract signing and revenue recognition will occur.  Delays in entering into development agreements could cause
significant variability in our revenues and operating results for any particular quarterly period.
Our development contracts may not lead to products that will be profitable.

Our development contracts, including without limitation those discussed in this document, are exploratory in nature and are
intended to develop new types of products for new applications.  These efforts may prove unsuccessful and these relationships may not
result in the development of products that will be profitable.
If we lose our rights under our third-party technology licenses, our operations could be adversely affected.

Our business depends in part on technology rights licensed from third parties.  We could lose our exclusivity or other rights to use
the technology under our licenses if we fail to comply with the terms and performance requirements of the licenses.  In addition, certain
licensors may terminate a license upon our breach and have the right to consent to sublicense arrangements.  If we were to lose our
rights under any of these licenses, or if we were unable to obtain required consents to future sublicenses, we could lose a competitive
advantage in the market, and may even lose the ability to commercialize certain products completely.  Either of these results could
substantially decrease our revenues.
                                                       13


Loss of any of our key personnel could have a negative effect on the operation of our business.

Our success depends on our executive officers and other key personnel and on the ability to attract and retain qualified new
personnel.  Achievement of our business objectives will require substantial additional expertise in the areas of sales and marketing,
research and product development and manufacturing.  Competition for qualified personnel in these fields is intense, and the inability to
attract and retain additional highly skilled personnel, or the loss of key personnel, could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our
business.
ITEM 1B.	UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None

ITEM 2.	PROPERTIES

We currently lease approximately 67,000 square feet of combined use office, laboratory and manufacturing space at our
headquarters facility in Redmond, Washington.  The 90 month lease expires in 2013.
ITEM 3.	LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

We are subject to various claims and pending or threatened lawsuits in the normal course of business.  We are not currently party
to any other legal proceedings that we believe are reasonably possible to have a material adverse effect on our financial position,
results of operations or cash flows.

ITEM 4.	MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable. 

ITEM 4A.	EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Executive officers are appointed by our Board of Directors and hold office until their successors are elected and duly qualified.  Mr.
Tokman also serves as a director of MicroVision.  The following persons serve as executive officers of MicroVision:
Alexander Tokman, age 50, has served as President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of MicroVision since January 2006.
Mr. Tokman served as MicroVision's President and Chief Operating Officer from July 2005 to January 2006.   Mr. Tokman, a former GE
executive, joined MicroVision after a 10-year tenure at GE Healthcare, a subsidiary of General Electric, where he led several global
businesses, most recently as General Manager of its Global Molecular Imaging and Radiopharmacy multi-technology business unit
from 2003 to 2005.  Prior to that, between 1995 and 2003, Mr. Tokman served in various cross-functional and cross-business
leadership roles at GE where he led the definition and commercialization of several medical modalities product segments including
PET/CT, which added over $500 million of revenue growth to the company within the first three years of its commercial introduction.
Mr. Tokman is a certified Six Sigma and Design for Six Sigma (DFSS) Black Belt and Master Black Belt and as one of GE's Six Sigma
pioneers, he drove the quality culture change across GE Healthcare in the late 1990s. From November 1989 to March 1995 Mr.
Tokman served as new technologies programs lead and a head of I&RD office at Tracor Applied Sciences a subsidiary of then
Tracor, Inc.  Mr. Tokman has both an M.S. and B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth.
                                                       14


Paul Patterson, age 49, joined MicroVision in August 2011 as Vice President of Business Development, Strategic Marketing and
Sales. Prior to joining MicroVision, he was Managing Director of Kohritsu USA, an organization globally supporting and managing
market adoption of technology innovation for multi-national corporations. He was previously the General Manager for Epson, Japan,
responsible for bringing emerging technologies to market. Mr. Patterson also serves as an advisor to several startup companies
including Phoenix Venture Partners, TRED Displays, BitAnimate, Jyrate, Electromaterials and Inpria. Mr. Patterson brings to
MicroVision considerable experience in emerging technology business development, with a particular emphasis on display technology,
semiconductors, biotech, nanotech, optical data communications and RFID. His experience includes management, strategic alliances,
business development, research and development, operations and project management.  Mr. Patterson is a frequent speaker at global
emerging technology and business conferences and author of "Beyond The Beaker: How to Achieve Market Adoption for
Emerging Technologies" (2009). He earned his B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Oregon State University, completed the
Stanford-Singapore University Executive Program in International Business Management and London Stock Exchange Program in
Corporate Valuations (Mergers and Acquisitions).
Thomas M. Walker, age 47, joined MicroVision in May 2002 and serves as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Prior to
joining MicroVision, Mr. Walker served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Advanced Radio Telecom Corp., a
publicly held technology and services company where he managed domestic and international legal affairs from April 1996 to April
2002. Prior to that, Mr. Walker advised publicly and privately held businesses while practicing in the Los Angeles offices of the law firms
of Pillsbury Winthrop and Buchalter, Nemer Fields and Younger. Mr. Walker holds a B.A. from Claremont McKenna College and a J.D.
from the University of Oregon. 
Jeff T. Wilson, age 51, has served as Chief Financial Officer since April 2006, Principal Financial Officer since January 2006 and
Principal Accounting Officer of MicroVision since August 1999. Mr. Wilson served as Vice President, Accounting of MicroVision from
April 2002 to April 2006 and as Director of Accounting of MicroVision from August 1999 to March 2002. Prior to joining MicroVision,
from 1991 to 1999, Mr. Wilson served in various accounting positions for Siemens Medical Systems, Inc., a developer and
manufacturer of medical imaging equipment. Prior to 1991, Mr. Wilson served as a manager with the accounting firm
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  Mr. Wilson is a Certified Public Accountant. Mr. Wilson holds a B.S. in Accounting from Oklahoma State
University. 
PART II
ITEM 5.	MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Our common stock began trading publicly on August 27, 1996.  Our common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Market
under the symbol "MVIS."  We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock.  We currently anticipate
that we will retain all future earnings to fund the operations of our business and do not anticipate paying dividends on the common stock
in the foreseeable future.
A 1:8 reverse stock split became effective on February 17, 2012.  All of the per share prices shown in the table below have been
adjusted to reflect the effect of this reverse split.
As of March 1, 2012, there were approximately 344 holders of record of 17,019,000 shares of common stock outstanding.  
                                                       15


The high and low sales prices of our common stock for each full quarterly period in the last two fiscal years and the year to date as
reported by The NASDAQ Global Market, as adjusted for the reverse stock split, are as follows:



 

 

 

Common Stock



Quarter Ended

 

 

HIGH

 

 

LOW



2010

 

 

 

 

 

 



March 31, 2010

 

$

29.04

 

$

15.36



June 30, 2010

 

 

29.52

 

 

19.36



September 30, 2010

 

 

24.88

 

 

16.64



December 31, 2010

 

 

18.00

 

 

10.24



 

 

 

 

 

 

 



2011

 

 

 

 

 

 



March 31, 2011

 

$

19.36

 

$

9.68



June 30, 2011

 

 

13.76

 

 

8.16



September 30, 2011

 

 

11.04

 

 

5.28



December 31, 2011

 

 

6.80

 

 

2.72



 

 

 

 

 

 

 



2012

 

 

 

 

 

 



January 1, 2012  to March 1, 2012

 

$

5.36

 

$

2.49


ITEM 6.	SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

A summary of selected financial data as of and for the five years ended December 31, 2011 is set forth below.  It should be read in
conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  A 1:8 reverse stock
split of MicroVision's common stock became effective on February 17, 2012.  All of the share and per share amounts discussed and
shown in the statements and tables below have been adjusted to reflect the effect of this reverse split.



 

 

 

YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,



 

 

 

2011

 

 

2010

 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007



 

 

 

(in thousands, except per share data)



Statement of Operations Data:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Revenue

 

$

      5,617 

 

$

     4,740 

 

$

     3,833 

 

$

     6,611 

 

$

   10,484 



Net loss available for common shareholders

 

 

   (35,808)

 

 

 (47,460)

 

 

  (39,529)

 

 

  (32,620)

 

 

 (19,787)



Basic and diluted net loss per share

 

 

       (2.57)

 

 

     (4.17)

 

 

      (4.29)

 

 

      (4.23)

 

 

     (3.17)



Weighted average shares outstanding basic and diluted

 

 

    13,919 

 

 

   11,379 

 

 

     9,220 

 

 

     7,705 

 

 

     6,245 



Balance Sheet Data:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Cash and cash equivalents 

 

$

    13,075 

 

$

   19,413 

 

$

   43,025 

 

$

   25,533 

 

$

   13,399 



Investments available-for-sale

 

 

             8 

 

 

          13 

 

 

     2,710 

 

 

     2,705 

 

 

   22,411 



Working capital

 

 

      5,913 

 

 

   15,618 

 

 

   38,221 

 

 

   24,347 

 

 

   30,043 



Total assets

 

 

    23,870 

 

 

   35,233 

 

 

   53,536 

 

 

   36,964 

 

 

   45,298 



Long-term liabilities

 

 

         326 

 

 

     1,394 

 

 

     1,471 

 

 

     1,776 

 

 

     2,201 



Total shareholders' equity (deficit)

 

 

    10,802 

 

 

   21,833 

 

 

   41,891 

 

 

   27,651 

 

 

   33,061 


                                                       16



ITEM 7.	MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview

We are developing high-resolution miniature laser display and imaging engines based upon our proprietary PicoP®
display engine technology. Our PicoP technology utilizes our widely patented expertise in two dimensional Micro-Electrical
Mechanical Systems (MEMS), lasers, optics and electronics to create a high quality video or still image from a small form factor device
with lower power needs than conventional display technologies. Our strategy is to develop and supply PicoP display engines to original
equipment manufacturers (OEMs) that would embed them into a variety of consumer, automotive, enterprise and industrial products.
In markets requiring high volume production of the PicoP display engine components or subsystems that are to be integrated with other
components, we plan to provide designs for components, subsystems and systems to OEMs under licensing agreements.

The primary objective for consumer applications is to provide users of mobile consumer devices such as smartphones, media
players, tablet PCs and other consumer electronics products with a large screen viewing experience produced by a small embedded
projector. These potential products would allow users to watch movies and videos, play video games, and display images and other
data onto a variety of surfaces, freeing users from the limitations of a small, palm-sized screen. The PicoP could be further modified to
be embedded into a pair of glasses to provide the mobile user with a see-through or occluded personal display to view movies, play
games or access other content.
The PicoP with some modification could be embedded into a vehicle or integrated into a portable standalone aftermarket device to
create a high-resolution head-up display (HUD) that could project point-by-point navigation, critical operational, safety and other
information important to the vehicle operator.
The enterprise products employing our technology would allow users in field-based professions such as service repair or sales to
view and share information such as schematics for equipment repair and sales data and orders within CRM applications on a larger,
more user-friendly interface. We also see potential for embedding the PicoP laser display engine in industrial products where our
displays could be used for 3D measuring and digital signage, enhancing the overall user experience of these applications.      
We currently market and sell our SHOWWX™ line of accessory pico projectors, which use our PicoP display engine through a
network of global distributors.  We continue to enter into a limited number of development agreements with commercial and U.S.
government customers to develop advanced prototypes and demonstration units based on our light scanning technologies.
We have incurred substantial losses since inception and expect to incur a substantial loss during the fiscal year ending December
31, 2012.  
Key Accounting Policies and Estimates
Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial
statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.  The
preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent liabilities.  We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis.  We
base our estimates on historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our evaluation of trends in the display and image capture
industries, information provided by our current and prospective customers and strategic partners, information available from other
outside sources, and on various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances.  The results form the basis
for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.  Actual results
may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
We believe the following key accounting policies require more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our
consolidated financial statements:
Revenue Recognition.  Our product sales generally include acceptance provisions. We recognize product revenue upon
acceptance of the product by the customer or expiration of the contractual acceptance period, after which there are no rights of return.
We have entered into agreements with resellers and distributors, as well as selling directly to the public. Sales made to resellers and
distributors are recognized using either the sell-through method or upon expiration of the contractually agreed-upon acceptance period,
depending on our ability to reasonably estimate returns.  Some of the agreements with resellers and distributors contain price-protection
clauses, and revenue is recognized net of these

                                                       17



amounts. Sales made directly to the public are recognized either upon
expiration of the contractual acceptance period after which there are no rights of return, or net of estimated returns and allowances.
Provisions are made for warranties at the time revenue is recorded. Our quarterly revenue may vary substantially due to the timing of
product orders from customers, production constraints and availability of components and raw materials. 
We recognize contract revenue as work progresses on long-term, cost plus fixed fee, and fixed price contracts using the
percentage-of-completion method, which relies on estimates of total expected contract revenue and costs.  We have developed
processes that allow us to make reasonable estimates of the cost to complete a contract.  When we begin work on the contract and at
the end of each accounting period, we estimate the labor, material and other costs required to complete the contract using information
provided by our technical team, project managers, vendors, outside consultants and others and compare these to costs incurred to
date.  Since our contracts generally require some level of technology development to complete, the actual cost required to complete a
contract can vary from our estimates.  Recognized revenues are subject to revisions as actual cost becomes certain.  Revisions in
revenue estimates are reflected in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known.  Historically, we have made
only immaterial revisions in the estimates to complete the contract at each reporting period. In the future, revisions in these estimates
could significantly impact recognized revenue in any one reporting period.  If the U.S. government cancels a contract, we would receive
payment for work performed and costs committed to prior to the cancellation.  We recognize contract revenue on the sale of prototype
units and evaluation kits upon acceptance of the deliverables by the customer or expiration of the contractual acceptance period, after
which there are no rights of return. 
Cost of Revenue.  Cost of revenue includes both the direct and allocated indirect costs of performing on development
contracts and producing prototype units, evaluation kits, SHOWWX and ROV units.  Direct costs include labor, materials and other
costs incurred directly in performing on a contract or producing prototype units, evaluation kits, and accessory pico projector products.
Indirect costs include labor and other costs associated with operating our research and development department and building our
manufacturing and technical capabilities and capacity.  Our overhead, which includes the costs of procuring, inspecting and storing
material, and facility and depreciation costs, is allocated to inventory, cost of product revenue, cost of contract revenue, and research
and development expense based on the proportion of direct material purchased for the respective activity.  
Losses on Uncompleted Contracts.  We establish an allowance for estimated losses if the estimated cost to complete a
contract exceeds the remaining contract value.  The entire estimated loss is recorded in the period in which the loss is first determined.
We determine the estimated cost to complete a contract through a detailed review of the work to be completed, the resources available
to complete the work and the technical difficulty of the remaining work.  If the revised estimated cost to complete the contract is higher
than the total contract revenue, the entire contract loss is recognized.  The actual cost to complete a contract can vary significantly from
the estimated cost, due to a variety of factors including availability of technical staff, availability of materials and technical difficulties that
arise during a project.  Most of our development contracts are cost plus fixed fee type contracts.  Under these types of contracts, we are
not required to spend more than the contract value to complete the contracted work.
Allowance for uncollectible receivables.  We maintain allowances for uncollectible receivables, including accounts
receivable, cost and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts and receivables from related parties.  We review
several factors in determining the allowances including the customer's and related party's past payment history and financial condition.
If the financial condition of our customers or the related parties with whom we have receivables were to deteriorate, resulting in an
impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances could be required.
Intangible Assets. Our intangible assets consist entirely of purchased patents.  The patents are amortized using the straight-
line method over their estimated period of benefit, ranging from one to 17 years. We evaluate the recoverability of intangible assets
periodically by taking into account events or circumstances that may warrant revised estimates of useful lives or that indicate the asset
may be impaired. 
Inventory.  We value inventory at the lower of cost or market with cost determined on a net-realizable value basis.  We make
significant judgments and estimates to value our inventory and make adjustments to its carrying value.  We review several factors in
determining the market value of our inventory including evaluating the replacement cost of the raw materials, the net realizable value of
the finished goods, and the likelihood of obsolescence.  If we do not achieve our targeted sales prices, if market conditions for our
components or products were to decline or if we do not achieve our sales forecast, additional reductions in the carrying value of the
inventory would be required.  
                                                       18


Employee Share-Based Compensation.  We issue share-based compensation to employees in the form of options exercisable
into our common stock and restricted or unrestricted shares of our common stock.  We account for equity instruments issued to
employees using the straight-line attribution method of allocating the fair value of share-based compensation expense over the requisite
service period of the related award.  The value of restricted or unrestricted shares is determined using the fair value method, which is
based on the number of shares granted and the closing price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market on the date of grant.
The value of options is determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with estimates of option lives, stock price volatilities
and interest rates, then expensed over the periods of service allowing for pre-vest forfeitures.  This widely accepted method results in
reasonable option values and interperiod expense allocation, and comparability across companies.  Changes in the estimated inputs or
using other option valuation methods could result in materially different option values and share-based compensation expense.  
The key accounting policies described above are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all of our accounting policies.  In many
cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by generally accepted accounting principles, with no
need for us to apply judgment or make estimates.  There are also areas in which our judgment in selecting any available alternative
would not produce a materially different result to our consolidated financial statements.  Additional information about our accounting
policies, and other disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles, are set forth in the notes to our consolidated
financial statements.
Inflation has not had a material impact on our revenues, or income from continuing operations over the three most recent fiscal
years. 
Results of Operations 

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010
Product Revenue.




 

 

 

 

 

 

% of

 

 

 

 

 

% of

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

product

 

 

 

 

 

product

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

2011

 

 

revenue

 

 

2010

 

 

revenue

 

 

$ change

 

 

% change



(in thousands)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Pico projector revenue

 

$

     4,098 

 

 

       94.5 

 

$

     3,469 

 

 

         90.1 

 

$

        629 

 

 

            18.1 



Bar code revenue

 

 

        240 

 

 

         5.5 

 

 

        381 

 

 

           9.9 

 

 

       (141)

 

 

          (37.0)



Total product revenue

 

$

     4,338 

 

 

 

 

$

     3,850 

 

 

 

 

$

        488 

 

 

            12.7 


Pico projector revenue includes the sales of our SHOWWX™ line of accessory pico projectors and related accessories, and
PicoP engines.  Pico projector revenue was higher for the year ended December 31, 2011 than the same period in 2010, as a result of
increased sales of our PicoP engines compared to the prior year and a one-time sale of our pico projectors to one customer.  
Bar code revenue was lower for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010, due to our decision to
stop marketing our bar code product during 2009 and focus on commercializing the PicoP technology. We do not expect to increase our
investment in the bar code product in the future. 
Our quarterly revenue may vary substantially due to the timing of product orders from customers, production constraints and
availability of components and raw materials.
The backlog of product orders at December 31, 2011 was approximately $1.4 million, compared to $12.7 million at December 31,
2010.  Product backlog is scheduled for delivery within one year.  In September 2011, we received orders of $3.5 million from ESPlus
for embedded display engines, the majority of which were scheduled for delivery in the fourth quarter of 2011.  During the fourth quarter
of 2011, ESPlus determined that it needed additional time to mature the commercial readiness of its media player product and elected
to defer PicoP engine shipments into 2012.  As a result, we have removed orders of $2.8 million from this customer from our product
backlog as of December 31, 2011.  We are working with ESPlus to determine a new delivery schedule.    
                                                       19



Contract Revenue.  




 

 

 

 

 

 

% of

 

 

 

 

 

% of

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

contract

 

 

 

 

 

contract

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

2011

 

 

revenue

 

 

2010

 

 

revenue

 

 

$ change

 

 

% change



(in thousands)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Government revenue

 

$

        345 

 

 

       27.0 

 

$

        201 

 

 

         22.6 

 

$

        144 

 

 

            71.6 



Commercial revenue

 

 

        934 

 

 

       73.0 

 

 

        689 

 

 

         77.4 

 

 

        245 

 

 

            35.6 



Total contract revenue

 

$

     1,279 

 

 

 

 

$

        890 

 

 

 

 

$

        389 

 

 

            43.7 


Contract revenue from government and commercial contracts was higher during 2011 than in 2010 due to increased activity on new
and existing government and commercial contracts compared to the previous year.  
Our backlog of development contracts, including orders for prototype units and evaluation kits, at December 31, 2011 was
$622,000 in government contracts and $2,000 in commercial contracts compared to $868,000 in government contracts and $81,000 in
commercial contracts at December 31, 2010.  We plan to complete the entire contract backlog within one year.
Cost of Product Revenue.




 

 

 

 

 

 

% of

 

 

 

 

 

% of

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

product

 

 

 

 

 

product

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

2011

 

 

revenue

 

 

2010

 

 

revenue

 

 

$ change

 

 

% change



(in thousands)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Cost of product revenue

 

$

   11,640 

 

 

     268.3 

 

$

   15,779 

 

 

       409.8 

 

$

    (4,139)

 

 

          (26.2)


Our costs to produce accessory pico projector units during 2011 were substantially higher than product revenue.  Cost of
product revenue includes the direct and allocated indirect cost of manufacturing products sold to customers.  Direct costs include labor,
materials and other costs incurred directly in the manufacture of these products.  Indirect costs include labor and other costs associated
with operating our manufacturing capabilities and capacity.  In the event that we maintain production capacity in excess of production
requirements, cost of product revenue may also include manufacturing overhead associated with the excess capacity.
Cost of product revenue for 2011 and 2010 included write downs of $1.6 million and $9.6 million, respectively, for inventory in stock
at the end of the year.  The write downs were primarily for lower of cost or market adjustments to our inventory value to reflect the then
current estimated selling price for our inventory, as well as a reserve adjustment for materials which we expect would become obsolete
as we introduced new products. The decrease in cost of product revenue for 2011, compared to 2010, was primarily attributed to
decreased inventory write downs compared to the prior year.  During 2011, we sold inventory which had been previously written down
to the lower of cost or market. Accordingly, cost of product revenue for 2011 did not include approximately $1.7 million of previously
recognized write downs associated with this inventory.  During 2011, we recognized approximately $850,000 of warranty expense
primarily associated with our PicoP display engine.  Warranty expense in 2010 was not material.
During 2011, we expensed approximately $1.3 million of manufacturing overhead associated with production capacity in excess of
production requirements.  We did not expense any overhead associated with excess capacity during 2010.  We classified overhead
cost allocated to the accessory pico projector as research and development expense until February 2010, when we determined that the
product's design and production processes were mature enough to support commercial production and we began classifying overhead
cost as cost of product revenue. 
The cost of product revenue as a percentage of product revenue can fluctuate significantly from period to period, depending on the
product mix, the level of overhead expense and the volume of direct materials purchased.  The decrease in the cost of product revenue
as a percentage of product revenue in 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 was due to decreased inventory write downs for the
SHOWWX family of products.  
                                                       20


Cost of Contract Revenue. 




 

 

 

 

 

 

% of

 

 

 

 

 

% of

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

contract

 

 

 

 

 

contract

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

2011

 

 

revenue

 

 

2010

 

 

revenue

 

 

$ change

 

 

% change



(in thousands)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Cost of contract revenue

 

$

     1,425 

 

 

     111.4 

 

$

        443 

 

 

         49.8 

 

$

        982 

 

 

          221.7 


The cost of contract revenue was higher in 2011 than in 2010 as a result of the increased activity on development contracts and
recognized losses on two contracts on which we performed work during 2011.  The losses were primarily as a result of our decision to
share costs with one customer for development of advanced in-vehicle HUD prototypes in anticipation of follow-on revenue
opportunities and excess material costs associated with minimum order quantities for materials required to complete one of our
development contracts.  Gross margin on contract revenue was significantly lower in 2011 compared to 2010, as a result of these
recognized losses.  The combined impact of the losses on contracts and lower gross margin was approximately $710,000.        
The cost of contract revenue as a percentage of revenue was higher in 2011 than in 2010 as a result of the recognized losses and
higher labor expense resulting from a change in the labor resources allocated to the contracts. The cost of revenue as a percentage of
revenue can fluctuate significantly from period to period, depending on the contract cost mix and the levels of direct and indirect costs
incurred.  
Research and Development Expense. 




 

 

 

2011

 

 

2010

 

 

$ change

 

 

% change



(in thousands)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Research and development

 

$

   15,279 

 

$

   21,600 

 

$

    (6,321)

 

 

       (29.3)


Research and development expense consists of compensation-related costs of employees and contractors engaged in internal
research and product development activities, direct material to support development programs, laboratory operations, outsourced
development and processing work, and other operating expenses.  We allocate our research and development resources based on the
business opportunity of the available projects, the skill mix of the resources available and the contractual commitments we have made
to customers.
The decrease in research and development expense during 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, is primarily attributable to
decreased subcontractor costs associated with advanced research and decreased payroll costs due to reductions in staffing levels,
compared to the prior year.
In 2011, we aggressively managed our operating expenses as part of our strategy to simplify operations and significantly reduce
our 2011 cash requirements as we focused our efforts on development of the next-generation of our PicoP technology based on direct
green lasers.  As a result, our research and development expense significantly decreased for 2011 compared to 2010.  
We believe that a substantial level of continuing research and development expense will be required to develop additional
commercial products using the PicoP technology. Accordingly, we anticipate our level of research and development spending will
continue to be substantial. 
Sales, Marketing, General and Administrative Expense. 



 

 

 

2011

 

 

2010

 

 

$ change

 

 

% change



(in thousands)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Sales, marketing, general and administrative

 

$

   13,314 

 

$

   15,252 

 

$

    (1,938)

 

 

       (12.7)


Sales, marketing, general and administrative expense includes compensation and support costs for marketing, sales, management
and administrative staff, and for other general and administrative costs, including legal and accounting services, consultants and other
operating expenses.  The decrease in cost during 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 is primarily due to decreased payroll
costs due to reductions in staffing levels.
                                                       21


In 2011, we aggressively managed our operating expenses as part of our strategy to simplify operations and significantly reduce
our 2011 cash requirements as we focused our efforts on development of the next-generation of our PicoP technology based on direct
green lasers.  As a result, our sales, marketing, general and administrative expense decreased for 2011 compared to 2010.  

Interest Income and Expense. 




 

 

 

2011

 

 

2010

 

 

$ change

 

 

% change



(in thousands)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Interest income

 

$

          47 

 

$

        112 

 

$

         (65)

 

 

       (58.0)





 

 

 

2011

 

 

2010

 

 

$ change

 

 

% change



(in thousands)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Interest expense

 

$

          46 

 

$

          62 

 

$

         (16)

 

 

       (25.8)


The decrease in interest income in 2011 from 2010 results primarily from lower average cash, investment securities balances, and
interest rates.  The decrease in interest expense in 2011 from 2010 results primarily from lower average balances on our capital leases
and our outstanding loan for leasehold improvements.

Realized Loss on Sale of Investment Securities

At December 31, 2009, we held $3.0 million par value student loan auction-rate securities (SLARS), fair valued at $2.7 million. In
March and December 2010, one of the issuers redeemed a total of $200,000 of our SLARS at par value through a voluntary lottery
redemption program. In December 2010, we sold our remaining SLARS for proceeds of approximately $2.4 million and recorded a loss
of $127,000 which is included in "Realized loss on sale of investment securities" on the consolidated statement of
operations.
Gain on Derivative Instruments, Net.  




 

 

 

2011

 

 

2010

 

 

$ change

 

 

% change



(in thousands)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Gain (loss) on derivative instruments, net

 

$

             - 

 

$

        842 

 

$

       (842)

 

 

     (100.0)


Prior to 2011, we had common stock warrants outstanding that were issued in connection with certain notes.  The warrants met the
definition of derivative instruments that must be accounted for as liabilities because we could not engage in certain corporate
transactions affecting the common stock unless we made a cash payment to the holders of the warrants.  We recorded changes in the
fair values of the warrants in the statement of operations each period.  In July 2008, warrants to purchase 750,000 shares of common
stock expired unexercised. During 2010, the remaining 1,552,000 expired unexercised. The change in value of the warrants of
$840,000 in 2010 was recorded as a non-operating gain and is included in "Gain on derivative instruments, net" in the
consolidated statement of operations. 
Income Taxes.

No provision for income taxes has been recorded because we have experienced net losses from inception through December
31, 2011.  At December 31, 2011, we had net operating loss carry-forwards of approximately $283.2 million for federal income tax
reporting purposes.  In addition, we have research and development tax credits of $5.8 million.  The net operating loss carry-forwards
and research and development credits available to offset future taxable income, if any, will expire in varying amounts from 2017 to 2031
if not previously utilized.  In 2011, $2.1 million in net operating loss carry-forwards expired.  The research and development tax credits
and the remaining net operating losses are scheduled to expire between 2017 and 2031.  In certain circumstances, as specified in the
Internal Revenue Code, a 50% or more ownership change by certain combinations of our shareholders during any three-year period
would result in a limitation on our ability to utilize a portion of our net operating loss carry-forwards.  We have determined that such a
change of ownership occurred during 1996 and that the annual utilization of loss carry-forwards generated through the period of that
change will be limited to approximately $1.6 million.
We recognize interest accrued and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in tax expense.  We did not have any
unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2011 or at December 31, 2010.
                                                       22


YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009
Product Revenue.



 

 

 

 

 

 

% of

 

 

 

 

 

% of

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

product

 

 

 

 

 

product

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

2010

 

 

revenue

 

 

2009

 

 

revenue

 

 

$ change

 

 

% change



(in thousands)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Pico projector revenue

 

$

     3,469 

 

 

       90.1 

 

$

        330 

 

 

         32.5 

 

$

     3,139 

 

 

          951.2 



Bar code revenue

 

 

        381 

 

 

         9.9 

 

 

        686 

 

 

         67.5 

 

 

       (305)

 

 

          (44.5)



Total product revenue

 

$

     3,850 

 

 

 

 

$

     1,016 

 

 

 

 

$

     2,834 

 

 

          278.9 


Pico projector revenue includes the sales of SHOWWX which was launched in September 2009 and the SHOWWX+ which was
launched in November 2010.
Bar code revenue includes the sales of ROV bar code scanners.  The decrease in bar code revenue for the year ended December
31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 was due to our decreased investment in our bar code product during 2009. 
The backlog of product orders at December 31, 2010 was approximately $12.7 million, compared to $3.8 million at December 31,
2009.  

Contract Revenue.  




 

 

 

 

 

 

% of

 

 

 

 

 

% of

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

contract

 

 

 

 

 

contract

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

2010

 

 

revenue

 

 

2009

 

 

revenue

 

 

$ change

 

 

% change



(in thousands)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Government revenue

 

$

        201 

 

 

       22.6 

 

$

     1,649 

 

 

         58.5 

 

$

    (1,448)

 

 

          (87.8)



Commercial revenue

 

 

        689 

 

 

       77.4 

 

 

     1,168 

 

 

         41.5 

 

 

       (479)

 

 

          (41.0)



Total contract revenue

 

$

        890 

 

 

 

 

$

     2,817 

 

 

 

 

$

    (1,927)

 

 

          (68.4)


We earn contract revenue from performance on development contracts with the U.S. government and commercial customers and
from the sale of prototype units and evaluation kits based on our PicoP display engine.  Our contract revenue in a particular period is
dependent upon when we enter into a contract, the value of the contracts we have entered into, and the availability of technical
resources to perform work on the contracts. 
Contract revenue from government and commercial contracts was substantially lower during 2010 than in 2009 due to reduced
contract activity and lower beginning backlog in 2010 compared to the previous year.  
Our backlog of development contracts, including orders for prototype units and evaluation kits, at December 31, 2010 was
$868,000 in government contracts and $81,000 in commercial contracts compared to $70,000 in government contracts and $30,000 in
commercial contracts at December 31, 2009.  The increase in backlog from 2009 is primarily attributed to two contracts with the US
government entered into in late 2010.  
                                                       23



Cost of Product Revenue.




 

 

 

 

 

 

% of

 

 

 

 

 

% of

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

product

 

 

 

 

 

product

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

2010

 

 

revenue

 

 

2009

 

 

revenue

 

 

$ change

 

 

% change



(in thousands)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Cost of product revenue

 

$

   15,779 

 

 

     409.8 

 

$

     2,363 

 

 

       232.6 

 

$

   13,416 

 

 

          567.8 


Our costs to produce accessory pico projector units during 2010 were substantially higher than product revenue.  During the early
phase of SHOWWX production, our design and manufacturing processes were not sufficiently mature to support commercial
production. We classified overhead cost allocated to the SHOWWX as research and development expense until February 2010, when
we determined that the SHOWWX design and production processes were mature enough to reach a level to support commercial
production and since February 2010, all manufacturing costs have been included in cost of revenue. 
Cost of product revenue for 2010 and 2009, included a write down of $9.6 million and $1.3 million, respectively, for inventory in
stock at the end of the year.  The write downs included lower of cost or market adjustments primarily comprised of adjustments to our
inventory value to reflect the then current estimated selling price for our inventory, as well as a reserve adjustment for materials which
we expect would become obsolete as we introduced new products. The increase in cost of product revenue for 2010, compared to
2009, was primarily attributed to increased material costs associated with higher volumes of product shipments and increased inventory
write downs compared to the prior year.  
The increase in the cost of product revenue as a percentage of product revenue in 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 was
due to an increase in inventory write downs and a higher cost structure for the SHOWWX product.  
Cost of Contract Revenue. 




 

 

 

 

 

 

% of

 

 

 

 

 

% of

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

contract

 

 

 

 

 

contract

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

2010

 

 

revenue

 

 

2009

 

 

revenue

 

 

$ change

 

 

% change



(in thousands)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Cost of contract revenue

 

$

        443 

 

 

       49.8 

 

$

     1,531 

 

 

         54.3 

 

$

    (1,088)

 

 

          (71.1)


The cost of contract revenue was lower in 2010 than in 2009 as a result of the decreased activity on development contracts as we
continue to focus our resources on commercialization of products based on the PicoP display engine.    
The cost of contract revenue as a percentage of revenue was lower in 2010 than in 2009 as a result of difference in the cost mix of
the contracts during those periods. 
Research and Development Expense. 




 

 

 

2010

 

 

2009

 

 

$ change

 

 

% change



(in thousands)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Research and development

 

$

   21,600 

 

$

   24,577 

 

$

    (2,977)

 

 

       (12.1)


The decrease in cost during 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, is primarily attributable to less direct material  purchased
for development programs and a decrease in overhead allocated to research and development.  
Sales, Marketing, General and Administrative Expense. 




 

 

 

2010

 

 

2009

 

 

$ change

 

 

% change



(in thousands)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Sales, marketing, general and administrative

 

$

   15,252 

 

$

   14,540 

 

$

        712 

 

 

           4.9 


                                                       24


The increase in cost during 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 is primarily due to increased sales and marketing expense
related to promoting our accessory pico projector products.
Interest Income and Expense. 




 

 

 

2010

 

 

2009

 

 

$ change

 

 

% change



(in thousands)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Interest income

 

$

        112 

 

$

        212 

 

$

       (100)

 

 

       (47.2)





 

 

 

2010

 

 

2009

 

 

$ change

 

 

% change



(in thousands)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Interest expense

 

$

          62 

 

$

          68 

 

$

           (6)

 

 

         (8.8)


The decrease in interest income in 2010 from 2009 results primarily from lower average cash, investments securities balances, and
interest rates.
Realized Loss on Sale of Investment Securities

At December 31, 2009, we held $3.0 million par value student loan auction-rate securities (SLARS), fair valued at $2.7 million. In
March and December 2010, one of the issuers redeemed a total of $200,000 of our SLARS at par value through a voluntary lottery
redemption program. In December 2010, we sold our remaining SLARS for proceeds of approximately $2.4 million and recorded a loss
of $127,000 which is included in "Realized loss on sale of investment securities" on the consolidated statement of
operations.

Gain (Loss) on Derivative Instruments, Net.  




 

 

 

2010

 

 

2009

 

 

$ change

 

 

% change



(in thousands)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Gain (loss) on derivative instruments, net

 

$

        842 

 

$

       (506)

 

$

     1,348 

 

 

     (266.4)


The change in "Gain (Loss) on derivative instruments, net" is primarily driven by the change in value of warrants we
issued in 2005 to purchase 2,302,000 shares of common stock in connection with certain notes. The warrants met the definition of
derivative instruments that must be accounted for as liabilities because we could not engage in certain corporate transactions affecting
the common stock unless we made a cash payment to the holders of the warrants.  We recorded changes in the fair values of the
warrants in the statement of operations each period.  As of December 31, 2009, 1,552,000 warrants remained outstanding and
subsequently expired unexercised by December 31, 2010. The change in value of the warrants of $840,000 in 2010 was recorded as a
non-operating gain and is included in "Gain (loss) on derivative instruments, net" in the consolidated statement of
operations. 
Income Taxes. 

No provision for income taxes has been recorded because we have experienced net losses from inception through December
31, 2010.  At December 31, 2010, we had net operating loss carry-forwards of approximately $257.6 million for federal income tax
reporting purposes.  In addition, we had research and development tax credits of $5.4 million.   We recognize interest accrued and
penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in tax expense.  We did not have any unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2010 or
at December 31, 2009.
Liquidity and Capital Resources

We have incurred significant losses since inception.  We have funded operations to date primarily through the sale of common
stock, convertible preferred stock, warrants, the issuance of convertible debt and, to a lesser extent, from development contract
revenues and product sales.  At December 31, 2011, we had $13.1 million in cash, cash equivalents, and investment securities,
available-for-sale. 
During 2011, we lowered our cash used in operations significantly, through a combination of:

sharing development and commercialization costs of the next-generation PicoP technology based on direct green lasers with our
development partners;
limiting our investment into advancement of the current-generation PicoP technology based on synthetic green lasers;
moving product development to original design manufacturers
lowering our working capital requirements through a restructuring of inventory cycles with major suppliers;

                                                       25



reducing our operating costs through a 20% workforce reduction completed in January 2011, in addition to other
measures.
Based on our current operating plan, we anticipate that we have sufficient cash and cash equivalents to fund our operations
through June 2012. We will require additional cash to fund our operating plan past that time.  We are introducing new products into an
emerging market which creates significant uncertainty about our ability to accurately project revenue, costs and cash flows.  If the level
of sales anticipated by our financial plan is not achieved or our working capital requirements are higher than planned, we will need to
raise additional cash sooner or take actions to reduce operating expenses.  We plan to obtain additional cash through the issuance of
equity or debt securities.  There can be no assurance that additional cash will be available or that, if available, it will be available on
terms acceptable to us on a timely basis.  If adequate funds are not available on a timely basis we may be required to limit our
operations substantially.  This limitation of operations could include reducing our planned investment in working capital to fund revenue
growth and delaying development projects resulting in reductions in staff, operating costs, capital expenditures and investment in
research and development.  
We have received a report from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended December 31, 2011 that includes an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to
continue as a going concern.  These financial statements are prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern.
Cash used in operating activities totaled $27.9 million during 2011, compared to $46.2 million during 2010.  During 2011, the
decrease in net cash used in operating activities was primarily driven by lower inventory purchases for commercialization of PicoP-based
products as well as savings resulting from steps taken to lower our 2011 cash use as described above.
Investing Activities

Cash provided by investing activities totaled $170,000 in 2011 compared to $381,000 in 2010.
In 2011, the decrease in cash provided by investing activities primarily resulted from lower cash inflows generated from sales of investment
securities compared to 2010, offset by fewer cash outflows associated with implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system and production
equipment purchases compared to one year ago.
Financing Activities

Cash provided by financing activities totaled $21.4 million in 2011, compared to $22.2 million in 2010. The following is a list of our
financing activities during 2011, 2010, and 2009.  All share amounts have been adjusted for the 1:8 reverse stock split discussed in this
annual report.  

In November 2011, we raised approximately $10.5 million, before issuance costs of approximately $925,000, through an
underwritten public offering of 2.2 million shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 1.3 million shares of our common
stock.

During 2011, we also raised an aggregate of $12.1 million, before issuance costs of approximately $635,000, from the sale of 1.7
million shares of our common stock under our committed equity financing facilities with Azimuth.
We terminated one of these facilities in July 2011 and the other two in November 2011. 

In 2010, we raised an aggregate of $22.4 million, before issuance costs of approximately $768,000, from the sale of 1.6 million
shares of our common stock under our committed equity financing facility with Azimuth.  

In November and December 2009, we raised an aggregate of $33.1 million, before issuance costs of approximately $2.3 million,
from the sale of 1.4 million shares of our common stock through underwritten public offerings.  

During 2009, we raised $3.9 million from the exercise of warrants to purchase 142,000 shares of common stock and $1.3 million
from the exercise of 42,000 stock options.

In June 2009, we raised approximately $15.0 million, before issuance costs of approximately $218,000, from the sale of 1.0 million
shares of common stock and warrants to purchase approximately 252,000 shares of our common stock to a strategic investor.  The
warrants have an exercise price of $17.48 per share, a three year term, and are exercisable on the date of issuance.  We can call the
warrants if the average closing bid price of our stock is over $69.92 for any 20 consecutive trading days.
                                                       26


Our cash requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, the rate at which we can, directly or through
arrangements with OEMs, introduce products incorporating our technology and the market acceptance and competitive position of such
products. 
Future operating expenditures and capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including the following:

the progress of research and development programs,
the progress in commercialization activities and arrangements,
the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights,
competing technological and market developments, and
our ability to establish cooperative development, joint venture and licensing arrangements.
In order to maintain our exclusive rights under our license agreement with the University of Washington, we are obligated to make
royalty payments to the University of Washington with respect to the Virtual Retinal Display technology.  If we are successful in
establishing original equipment manufacturer co-development and joint venture arrangements, we expect our partners to fund certain
non-recurring engineering costs for technology development and/or for product development.  Nevertheless, we expect our cash
requirements to remain high as we expand our activities and operations with the objective of commercializing our light scanning
technology.
The following table lists our contractual obligations (in thousands):



 

 

 

Payments Due By Period



 

 

 

Less than

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

More than

 

 

 



 

 

 

1 year

 

 

1-3 years

 

 

3-5 years

 

 

5 years

 

 

Total



Contractual Obligations:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Open purchase obligations *

 

$

        5,254 

 

$

                - 

 

$

                - 

 

$

                - 

 

$

        5,254 



Minimum payments under capital leases

 

 

             62 

 

 

             83 

 

 

                - 

 

 

                - 

 

 

           145 



Minimum payments under operating leases

 

 

           938 

 

 

           564 

 

 

                - 

 

 

                - 

 

 

        1,502 



Minimum payments under long-term debt

 

 

           103 

 

 

             69 

 

 

                - 

 

 

                - 

 

 

           172 



Minimum payments under research, royalty

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



       and licensing agreements

 

 

        1,253 

 

 

        2,511 

 

 

        2,436 

 

 

      10,722 

 

 

      16,922 



                Total

 

$

        7,610 

 

$

        3,227 

 

$

        2,436 

 

$

      10,722 

 

$

      23,995 



* Open purchase obligations represent commitments to purchase inventory, materials, capital equipment, maintenance agreements
and other goods used in the normal operation of our business.  
+License and royalty obligations continue through the lives of the underlying patents, which is currently through at least 2024.

New accounting pronouncements 

In May 2011, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on fair value measurements that clarifies the application of existing
guidance and disclosure requirements, changes certain fair value measurement principles and requires additional disclosures about fair
value measurements. The standard is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011.  The adoption of this
standard is not expected to have a material impact on our financial statements.
In June 2011, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on the presentation of comprehensive income. The new standard
requires the presentation of comprehensive income, the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive
income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The new
standard also requires presentation of adjustments for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the
statement where the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income are presented.  The standard is
effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within these years, beginning after December 15, 2011.  The adoption of this standard is
not expected to have a material impact on our financial statements.
                                                       27


ITEM 7A.	QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
Interest Rate and Market Liquidity Risks
As of the end of 2011, all of our total cash, cash equivalents and investment securities available-for-sale have variable interest
rates or are equity investments traded in active markets.  Therefore, we believe our exposure to market and interest rate risks is not
material.  
Our investment policy generally directs that the investment managers should select investments to achieve the following goals:
principal preservation, adequate liquidity and return.  As of December 31, 2011, our cash and cash equivalents and investments
available-for-sale securities portfolio are comprised of short-term highly rated money market savings accounts and equity
investments.
The values of cash equivalents and investment securities, available-for-sale by maturity date as of December 31, 2011, are as
follows:



 

 

 

Amount

 

 

Percent

 



Cash and cash equivalents

 

$

              13,075,000 

 

 

                         99.9 

%



Less than one year

 

 

                       8,000 

 

 

                           0.1 

 



 

 

$

              13,083,000 

 

 

                       100.0 

%


Foreign Exchange Rate Risk
All of our development contract payments are made in U.S. dollars.  However, in the future we may enter into development
contracts in foreign currencies that may subject us to foreign exchange rate risk.  We have purchase orders and supply agreements in
foreign currencies and may enter into such agreements from time to time in the future.  We also make payments related to our
MicroVision Singapore operations in Singapore dollars.  We believe our exposure to currency fluctuations related to these
arrangements is not material.  We intend to enter into foreign currency hedges to offset material exposure to currency fluctuations when
we can adequately determine the timing and amounts of the exposure. 
ITEM 8.	FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 

Page


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

29

 
 


Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010

30

 
 


Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 

31

 
 


Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 

32

 
 


Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009

33

 
 


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009

34

 
 


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

35

 
 


Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves Schedule

53



                                                       28


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of MicroVision, Inc.:
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of operations,
shareholders' equity, comprehensive loss and cash flows  present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of MicroVision,
Inc. (the "Company") at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America.  Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2011 based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  The Company's management is responsible for these
financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our
responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based
on our integrated audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in
all material respects.  Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinions.
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming the Company will continue as a going concern.  As
discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Company has suffered recurring losses from operations and has a net capital
deficiency that raise substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern.  Management's plans in regard to these matters
are also described in Note 1.  The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this
uncertainty.
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles.  A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect
on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
   Seattle, Washington
   March 8, 2012
                                                       29


MicroVision, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands, except per share information)



 

 

 

December 31,



 

 

 

2011

 

 

2010



Assets

 

 

 

 

 

 



Current assets

 

 

 

 

 

 



        Cash and cash equivalents

 

$

                  13,075 

 

$

                  19,413 



        Investment securities, available-for-sale

 

 

                           8 

 

 

                         13 



        Accounts receivable, net of allowances of $243 and $588

 

 

                       463 

 

 

                    1,116 



        Costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts

 

 

                         70 

 

 

                       137 



        Inventory

 

 

                    4,254 

 

 

                    6,075 



        Current restricted investments

 

 

                            - 

 

 

                       306 



        Other current assets

 

 

                       785 

 

 

                       564 



                Total current assets

 

 

                  18,655 

 

 

                  27,624 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 



  Property and equipment, net

 

 

                    2,347 

 

 

                    4,169 



  Restricted investments

 

 

                       786 

 

 

                    1,189 



  Intangible assets

 

 

                    2,048 

 

 

                    2,233 



  Other assets

 

 

                         34 

 

 

                         18 



                        Total assets

 

$

                  23,870 

 

$

                  35,233 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity

 

 

 

 

 

 



Current liabilities

 

 

 

 

 

 



        Accounts payable

 

$

                    7,341 

 

$

                    7,665 



        Accrued liabilities

 

 

                    5,113 

 

 

                    4,135 



        Billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts

 

 

                       156 

 

 

                         81 



        Current portion of capital lease obligations

 

 

                         39 

 

 

                         40 



        Current portion of long-term debt

 

 

                         93 

 

 

                         85 



                Total current liabilities

 

 

                  12,742 

 

 

                  12,006 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 



  Capital lease obligations, net of current portion

 

 

                         72 

 

 

                       114 



  Long-term debt, net of current portion

 

 

                         67 

 

 

                       159 



  Deferred rent, net of current portion

 

 

                       187 

 

 

                       697 



  Other long-term liabilities

 

 

                            - 

 

 

                       424 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 



                Total liabilities

 

 

                  13,068 

 

 

                  13,400 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Commitments and contingencies 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Shareholders' Equity

 

 

 

 

 

 



        Preferred stock, par value $.001; 25,000 shares authorized; 0 and

 

 

 

 

 

 



                 0 shares issued and outstanding

 

 

                            - 

 

 

                            - 



        Common stock, par value $.001; 100,000 shares authorized; 17,019 and

 

 

 

 

 

 



                 12,809 shares issued and outstanding

 

 

                         17 

 

 

                         13 



        Additonal paid-in capital

 

 

                425,658 

 

 

                400,880 



        Accumulated other comprehensive loss

 

 

                       (35)

 

 

                       (30)



        Accumulated deficit

 

 

              (414,838)

 

 

              (379,030)



                Total shareholders' equity

 

 

                  10,802 

 

 

                  21,833 



                        Total liabilities and shareholders' equity

 

$

                  23,870 

 

$

                  35,233 


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
                                                       30



MicroVision, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Operations (in thousands, except per share information)




 

 

 

      Years Ended December 31,



 

 

 

2011

 

 

2010

 

 

2009



Product revenue

 

$

                 4,338 

 

$

                 3,850 

 

$

                 1,016 



Contract revenue

 

 

                 1,279 

 

 

                    890 

 

 

                 2,817 



Total revenue

 

 

                 5,617 

 

 

                 4,740 

 

 

                 3,833 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Cost of product revenue

 

 

               11,640 

 

 

               15,779 

 

 

                 2,363 



Cost of contract revenue

 

 

                 1,425 

 

 

                    443 

 

 

                 1,531 



Total cost of revenue

 

 

               13,065 

 

 

               16,222 

 

 

                 3,894 



          Gross margin

 

 

                (7,448)

 

 

              (11,482)

 

 

                     (61)



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Research and development expense

 

 

               15,279 

 

 

               21,600 

 

 

               24,577 



Sales, marketing, general and administrative expense

 

 

               13,314 

 

 

               15,252 

 

 

               14,540 



Gain on disposal of fixed assets

 

 

                     (11)

 

 

                         - 

 

 

                         - 



Total operating expenses

 

 

               28,582 

 

 

               36,852 

 

 

               39,117 



Loss from operations

 

 

              (36,030)

 

 

              (48,334)

 

 

              (39,178)



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Interest income

 

 

                      47 

 

 

                    112 

 

 

                    212 



Interest expense

 

 

                     (46)

 

 

                     (62)

 

 

                     (68)



Realized loss on sale of investment securities

 

 

                         - 

 

 

                   (127)

 

 

                         - 



Gain (loss) on derivative instruments, net

 

 

                         - 

 

 

                    842 

 

 

                   (506)



Other income

 

 

                    221 

 

 

                    109 

 

 

                      11 



Net loss

 

$

              (35,808)

 

$

              (47,460)

 

$

              (39,529)



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Net loss per share basic and diluted

 

$

                  (2.57)

 

$

                  (4.17)

 

$

                  (4.29)



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Weighted-average shares outstanding basic and diluted

 

 

               13,919 

 

 

               11,379 

 

 

                 9,220 


The accompanying notes are an integral part of consolidated financial statements.
                                                       31


MicroVision, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss (in thousands)




 

 

 

      Years Ended December 31,



 

 

 

2011

 

 

2010

 

 

2009



Net loss

 

$

              (35,808)

 

$

              (47,460)

 

$

              (39,529)



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Other comprehensive gain (loss)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



          Unrealized gain (loss) on investment securities, available-for-sale:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



                    Unrealized holding gain (loss) arising during period

 

 

                       (5)

 

 

                        3 

 

 

                        5 



Comprehensive loss

 

$

              (35,813)

 

$

              (47,457)

 

$

              (39,524)


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
                                                       32



MicroVision, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity (in thousands)




 

 

Shareholders' Equity (Deficit)



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Accumulated

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

Common Stock

 

 

Additional

 

 

other

 

 

 

 

 

Total



 

 

 

 

 

Par

 

 

paid-in

 

 

comprehensive

 

 

Accumulated

 

 

Shareholders'



 

 

Shares

 

 

 value

 

 

capital

 

 

loss

 

 

deficit

 

 

equity



Balance at December 31, 2008

 

        8,510 

 

$

         9 

 

$

    319,721 

 

$

                 (38)

 

$

     (292,041)

 

$

            27,651 



Share-based compensation expense

 

               3 

 

 

          - 

 

 

        3,335 

 

 

                      - 

 

 

                   - 

 

 

              3,335 



Exercise of warrants and options

 

           184 

 

 

          - 

 

 

        4,794 

 

 

                      - 

 

 

                   - 

 

 

              4,794 



Sales of common stock and warrants

 

        2,389 

 

 

         2 

 

 

      45,633 

 

 

                      - 

 

 

                   - 

 

 

            45,635 



Other comprehensive income

 

                - 

 

 

          - 

 

 

                - 

 

 

                     5 

 

 

                   - 

 

 

                     5 



Net loss

 

                - 

 

 

          - 

 

 

                - 

 

 

                      - 

 

 

       (39,529)

 

 

          (39,529)



Balance at December 31, 2009

 

      11,086 

 

 

       11 

 

 

    373,483 

 

 

                 (33)

 

 

     (331,570)

 

 

            41,891 



Share-based compensation expense

 

             11 

 

 

          - 

 

 

        3,601 

 

 

                      - 

 

 

                   - 

 

 

              3,601 



Exercise of warrants and options

 

             30 

 

 

          - 

 

 

           478 

 

 

                      - 

 

 

                   - 

 

 

                 478 



Sales of common stock and warrants

 

        1,578 

 

 

         2 

 

 

      21,618 

 

 

                      - 

 

 

                   - 

 

 

            21,620 



Issuance of common stock for payment

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



         of intellectual property

 

           104 

 

 

          - 

 

 

        1,700 

 

 

                      - 

 

 

                   - 

 

 

              1,700 



Other comprehensive income

 

                - 

 

 

          - 

 

 

                - 

 

 

                     3 

 

 

                   - 

 

 

                     3 



Net loss

 

                - 

 

 

          - 

 

 

                - 

 

 

                      - 

 

 

       (47,460)

 

 

          (47,460)



Balance at December 31, 2010

 

      12,809 

 

 

       13 

 

 

    400,880 

 

 

                 (30)

 

 

     (379,030)

 

 

            21,833 



Share-based compensation expense

 

           218 

 

 

          - 

 

 

        3,356 

 

 

                      - 

 

 

                   - 

 

 

              3,356 



Exercise of warrants and options

 

               5 

 

 

          - 

 

 

             70 

 

 

                      - 

 

 

                   - 

 

 

                   70 



Sales of common stock and warrants

 

        3,987 

 

 

         4 

 

 

      21,352 

 

 

                      - 

 

 

                   - 

 

 

            21,356 



Other comprehensive loss

 

                - 

 

 

          - 

 

 

                - 

 

 

                   (5)

 

 

                   - 

 

 

                   (5)



Net loss

 

                - 

 

 

          - 

 

 

                - 

 

 

                      - 

 

 

       (35,808)

 

 

       (35,808)



Balance at December 31, 2011

 

      17,019 

 

$

       17 

 

$

    425,658 

 

$

                 (35)

 

$

     (414,838)

 

$

            10,802 


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
                                                       33


MicroVision, Inc. 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands) 



 

 

 

      Years Ended December 31,



 

 

 

2011

 

 

2010

 

 

2009



Cash flows from operating activities

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



        Net loss

 

$

         (35,808)

 

$

        (47,460)

 

$

          (39,529)



        Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash used in operations:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



                Depreciation

 

 

            2,406 

 

 

           1,731 

 

 

             1,138 



                Amortization of intangible assets

 

 

               185 

 

 

                32 

 

 

                    2 



                Gain on disposal of property and equipment

 

 

                (11)

 

 

                   - 

 

 

                     - 



                Realized loss on sale of short-term investments

 

 

                    - 

 

 

              127 

 

 

                     - 



                Non-cash stock-based compensation

 

 

            3,356 

 

 

           3,450 

 

 

             3,373 



                Loss (gain) on derivative instruments

 

 

                    - 

 

 

             (842)

 

 

                506 



                Inventory write-downs

 

 

            1,563 

 

 

           9,579 

 

 

             1,257 



                Non-cash deferred rent

 

 

              (340)

 

 

             (276)

 

 

               (276)



        Change in:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



                Accounts receivable

 

 

               653 

 

 

             (203)

 

 

               (376)



                Costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts

 

 

                 67 

 

 

               (67)

 

 

                625 



                Inventory

 

 

               258 

 

 

        (14,728)

 

 

               (658)



                Other current assets

 

 

              (221)

 

 

              187 

 

 

                115 



                Other assets

 

 

                (16)

 

 

                15 

 

 

                   (3)



                Accounts payable

 

 

              (532)

 

 

           2,591 

 

 

             1,477 



                Accrued liabilities

 

 

               808 

 

 

             (358)

 

 

                646 



                Billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts

 

 

                 75 

 

 

                26 

 

 

                   (7)



                Other long-term liabilities

 

 

              (330)

 

 

                   - 

 

 

                     - 



                        Net cash used in operating activities

 

 

         (27,887)

 

 

        (46,196)

 

 

          (31,710)



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Cash flows from investing activities

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



        Sales of investment securities

 

 

                    - 

 

 

           2,573 

 

 

                     - 



        Purchases of restricted investment securities

 

 

                    - 

 

 

             (305)

 

 

                     - 



        (Increase)/Decrease in restricted investment

 

 

               709 

 

 

                 (1)

 

 

                143 



        Proceeds on sale of property and equipment

 

 

                 11 

 

 

                   - 

 

 

                     - 



        Purchases of property and equipment and intangible assets

 

 

              (550)

 

 

          (1,886)

 

 

            (1,360)



                        Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities

 

 

               170 

 

 

              381 

 

 

            (1,217)



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Cash flows from financing activities

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



        Principal payments under capital leases

 

 

                (43)

 

 

               (65)

 

 

                 (60)



        Principal payments under long-term debt

 

 

                (84)

 

 

               (78)

 

 

                 (71)



        Net proceeds from issuance of common stock and warrants

 

 

          21,506 

 

 

         22,346 

 

 

           50,550 



                        Net cash provided by financing activities

 

 

          21,379 

 

 

         22,203 

 

 

           50,419 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

 

 

           (6,338)

 

 

        (23,612)

 

 

           17,492 



Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

 

 

          19,413 

 

 

         43,025 

 

 

           25,533 



Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

 

$

          13,075 

 

$

         19,413 

 

$

           43,025 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



          Cash paid for interest

 

$

                 46 

 

$

                62 

 

$

                  68 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Supplemental schedule of non-cash investing and financing activities

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



          Property and equipment acquired under capital leases

 

$

                    - 

 

$

                   - 

 

$

                  95 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



          Other non-cash additions to property and equipment

 

$

               229 

 

$

              101 

 

$

                  85 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



          Issuance of common stock for payment of intellectual property

 

$

                    - 

 

$

           1,700 

 

$

                     - 


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
                                                       34


MicroVision, Inc.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
1. 	The Company  

MicroVision, Inc. (the "Company") is developing high-resolution miniature laser display and imaging engines based
upon our proprietary PicoP® display engine technology. Our PicoP technology utilizes our widely patented expertise
in two dimensional Micro-Electrical Mechanical Systems (MEMS), lasers, optics and electronics to create a high quality video or still
image from a small form factor device with lower power needs than conventional display technologies. Our strategy is to develop and
supply PicoP display engines to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) that would embed them into a variety of consumer,
automotive, enterprise and industrial products.
The primary objective for consumer applications is to provide users of mobile consumer devices such as smartphones, media
players, tablet PCs and other consumer electronic products with a large screen viewing experience produced by a small embedded
projector. These potential products would allow users to watch movies and videos, play video games, and display images, and other
data onto a variety of surfaces, freeing users from the limitations of a small, palm-sized screen. The PicoP could be further modified to
be embedded into a pair of glasses to provide the mobile user with a see-through or occluded personal display to view movies, play
games or access other content. 
The PicoP with some modification could be embedded into a vehicle or integrated into a portable standalone aftermarket device to
create a high-resolution head-up display (HUD) that could project point-by-point navigation, critical operational, safety and other
information important to the vehicle operator. 
The enterprise products employing our technology would allow users in field-based professions such as service repair or sales to
view and share information such as schematics for equipment repair and sales data and orders within CRM applications on a larger,
more user-friendly interface. We also see potential for embedding the PicoP laser display engine in industrial products where our
displays could be used for 3D measuring and digital signage, enhancing the overall user experience of these applications.     
We currently market and sell our SHOWWX™ line of accessory pico projectors that use our PicoP display engine through a
network of global distributors.  We continue to enter into a limited number of development agreements with commercial and U.S.
government customers to develop advanced prototypes and demonstration units based on our light scanning technologies. 
Based on our current operating plan, we anticipate that we have sufficient cash and cash equivalents to fund our operations
through June 2012. We will require additional cash to fund our operating plan past that time. We are introducing new products into an
emerging market which creates significant uncertainty about our ability to accurately project revenue, costs and cash flows. If the level
of sales anticipated by our financial plan is not achieved or our working capital requirements are higher than planned, we will need to
raise additional cash sooner or take actions to reduce operating expenses. 
We plan to obtain additional cash through the issuance of equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance that additional cash
will be available or that, if available, it will be available on terms acceptable to us on a timely basis. If adequate funds are not available
on a timely basis, we intend to consider limiting our operations substantially to extend our funds as we pursue other financing
opportunities and business relationships. This limitation of operations could include reducing our planned investment in working capital
to fund revenue growth and delaying development projects resulting in reductions in staff, operating costs, capital expenditures and
investment in research and development. 

                                                       35



Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, the rate at which we can, directly or through
arrangements with OEMs, introduce products incorporating the PicoP display engine and image capture technologies and the market
acceptance and competitive position of such products.  If revenues are less than anticipated, if the mix of revenues vary from
anticipated amounts or if expenses exceed the amounts budgeted, we may require additional capital earlier than expected to further the
development of our technologies, for expenses associated with product development, and to respond to competitive pressures or to
meet unanticipated development difficulties.  In addition, our operating plan provides for the development of strategic relationships with
systems and equipment manufacturers that may require additional investments by us.
We have received a report from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended December 31, 2011 that includes an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to
continue as a going concern.  These consolidated financial statements are prepared assuming the Company will continue as a going
concern.
A 1:8 reverse stock split of MicroVision's common stock became effective on February 17, 2012.  All of the share and per share
amounts discussed and shown in the consolidated financial statements and notes have
been adjusted to reflect the effect of this reverse split.

2. 	Summary of significant accounting policies


Use of estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States
requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
period.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.  We have identified the following areas where significant estimates and
assumptions have been made in preparing the financial statements: revenue recognition, valuation of share-based compensation,
allowance for uncollectible receivables, inventory valuation and valuation of derivative financial instruments.
Principles of consolidation
Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MicroVision, Inc. and MicroVision Innovations Singapore Pte.
Ltd. ("MicroVision Singapore"), a wholly owned foreign subsidiary.  MicroVision Singapore was incorporated in April 2011
and is engaged in advanced research and development activities and operation support functions for MicroVision, Inc.  There were no
material intercompany accounts and transactions during the year ended December 31, 2011.
Cash and cash equivalents; investment securities, available-for-sale; and
fair value of financial instruments
Our financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, investments available-for-sale, accounts receivable, accounts
payable, accrued liabilities and long-term debt.  Excluding the long term debt, the carrying value of our financial instruments
approximates fair value due to their short maturities.  The carrying amount of long-term debt at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was not
materially different from the fair value based on rates available for similar types of arrangements.  
The fair value of financial instruments is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a
liability in an orderly transaction between market participants.  As such, fair value is a market-based measurement that should be
determined based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability.  As a basis for considering such
assumptions, the authoritative guidance establishes a three level fair value inputs hierarchy, with Level 1 being observable inputs such
as quoted market prices in active markets, Level 2 being observable inputs that are not sufficiently active to qualify as Level 1, and
Level 3 being inputs that are unobservable by market participants outside of the Company and must be estimated using assumptions
we develop.  We use market data, assumptions and risks we believe market participants would use in measuring the fair value of the
asset or liability, including the risks inherent in the inputs and the valuation techniques.  We disclose the lowest level input significant to
each category of asset or liability.  We use inputs which are as observable as possible and the methods most applicable to the specific
situation of each company or valued item. 

                                                       36



We consider fair valued assets impaired when the fair value is less than cost.  When the impairment is significant, we judge
whether the impairment is temporary or other-than-temporary.  An impairment is generally considered to be other-than-temporary and
recorded as such in the period when there is deemed sufficient reason to conclude that the fair value of the asset is not expected to
recover to the recorded fair value prior to the expected time of sale or maturity.  We classify other-than-temporary fair value
impairments into one of two categories: "credit" or "other factors". Other-than-temporary impairments are
charged to current earnings if they are of the "credit" type or recorded to other comprehensive loss if they are due to
"other factors".  
Our cash equivalents and investment securities available-for-sale are comprised of money market savings accounts and equity
securities.  We classify investment securities available-for-sale purchased with 90 days or less remaining until contractual maturities as
cash equivalents.  Investment securities purchased with more than 90 days until contractual maturities are classified as current
investment securities available-for-sale on the consolidated balance sheet with unrealized gains and losses included in the consolidated
statement of comprehensive loss.  Interest income, realized gains and losses, and other-than-temporary credit type impairments are
recognized in the period earned or incurred and presented separately in the consolidated statement of operations.  Changes in the fair
values of derivatives are realized in the period of remeasurement and recorded in Gain (loss) on derivative instruments, net in the
consolidated statement of operations.  The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.  
Intangible assets 
Our intangible assets consist entirely of purchased patents.  The patents are amortized using the straight-line method over
their estimated period of benefit, ranging from one to 17 years. We evaluate the recoverability of intangible assets periodically by taking
into account events or circumstances that may warrant revised estimates of useful lives or that indicate the asset may be impaired.

Inventory 
Inventory consists of raw material and finished goods for our pico projectors and ROV products.  Inventory is recorded at the
lower of cost or market with cost determined on a net realizable value basis.  We periodically assess the need to provide for
obsolescence of inventory and adjust the carrying value of inventory to its net realizable value when required.  In addition, we reduce
the value of our inventory to its estimated scrap value when we determine that it is not probable that the inventory will be consumed
through normal production during the next twelve months.  
Property and equipment 
Property and equipment is stated at cost and depreciated over the estimated useful lives of the assets (two to five years) using
the straight-line method.  Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of estimated useful lives or the lease term.  Costs
for repairs and maintenance are charged to expense as incurred and expenditures for major improvements are capitalized at cost.
Gains or losses on the disposition of assets are reflected in the income statements at the time of disposal.
Restricted investments 
As of December 31, 2011, restricted investments were in money market savings accounts and serve
as collateral for $786,000 in irrevocable letters of credit.  The restricted investments balance includes two letters of credit totaling
$436,000 which are outstanding in connection with a lease agreement for our corporate headquarters building in Redmond, WA.  The
required balance decreases over the term of the lease, which expires in 2013.  Also included in the restricted investments balance was
a $350,000 letter of credit which was outstanding under the terms of a supplier agreement, and expired in January 2012.
Revenue recognition
Product revenue is recognized when there is sufficient evidence of an arrangement, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or
determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. We have entered into agreements with resellers and distributors, as well as selling
directly to the public. Sales made to resellers and distributors are recognized using either the sell-through method or upon expiration of
the contractually agreed-upon acceptance period, depending on the volume of the sale.  Some of the agreements with resellers and
distributors contain price-protection clauses, and revenue is recognized net of these amounts. Sales made directly to the public are
recognized either upon expiration of the contractual acceptance period after which there are no rights of return, or net of estimated
returns and allowances.  Provisions are made for warranties at the time revenue is recorded. 

                                                       37



Contract revenue has primarily been generated from contracts to develop the light scanning technology and to produce
demonstration units for commercial enterprises and the U.S. government.  We recognize contract revenue as work progresses on long-term
cost plus fixed fee and fixed price contracts using the percentage-of-completion method, which relies on estimates of total
expected contract revenue and costs. Our revenue contracts generally include a statement of the work we are to complete and the total
fee we will earn from the contract. When we begin work on the contract and at the end of each accounting period, we estimate the
labor, material, and other cost required to complete the statement of work compared to cost incurred to date. We use information
provided by our technical team, project managers, vendors, outside consultants and others to develop our cost estimates. Since our
contracts generally require some level of technology development to complete, the actual cost required to complete a statement of work
can vary from our estimates. We have developed processes that allow us to reasonably estimate the cost to complete a contract.
Historically, we have made only immaterial revisions in the estimates to complete the contract at each reporting period. Recognized
revenues are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to completion and actual revenue and cost become certain. Revisions in
revenue estimates are reflected in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. In the future, revisions in
these estimates could significantly impact recognized revenue in any one reporting period. The U.S. government can terminate a
contract with us at any time for convenience.  If the U.S. government cancels a contract, we would receive payment for work performed
and costs committed to prior to the cancellation.
We recognize losses, if any, as soon as identified.  Losses occur when the estimated direct and indirect costs to complete the
contract exceed unrecognized revenue.  We evaluate the reserve for contract losses on a contract-by-contract basis.
We recognize contract revenue for prototype units and evaluation kits for development work upon acceptance or the expiration of
the acceptance period, when there is sufficient evidence of an arrangement, the selling price is fixed or determinable and collection is
reasonably assured.  
Cost of revenue 
Cost of product revenue includes the direct and allocated indirect costs of manufacturing products sold to customers.  Direct
costs include labor, materials and other costs incurred directly in the manufacture of these products.  Indirect costs include labor and
other costs associated with operating our manufacturing capabilities and capacity.
Cost of contract revenue includes both the direct and allocated indirect costs of performing on development contracts and
producing prototype units and evaluation kits.  Direct costs include labor, materials and other costs incurred directly in performing on a
contract or producing prototype units and evaluation kits.  Indirect costs include labor and other costs associated with operating our
research and development department and building our technical capabilities and capacity.  Cost of contract revenue is determined by
the level of direct and indirect costs incurred, which can fluctuate substantially from period to period.
Our overhead, which includes the costs of procuring, inspecting and storing material, and facility and depreciation costs, is
allocated to inventory, cost of product revenue, cost of contract revenue, and research and development expense based on the level of
effort supporting production or research and development activity.  
Concentration of credit risk and sales to major customers
Concentration of Credit Risk
Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk are primarily cash equivalents, investment
securities available-for-sale and accounts receivable.  We typically do not require collateral from our customers.  Our investment policy
generally directs investment managers to select investments to achieve the following goals: preservation of principal, adequate liquidity
and return.  As of December 31, 2011, our cash and cash equivalents and investments securities portfolio are comprised of short-term
highly rated money market savings accounts and equity investments.    

                                                       38



As of December 31, 2009, we held $3.0 million par value student loan auction rate securities (SLARS), fair valued at approximately
$2.7 million.  In March and December 2010, one of the issuers redeemed a total of $200,000 of our SLARS at par value through a
voluntary lottery redemption program. In December 2010, we sold our remaining SLARS for $2.4 million, resulting in a realized loss of
$127,000 during the period. As of December 31, 2010, all of our total cash and cash equivalents and investment securities
available-for-sale had variable interest rates or were equity investments traded in active markets. 

Concentration of Sales to Major Customers
During 2011, two commercial customers accounted for 20% of our total revenue and three commercial customers accounted
for 53% of our accounts receivable balance at December 31, 2011.  During 2010, one commercial customer accounted for
approximately 26% of total revenue and the same customer accounted for 62% of the accounts receivable balance at December 31,
2010.  During 2009, the U.S. government accounted for approximately 43% of total revenue, with two government customers
accounting for 24% and 17%, respectively, of total revenue.  The U.S. government accounted for approximately 37% of the accounts
receivable balance at December 31, 2009.
Income taxes
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for differences between the financial statement and tax bases of the assets and
liabilities that will result in taxable or deductible amounts in the future, based on enacted tax laws and rates applicable to the periods in
which the differences are expected to affect taxable income.  Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred
tax assets to the amount expected to be realized.  Income tax expense is recorded for the amount of income tax payable for the period
increased or decreased by the change in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the period.
Net loss per share
Basic net loss per share is calculated using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the periods.
Net loss per share assuming dilution is calculated using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding and the dilutive
effect of all potentially dilutive securities, including common stock equivalents and convertible securities.  Net loss per share assuming
dilution is equal to basic net loss per share because the effect of dilutive securities outstanding during the periods including options and
warrants computed using the treasury stock method, is anti-dilutive.  
As of December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, we excluded the following convertible securities from diluted net loss per share as the
effect of including them would have been anti-dilutive.  The shares shown represent the number of shares of common stock which
would be issued upon conversion in the respective years. 



 

 

 

December 31,



 

 

 

2011

 

 

2010

 

 

2009



Publicly traded warrants

 

 

753,000

 

 

753,000

 

 

753,000



Options and private warrants

 

 

2,498,000

 

 

1,381,000

 

 

1,586,000



Nonvested equity shares

 

 

132,000

 

 

57,000

 

 

50,000



 

 

 

3,383,000

 

 

2,191,000

 

 

2,389,000


Research and development
Research and development costs are expensed as incurred.

Long-lived assets  
We evaluate the recoverability of our long-lived assets when an impairment is indicated based on expected undiscounted cash
flows.  We recognize impairment of the carrying value of long-lived assets, if any, based on the fair value of such assets. 

                                                       39



Share-based compensation

We have one share-based incentive compensation plan.  The plan is more fully described in Note 12.
We use the straight-line attribution method to allocate the fair value of share-based compensation awards over the requisite service
period for each award.  The following table shows the amount of share-based employee compensation expense included in the statements of
operations for each period shown:



 

 

 

      Year Ended December 31,



 

 

 

2011

 

 

2010

 

 

2009



Cost of contract revenue

 

$

         143,000 

 

$

            29,000 

 

$

          101,000 



Cost of product revenue

 

 

         136,000 

 

 

            42,000 

 

 

            18,000 



Research and development expense

 

 

      1,329,000 

 

 

       1,343,000 

 

 

       1,213,000 



Sales, marketing, general and administrative expense

 

 

      1,648,000 

 

 

       1,994,000 

 

 

       1,956,000 



 

 

$

      3,256,000 

 

$

       3,408,000 

 

$

       3,288,000 


New accounting pronouncements

In May 2011, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on fair value measurements that clarifies the application of existing
guidance and disclosure requirements, changes certain fair value measurement principles and requires additional disclosures about fair
value measurements. The standard is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011.  The adoption of this
standard is not expected to have a material impact on our financial statements.
In June 2011, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on the presentation of comprehensive income. The new standard
requires the presentation of comprehensive income, the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive
income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The new
standard also requires presentation of adjustments for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the
statement where the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income are presented.  The standard is
effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within these years, beginning after December 15, 2011.  The adoption of this standard is
not expected to have a material impact on our financial statements.

3. 	Long-term contracts 


Cost and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts comprises amounts of revenue recognized on
contracts that we have not yet billed to customers because the amounts were not contractually billable at December 31, 2011 and
2010.  The following table summarizes when we will be contractually able to bill the balance as of December 31, 2011 and 2010.



 

 

 

 

 

 

   Year Ended December 31,



 

 

 

 

 

 

2011

 

 

2010



Billable within 30 days

 

 

 

 

$

            63,000 

 

$

          130,000 



Billable between 31 and 90 days

 

 

 

 

 

                      - 

 

 

                      - 



Billable after 90 days

 

 

 

 

 

              7,000 

 

 

              7,000 



 

 

 

 

 

$

            70,000 

 

$

          137,000 


Our current contracts with the U.S. government are primarily cost-plus-fixed-fee type contracts.  Under the terms of a
cost-plus-fixed-fee contract, the U.S. government reimburses us for negotiated actual direct and indirect cost incurred in performing the
contracted services.  We are not obligated to spend more than the contract value to complete the contracted services.  The period of
performance is generally one year.  Each of our contracts with the U.S. government can be terminated for convenience by the
government at any time.  To date, the U.S. government has not terminated a contract with us.

                                                       40



The following table summarizes the costs incurred on our revenue contracts:



 

 

 

 

 

 

December 31,



 

 

 

 

 

 

2011

 

 

2010



Costs and estimated earnings incurred on uncompleted contracts

 

 

 

 

$

       1,822,000 

 

$

       3,266,000 



Billings on uncompleted contracts

 

 

 

 

 

      (1,908,000)

 

 

      (3,210,000)



 

 

 

 

 

$

           (86,000)

 

$

            56,000 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Included in accompanying consolidated balance sheets under the following captions:



Costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



       contracts

 

 

 

 

$

            70,000 

 

$

          137,000 



Billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



       contracts

 

 

 

 

 

         (156,000)

 

 

           (81,000)



 

 

 

 

 

$

           (86,000)

 

$

            56,000 



4.	Cash equivalents, investment securities, available-for-sale, and fair value measurements


Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants.  As such, fair value is a market-based measurement that should be determined based on assumptions
that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability.  As a basis for considering such assumptions, the authoritative
guidance establishes a three level fair value inputs hierarchy, and requires an entity to maximize the use of observable valuation inputs
and minimize the use of unobservable inputs.  We use market data, assumptions and risks we believe market participants would use in
measuring the fair value of the asset or liability, including the risks inherent in the inputs and the valuation techniques.  The hierarchy is
summarized below.  
Level 1 - Observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 - Observable inputs such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not sufficiently active to qualify
as Level 1 or, other inputs that are observable by market data.
Level 3 - Unobservable inputs for which there is little or no market data, which requires us to develop our own assumptions, which
are significant to the measurement of the fair values.
As of December 31, 2011, our cash and cash equivalents and investments available-for-sale securities portfolio are comprised of
short-term highly rated money market savings accounts and an equity investment with a quoted price in an active market.  Prior to
December 31, 2010, our investment securities were comprised of debt securities and equity investments.  Generally, they were issued
by the U.S. government, its agencies, corporations, and student loan financial aid organizations.  Accounting for these investments is
discussed in Note 2.
Prior to December 2010, we held student loan auction-rate securities (SLARS), fair valued at $2.7 million.  During 2010, we
redeemed a total of $200,000 of our SLARS at par value through a voluntary lottery redemption program and sold our remaining
SLARS for proceeds of approximately $2.4 million.  
The valuation inputs hierarchy classification for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are summarized
below as of December 31, 2011 and 2010.  These tables do not include cash held in our money market savings accounts.

                                                       41






As of December 31, 2011:

 

 

Level 1

 

 

Level 2

 

 

Level 3

 

 

Total



Assets

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



          Corporate equity securities

 

$

                      - 

 

$

               8,000 

 

$

                      - 

 

$

               8,000 



 

 

$

                      - 

 

$

               8,000 

 

$

                      - 

 

$

               8,000 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



As of December 31, 2010:

 

 

Level 1

 

 

Level 2

 

 

Level 3

 

 

Total



Assets

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



          Corporate equity securities

 

$

                      - 

 

$

             13,000 

 

$

                      - 

 

$

             13,000 



 

 

$

                      - 

 

$

             13,000 

 

$

                      - 

 

$

             13,000 


The corporate equity securities are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy because they are valued using inputs and
common methods with sufficient levels of transparency and observability.  Because these securities are traded on the OTC market with
lower average trading volumes we have deemed them not sufficiently active to qualify as Level 1.   
Our investments are summarized below as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010.



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Classification on Balance Sheet



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Investment



 

 

 

Cost/

 

 

Gross

 

 

Gross

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Securities,



 

 

 

Amortized

 

 

Unrealized

 

 

Unrealized

 

 

Estimated

 

 

Cash

 

 

Available-



 

 

 

Cost

 

 

Gains

 

 

Losses

 

 

Fair Value

 

 

Equivalents

 

 

For-Sale



As of December 31, 2011:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



        Assets

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



                Corporate equity securities

 

$

             43,000 

 

$

                      - 

 

$

           (35,000)

 

$

               8,000 

 

$

                      - 

 

$

               8,000 



 

 

$

             43,000 

 

$

                      - 

 

$

           (35,000)

 

$

               8,000 

 

$

                      - 

 

$

               8,000 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Classification on Balance Sheet



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Investment



 

 

 

Cost/

 

 

Gross

 

 

Gross

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Securities,



 

 

 

Amortized

 

 

Unrealized

 

 

Unrealized

 

 

Estimated

 

 

Cash

 

 

Available-



 

 

 

Cost

 

 

Gains

 

 

Losses

 

 

Fair Value

 

 

Equivalents

 

 

For-Sale



As of December 31, 2010:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



        Assets

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



                Corporate equity securities

 

$

             43,000 

 

$

                      - 

 

$

           (30,000)

 

$

             13,000 

 

$

                      - 

 

$

             13,000 



 

 

$

             43,000 

 

$

                      - 

 

$

           (30,000)

 

$

             13,000 

 

$

                      - 

 

$

             13,000 


As of December 31, 2011, the unrealized losses on our investments in equity securities were due primarily to declines in the pricing
of these securities.  
Our significant nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are subject to consideration for recognition and disclosure at fair value in the
financial statements on a nonrecurring basis primarily include property and equipment, capital lease obligations, a tenant improvement
loan agreement and deferred rent.  If we conclude there has been an event indicating the potential impairment of a nonfinancial asset
or liability, or periodically if no such indicating event is deemed to have occurred, we determine the fair value, test for impairments, and
record significant impairments, in the period of determination.  
The maturities of the investment securities available-for-sale as of December 31, 2011 are shown below:



 

 

 

Amortized

 

 

Unrealized

 

 

Unrealized

 

 

Estimated



 

 

 

Cost

 

 

Gains

 

 

Losses

 

 

Fair Value



Maturity date:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



          Less than one year

 

$

             43,000 

 

$

                      - 

 

$

           (35,000)

 

$

               8,000 



          Due in 1-3 years

 

 

                      - 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                      - 



 

 

$

             43,000 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

$

               8,000 



                                                       42


5.	Inventory


	Inventory consists of the following:



 

 

 

 

 

 

December 31,



 

 

 

 

 

 

2011

 

 

2010



Raw materials

 

 

 

 

$

       2,741,000 

 

$

       3,924,000 



Finished goods
                       
                       


 

 

 

 

 

       1,513,000 

 

 

       2,151,000 



 

 

 

 

 

$

       4,254,000 

 

$

       6,075,000 


The inventory at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 consisted of raw materials primarily for our accessory pico projectors
and PicoP display engine, and finished goods primarily composed of our accessory pico projectors.  Inventory is stated at the lower of
cost or market, with cost determined on a net realizable value basis.  Management periodically assesses the need to provide for
obsolescence of inventory and adjusts the carrying value of inventory to its net realizable value when required.  In addition, we reduce
the value of our inventory to its estimated scrap value when management determines that it is not probable that the inventory will be
consumed through the normal course of business during the next twelve months.  In 2011, 2010, and 2009, we recorded inventory
write-downs of $1.6 million, $9.6 million, and $1.3 million, respectively.  

6.	Accrued liabilities


Accrued liabilities consist of the following:



 

 

 

 

 

 

December 31,



 

 

 

 

 

 

2011

 

 

2010



Bonuses

 

 

 

 

$

       1,214,000 

 

$

          649,000 



Payroll and payroll taxes

 

 

 

 

 

          590,000 

 

 

          629,000 



Compensated absences

 

 

 

 

 

          508,000 

 

 

          647,000 



Deferred rent credit

 

 

 

 

 

          261,000 

 

 

          373,000 



Warranty

 

 

 

 

 

          490,000 

 

 

          227,000 



Adverse purchase commitments
                       


 

 

 

 

 

          134,000 

 

 

          341,000 



Accelerated rent expense

 

 

 

 

 

          402,000 

 

 

                      - 



Professional fees

 

 

 

 

 

          415,000 

 

 

          391,000 



Purchased patents

 

 

 

 

 

          330,000 

 

 

          220,000 



Other

 

 

 

 

 

          769,000 

 

 

          658,000 



 

 

 

 

 

$

       5,113,000 

 

$

       4,135,000 



7.	Property and equipment, net


Property and equipment consists of the following:



 

 

 

 

 

 

December 31,



 

 

 

 

 

 

2011

 

 

2010



Production equipment

 

 

 

 

$

       5,144,000 

 

$

       4,749,000 



Leasehold improvements

 

 

 

 

 

       3,344,000 

 

 

       3,317,000 



Computer hardware and software/lab equipment

 

 

 

 

 

       8,917,000 

 

 

       8,802,000 



Office furniture and equipment

 

 

 

 

 

       1,485,000 

 

 

       1,591,000 



 

 

 

 

 

 

     18,890,000 

 

 

     18,459,000 



Less: Accumulated depreciation

 

 

 

 

 

    (16,543,000)

 

 

    (14,290,000)



 

 

 

 

 

$

       2,347,000 

 

$

       4,169,000 


Depreciation expense was $2.4 million, $1.7 million, and $1.1 million, in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.

                                                       43


8.	Intangible assets


Our intangible assets consist entirely of technology-based purchased patents.  The patents are amortized using the straight-line
method over their estimated period of benefit, ranging from one to 17 years.  The gross value of our intangible assets was $2.3 million,
$2.3 million, and $58,000 as of December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  Amortization expense was $184,000, $32,000, and
$2,000 in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  We estimate that we have no significant residual value related to our intangible assets
and no material impairments of intangible assets were identified during any of the periods presented.
In October 2010, we entered into an agreement to purchase a patent portfolio containing 195 patents and patents pending from
Motorola, Inc. to complement our current portfolio of pico projection and display patents.  Under terms of the agreement we issued
approximately 104,000 shares of MicroVision common stock in October 2010, made a cash payment of $220,000 in June 2011 and are
obligated to make a final cash payments of $330,000 in June 2012.
The following table outlines the estimated future amortization expense related to intangible assets held at December 31, 2011:



Year ended December 31,

 

 

 

 

 

Amount



2012

 

 

 

 

$

          184,000 



2013

 

 

 

 

 

          184,000 



2014

 

 

 

 

 

          184,000 



2015

 

 

 

 

 

          184,000 



2016 and thereafter
                       
                       


 

 

 

 

 

       1,312,000 



Total

 

 

 

 

$

       2,048,000 



9.  	Committed equity financing facility


In August 2010, we entered into a committed equity financing facility (CEFF) with Azimuth Opportunity, Ltd.,
("Azimuth"), under which we may sell to Azimuth up to the lesser of $60.0 million or 2,221,488 of our shares of common
stock over a 24-month term, which began on September 9, 2010.  During 2011, we completed two draws from this facility and raised a
total of $5.6 million in gross proceeds from the sale of approximately 557,000 shares of our common stock. In consideration for
Azimuth's execution and delivery of the purchase agreement, we paid Azimuth $150,000 in cash and 8,047 shares of our common
stock.  In July 2011, we cancelled this facility. 
In May 2011, we entered into a CEFF with Azimuth, under which we may sell to Azimuth up to the lesser of $40.0 million or
2,627,304 of our shares of common stock over a 24-month term, which began on July 8, 2011.  In August 2011, we raised $1.5 million
before placement agent and other issuance costs from the sale of approximately 203,000 shares of our common stock.  In November
2011, we cancelled this facility.
In September 2011, we entered into a CEFF with Azimuth, under which we may sell to Azimuth up to the lesser of $35.0 million or
2,753,842 of our shares of common stock over a 24-month term, which began on September 13, 2011. In September 2011, we raised
$5.0 million before placement agent and other issuance costs from the sale of approximately 955,000 shares of our common stock.  In
November 2011, we cancelled this facility.
Reedland Capital Partners acted as placement agent under each of these CEFFs and received a fee for its services equal to 1% of
the aggregate dollar amount of common stock purchased by Azimuth upon settlement of any draw under the facilities.  

                                                       44


10.	Common stock

In November 2011, we raised approximately $10.5 million, before issuance costs of approximately $925,000, through an
underwritten public offering of 2.2 million shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 1.3 million shares of our common stock.
Details of the warrants are described below in Note 11.
During 2011, we also raised approximately $12.1 million, before issuance costs of $635,000, through the sale of approximately 1.7
million shares of our common stock under our 2010 and 2011 committed equity financing facilities.  
During 2010, we raised approximately $22.4 million, before issuance costs of $768,000, through the sale of approximately 1.6
million shares of our common stock under our 2010 committed equity financing facility.  
In November and December 2009, we raised an aggregate of $33.1 million, before issuance costs of $2.3 million, through
underwritten public offerings of 1.4 million shares of our common stock.  
In June 2009, we raised approximately $15.0 million, before issuance costs of approximately $218,000, from the sale of 1.0 million
shares of common stock and warrants to purchase approximately 252,000 shares of our common stock to Max Display Enterprises
Limited, a subsidiary of Walsin Lihwa.  Walsin Lihwa is the parent company of Touch Micro-system Technology Corp. (TMT).  We have
worked for a number of years with both Walsin Lihwa and TMT, as manufacturers of our Micro-Electrical Mechanical systems (MEMS)
chips.  Based on filings by Max Display Enterprises Limited with the Securities Exchange Commission, as of December 31, 2011, Max
Display Enterprises Limited beneficially owned 7.3% of our common stock, as determined in accordance with the rules of the Securities
Exchange Commission.


11.	Warrants 

In November 2011, we raised approximately $10.5 million, before issuance costs of approximately $925,000, through an
underwritten public offering of 2.2 million shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 1.3 million shares of our common stock.
The warrants have an exercise price of $6.24 per share, a five year term, and are exercisable on the date of issuance.   
In June 2009, we raised approximately $15.0 million, before issuance costs of approximately $218,000, from the sale of 1.0 million
shares of common stock and warrants to purchase approximately 252,000 shares of our common stock to Max Display Enterprises
Limited, a subsidiary of Walsin Lihwa.  The warrants have an exercise price of $17.48 per share, a three year term, and are exercisable
on the date of issuance. We can call the warrants if the average closing bid price of our stock is over $69.92 for any 20 consecutive
trading days.  

                                                       45



The following summarizes activity with respect to MicroVision common stock warrants during the three years ended December 31, 2011:



 

 

 

 

 

 

Warrants to

 

 

Weighted



 

 

 

 

 

 

purchase

 

 

average



 

 

 

 

 

 

common

 

 

excercise



 

 

 

 

 

 

shares

 

 

price



Outstanding at December 31, 2008

 

 

 

 

 

       1,189,000 

 

$

              34.56 



Granted:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



         Exercise price greater than intrinsic value

 

 

 

 

 

          252,000 

 

 

              17.52 



Exercised

 

 

 

 

 

         (142,000)

 

 

              27.68 



Canceled/expired

 

 

 

 

 

                      - 

 

 

 



Outstanding at December 31, 2009

 

 

 

 

 

       1,299,000 

 

 

              31.68 



Granted:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



         Exercise price greater than intrinsic value

 

 

 

 

 

                      - 

 

 

                    -   



Exercised

 

 

 

 

 

                      - 

 

 

                    -   



Canceled/expired

 

 

 

 

 

         (257,000)

 

 

              55.20 



Outstanding at December 31, 2010

 

 

 

 

 

       1,042,000 

 

 

              25.84 



Granted:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



         Exercise price greater than intrinsic value

 

 

 

 

 

       1,278,000 

 

 

                6.24 



Exercised

 

 

 

 

 

                      - 

 

 

                    -   



Canceled/expired

 

 

 

 

 

           (33,000)

 

 

              22.08 



Outstanding at December 31, 2011

 

 

 

 

 

       2,287,000 

 

$

              14.96 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Exercisable at December 31, 2011

 

 

 

 

 

       2,287,000 

 

$

              14.96 


The following table summarizes information about the weighted-average fair value of MicroVision common stock warrants granted
for the periods shown:



 

 

 

Year Ended December 31,



 

 

 

2011

 

 

2010

 

 

2009



Exercise price greater than fair value

 

$

               2.06 

 

$

                    -   

 

$

                    -   



Exercise price equal to fair value

 

 

                   -   

 

 

                    -   

 

 

                    -   



Exercise price less than fair value

 

 

                   -   

 

 

                    -   

 

 

                10.16 


There were no warrants issued during 2010.  We estimated the fair value of our common stock warrants on the respective grant
dates using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions used for grants in 2011 and 2009,
respectively: dividend yield of zero percent for both years; expected volatility of 83% and 75%; risk-free interest rates of 1.0% and 1.5%
and expected lives of 5 and 3 years, respectively.  

                                                       46



The following table summarizes information about our common stock warrants outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2011:



 

 

 

Warrants outstanding 

 

 

Warrants exercisable



 

 

 

 

 

 

Weighted

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

Number

 

 

average

 

 

Weighted

 

 

Number

 

 

Weighted



 

 

 

outstanding at

 

 

remaining

 

 

average

 

 

excercisable at

 

 

average



 

 

 

December 31,

 

 

contractual

 

 

excercise

 

 

December 31,

 

 

excercise



Range of exercise prices

 

 

2011

 

 

life (years)

 

 

price

 

 

2011

 

 

price



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



$6.24

 

 

             1,278,000 

 

 

                4.88 

 

$

        6.24 

 

 

             1,278,000 

 

$

         6.24 



$17.48

 

 

                253,000 

 

 

                0.47 

 

 

      17.48 

 

 

                253,000 

 

 

       17.48 



$27.36

 

 

                    3,000 

 

 

                0.12 

 

 

      27.36 

 

 

                    3,000 

 

 

       27.36 



$28.80

 

 

                753,000 

 

 

                1.56 

 

 

      28.80 

 

 

                753,000 

 

 

       28.80 



$6.24-$28.80

 

 

             2,287,000 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

             2,287,000 

 

 

 



12.	Share-based compensation

We use the straight-line attribution method to allocate the fair value of share-based compensation awards over the requisite
service period for each award.  The valuation of and accounting for share-based awards includes a number of complex and subjective
estimates.  These estimates include, but are not limited to, the future volatility of our stock price, future stock option exercise behaviors,
estimated employee turnover and award forfeiture rates.  
As part of our 2011 plan to conserve cash used in operations, we implemented two share-based compensation programs during
the second quarter of 2011 under which we issued shares of our common stock as compensation instead of cash.  We have allocated
the expense related to these programs to various financial statement lines consistent with the method used for allocating all
share-based compensation.
In May 2011, we issued 52,000 shares of our common stock as incentive awards to non-executive employees under the 2006
Incentive Plan.  The shares were valued using our closing stock price on the date of grant.  We expensed $560,000 of share-based
employee compensation for these awards at grant.
 
In June 2011, we implemented a voluntary program in which certain non-executive senior professional employees could elect to
receive a portion of their 2011 salary in stock instead of cash.  During 2011, we issued 136,000 shares of our common stock under the
2006 Incentive Plan as payment of salary.  The shares were valued using our closing stock price on the date of grant.  The total
share-based compensation expense for these awards was $998,000, for service completed during 2011.  
Description of Incentive Plans

The Company currently has two share-based incentive plans.  The 2006 Incentive Plan described below is administered by the
Board of Directors, or its designated committee ("Plan Administrator"), and provides for various awards as determined by the Plan
Administrator.  In June 2008, we determined not to issue additional options from a second share-based incentive plan, the Independent
Director Stock Option Plan described below.

                                                       47



The 2006 Incentive Plan has 2.1 million shares authorized, of which 609,000 shares were available for awards as of
December 31, 2011.  The 2006 Incentive Plan permits granting non-qualified stock options (NSOs), incentive stock options (ISOs),
stock appreciation rights, restricted or unrestricted stock, deferred stock, other share-based awards, or cash awards to employees,
officers, directors and certain non-employees of the Company.  Any award may be a performance-based award.  Awards granted under
the 2006 Incentive Plan have generally been to employees under non-qualified stock option agreements with the following provisions:
exercise prices greater than or equal to the Company's closing stock price on the date of grant; vesting periods ranging from three
years to four years; expiration 10 years from the date of grant; and optionees who terminate their service after vesting have a limited
time to exercise their options (typically three to twelve months).  
The Independent Director Stock Option Plan (IDSOP) has 113,000 shares authorized, of which 88,000 are issued and outstanding
as of December 31, 2011.  The IDSOP permits granting NSOs to independent directors of the Company.  Grants awarded under the
IDSOP generally have the following terms: exercise price equal to the Company's closing stock price on the date of grant, expiration 10
years from the date of grant, and vested grants remain exercisable until their expiration dates if a director leaves the Board.  In June
2008, the Company shareholders approved an amendment to the 2006 Incentive Plan described above to allow non-employee
directors to participate in the plan.  The Company does not intend to issue additional options from the IDSOP. 
Options Valuation Methodology and Assumptions

We use the Black-Scholes option valuation model to determine the fair value of options granted and use the closing price of our
common stock as the fair market value of our stock on that date.
We consider historical stock price volatilities, volatilities of similar companies and other factors in determining estimates of future
volatilities. 
We use historical lives, including post-termination exercise behavior, publications, comparable company estimates, and other
factors as the basis for estimating expected lives. 
Risk free rates are based on the U.S. Treasury Yield Curve as published by the U.S. Treasury. 
The following table summarizes the weighted-average valuation assumptions and weighted-average
grant date fair value of options granted during the periods shown below:



 

 

 

Year Ended December 31,

 



 

 

 

2011

 

 

2010

 

 

2009

 



Assumptions (weighted average)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Volatility

 

 

85%

 

 

84%

 

 

75%

 



Expected term (in years)

 

 

                  4.0 

 

 

                  4.3 

 

 

                  5.1 

 



Risk-free rate

 

 

1.3%

 

 

2.0%

 

 

2.0%

 



Expected dividends

 

 

0.0%

 

 

0.0%

 

 

0.0%

 



Pre-vest forfeiture rate

 

 

7.5%

 

 

5.0%

 

 

5.0%

 



Grant date fair value of options granted

 

$

                6.10 

 

$

                16.19 

 

$

                9.62 

 



                                                       48



Options Activity and Positions

The following table summarizes activity and positions with respect to options for the year ended December 31, 2011: 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Weighted

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Average

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

Weighted

 

 

Remaining

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

Average

 

 

Contractual

 

 

Aggregate



 

 

 

 

 

 

Exercise

 

 

Term

 

 

Intrinsic



Options

 

 

Shares

 

 

Price

 

 

(years)

 

 

Value



Outstanding as of December 31, 2008

 

 

        875,000 

 

$

        31.84 

 

 

               7.2 

 

$

          63,000 



Granted 

 

 

        249,000 

 

 

        15.76 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Exercised

 

 

        (42,000)

 

 

        20.64 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Forfeited or expired

 

 

        (43,000)

 

 

        24.08 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Outstanding as of December 31, 2009

 

 

     1,039,000 

 

 

        28.72 

 

 

               7.0 

 

 

     4,823,000 



Granted 

 

 

        220,000 

 

 

        25.68 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Exercised

 

 

        (30,000)

 

 

        15.92 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Forfeited or expired

 

 

      (137,000)

 

 

        38.64 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Outstanding as of December 31, 2010

 

 

     1,092,000 

 

 

        27.20 

 

 

               5.9 

 

 

          96,309 



Granted 

 

 

        121,000 

 

 

        10.00 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Exercised

 

 

          (5,000)

 

 

        15.12 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Forfeited or expired

 

 

      (244,000)

 

 

        31.60 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Outstanding as of December 31, 2011

 

 

        964,000 

 

$

        24.00 

 

 

               5.8 

 

$

                    - 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Vested and expected to vest as of December 31, 2011

 

 

        946,000 

 

$

        24.16 

 

 

               5.7 

 

$

                    - 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Exercisable as of December 31, 2011

 

 

        716,000 

 

$

        26.72 

 

 

               5.0 

 

$

                    - 


The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 were $12,000, $185,000,
and $455,000, respectively.
The total grant date fair value of options vested during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, was $4.1 million, $4.1
million, and $1.6 million, respectively.  As of December 31, 2011, our unamortized share-based compensation was $2.0 million which
we plan to amortize over the next 2.1 years. 
In March 2011, we issued 85,000 nonvested equity shares of the Company's common stock to executive employees.  These
shares vest conditionally upon completion of certain service and performance objectives by June 30, 2014.  The nonvested equity
shares were valued at fair value on the date of grant and the share-based compensation expense will be amortized over the service
period.
In April 2010, we issued 11,000 nonvested equity shares of the Company's common stock to executive employees under the 2006
Incentive Plan.  
In April 2009, we issued 36,000 nonvested equity shares of the Company's common stock to executive employees under the 2006
Incentive Plan.  Included was a grant of 21,000 shares to one executive which vests conditionally upon completion of certain service
and performance objectives the later of three years from the date of grant or the first day thereafter that the executive is not in a closed
window, and 2,000 shares to the same executive in lieu of a cash salary increase which vested in four equal installments through
December 31, 2009.  The remaining shares vest over a three year period from the date of grant.  The nonvested equity shares were
valued at fair value on the date of grant and the share-based compensation expense will be amortized over the service period.
As of December 31, 2011, our unamortized nonvested equity share-based compensation was $655,000 which we plan to amortize
over the next 1.9 years.

                                                       49


13. 	Receivables from related parties

Our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011 includes $409,000 from a sale of PicoP engines to Walsin Lihwa
Corporation which integrated the engines into its product sold in China during 2011, compared to revenue of $39,000 for the year
ended December 31, 2010 from the sale of evaluation kits to this customer.  Our accounts receivable balance at December 31, 2011
included $159,000 remaining due from this customer, compared to $30,000 at December 31, 2010.  Based on filings with the SEC as of
December 31, 2011, Walsin Lihwa beneficially owns approximately 7.3% of our common stock as determined in accordance with SEC
rules, through its wholly owned subsidiary Max Display Enterprises Limited.  

14.	Commitments and contingencies


Litigation

We are subject to various claims and pending or threatened lawsuits in the normal course of business. We are not currently party to
any legal proceedings that management believes are reasonably possible to have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.
Lease commitments

We lease our office space and certain equipment under noncancelable capital and operating leases with initial or remaining terms
in excess of one year.  
We entered into a 90 month facility lease that commenced in February 2006.  The lease includes extension and rent escalation
provisions over the 90 month term of the lease. Rent expense will be recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Future minimum rental commitments under capital and operating leases for years ending December 31 are as follows:



 

 

 

Capital

 

 

Operating



 

 

 

leases

 

 

leases



2012

 

$

                  62,000 

 

$

                938,000 



2013

 

 

                  62,000 

 

 

                564,000 



2014

 

 

                  21,000 

 

 

                            - 



2015

 

 

                            - 

 

 

                            - 



2016

 

 

                            - 

 

 

                            - 



Thereafter

 

 

                            - 

 

 

                            - 



Total minimum lease payments

 

 

                145,000 

 

$

             1,502,000 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Less: Amount representing interest

 

 

                (34,000)

 

 

 



Present value of capital lease obligations

 

 

                111,000 

 

 

 



Less: Current portion

 

 

                (39,000)

 

 

 



Long-term obligation at December 31, 2011

 

$

                  72,000 

 

 

 


The capital leases are collateralized by the related assets financed and by security deposits held by the lessors under the lease
agreements.  The cost and accumulated depreciation of equipment under capital leases was $987,000 and $942,000, respectively, at
December 31, 2011 and $1,106,000 and $1,043,000, respectively, at December 31, 2010.
Net rent expense was $1,156,000, $860,000, and $862,000 for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.

                                                       50



Long-term debt

During 2006, we entered into a loan agreement with the lessor of our corporate headquarters in Redmond to finance $536,000 in
tenant improvements.  The loan carries a fixed interest rate of 9% per annum, is repayable over the initial term of the lease, which
expires in 2013, and is secured by a letter of credit.  The balance of the loan was $160,000 at December 31, 2011.
Adverse purchase commitments

We have periodically entered into noncancelable purchase contracts in order to ensure the availability of materials to support
production of our PicoP based products and bar code scanners.  We periodically assess the need to provide for impairment on these
purchase contracts and records a loss on purchase commitments when required.  During 2011, no losses on purchase commitments
were recorded.  During 2010, we recorded a loss of $220,000 to cost of product revenue as a result of commitments to purchase
materials for the SHOWWX that were in excess of our estimated future proceeds from sale of the SHOWWX.  In December 2009, we
recorded a loss of $55,000 to cost of product revenue as a result of commitments to purchase materials for the ROV scanner that were
in excess of its estimated future proceeds from the sale of the ROV scanners.  

15.	Income taxes 


A provision for income taxes has not been recorded for 2011, 2010, and 2009 due to the valuation allowances placed against the
net operating losses and deferred tax assets arising during such periods. A valuation allowance has been recorded for all deferred tax
assets.  Based on our history of losses since inception, the available objective evidence creates sufficient uncertainty regarding the
realizability of the deferred tax assets.
At December 31, 2011, we have net operating loss carry-forwards of approximately $283.2 million, for federal income tax reporting
purposes. In addition, we have research and development tax credits of $5.8 million. The net operating loss carry-forwards and
research and development credits available to offset future taxable income, if any, will expire in varying amounts from 2017 to 2031 if
not previously utilized. In 2011, $2.1 million in net operating loss carry-forwards expired.  The research and development tax credits and
the remaining net operating losses are scheduled to expire between 2017 and 2031.  In certain circumstances, as specified in the
Internal Revenue Code, a 50% or more ownership change by certain combinations of our stockholders during any three-year period
would result in limitations on our ability to utilize our net operating loss carry-forwards. We have determined that such a change
occurred during 1996 and the annual utilization of loss carry-forwards generated through the period of that change will be limited to
approximately $1.6 million.

                                                       51



Deferred tax assets are summarized as follows:



 

 

 

December 31,



 

 

 

2011

 

 

2010



Deferred tax assets, current

 

 

 

 

 

 



         Reserves

 

$

             4,395,000 

 

$

             4,281,000 



         Other

 

 

                806,000 

 

 

                853,000 



Total gross deferred tax assets, current

 

 

             5,201,000 

 

 

             5,134,000 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Deferred tax assets, noncurrent

 

 

 

 

 

 



         Net operating loss carryforwards

 

 

           97,156,000 

 

 

           88,425,000 



         R&D credit carryforwards

 

 

             5,754,000 

 

 

             5,428,000 



         Depreciation/amortization deferred

 

 

           26,510,000 

 

 

           24,956,000 



         Other

 

 

             6,958,000 

 

 

             5,815,000 



Total gross deferred tax assets, noncurrent

 

 

         136,378,000 

 

 

         124,624,000 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Deferred tax liabilities, noncurrent

 

 

 

 

 

 



         Convertible debt

 

 

                            - 

 

 

                            - 



Total gross deferred tax liabilities, noncurrent

 

 

                            - 

 

 

                            - 



Net deferred taxes before valuation allowance

 

 

         141,579,000 

 

 

         129,758,000 



Less: Valuation allowance

 

 

       (141,579,000)

 

 

       (129,758,000)



Deferred tax assets

 

$

                            - 

 

$

                            - 


The valuation allowance and the research and development credit carry forwards account for substantially all of the difference
between our effective income tax rate and the Federal statutory tax rate of 34%.
Certain net operating losses arise from the deductibility for tax purposes of compensation under nonqualified stock options equal to
the difference between the fair value of the stock on the date of exercise and the exercise price of the options. For financial reporting
purposes, the tax effect of this deduction when recognized is accounted for as a credit to shareholders' equity.
We did not have any unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2011 and at December 31, 2010.
We recognize interest accrued and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in tax expense. During the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, we recognized no interest or penalties.
We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various states. The tax years 2008-2010 generally remain open to
examination by major taxing jurisdictions in the United States to which we are subject.

16.	Retirement savings plan


We have a retirement savings plan that qualifies under Internal Revenue Code Section 401(k).  The plan covers all qualified
employees.  Contributions to the plan by the Company are made at the discretion of the Board of Directors. 
Under the plan, we match 50% of employee contributions to the plan up to 6% of the employee's per pay period compensation.
During 2011, 2010, and 2009 we contributed $242,000, $349,000, and $369,000, respectively, to the plan under the matching program.


                                                       52


17.	Subsequent event


A 1:8 reverse stock split of MicroVision's common stock became effective on February 17, 2012 and reduced the number of shares
of our common stock issued and outstanding from approximately 136.1 million to approximately 17.0 million. We amended our
Certificate of Incorporation on February 17, 2012 in order to effect the reverse stock split, and on a post-split basis, reduce the number
of authorized shares of our common stock from 200,000,000 to 100,000,000 and maintain 25,000,000 authorized shares of our
preferred stock.  The effects of the reverse stock split have been reflected in the financial
statements and the footnotes. 

18.	Quarterly financial information (Unaudited)


The following table presents our unaudited quarterly financial information for the years ending December 31, 2011 and 2010:



 

 

 

Year Ended December 31, 2011



 

 

 

December 31,

 

 

September 30,

 

 

    June 30,    

 

 

    March 31,    



Revenue

 

$

             1,504,000 

 

$

             1,839,000 

 

$

             1,155,000 

 

$

             1,119,000 



Gross margin (loss)

 

 

           (2,922,000)

 

 

              (881,000)

 

 

           (2,225,000)

 

 

           (1,420,000)



Net loss

 

 

           (9,806,000)

 

 

           (7,790,000)

 

 

           (9,175,000)

 

 

           (9,037,000)



Net loss per share basic and diluted

 

                    (0.62)

 

 

                    (0.57)

 

 

                    (0.69)

 

 

                    (0.70)



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

Year Ended December 31, 2010



 

 

 

December 31,

 

 

September 30,

 

 

June 30,

 

 

March 31,



Revenue

 

$

                683,000 

 

$

             1,301,000 

 

$

             2,088,000 

 

$

                668,000 



Gross margin (loss)

 

 

           (6,782,000)

 

 

           (2,811,000)

 

 

           (1,270,000)

 

 

              (619,000)



Net loss

 

 

         (15,420,000)

 

 

         (11,850,000)

 

 

         (11,073,000)

 

 

           (9,117,000)



Net loss per share basic and diluted

 

                    (1.27)

 

 

                    (1.06)

 

 

                    (1.00)

 

 

                    (0.82)



MICROVISION, INC.
                  VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES SCHEDULE
                  (in thousands)



 

 

 

 

 

 

Additions

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

Balance at

 

 

Charges to

 

 

Charges to

 

 

 

 

 

Balance at



 

 

 

beginning of

 

 

costs and

 

 

other

 

 

 

 

 

end of



Description

 

 

fiscal period

 

 

expenses

 

 

accounts

 

 

Deductions

 

 

fiscal period



          Year Ended December 31, 2009

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



                    Allowance for receivables from related parties

 

$

             1,851 

 

$

               - 

 

$

                - 

 

$

       (1,451)

 

$

             400 



                    Tax valuation allowance

 

 

           99,206 

 

 

               - 

 

 

      14,100 

 

 

                - 

 

 

      113,306 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



          Year Ended December 31, 2010

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

   

 

 

   

 

 

   



                    Allowance for receivables from related parties

 

 

                400 

 

 

               - 

 

 

                - 

 

 

                - 

 

 

             400 



                    Tax valuation allowance

 

 

         113,306 

 

 

               - 

 

 

      16,452 

 

 

                - 

 

 

      129,758 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



          Year Ended December 31, 2011

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

   

 

 

   

 

 

   



                    Allowance for receivables from related parties

 

 

                400 

 

 

               - 

 

 

                - 

 

 

                - 

 

 

             400 



                    Tax valuation allowance

 

 

         129,758 

 

 

               - 

 

 

      11,821 

 

 

                - 

 

 

      141,579 


                                                       53


ITEM 9. 	CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
There have been no changes in or disagreements with accountants in accounting or financial disclosure matters during the
Company's fiscal years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.
ITEM 9A. 	CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

(a) Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures. Our Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") and the Chief Financial
Officer ("CFO") evaluated our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), prior to the filing of this Form 10-K. Based on that
evaluation, our CEO and CFO concluded that, as of December 31, 2011, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective. 

(b) Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.  Our management is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f).
Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in
Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Based on its evaluation under the framework in Internal Control - Integrated Framework, our management concluded that our
internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011. 

The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 has been audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their attestation report, which is included
in Item 8 of  this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading "Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm."
(c) Changes in internal controls over financial reporting. There have not been any changes in our internal control over
financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2011 which have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, our internal control over financial reporting.


ITEM 9B.	OTHER INFORMATION

None

PART III

ITEM 10. 	DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.

Information regarding executive officers is included in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in Item 4A.  The information
required by this Item and not provided in Item 4A will appear under the caption "Discussion of Proposals Recommended by the
Board" in the Proxy Statement, which section is incorporated in this Item by reference.  The Proxy Statement will be filed prior to
our 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders'.
ITEM 11.	EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

The information required by this Item will appear under the captions "Executive Compensation," "Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" and "Director Compensation for 2011" in the Proxy Statement, which
sections are incorporated in this Item by reference.
                                                       54



ITEM 12.	SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

Information as of December 31, 2011 regarding equity compensation plans approved and not approved by stockholders is
summarized in the following table:



 

 

 

Equity Compensation Plan Information



 

 

 

Number of

 

 

Weighted-

 

 

Number of securities



 

 

 

securities to be

 

 

average exercise

 

 

remaining available for



 

 

 

issued upon

 

 

price of

 

 

further issuance under



 

 

 

exercise of

 

 

outstanding

 

 

equity compensation



 

 

 

outstanding

 

 

options, warrants

 

 

plans (excluding



 

 

 

options, warrants

 

 

and rights

 

 

securities reflected in



 

 

 

and rights

 

 

 

 

 

column (a))



Plan Category

 

 

(a)

 

 

(b)

 

 

(c)



Equity compensation plans approved by shareholders

 

 

                 964,000 

 

$

                       24.00 

 

 

                             609,000 



Equity compensation plans not approved by shareholders

 

 

                     3,000 

 

 

                       27.36 

 

 

                                         - 



          Total

 

 

                 967,000 

 

$

                       24.01 

 

 

                             609,000 


In February 2007, MicroVision issued a warrant to purchase 3,000 shares of common stock to a third party for services. The
warrant was immediately exercisable, had an exercise price of $27.36 per share, and expired in February 2012.  The shares and
exercise price are as adjusted for the reverse stock split discussed in this annual report.
The other information required by this Item will appear under the caption "Information About MicroVision Common Stock
Ownership" in the Proxy Statement, which section is incorporated in this Item by reference.
ITEM 13.	CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE.

The information required by this Item will appear under the captions "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions"
and "Board Meetings and Committees" in the Proxy Statement, which sections are incorporated in this Item by
reference.
ITEM 14.	PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES.

The information required by this Item will appear under the caption "Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" in
the Proxy Statement, which section is incorporated in this Item by reference.
                                                       55



PART IV

ITEM 15.	EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

(a) 	Documents filed as part of the report:

		Financial Statements
		Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
		Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010
 
		Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009
 
		Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
		Statements of Comprehensive Loss for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009
		Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009
		Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Valuation and Qualified Accounts and Reserves for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009

(b)	Exhibits
The following exhibits are referenced or included in this report.


3.1

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of MicroVision, Inc., as amended
(9)


3.2

Certificate of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of MicroVision,
Inc.(14)


3.3

Bylaws of MicroVision, Inc. (2)


4.1

Form of Specimen Stock Certificate for Common Stock.(2)


4.2

Form of Warrant issued under the Placement Agency Agreement dated as of July 18, 2008 by and between
MicroVision, Inc. and FTN Securities Corp., as representative of the several placement agents named therein.
(7)


4.3

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of May 4, 2011, by and between MicroVision, Inc. and Azimuth
Opportunities Ltd. (11)


4.4

Warrant Agreement dated November 16, 2011 by and between MicroVision, Inc. and American Stock Transfer
and Trust Company, LLC.(13)


10.1

Assignment of License and Other Rights between The University of Washington and the Washington Technology
Center and the H. Group, dated July 25, 1993.(1)


10.2

Project II Research Agreement between The University of Washington and the Washington Technology Center
and MicroVision, Inc., dated October 28, 1993.(1)+


10.3

Exclusive License Agreement between The University of Washington and MicroVision, Inc., dated October 28,
1993.(1)+


10.4

Exclusive License Agreement between the University of Washington and MicroVision, Inc. dated March 3,
1994.(4)


10.5

MicroVision, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan, as amended. (6)*


10.6

Independent Director Stock Option Plan, as amended.(3)*


10.7

Employment Agreement between MicroVision, Inc. and Alexander Y. Tokman dated April 7,
2009.(10)


10.8

Lease Agreement between CarrAmerica Reality Operating Partnership, L.P. and MicroVision, Inc., dated July 15,
2005.(5)


10.9

Registration Rights Agreement dated June 22, 2009 by and between the Company and Max Display Enterprises
Limited(9)


10.10

Warrant No. 120 to Purchase Common Stock of MicroVision, Inc. issued June 22, 2009 to Max Display
Enterprises Limited(9)


10.11

Common Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of May 4, 2011, by and between MicroVision, Inc. and Azimuth
Opportunities Ltd. (11)


                                                       56




10.12

Engagement Letter, dated as of May 4, 2011, by and between MicroVision, Inc. and Reedland Capital
Partners.(11)


10.13

Common Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 13, 2011, by and between MicroVision, Inc. and
Azimuth Opportunities Ltd. (12)


10.14

Engagement Letter, dated as of September 13, 2011, by and between MicroVision, Inc. and Reedland Capital
Partners.(12)


10.15

Change of Control Severance Plan. 


23

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 


31.1

Principal Executive Officer certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


31.2

Principal Financial Officer certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


32.1

Principal Executive Officer certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(b) or Rule 15d-14(b) and Section 1350, Chapter
63 of Title 18 United States Code (18 U.S.C. 1350), as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


32.2

Principal Financial Officer certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(b) or Rule 15d-14(b) and Section 1350, Chapter 63
of Title 18 United States Code (18 U.S.C. 1350), as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


 101.INS** 


XBRL Instance Document



 101.SCH** 


XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema



 101.CAL** 


XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase



 101.DEF** 


XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase



 101.LAB** 


XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase



 101.PRE** 


XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase




(1)	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form SB-2 Registration Statement, Registration No. 333-05276-LA.
   (2)	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Post-Effective Amendment to Form S-3 Registration Statement, Registration No. 333-102244.
   (3) 	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2002.
   (4) 	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 5, 2003.
   (5) 	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2005.
   (6)	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008. 
   (7)	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 18, 2008. 
   (8)	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2009
   (9)	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2009
   (10)	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2009
   (11)	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 6, 2011.
   (12)	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 13, 2011.
   (13)	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 15, 2011.
   (14)	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 17, 2012.


+ 


Subject to confidential treatment.



* 


Management contracts and compensatory plans and arrangements required to be filed as exhibits pursuant to Item 15(b) of this Report.



** 


Pursuant to Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, these interactive data files are deemed not filed or part of a registration statement
or prospectus for purposes of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933 or Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
and otherwise are not subject to liability. 



                                                       57


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

 
 

MICROVISION, INC.



Date: March 8, 2012

By

Alexander Tokman
Alexander Tokman
   President and Chief Executive Officer



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the registrant and in the following capacities on March 8, 2012.


Signature

Title



/s/ Alexander Tokman
 Alexander Tokman


Chief Executive Officer and Director
   (Principal Executive Officer)

 
 



/s/ Jeff Wilson
  Jeff Wilson


Chief Financial Officer(Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer)

 
 



/s/ Richard A. Cowell
   Richard A. Cowell


Director

 
 



/s/ Slade Gorton
 Slade Gorton


Director

 
 



/s/ Jeanette Horan
 Jeanette Horan


Director

 
 



/s/ Perry Mulligan
 Perry Mulligan


Director

 
 



/s/ Brian Turner
   Brian Turner


Director



                                                       58



EXHIBIT INDEX
The following documents are filed herewith or have been included as exhibits to previous filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission and are incorporated by reference as indicated below.


3.1

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of MicroVision, Inc., as amended
(9)


3.2

Certificate of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of MicroVision,
Inc.(14)


3.3

Bylaws of MicroVision, Inc. (2)


4.1

Form of Specimen Stock Certificate for Common Stock.(2)


4.2

Form of Warrant issued under the Placement Agency Agreement dated as of July 18, 2008 by and between
MicroVision, Inc. and FTN Securities Corp., as representative of the several placement agents named therein.
(7)


4.3

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of May 4, 2011, by and between MicroVision, Inc. and Azimuth
Opportunities Ltd. (11)


4.4

Warrant Agreement dated November 16, 2011 by and between MicroVision, Inc. and American Stock Transfer
and Trust Company, LLC.(13)


10.1

Assignment of License and Other Rights between The University of Washington and the Washington Technology
Center and the H. Group, dated July 25, 1993.(1)


10.2

Project II Research Agreement between The University of Washington and the Washington Technology Center
and MicroVision, Inc., dated October 28, 1993.(1)+


10.3

Exclusive License Agreement between The University of Washington and MicroVision, Inc., dated October 28,
1993.(1)+


10.4

Exclusive License Agreement between the University of Washington and MicroVision, Inc. dated March 3,
1994.(4)


10.5

MicroVision, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan, as amended. (6)*


10.6

Independent Director Stock Option Plan, as amended.(3)*


10.7

Employment Agreement between MicroVision, Inc. and Alexander Y. Tokman dated April 7,
2009.(10)


10.8

Lease Agreement between CarrAmerica Reality Operating Partnership, L.P. and MicroVision, Inc., dated July 15,
2005.(5)


10.9

Registration Rights Agreement dated June 22, 2009 by and between the Company and Max Display Enterprises
Limited(9)


10.10

Warrant No. 120 to Purchase Common Stock of MicroVision, Inc. issued June 22, 2009 to Max Display
Enterprises Limited(9)


10.11

Common Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of May 4, 2011, by and between MicroVision, Inc. and Azimuth
Opportunities Ltd. (11)


10.12

Engagement Letter, dated as of May 4, 2011, by and between MicroVision, Inc. and Reedland Capital
Partners.(11)


10.13

Common Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 13, 2011, by and between MicroVision, Inc. and
Azimuth Opportunities Ltd. (12)


10.14

Engagement Letter, dated as of September 13, 2011, by and between MicroVision, Inc. and Reedland Capital
Partners.(12)


10.15

Change of Control Severance Plan.


23

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.


31.1

Principal Executive Officer certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


31.2

Principal Financial Officer certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


32.1

Principal Executive Officer certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(b) or Rule 15d-14(b) and Section 1350, Chapter
63 of Title 18 United States Code (18 U.S.C. 1350), as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


32.2

Principal Financial Officer certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(b) or Rule 15d-14(b) and Section 1350, Chapter 63
of Title 18 United States Code (18 U.S.C. 1350), as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


                                                       59




 101.INS** 


XBRL Instance Document



 101.SCH** 


XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema



 101.CAL** 


XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase



 101.DEF** 


XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase



 101.LAB** 


XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase



 101.PRE** 


XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase




(1)	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form SB-2 Registration Statement, Registration No. 333-05276-LA.
   (2)	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Post-Effective Amendment to Form S-3 Registration Statement, Registration No. 333-102244.
   (3) 	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2002.
   (4) 	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 5, 2003.
   (5) 	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2005.
   (6)	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008.
   (7)	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 18, 2008. 
   (8)	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2009
   (9)	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2009
   (10)	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2009
   (11)	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 6, 2011.
   (12)	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 13, 2011.
   (13)	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 15, 2011.
   (14)	Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 17, 2012.


+ 


Subject to confidential treatment.



* 


Management contracts and compensatory plans and arrangements required to be filed as exhibits pursuant to Item 15(b) of this Report.



** 


Pursuant to Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, these interactive data files are deemed not filed or part of a registration statement
or prospectus for purposes of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933 or Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
and otherwise are not subject to liability. 



                                                       60






