
10-K
1
cass_10k.htm
ANNUAL REPORT







UNITED STATESSECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSIONWashington, D.C.
20549
FORM 10-K


(Mark One)



x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13
      OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES



EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934



For the fiscal year ended December
      31, 2011



   

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION
      13 OR 15(d) OF THE


     
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
    1934



For the transition period from ________ to
  ________
Commission file number
000-20827


CASS INFORMATION SYSTEMS, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as
      specified in its charter)

Missouri


43-1265338

(State or other
      jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer Identification
      No.)

    



13001 Hollenberg Drive, Bridgeton, Missouri
63044

(314) 506-5500

(Address of principal executive
      offices)
(Zip Code)
 
(Telephone Number, incl. area
      code)

   




Securities registered
      pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 


Title of each
      Class


Name of each
      exchange on which registered

Common Stock, par value $.50


The Nasdaq Global Select
    Market

      

Securities registered
      pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:



Title of each
      Class




None




   



Indicate by check mark if the registrant
is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.
Yes   o     No   x

 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant
is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.
Yes   o    
No   x
 
Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.
Yes   x    
No   o
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has
submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every
Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405
of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).
Yes   x    
No   o
   
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.   o
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a
smaller reporting company. See definitions of “large accelerated filer,”
“accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act.   Large accelerated filer: o          Accelerated
filer: x          Non-accelerated filer: o          Smaller
reporting company: o
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is
a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).
Yes   o     No   x
 
The aggregate market value of the common stock
held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $327,184,000 based on
the closing price of the common stock of $34.33 on June 30, 2011, as reported by
The Nasdaq Global Select Market. As of March 5, 2012, the Registrant had
10,383,118 shares outstanding of common stock. 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Certain information required for Part III of this
report is incorporated by reference from the Registrant’s Proxy Statement for
the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. 


CASS INFORMATION SYSTEMS,
INC.FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORTTABLE
OF CONTENTS 


PART
      I.





Item 1.

BUSINESS

1

Item 1A.

RISK FACTORS

3

Item 1B.

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

6

Item 2.

PROPERTIES

7

Item 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

7

Item 4.

MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

7

PART II.





Item 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON
      EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY
      SECURITIES

8

Item 6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

9

Item 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
      OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

9

Item 7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
      RISK

22

Item 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
      SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

24

Item 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
      AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

50

Item 9A.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

50

Item 9B.

OTHER INFORMATION

52

PART
      III.





Item 10.

DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE
    GOVERNANCE

52

Item 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

52

Item 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
      MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

52

Item 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
      TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

53

Item 14.
 
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

53

PART
      IV.


 
 

Item 15.

EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

53


     
SIGNATURES
     
54
Forward-looking Statements - Factors
That May Affect Future Results 
This report may contain or incorporate
by reference forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor
provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section
21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Although we believe
that, in making any such statements, our expectations are based on reasonable
assumptions, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance
and involve risks, uncertainties, and other factors beyond our control, which
may cause future performance to be materially different from expected
performance summarized in the forward-looking statements. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors are discussed in the section Part I, Item 1A,
“Risk Factors”. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any
forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of
anticipated or unanticipated events, or changes to future results over time.



PART I.
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
Description of
Business
Cass Information Systems, Inc. (“Cass”
or “the Company”) is a leading provider of payment and information processing
services to large manufacturing, distribution and retail enterprises across the
United States. The Company provides transportation invoice rating, payment,
audit, accounting and transportation information to many of the nation’s largest
companies. It is also a processor and payer of utility invoices, including
electricity, gas, and other facility related expenses. Additionally, Cass
competes in the telecommunications expense management market which includes bill
processing, audit and payment services for telephone, data line, cellular and
communication equipment expense. In January 2011, Cass opened an office in
Breda, Netherlands, to support the Company’s multinational information
processing clients. Cass purchased the assets of an environmental expense
management company in January 2012 and now provides such services. The Company,
through its wholly owned bank subsidiary, Cass Commercial Bank (“the Bank”),
also provides commercial banking services. The Bank’s primary focus is to
support the Company’s payment operations and provide banking services to its
target markets, which include privately owned businesses and churches and
church-related ministries. Services include commercial and commercial real
estate loans, checking, savings and time deposit accounts and other cash
management services. The principal offices of the Company are at 13001
Hollenberg Drive, Bridgeton, Missouri 63044. Other operating locations are in
Columbus, Ohio, Boston, Massachusetts, Greenville, South Carolina, Wellington,
Kansas, Breda, Netherlands and Jacksonville, Florida. The Bank’s headquarters
are also located at the Bridgeton location, and the Bank operates two branches
in the St. Louis metropolitan area and one loan production office in southern
California.
Company Strategy and Core
Competencies
Cass is an information services company
with a primary focus on processing payables and payables-related transactions
for large corporations located in the United States. Cass possesses four core
competencies that encompass most of its processing services.
Data acquisition – This refers to the gathering of data elements from diverse,
heterogeneous sources and the building of complete databases for our customers.
Data is the raw material of the information economy. Cass gathers vital data
from complex and diverse input documents, electronic media, proprietary
databases and data feeds, including data acquired from vendor invoices as well
as customer procurement and sales systems. Through its numerous methods of
obtaining streams and pieces of raw data, Cass is able to assemble vital data
into centralized data management systems and warehouses, thus producing an
engine to create the power of information for managing critical corporate
functions and processing systems.
Data management – Once data is assembled, Cass is able to utilize the power
from derived information to produce significant savings and benefits for its
clients. This information is integrated into customers’ unique financial and
accounting systems, eliminating the need for internal accounting processing and
providing internal and external support for these critical systems. Information
is also used to produce management and exception reporting for operational
control, feedback, planning assistance and performance measurement.
Business
Intelligence – Receiving information in the
right place at the right time and in the required format is paramount for
business survival. Cass’ information delivery solutions provide reports, digital
images, data files and retrieval capabilities through the Internet or directly
into customer internal systems. Cass’ proprietary Internet management delivery
system is the foundation for driving these critical functions. Transaction,
operational, control, status and processing exception information are all
delivered through this system creating an efficient, accessible and highly
reliable asset for Cass customers.
Financial exchange – Since Cass is unique among its competition in that it owns
a commercial bank, it is also able to manage the movement of funds from its
customers to their suppliers. This is a distinguishing factor, which clearly
requires the processing capability, operating systems and financial integrity of
a banking organization. Cass provides immediate, accurate, controlled and
protected funds management and transfer system capabilities for all of its
customers. Old and costly check processing and delivery mechanisms are replaced
with more efficient electronic cash management and funds transfer
systems.
Cass’ core competencies allow it to
perform the highest volumes of transaction processing in an integrated,
efficient and systematic approach. Not only is Cass able to process the
transaction, it is also able to collect the data defining the transaction and
effect the financial payment governing its terms.
Cass’ shared business processes –
Accounting, Human Resources and Technology – support its core competencies.
Cass’ accounting function provides the internal control systems to ensure the
highest levels of accountability and protection for customers. Cass’ human
resources department provides experienced people dedicated to streamlining
business procedures and reducing expenses. Cass’ technology is proven and
reliable. The need to safeguard data and secure the efficiency, speed and
timeliness that govern its business is a priority within the organization. The
ability to leverage technology over its strategic units allows Cass the
advantage of deploying technology in a proven and reliable manner without
hindering clients’ strategic business and system requirements.
1


These core competencies, enhanced
through shared business processes, drive Cass’ strategic business units.
Building upon these foundations, Cass continues to explore new business
opportunities that leverage these competencies and processes.
Marketing, Customers and
Competition
The Company, through its Transportation
Information Services business unit, is one of the largest firms in the
transportation bill processing and payment industry in the United States based
on the total dollars of transportation bills paid and items processed.
Competition consists of a few primary competitors and numerous small
transportation bill audit firms located throughout the United States. While
offering transportation payment services, few of these audit firms compete on a
national basis. These competitors compete mainly on price, functionality and
service levels. The Company, through its Utility Information Services business
unit, also competes with other companies, located throughout the United States,
that pay utility bills and provide management reporting. Available data
indicates that the Company is one of the largest providers of utility
information processing and payment services. Cass’ Utility Information Services
is unique among these competitors in that it is not exclusively affiliated with
any one energy service provider (“ESP”). The ESPs market the Company’s services
adding value with their unique auditing, consulting and technological
capabilities. Many of Cass’ services are customized for the ESPs, providing a
full-featured solution without any development costs to the ESP. Also the
Company, through its Telecom Information Services business unit, is a leader in
the growing telecom expense management market, and competes with other companies
located throughout the United States in this market. In January 2011, Cass
opened an office in Breda, Netherlands, to support the Company’s multinational
information processing clients. The Company recently added environmental expense
management services.
The Bank is organized as a Missouri
trust company with banking powers and was founded in 1906. Due to its ownership
of a federally insured commercial bank, the Company was a bank holding
corporation and originally organized in 1982 as Cass Commercial Corporation
under the laws of Missouri. It was approved by the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) in February 1983. The Company
changed its name to Cass Information Systems, Inc. in January 2001. In December
2011, the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis approved the election of Cass
Information Systems, Inc. to become a financial holding company. As a financial
holding company, Cass may engage in activities that are financial in nature or
incidental to a financial activity. The Company’s bank subsidiary encounters
competition from numerous banks and financial institutions located throughout
the St. Louis, Missouri metropolitan area and other areas in which the Bank
competes. The Bank’s principal competitors, however, are large bank holding
companies that are able to offer a wide range of banking and related services
through extensive branch networks. The Bank targets its services to privately
held businesses located in the St. Louis, Missouri area and church and
church-related institutions located in St. Louis, Missouri, Orange County,
California and other selected cities located throughout the United
States.
The Company holds several trademarks
for the payment and rating services it provides. These include: FreightPay®,
Transdata®, TransInq®, Ratemaker®, Rate Advice®, First Rate®, Best Rate®, Rate
Exchange® and CassPort®. The Company and its subsidiaries are not dependent on
any one customer for a significant portion of their businesses. The Company and
its subsidiaries have a varied client base with no individual client exceeding
10% of total revenue.
Employees
The Company and its subsidiaries had
750 full-time and 287 part-time employees as of March 5, 2012. Of these
employees, the Bank had 59 full-time and no part-time employees.
Supervision and
Regulation
The Company and its bank subsidiary are
extensively regulated under federal and state law. These laws and regulations
are intended to protect depositors, not shareholders. These laws also include
the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
(The Dodd-Frank Act). The regulations related to the Dodd-Frank Act are
currently being written, and accordingly, the full implication of this new law
is not yet known. The Bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the
Missouri Division of Finance, the Federal Reserve Bank (the “FRB”) and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”). The Company is a financial
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as
amended, and as such, it is subject to regulation, supervision and examination
by the FRB. The Company is required to file quarterly and annual reports with
the FRB and to provide to the FRB such additional information as the FRB may
require, and it is subject to regular inspections by the FRB. Bank regulatory
agencies use Capital Adequacy Guidelines in their examination and regulation of
financial holding companies and banks. If the capital falls below the minimum
levels established by these guidelines, the agencies may force certain remedial
action to be taken. The Capital Adequacy Guidelines are of several types and
include risk-based capital guidelines, which are designed to make capital
requirements more sensitive to various risk profiles and account for off-balance
sheet exposure; guidelines that consider market risk, which is the risk of loss
due to change in value of assets and liabilities due to changes in interest
rates; and guidelines that use a leverage ratio which places a constraint on the
maximum degree of risk to which a financial holding company may leverage its
equity capital base. For further discussion of the capital adequacy guidelines
and ratios, please refer to Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Item 8, Note 2 of this
report.
2


The FRB also has extensive enforcement
authority over financial holding companies, including, among other things, the
ability to assess civil money penalties, to issue cease and desist or removal
orders and to require that a holding company divest subsidiaries (including its
bank subsidiaries). In general, enforcement actions may be initiated for
violations of law or regulations or for unsafe or unsound practices. Both the
FRB and Missouri Division of Finance also have restrictions on the amount of
dividends that banks and financial holding companies may pay.
As a financial holding company, the
Company must obtain prior approval from the FRB before acquiring ownership or
control of more than 10% of the voting shares of another financial/bank holding
company or acquiring all or substantially all of the assets of such a company.
In many cases, approval is also required for the Company to engage in similar
acquisitions involving a non-bank company or to engage in new non-bank
activities. Any change in applicable laws or regulations may have a material
effect on the business and prospects of the Company.
Website Availability of SEC
Reports
Cass files annual, quarterly and
current reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Cass
will, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with
or furnished to the SEC, make available free of charge on its website each of
its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports
on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports, and its definitive proxy
statements. The address of Cass’ website is: www.cassinfo.com. All reports filed
with the SEC are available for reading and copying at the SEC’s Public Reference
Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-0213 or for more information call
the Public Reference Room at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also makes all filed
reports, proxy statements and information statements available on its website at
www.sec.gov.
The reference to our website address
does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on
the website and should not be considered part of this report.
Financial Information about
Segments
The services provided by the Company
are classified in two reportable segments: Information Services and Banking
Services. The revenues from external customers, net income and total assets by
segment as of and for each of the years in the three year period ended December
31, 2011, are set forth in Item 8, Note 16 of this report.
Statistical Disclosure by Bank
Holding Companies
For the statistical disclosure by bank
holding companies, refer to Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
This section highlights specific risks
that could affect the Company’s business. Although this section attempts to
highlight key factors, please be aware that other risks may prove to be
important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time, and Cass cannot
predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect the Company’s
financial performance. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere or
incorporated by reference in this report, the identified risks that could cause
actual results to differ materially include the following:
General political, economic or
industry conditions may be less favorable than expected.
Local, domestic, and international
economic, political and industry-specific conditions and governmental monetary
and fiscal policies affect the industries in which the Company competes,
directly and indirectly. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment,
volatile interest rates, tight money supply, real estate values, international
conflicts and other factors outside of Cass’ control may adversely affect the
Company. Economic downturns could result in the delinquency of outstanding
loans, which could have a material adverse impact on Cass’ earnings.
Unfavorable developments
concerning customer credit quality could affect Cass’ financial
results.
Although the Company regularly reviews
credit exposure related to its customers and various industry sectors in which
it has business relationships, default risk may arise from events or
circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. Under such circumstances,
the Company could experience an increase in the level of provision for credit
losses, delinquencies, nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and allowance for
credit losses.
3


The Company has lending
concentrations, including, but not limited to, churches and church-related
entities located in selected cities and privately-held businesses located in or
near St. Louis, Missouri, that could suffer a significant decline which could
adversely affect the Company.
Cass’ customer base consists, in part,
of lending concentrations in several segments and geographical areas. If any of
these segments or areas is significantly affected by weak economic conditions,
the Company could experience increased credit losses, and its business could be
adversely affected.
Fluctuations in interest rates
could affect Cass’ net interest income and balance sheet.
The operations of financial
institutions such as the Company are dependent to a large degree on net interest
income, which is the difference between interest income from loans and
investments and interest expense on deposits and borrowings. Prevailing economic
conditions, the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and the
policies of various regulatory agencies all affect market rates of interest,
which in turn significantly affect financial institutions’ net interest income.
Fluctuations in interest rates affect Cass’ financial statements, as they do for
all financial institutions. Volatility in interest rates can also result in
disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from financial institutions
into direct investments, such as federal government and corporate securities and
other investment vehicles, which, because of the absence of federal insurance
premiums and reserve requirements, generally pay higher rates of return than
financial institutions. As discussed in greater detail in Item 7A, “Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” a continuation of the current
low level of interest rates would have a negative impact on the Company’s net
interest income.
Methods of reducing risk
exposures might not be effective.
Instruments, systems and strategies
used to hedge or otherwise manage exposure to various types of credit, interest
rate, market and liquidity, operational, regulatory/compliance, business risks
and enterprise-wide risks could be less effective than anticipated. As a result,
the Company may not be able to effectively mitigate its risk exposures in
particular market environments or against particular types of risk.
Customer borrowing, repayment,
investment, deposit, and payable processing practices may be different than
anticipated.
The Company uses a variety of financial
tools, models and other methods to anticipate customer behavior as part of its
strategic and financial planning and to meet certain regulatory requirements.
Individual, economic, political and industry-specific conditions and other
factors outside of Cass’ control could alter predicted customer borrowing,
repayment, investment, deposit, and payable processing practices. Such a change
in these practices could adversely affect Cass’ ability to anticipate business
needs, including cash flow and its impact on liquidity, and to meet regulatory
requirements.
Cass must respond to rapid
technological changes and these changes may be more difficult or expensive than
anticipated.
If competitors introduce new products
and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and
practices emerge, the Company’s existing product and service offerings,
technology and systems may become obsolete. Further, if Cass fails to adopt or
develop new technologies or to adapt its products and services to emerging
industry standards, Cass may lose current and future customers, which could have
a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of
operations. The payment processing and financial services industries are
changing rapidly and in order to remain competitive, Cass must continue to
enhance and improve the functionality and features of its products, services and
technologies. These changes may be more difficult or expensive than the Company
anticipates.
Operational difficulties or
security problems could damage Cass’ reputation and business.
The Company depends on the reliable
operation of its computer operations and network connections from its clients to
its systems. Any operational problems or outages in these systems would cause
Cass to be unable to process transactions for its clients, resulting in
decreased revenues. In addition, any system delays, failures or loss of data,
whatever the cause, could reduce client satisfaction with the Company’s products
and services and harm Cass’ financial results. Cass also depends on the security
of its systems. Company networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access,
computer viruses and other disruptive problems. A material security problem
affecting Cass could damage its reputation, deter prospects from purchasing its
products and services, deter customers from using its products and services or
result in liability to Cass.
Cass’ stock price can become
volatile and fluctuate widely in response to a variety of
factors.
The Company’s stock price can fluctuate
based on factors that can include actual or anticipated variations in Cass’
quarterly results; new technology or services by competitors; unanticipated
losses or gains due to unexpected events, including losses or gains on
securities held for investment purposes; significant acquisitions or business
combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by
or involving the Company or its competitors; changes in accounting policies or
practices; failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits
from acquisitions; or changes in government regulations.
4


General market fluctuations, industry
factors and general economic and political conditions, such as economic
slowdowns or recessions, governmental intervention, interest rate changes,
credit loss trends, low trading volume or currency fluctuations also could cause
Cass’ stock price to decrease regardless of the Company’s operating
results.
Competitive product and pricing
pressure within Cass’ markets may change.
The Company operates in a very
competitive environment, which is characterized by competition from a number of
other vendors and financial institutions in each market in which it operates.
The Company competes with large payment processors and national and regional
financial institutions and also smaller auditing companies and banks in terms of
products and pricing. If the Company is unable to compete effectively in
products and pricing in its markets, business could decline.
Management’s ability to maintain
and expand customer relationships may differ from
expectations.
The industries in which the Company
operates are very competitive. The Company not only competes for business
opportunities with new customers, but also competes to maintain and expand the
relationships it has with its existing customers. The Company continues to
experience pressures to maintain these relationships as its competitors attempt
to capture its customers.
The introduction, withdrawal,
success and timing of business initiatives and strategies, including, but not
limited to, the expansion of payment and processing activities to new markets,
the expansion of products and services to existing markets and opening of new
bank branches, may be less successful or may be different than anticipated. Such
a result could adversely affect Cass’ business.
The Company makes certain projections
as a basis for developing plans and strategies for its payment processing and
banking products. If the Company does not accurately determine demand for its
products and services, it could result in the Company incurring significant
expenses without the anticipated increases in revenue, which could result in an
adverse effect on its earnings.
Management’s ability to retain
key officers and employees may change.
Cass’ future operating results depend
substantially upon the continued service of Cass’ executive officers and key
personnel. Cass’ future operating results also depend in significant part upon
Cass’ ability to attract and retain qualified management, financial, technical,
marketing, sales, and support personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is
intense, and the Company cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining
qualified personnel. There may be only a limited number of persons with the
requisite skills to serve in these positions, and it may be increasingly
difficult for the Company to hire personnel over time. Cass’ business, financial
condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by
the loss of any of its key employees, by the failure of any key employee to
perform in his or her current position, or by Cass’ inability to attract and
retain skilled employees.
Changes in regulation or
oversight may have a material adverse impact on Cass’
operations.
The Company is subject to extensive
regulation, supervision and examination by the Missouri Division of Finance, the
FDIC, the FRB, the SEC and other regulatory bodies. Such regulation and
supervision governs the activities in which the Company may engage. Regulatory
authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement
activities, including the imposition of restrictions on Cass’ operations,
investigations and limitations related to Cass’ securities, the classification
of Cass’ assets and determination of the level of Cass’ allowance for loan
losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of
regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a
material adverse impact on Cass’ operations.
Legal and regulatory proceedings
and related matters with respect to the financial services industry, including
those directly involving the Company and its subsidiaries, could adversely
affect Cass or the financial services industry in general.
The Company is subject to various legal
and regulatory proceedings. It is inherently difficult to assess the outcome of
these matters, and there can be no assurance that the Company will prevail in
any proceeding or litigation. Any such matter could result in substantial cost
and diversion of Cass’ efforts, which by itself could have a material adverse
effect on Cass’ financial condition and operating results. Further, adverse
determinations in such matters could result in actions by Cass’ regulators that
could materially adversely affect Cass’ business, financial condition or results
of operations. Please refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.”
5


The Company’s accounting policies
and methods are the basis of how Cass reports its financial condition and
results of operations, and they require management to make estimates about
matters that are inherently uncertain. In addition, changes in accounting
policies and practices, as may be adopted by the regulatory agencies, the
Financial Accounting Standards Board, or other authoritative bodies, could
materially impact Cass’ financial statements. 
The Company’s accounting policies and
methods are fundamental to how Cass records and reports its financial condition
and results of operations. Management must exercise judgment in selecting and
applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure that
they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect
management’s judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and
report Cass’ financial condition and results of operations. In some cases,
management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more
alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might
result in the Company reporting materially different amounts than would have
been reported under a different alternative.
Cass has identified four accounting
policies as being “critical” to the presentation of its financial condition and
results of operations because they require management to make particularly
subjective and/or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain
and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be
reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. More
information on Cass’ critical accounting policies is contained in Item 7,
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.” 
From time to time, the regulatory
agencies, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), and other
authoritative bodies change the financial accounting and reporting standards
that govern the preparation of the Company’s financial statements. These changes
can be hard to predict and can materially impact how management records and
reports the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 
Cass is subject to examinations
and challenges by tax authorities, which, if not resolved in the Company’s
favor, could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of
operations.
In the normal course of business, Cass
and its affiliates are routinely subject to examinations and challenges from
federal and state tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in
connection with investments it has made and the businesses in which it is
engaged. Recently, federal and state taxing authorities have become increasingly
aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. These
tax positions may relate to tax compliance, sales and use, franchise, gross
receipts, payroll, property and income tax issues, including tax base,
apportionment and tax credit planning. The challenges made by tax authorities
may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or
deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such
challenges are made and are not resolved in the Company’s favor, they could have
an adverse effect on Cass’ financial condition and results of operations.

There could be terrorist
activities or other hostilities, which may adversely affect the general economy,
financial and capital markets, specific industries, and the
Company.
The terrorist attacks in September 2001
in the United States and ensuing events, as well as the resulting decline in
consumer confidence, had a material adverse effect on the economy. Any similar
future events may disrupt Cass’ operations or those of its customers. In
addition, these events had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the
U.S. and world economy in general and consumer confidence and spending in
particular, which could harm Cass’ operations. Any of these events could
increase volatility in the U.S. and world financial markets, which could harm
Cass’ stock price and may limit the capital resources available to its customers
and the Company. This could have a significant impact on Cass’ operating
results, revenues and costs and may result in increased volatility in the market
price of Cass’ common stock.
There could be natural disasters,
including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires and
floods, which may adversely affect the general economy, financial and capital
markets, specific industries, and the Company.
The Company has significant operations
and customer base in Missouri, California, Ohio, Massachusetts, South Carolina,
Kansas, Florida and other regions where natural disasters may occur. These
regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks,
such as tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, fires and floods. These types of
natural disasters at times have disrupted the local economy, Cass’ business and
customers and have posed physical risks to Cass’ property. A significant natural
disaster could materially affect Cass’ operating results. 
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 
None.
6 


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The Company’s headquarters are located
at 13001 Hollenberg Drive, Bridgeton, Missouri. This location is owned by the
Company, and includes a building with approximately 61,500 square feet of office
space. The Company also owns a production facility of approximately 45,500
square feet located at 2675 Corporate Exchange Drive, Columbus, Ohio. Additional
facilities are located in Lowell, Massachusetts where approximately 7,000 square
feet of office space is leased through March 2016, Greenville, South Carolina
where approximately 8,500 square feet of office space is leased through November
2013, Wellington, Kansas where approximately 2,000 square feet of office space
is leased through June 2016 and Columbus, Ohio where approximately 8,500 square
feet of office space is leased through March 2013. The Company has an office in
Breda, Netherlands to service its multinational customers. Total space leased is
732 square feet and it is leased through December 2013. During January 2012,
Cass purchased the assets of an environmental expense management company in
Jacksonville, Florida with two locations totaling 4,876 square feet leased
through December 2012. 
The Bank’s headquarters are also
located at 13001 Hollenberg Drive, Bridgeton, Missouri. The Bank occupies
approximately 20,500 square feet of the 61,500 square foot building. In
addition, the Bank owns a banking facility near downtown St. Louis, Missouri
that consists of approximately 1,750 square feet with adjoining drive-up
facilities. The Bank has additional leased facilities in Fenton, Missouri (2,000
square feet) and Santa Ana, California (3,400 square feet). The Bank closed its
facilities in Maryland Heights, Missouri (2,500 square feet) and Chesterfield,
Missouri (2,850 square feet) in December 2011 and February 2012,
respectively.
Management believes that these
facilities are suitable and adequate for the Company’s operations. 
ITEM 3. LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS 
The Company is the defendant in a
proceeding pending in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of
Delaware, which proceeding was initiated by Chapter 11 debtor LNT Services, Inc.
("LNT"), an affiliate of Linens N' Things, on December 19, 2009. LNT seeks to
avoid and recover $33,825,773.71 in allegedly preferential payments (the
"Payments") made to the Company within 90 days preceding LNT’s bankruptcy
filing. The Company processed and paid the freight carrier bills for Linens N’
Things. The Payments were received by the Company in the normal course of
providing services to Linens N' Things, and were subsequently paid by the
Company to the appropriate Linens N’ Things freight carriers. In an attempt to
secure a favorable result prior to filing an answer, the Company has provided
the plaintiff with information and data which supports its primary
defenses.
On September 28, 2010, Asentinel LLC
("Asentinel") filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the
Western District of Tennessee against the Company, AnchorPoint, Inc.
("AnchorPoint") and Veramark Technologies, Inc. ("Veramark"). The suit alleges
infringement of two Asentinel patents by the Company, AnchorPoint and Veramark.
Cass vigorously denies infringing any valid claim of either patent. Asentinel
has requested an order enjoining the Company from infringing the two patents at
issue, damages for the alleged infringement, interest and costs, treble damages
for willful infringement, and attorneys' fees. 
While there is some uncertainty
relating to any litigation, management is of the opinion that the Company has
valid defenses to both these claims. All other legal proceedings and actions
involving the Company are of an ordinary and routine nature and are incidental
to the operations of the Company. Management believes the outcome of these
proceedings, including the LNT and Asentinel proceedings, will not have a
material effect on the businesses or financial conditions of the Company or its
subsidiaries. 
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY
DISCLOSURES 
Not applicable. 
7


PART II.
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS 
The Company’s common stock is quoted on
The Nasdaq Global Select Market® under the symbol “CASS.” As of March 5, 2012,
there were 148 holders of record of the Company’s common stock. High and low
sale prices, as reported by The Nasdaq Global Select Market for each quarter of
2011 and 2010, restated for stock dividends, were as follows:




2011

2010


     
High
     
Low
     
High

Low

1st
      Quarter

$     
36.23

$     
32.08

$     
28.82
     
$     
26.50

2nd Quarter

 
36.64


32.49


31.82


27.37

3rd
      Quarter
 

35.25


27.05

 
32.08


28.75

4th Quarter


36.39


35.54


36.81


30.46
The Company has continuously paid
regularly scheduled cash dividends since 1934 and expects to continue to pay
quarterly cash dividends in the future. Cash dividends paid per share, restated
for stock dividends, by the Company during the two most recent fiscal years were
as follows: 




2011
     
2010

March
     
$     
.145

$     
.127

June


.145

 
.127

September


.145
 

.127

December
 

.170


.145
On October 17, 2011, the Board of
Directors re-authorized the repurchase of up to 330,000 shares of the Company’s
common stock, pursuant to a treasury stock buyback program maintained by the
Company. Under the program, the Company repurchased 12,000 shares (not restated
for the 2011 stock dividend) for an aggregate purchase price of $467,000 in
2010. There were no repurchases in 2011. As of December 31, 2011, 330,000 shares
remained available for repurchase under the program. A portion of the
repurchased shares may be used for the Company's employee benefit plans, and the
balance will be available for other general corporate purposes. The stock
repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of
repurchase activity will depend on factors such as levels of cash generation
from operations, cash requirements for investments, repayment of debt, current
stock price, and other factors. The Company may repurchase shares from time to
time on the open market or in private transactions, including structured
transactions. The stock repurchase program may be modified or discontinued at
any time. 
Performance Quoted on The Nasdaq
Stock Market for the Last Five Fiscal Years 
The following graph compares the
cumulative total returns over the last five fiscal years of a hypothetical
investment of $100 in shares of common stock of the Company with a hypothetical
investment of $100 in The Nasdaq Stock Market (US) (“Nasdaq”) and in the index
of Nasdaq computer and data processing stocks. The graph assumes $100 was
invested on December 31, 2006, with dividends reinvested. Returns are based on
period end prices. 

8


ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
The following table presents selected
financial information for each of the five years ended December 31. The selected
financial data should be read in conjunction with the Company’s consolidated
financial statements and accompanying notes included in Item 8 of this report.



(Dollars in thousands except per share data)
   
2011
   
2010
   
2009
   
2008
   
2007

Fee revenue and other
      income

$     
62,824


$     
56,146


$     
51,238


$     
53,170


$     
48,200


Interest income on loans


39,515



39,785



36,003



34,204



36,288


Interest income on debt
      and equity securities


10,034



8,747



7,611



7,716



5,531


Other interest income


686



514



170



2,218



7,527


       Total interest
      income


50,235



49,046



43,784



44,138



49,346


Interest expense on deposits


4,374



4,875



4,924



3,179



7,728


Interest expense on
      short-term borrowings


—



—



23



12



6


Interest on debentures and other


—



—



106



187



230


       Total interest
      expense


4,374



4,875



5,053



3,378



7,964


       Net interest
      income


45,861



44,171



38,731



40,760



41,382


Provision for loan
      losses


2,150



4,100



2,050



2,200



900


       Net interest income
      after provision


43,711



40,071



36,681



38,560



40,482


Operating
expense


75,029



68,284



66,385



65,564



62,739


       Income before
      income tax expense


31,506



27,933



21,534



26,166



25,943


       Income tax
      expense


8,497



7,623



5,405



7,160



8,148


Net
      income

$
23,009


$
20,310


$
16,129


$
19,006


$
17,795


Diluted earnings per
      share

$
2.21


$
1.95


$
1.57


$
1.85


$
1.73


Dividends per share


.61



.53



.48



.45



.41


Dividend payout ratio


27.29
%


26.82
%


30.54
%


24.14
%


23.53
%

Average total assets

$
1,301,635


$
1,157,257


$
978,171


$
922,471


$
891,734


Average net
loans


683,215



666,202



606,304



546,110



508,621


Average debt and equity securities


263,264



222,249



193,393



197,273



141,363


Average total
      deposits


541,337



470,096



375,572



241,844



279,831


Average subordinated convertible
      debentures


—



—



1,984



3,669



3,699


Average total shareholders’ equity


151,669



137,748



117,663



104,185



89,427


Return on average total assets


1.77
%


1.76
%


1.65
%


2.06
%


2.00
%

Return on average
      equity


15.17



14.74



13.71



18.24



19.90


Average equity to assets ratio


11.65



11.90



12.03



11.29



10.03


Equity to assets ratio at
      year-end


12.17



11.96



12.79



12.00



11.01


Tangible common equity to tangible
      assets


11.66



11.38



12.11



11.19



10.18


Tangible common equity to
      risk-weighted
           assets


17.47



15.20



15.60



13.60



14.25


Net interest margin


4.31



4.61



4.79



5.34



5.45


Allowance for loan losses
      to loans at year-end


1.93



1.68



1.29



1.09



1.26


Nonperforming assets to loans and foreclosed
             assets


.51



.35



.55



.57



.77


Net loan charge-offs to average loans
             outstanding


.16



.07



.04



.37



.24



ITEM
      7. 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
      CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following discussion and analysis
provides information about the financial condition and results of operations of
the Company for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. All share and
per share data have been restated to give effect to the 10% stock dividend
issued on December 15, 2011. This discussion and analysis should be read in
conjunction with the Company’s consolidated financial statements and
accompanying notes and other selected financial data presented elsewhere in this
report. 
9


Executive Overview 
Cass provides payment and information
processing services to large manufacturing, distribution and retail enterprises
from its offices/locations in St. Louis, Missouri, Columbus, Ohio, Boston,
Massachusetts, Greenville, South Carolina, Wellington, Kansas, Breda,
Netherlands and Jacksonville, Florida. The Company’s services include freight
invoice rating, payment processing, auditing, and the generation of accounting
and transportation information. Cass also processes and pays utility invoices,
which include electricity, gas and telecommunications expenses, and is a
provider of telecom expense management solutions. Cass extracts, stores, and
presents information from freight, utility, telecommunication and environmental
invoices, assisting its customers’ transportation, energy, environmental and
information technology managers in making decisions that will enable them to
improve operating performance. The Company receives data from multiple sources,
electronic and otherwise, and processes the data to accomplish the specific
operating requirements of its customers. It then provides the data in a central
repository for access and archiving. The data is finally transformed into
information through the Company’s databases that allow client interaction as
required and provide Internet-based tools for analytical processing. The Company
also, through Cass Commercial Bank, its St. Louis, Missouri based bank
subsidiary (the “Bank”), provides banking services in the St. Louis metropolitan
area, Orange County, California, and other selected cities in the United States.
In addition to supporting the Company’s payment operations, the Bank provides
banking services to its target markets, which include privately-owned businesses
and churches and church-related ministries.
The specific payment and information
processing services provided to each customer are developed individually to meet
each customer’s requirements, which can vary greatly. In addition, the degree of
automation such as electronic data interchange, imaging, and web-based solutions
varies greatly among customers and industries. These factors combine so that
pricing varies greatly among the customer base. In general, however, Cass is
compensated for its processing services through service fees and investment of
account balances generated during the payment process. The amount, type, and
calculation of service fees vary greatly by service offering, but generally
follow the volume of transactions processed. Interest income from the balances
generated during the payment processing cycle is affected by the amount of time
Cass holds the funds prior to payment and the dollar volume processed. Both the
number of transactions processed and the dollar volume processed are therefore
key metrics followed by management. Other factors will also influence revenue
and profitability, such as changes in the general level of interest rates, which
have a significant effect on net interest income. The funds generated by these
processing activities are invested in overnight investments, investment grade
securities, and loans generated by the Bank. The Bank earns most of its revenue
from net interest income, or the difference between the interest earned on its
loans and investments and the interest paid on its deposits and other
borrowings. The Bank also assesses fees on other services such as cash
management services. 
Industry-wide factors that impact the
Company include the willingness of large corporations to outsource key business
functions such as freight, utility, telecommunication and environmental payment
and audit. The benefits that can be achieved by outsourcing transaction
processing and the management information generated by Cass’ systems can be
influenced by factors such as the competitive pressures within industries to
improve profitability, the general level of transportation costs, deregulation
of energy costs, and consolidation of telecommunication providers. Economic
factors that impact the Company include the general level of economic activity
that can affect the volume and size of invoices processed, the ability to hire
and retain qualified staff, and the growth and quality of the loan portfolio. As
economic conditions continued to slowly improve in 2011, the number and total
dollar volumes of transactions processed increased, thereby increasing fee
revenue, interest income, and liquidity. The general level of interest rates
also has a significant effect on the revenue of the Company. As discussed in
greater detail in Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about
Market Risk,” a decline in the general level of interest rates can have a
negative impact on net interest income. 
In January 2011, Cass opened an office
in Breda, Netherlands, to support the Company’s multinational information
processing clients. The revenues, expenditures and assets related to this office
did not account for a significant portion of the Company’s business during the
year ended December 31, 2011 and the current activities are not significant
enough to pose substantial risk. 
On January 6, 2012, the Company
acquired the assets of Waste Reduction Consultants, Inc., one of the
fastest-growing providers of environmental expense management services. This
acquisition positions the Company to expand its portfolio of services for
controlling facility-related expenses and accelerates Cass’ leadership position
as a back-office business processor. The results of operations for this new
service will be included in the Information Services business segment beginning
in January 2012. 
In 2011, total fee revenue and other
income increased $6,678,000, or 12%, net interest income after provision for
loan losses increased $3,640,000, or 9%, and total operating expenses increased
$6,745,000, or 10%. These results were driven by a 3,932,000, or 10%, increase
in items processed and $4,519,000,000, or 16%, increase in dollars processed.
The asset quality of the Company’s loans and investments as of December 31, 2011
remained strong.
Currently, management views Cass’ major
opportunity as the continued expansion of its payment and information processing
service offerings and customer base. Management intends to accomplish this by
maintaining the Company’s leadership position in applied technology, which when
combined with the security and processing controls of the Bank, makes Cass
unique in the industry. 
10


Impact of New and Not Yet Adopted
Accounting Pronouncements 
In June 2011, the FASB issued
Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2011-05 – Comprehensive Income (ASC Topic 220) – Presentation of Comprehensive
Income. This ASU improves the comparability,
consistency, and transparency of financial reporting and increases the
prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income. This ASU requires
companies to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net
income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single
continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive
statements. This ASU eliminates the option to present the components of other
comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in shareholders’
equity. This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those
years, beginning after December 15, 2011, and should be applied retrospectively.
ASU No. 2011-12 deferred the presentation of reclassification adjustments and
superseded certain pending paragraphs in ASU No. 2011-05. As these ASU’s address
financial statement presentation, the adoptions will not impact the Company’s
consolidated financial statements or results of operations.
In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU
No. 2011-08 – Intangibles – Goodwill and Other
(ASC Topic 350) – Testing of Goodwill for Impairment. This ASU simplifies how entities test goodwill for impairment. The
amendments under this ASU permit an entity to first assess qualitative factors
to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a
reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining
whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. The
more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50
percent. If an entity concludes that it is not more likely than not that the
fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, it would not be
required to perform the two-step impairment test for that reporting unit. This
ASU is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. The adoption of this ASU is not
expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial
statements or results of operations. 
Critical Accounting Policies

The Company has prepared the
consolidated financial statements in this report in accordance with the FASB
Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”). In preparing the consolidated
financial statements, management makes estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amount of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of
revenue and expenses during the reporting period. These estimates have been
generally accurate in the past, have been consistent and have not required any
material changes. There can be no assurances that actual results will not differ
from those estimates. Certain accounting policies that require significant
management estimates and are deemed critical to the Company’s results of
operations or financial position have been discussed with the Audit Committee of
the Board of Directors and are described below. 
Allowance for Loan
Losses. The Company performs periodic and
systematic detailed reviews of its loan portfolio to assess overall
collectability. The level of the allowance for loan losses reflects management’s
estimate of the collectability of the loan portfolio. Although these estimates
are based on established methodologies for determining allowance requirements,
actual results can differ significantly from estimated results. These policies
affect both segments of the Company. The impact and associated risks related to
these policies on the Company’s business operations are discussed in the
“Provision and Allowance for Loan Losses” section of this report. The Company’s
estimates have been materially accurate in the past, and accordingly, the
Company expects to continue to utilize the present processes. 
Impairment of Assets. The Company periodically evaluates certain long-term assets
such as intangible assets including goodwill, foreclosed assets and assets held
for sale for impairment. Generally, these assets are initially recorded at cost,
and recognition of impairment is required when events and circumstances indicate
that the carrying amounts of these assets will not be recoverable in the future.
If impairment occurs, various methods of measuring impairment may be called for
depending on the circumstances and type of asset, including quoted market
prices, estimates based on similar assets, and estimates based on valuation
techniques such as discounted projected cash flows. The Company had no
impairment of goodwill and intangible assets for fiscal years ended December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009 and management does not anticipate any future impairment
loss. Investment securities available-for-sale are measured at fair value as
calculated by an independent research firm. The market evaluation utilizes
several sources which include “observable inputs” rather than “significant
unobservable inputs.” These policies affect both segments of the Company and
require significant management assumptions and estimates that could result in
materially different results if conditions or underlying circumstances change.

Income Taxes. The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to
recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and
deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events
that have been recognized in an entity's financial statements or tax returns.
Judgment is required in addressing the future tax consequences of events that
have been recognized in the Company’s financial statements or tax returns such
as the realization of deferred tax assets or changes in tax laws or
interpretations thereof. In addition, the Company is subject to the continuous
examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other
taxing authorities. In accordance with FASB ASC 740, “Income Taxes,” the Company
has unrecognized tax benefits related to tax positions taken or expected to be
taken. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.
11


Pension Plans. The amounts recognized in the consolidated financial
statements related to pension plans are determined from actuarial valuations.
Inherent in these valuations are assumptions including expected return on plan
assets, discount rates at which the liabilities could be settled at December 31,
2011, rate of increase in future compensation levels and mortality rates. These
assumptions are updated annually and are disclosed in Note 10 to the
consolidated financial statements. There have been no significant changes in the
Company’s long-term rate of return assumptions for the past three fiscal years
ended December 31 and management believes they are not reasonably likely to
change in the future. Pursuant to FASB ASC 715, “Compensation – Retirement
Benefits,” the Company has recognized the funded status of its defined benefit
postretirement plan in its consolidated balance sheet and has recognized changes
in that funded status through comprehensive income. The funded status is
measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the
projected benefit obligation as of the date of its fiscal year-end. 
Summary of
Results




For the Years Ended December
      31,

% Change

(In thousands except per share data)
   
2011
   
2010
   
2009
   
2011 v. 2010
   
2010 v. 2009

Total processing
      volume


42,466



38,534



34,619


10.2
%

11.3
%

Total processing dollars

$     
31,945,761


$     
27,426,336


$     
23,717,451


16.5


15.6


Payment and processing
      fees

$
60,688


$
54,183


$
48,665


12.0


11.3


Net interest income after provision
      for       loan losses

$
43,711


$
40,071


$
36,681


9.1


9.2


Total net
revenue

$
106,535


$
96,217


$
87,919


10.7


9.4


Average earning assets

$
1,188,283


$
1,060,559


$
894,951


12.0


18.5


Net interest
    margin*


4.31
%


4.61
%


4.79
%







Net income

$
23,009


$
20,310


$
16,129


13.3


25.9


Diluted earnings per
      share

$
2.21


$
1.95


$
1.57


13.3


24.3


Return on average assets


1.77
%


1.76
%


1.65
%







Return on average equity


15.17
%


14.74
%


13.71
%








*
     
Presented on a
      tax-equivalent basis
The results of 2011 compared to 2010
include the following significant items: 
Payment and
processing fee revenue increased as the number of transactions processed
increased. This increase was due to increased activity from both base and new
customers. 
Net interest
income after provision for loan losses increased $3,640,000, or 9%, due to the
12% growth in average earning assets. The net interest margin on a tax
equivalent basis decreased from 4.61% in 2010 to 4.31% in 2011. The growth in
average earning assets was funded by increases in deposits and accounts and
drafts payable. 
Gains from
the sale of securities were $43,000 in 2011 and $0 in 2010. Bank service fees
were down $56,000, or 4%, and other income was up $229,000 primarily due to an
increase in bank-owned life insurance income. Operating expenses increased
$6,745,000, or 10%, primarily in response to the increase in business volume.

The results of 2010 compared to 2009
include the following significant items: 
Payment and
processing fee revenue increased as the number of transactions processed
increased. This increase was due to increased activity from both base and new
customers. 
Net interest
income after provision for loan losses increased $3,390,000, or 9%, due to the
18% growth in average earning assets. The net interest margin on a tax
equivalent basis was 4.61% in 2010 compared to 4.79% in 2009. The growth in
average earning assets was funded mainly by the increase in deposits.

Gains from
the sale of securities were $0 in 2010 and $697,000 in 2009. Bank service fees
were up $86,000, or 6%, and other income was approximately the same in 2010 and
2009. Operating expenses increased $1,899,000, or 3%, primarily in response to
the increase in business volume, as well as higher professional fees as the
Company invested for future growth. 
12


Fee Revenue and Other Income

The Company’s fee revenue is derived
mainly from transportation and utility payment and processing fees. As the
Company provides its processing and payment services, it is compensated by
service fees which are typically calculated on a per-item basis and by the
accounts and drafts payable balances generated in the payment process which can
be used to generate interest income. Processing volumes, fee revenue and other
income were as follows: 




December 31,

% Change

(In thousands)
   
2011
   
2010
    
2009
   
2011 v. 2010
   
2010 v. 2009

Transportation invoice
      transaction volume


29,025


26,287


23,137

10.4
%

13.6
%

Transportation invoice dollar
    volume

$     
20,599,503

$     
16,966,003

$     
14,047,342

21.4


20.8


Utility transaction
      volume


13,441


12,247


11,482

9.7


6.7


Utility transaction dollar volume

$
10,702,242

$
10,460,333

$
9,670,109

2.3


8.2


Payment and processing
      revenue

$
60,688

$
54,183

$
48,665

12.0


11.3


Bank service fees

$
1,354

$
1,410

$
1,324

(4.0
)

6.5


Gains on sales of
      investment securities

$
43

$
0

$
697

—


—


Other

$
739

$
553

$
552

33.6


0.2

Fee revenue and other income in 2011
compared to 2010 include the following significant pre-tax components:

Transportation dollar volume increased by 21% during the past year,
primarily due to increased activity from both base and new customers. Utility
transaction dollar volume had a slight increase of 2%. Overall, revenues for the
year were up 12%. 
Fee revenue and other income in 2010
compared to 2009 include the following significant pre-tax components:

Transportation dollar volume increased by 21% during 2010. This increase
was due to the increased activity from both base and new customers. Utility
transaction dollar volume was up a solid 8%. Overall, revenues for the year were
up 11%. 
Net Interest Income 
Net interest income is the difference
between interest earned on loans, investments, and other earning assets and
interest expense on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net
interest income is a significant source of the Company’s revenues. The following
table summarizes the changes in tax-equivalent net interest income and related
factors: 




December 31,

% Change

(In thousands)
     
2011
     
2010
     
2009
     
2011 v. 2010
     
2010 v. 2009

Average earning
      assets

$     
1,188,283


$     
1,060,559


$     
894,951


12.0
%

18.5
%

Net interest income*

$
51,248


$
48,891


$
42,869


4.8


14.0


Net interest
    margin*


4.31
%


4.61
%


4.79
%







Yield on earning assets*


4.68
%


5.07
%


5.35
%







Rate on interest bearing liabilities


1.07
%


1.37
%


1.81
%








*
     
Presented on a
      tax-equivalent basis using a tax rate of 35% in 2011, 35% in 2010 and 34%
      in 2009.
Net interest income in 2011 compared to
2010: 
The increase
in net interest income was caused by the increase in average earning assets,
partially offset by a decrease in net interest margin. The increase in earning
assets was funded mainly by the increase in deposits and accounts and drafts
payable. The decrease in net interest margin was due to the lack of satisfactory
investment alternatives in this historically low interest rate environment. More
information is contained in the tables below and in Item 7A of this report.

Total
average loans increased $20,083,000, or 3%, to $695,984,000. Loans have a
positive effect on interest income and the net interest margin due to the fact
that loans are one of the Company’s highest yielding earning assets for any
given maturity. 
Total
average investment in securities increased $41,015,000, or 18%, to $263,264,000.
The investment portfolio will expand and contract over time as the Company
manages its liquidity and interest rate position. All purchases were made in
accordance with the Company’s investment policy. Total average federal funds
sold and other short-term investments increased $2,370,000, or 2%. 
The Bank’s
total average interest-bearing deposits increased $52,276,000, or 15%, compared
to the prior year. This increase in deposits, along with the $63,318,000, or 12%
increase in accounts and drafts payable, funded the increase in earning assets.
Average rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities decreased from 1.37% to 1.07%
as a result of the continued low interest rate environment.
Net interest income in 2010 compared to
2009: 
The increase
in net interest income was caused by the increase in average earning assets,
partially offset by a decrease in net interest margin. The increase in earning
assets was funded mainly by the increase in deposits and accounts and drafts
payable. The decrease in net interest margin was due to the continued low
interest rate environment. More information is contained in the tables below and
in Item 7A of this report.
13


Total
average loans increased $62,642,000, or 10%, to $675,901,000. Loans have a
positive effect on interest income and the net interest margin due to the fact
that loans are one of the Company’s highest yielding earning assets for any
given maturity. 
Total
average investment in securities increased $28,856,000, or 15%, to $222,249,000.
The investment portfolio will expand and contract over time as the interest rate
environment changes and the Company manages its liquidity and interest rate
position. All purchases were made in accordance with the Company’s investment
policy. Total average federal funds sold and other short-term investments
increased $68,280,000, or 117%. 
The Bank’s
total average interest-bearing deposits increased $83,063,000, or 30%, compared
to the prior year. This increase in deposits, along with the $73,729,000, or 16%
increase in accounts and drafts payable, funded the increase in earning assets.
Average rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities decreased from 1.81% to 1.37%
as a result of the continued low interest rate environment experienced during
2010.
Distribution of Assets, Liabilities
and Shareholders' Equity; Interest Rate and Interest Differential

The following table contains condensed
average balance sheets for each of the periods reported, the tax-equivalent
interest income and expense on each category of interest-earning assets and
interest-bearing liabilities, and the average yield on such categories of
interest-earning assets and the average rates paid on such categories of
interest-bearing liabilities for each of the periods reported: 




2011

2010

2009

(In
    thousands)
     
AverageBalance
     
InterestIncome/Expense
     
Yield/Rate
     
AverageBalance
     
InterestIncome/Expense
     
Yield/Rate
     
AverageBalance
     
InterestIncome/Expense
     
Yield/Rate

Assets1


































Earning assets


































Loans2, 3:


































       Taxable

$   
695,121


$   
39,504


5.68
%

$   
674,026


$   
39,723


5.89
%

$   
610,171


$   
35,872


5.88
%

       Tax-exempt4


863



18


2.09



1,875



95


5.07



3,088



202


6.54


Securities5:


































       Taxable


997



37


3.71



885



43


4.86



3,373



58


1.72


       Tax-exempt4


261,466



15,373


5.88



221,364



13,391


6.05



190,020



11,620


6.12


       Certificates of
      deposit


801



4


.50



—



—


—



—



—


—


Interest-bearing deposits in
      other       financial
      institutions


99,911



347


.35



35,655



139


.39



29,825



72


0.24


Federal funds sold and
      other       short-term
      investments


129,124



339


.26



126,754



375


.30



58,474



98


0.17


Total earning assets


1,188,283



55,622


4.68



1,060,559



53,766


5.07



894,951



47,922


5.35


Non-earning assets


































       Cash and due
      from banks


12,525










10,794










9,541









       Premise and
      equipment, net


9,790










9,979










11,171









       Bank owned life
      insurance


14,299










13,924










13,376









       Goodwill and
      other              intangibles


7,688










7,795










7,942









       Other
      assets


81,819










63,905










48,145









       Allowance for
      loan losses


(12,769
)









(9,699
)









(6,955
)








Total assets

$
1,301,635









$
1,157,257









$
978,171









Liabilities and Shareholders’
      Equity1

Interest-bearing liabilities


































       Interest-bearing
      demand              deposits

$
233,636


$
2,162


.93
%

$
182,869


$
2,082


1.14
%

$
127,952


$
1,798


1.41
%

       Savings
      deposits


25,556



225


.88



28,137



321


1.14



25,268



334


1.32


       Time deposits
      >=$100


52,123



690


1.32



52,510



814


1.55



43,590



1,063


2.44


       Other time
      deposits


97,419



1,297


1.33



92,942



1,658


1.78



76,585



1,729


2.26


       Total
      interest-bearing deposits


408,734



4,374


1.07



356,458



4,875


1.37



273,395



4,924


1.80


       Short-term
      borrowings


3



—


—



33



—


—



3,759



23


0.61


       Subordinated
      debentures


—



—


—



—



—


—



1,984



106


5.34


       Total interest
      bearing liabilities


408,737



4,374


1.07



356,491



4,875


1.37



279,138



5,053


1.81


Non-interest bearing liabilities


































       Demand
      deposits


132,603










113,638










102,177









       Accounts and
      drafts payable


596,935










533,617










459,888









       Other
      liabilities


11,691










15,763










19,305









Total liabilities


1,149,966










1,019,509










860,508









Shareholders’
      equity


151,669










137,748










117,663









Total liabilities and
      shareholders’       
    equity

$
1,301,635









$
1,157,257









$
978,171









Net interest
      income





$
51,248









$
48,891









$
42,869





Net interest margin






4.31
%









4.61
%









4.79
%




Interest spread






3.61
%









3.70
%









3.54
%



14





     


1
 
Balances shown are daily averages.

2
 
For purposes of these computations, nonaccrual loans are
      included in the average loan amounts outstanding. Interest on nonaccrual
      loans is recorded when received as discussed further in Item 8, Note 1 of
      this report.

3
 
Interest income on loans includes net loan fees of
      $542,000, $372,000 and $409,000 for 2011, 2010 and 2009,
      respectively.

4
 
Interest income is presented on a tax-equivalent basis
      assuming a tax rate of 35% in 2011, 35% in 2010 and 34% for 2009. The tax-equivalent adjustment was approximately $5,387,000, $4,720,000 and
      $4,138,000 for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

5
 
For purposes of these computations, yields on investment
      securities are computed as interest income divided by the average
      amortized cost of the investments.
Analysis of Net Interest Income
Changes
The following table presents the
changes in interest income and expense between years due to changes in volume
and interest rates.




2011 Over 2010

2010 Over 2009

(In thousands)
    
Volume1
    
Rate1
    
Total
    
Volume1
    
Rate1
    
Total

Increase (decrease) in
      interest income:

























Loans2,3:

























       Taxable

$    
1,222


$    
(1,441
)

$    
(219
)

$    
3,763


$    
88


$    
3,851


       Tax-exempt4


(37
)


(40
)


(77
)


(68
)


(39
)


(107
)

Securities:

























       Taxable


5



(11
)


(6
)


(65
)


50



(15
)

       Tax-exempt4


2,367



(385
)


1,982



1,897



(126
)


1,771


       Certificates of
      deposit


2



2



4



—



—



—


Interest-bearing deposits
      in other       financial
      institutions


224



(16
)


208



16



51



67


Federal funds sold and other
      short-term       investments


7



(43
)


(36
)


167



110



277


Total interest
      income

$
3,790


$
(1,934
)

$
1,856


$
5,710


$
134


$
5,844


Interest expense on:

























       Interest-bearing
      demand deposits

$
513


$
(433
)

$
80


$
670


$
(386
)

$
284


       Savings
      deposits


(28
)


(68
)


(96
)


36



(49
)


(13
)

       Time deposits
      >=$100


(6
)


(118
)


(124
)


189



(438
)


(249
)

       Other time
      deposits


77



(438
)


(361
)


330



(401
)


(71
)

       Short-term
      borrowings


—



—



—



(11
)


(12
)


(23
)

       Subordinated
      debentures


—



—



—



(53
)


(53
)


(106
)

Total interest
      expense


556



(1,057
)


(501
)


1,161



(1,339
)


(178
)

Net
      interest income

$
3,234


$
(877
)

$
2,357


$
4,549


$
1,473


$
6,022



1
     
The change in interest due to the combined rate/volume
      variance has been allocated in proportion to the absolute dollar amounts
      of the change in each.

2
 
Average balances include nonaccrual loans.

3
 
Interest income includes net loan fees.

4
 
Interest income is presented on a tax-equivalent basis
      assuming a tax rate of 35% in 2011, 35% in 2010 and 34% in
  2009.
Loan Portfolio
Interest earned on the loan portfolio
is a primary source of income for the Company. The loan portfolio was
$671,565,000 and represented 51% of the Company's total assets as of December
31, 2011 and generated $39,515,000 in revenue during the year then ended. The
Company had no sub-prime mortgage loans or residential development loans in its
portfolio for any of the years presented. The following tables show the
composition of the loan portfolio at the end of the periods indicated and
remaining maturities for loans as of December 31, 2011.


Loans by Type





December 31,

(In thousands)
     
2011
     
2010
     
2009
     
2008
     
2007

Commercial and
      industrial

$     
136,916

$     
135,061

$     
93,371

$     
118,044

$     
100,827

Real estate (Commercial and
    church):
















       Mortgage


488,574


517,593


471,773


416,151


365,056

       Construction


45,564


54,752


74,407


56,221


31,082

Other


511


1,227


2,406


1,560


1,490

Total loans

$
671,565

$
708,633

$
641,957

$
591,976

$
498,455
15


Loans by
Maturity


(At December 31, 2011)

One Year

Over 1 Year

Over






Or Less

Through 5 Years

5 Years






Fixed

Floating

Fixed

Floating

Fixed

Floating




(In
      thousands)
    
Rate
    
Rate1
    
Rate
      
Rate1
    
Rate
    
Rate1
    
Total

Commercial and industrial

$     
1,762

$     
58,494

$     
22,492

$     
24,689

$     
2,363

$     
27,116

$     
136,916

       Mortgage


53,326


26,713


312,066


50,589


34,841


11,730


489,265

       Construction


10,599


34,274


—


—


—


—


44,873

Other


—


506


5


—


—


—


511

Total loans

$
65,687

$
119,987

$
334,563

$
75,278

$
37,204

$
38,846

$
671,565



     


1
 
Loans have been classified as having "floating" interest
      rates if the rate specified in the loan varies with the prime commercial
      rate of interest. Note: Due to the historically low interest rates, the
      Company instituted a 4% floor for its prime lending
  rate.
The Company has no concentrations of
loans exceeding 10% of total loans, which are not otherwise disclosed in the
loan portfolio composition table and as are discussed in Item 8, Note 4 of this
report. As can be seen in the loan composition table above and as are discussed
in Item 8, Note 4 the Company's primary market niche for banking services is
privately held businesses and churches and church-related ministries.
Loans to commercial entities are
generally secured by the business assets of the borrower, including accounts
receivable, inventory, machinery and equipment, and the real estate from which
the borrower operates. Operating lines of credit to these companies generally
are secured by accounts receivable and inventory, with specific percentages of
each determined on a customer-by-customer basis based on various factors
including the type of business. Intermediate term credit for machinery and
equipment is generally provided at some percentage of the value of the equipment
purchased, depending on the type of machinery or equipment purchased by the
entity. Loans secured exclusively by real estate to businesses and churches are
generally made with a maximum 80% loan to value ratio, depending upon the
Company's estimate of the resale value and ability of the property to generate
cash. The Company's loan policy requires an independent appraisal for all loans
over $250,000 secured by real estate. Company management monitors the local economy in
an attempt to determine whether it has had a significant deteriorating effect on
such real estate loans. When problems are identified, appraised values are
updated on a continual basis, either internally or through an updated external
appraisal. 
Loan portfolio changes from December
31, 2010 to December 31, 2011: 
Total loans
decreased $37,068,000, or 5%, to $671,565,000. This decrease was the result of
intense competition in the marketplace as other lending institutions expanded
their loan portfolios. Additional details regarding the types and maturities of
loans in the loan portfolio are contained in the tables above and in Item 8,
Note 4. 
Loan portfolio changes from December
31, 2009 to December 31, 2010: 
Total loans
increased $66,676,000, or 10%, to $708,633,000. This increase was the result of
successful marketing efforts by the Company’s lending staff, particularly in the
commercial and industrial loan sector. The growth in real estate mortgage loans
was primarily due to increased activity in the church portfolio. Additional
details regarding the types and maturities of loans in the loan portfolio are
contained in the tables above and in Item 8, Note 4. 
Provision and Allowance for Loan
Losses 
The Company recorded a provision for
loan losses of $2,150,000 in 2011, $4,100,000 in 2010 and $2,050,000 in 2009.
The amount of the provisions for loan losses was derived from the Company’s
quarterly analysis of the allowance for loan losses. The amount of the provision
will fluctuate as determined by these quarterly analyses. The decrease in
provision for loan losses in 2011 was due to the decrease in loan balances
described above. The Company had net loan charge-offs of $1,087,000, $493,000
and $217,000 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The allowance for loan losses
was $12,954,000 at December 31, 2011 compared to $11,891,000 at December 31,
2010 and $8,284,000 at December 31, 2009. The year-end 2011 allowance
represented 1.93% of outstanding loans, compared to 1.68% of outstanding loans
at year-end 2010 and 1.29% at year-end 2009. From December 31, 2010 to December
31, 2011, the level of nonperforming loans increased $1,173,000 from $565,000 to
$1,738,000, which represents .26% of outstanding loans. Nonperforming loans are
more fully explained in the section entitled “Nonperforming Assets.” 
The allowance for loan losses has been
established and is maintained to absorb probable losses in the loan portfolio.
An ongoing assessment of risk of loss is performed to determine if the current
balance of the allowance is adequate to cover probable losses in the portfolio.
Charges or credits are made to expense to cover any deficiency or reduce any
excess, as required. The current methodology employed to determine the
appropriate allowance consists of two components, specific and general. The
Company develops specific allowances on commercial, commercial real estate, and
construction loans based on individual review of these loans and an estimate of
the borrower’s ability to repay the loan given the availability of collateral,
other sources of cash flow and collection options available. The general
component relates to all other loans, which are evaluated based on loan grade.
The loan grade assigned to each loan is typically evaluated on an annual basis,
unless circumstances require interim evaluation. The Company assigns an
allowance amount consistent with each loan's rating category. The allowance
amount is based on derived loss experience over prescribed periods. In addition
to the amounts derived from the loan grades, a portion is added to the general
allowance to take into account other factors including national and local
economic conditions, downturns in specific industries including loss in
collateral value, trends in credit quality at the Company and the banking
industry, and trends in risk rating changes. As part of their examination
process, federal and state agencies review the Company's methodology for
maintaining the allowance for loan losses and the related balance. These
agencies may require the Company to increase the allowance for loan losses based
on their judgments and interpretations about information available to them at
the time of their examination.
16


The following schedule summarizes
activity in the allowance for loan losses and the allocation of the allowance to
the Company’s loan categories.
Summary of Loan Loss Experience





December
      31,

(In thousands)
   
2011
   
2010
   
2009
   
2008
   
2007

Allowance at beginning of year

$     
11,891


$     
8,284


$     
6,451


$     
6,280


$     
6,592


Loans
      charged-off:





















       Commercial and
      industrial


1,118



554



109



2,120



337


       Real estate (Commercial
      and church):





















              Mortgage


28



—



291



—



1,038


              Construction


—



—



—



—



—


       Other


—



—



—



53



—


Total loans charged-off


1,146



554



400



2,173



1,375


Recoveries of loans previously charged-off:





















       Commercial and
      industrial


58



60



180



136



159


       Real estate (Commercial
      and church):





















              Mortgage


1



1



3



—



4


              Construction


—



—



—



—



—


       Other


—



—



—



8



—


Total recoveries of loans previously
      charged-off


59



61



183



144



163


Net loans
      charged-off


1,087



493



217



2,029



1,212


Provision charged to expense


2,150



4,100



2,050



2,200



900


Allowance at end of year

$
12,954


$
11,891


$
8,284


$
6,451


$
6,280


Loans
      outstanding:





















       Average

$
695,984


$
675,901


$
613,259


$
552,333


$
515,123


       December 31


671,565



708,633



641,957



591,976



498,455


Ratio of allowance
      for loan losses to
      loans       outstanding:





















       Average


1.86
%


1.76
%


1.35
%


1.17
%


1.22
%

       December 31


1.93
%


1.68
%


1.29
%


1.09
%


1.26
%

Ratio of net charge-offs to average
      loans       outstanding


.16
%


.07
%


.04
%


.37
%


.24
%

Allocation of
      allowance for loan losses1:





















       Commercial and
      industrial

$
2,594


$
2,732


$
1,511


$
1,521


$
3,380


       Real estate (Commercial
      and church):





















              Mortgage


9,573



8,491



5,953



4,343



2,564


              Construction


783



656



809



569



318


       Other


4



12



11



18



18


Total

$
12,954


$
11,891


$
8,284


$
6,451


$
6,280


Percentage of categories to total loans:





















       Commercial and
      industrial


20.4
%


19.2
%


14.9
%


20.5
%


21.1
%

       Real estate (Commercial
      and church):





















              Mortgage


72.7
%


72.9
%


73.1
%


69.7
%


72.4
%

              Construction


6.8
%


7.7
%


11.6
%


9.5
%


6.2
%

       Other


0.1
%


0.2
%


0.4
%


0.3
%


0.3
%

Total


100.0
%


100.0
%


100.0
%


100.0
%


100.0
%



     


1
 
Although specific allocations exist, the entire
      allowance is available to absorb losses in any particular loan
      category.
Nonperforming Assets 
Nonperforming loans are defined as
loans on non-accrual status and loans 90 days or more past due but still
accruing. Nonperforming assets include nonperforming loans plus foreclosed real
estate. Troubled debt restructurings are not included in nonperforming loans
unless they are on non-accrual status or past due 90 days or more. 
It is the policy of the Company to
continually monitor its loan portfolio and to discontinue the accrual of
interest on any loan on which payment of principal or interest, in a timely
manner in the normal course of business, is doubtful. Subsequent payments
received on such loans are applied to principal if there is any reasonable doubt
as to the collectability of such principal; otherwise, these receipts are
recorded as interest income. Interest on nonaccrual loans, which would have been
recorded under the original terms of the loans, was approximately $107,000 for
the year ended December 31, 2011. Of this amount, approximately $102,000 was
actually recorded as interest income on such loans.
17


Total nonaccrual loans at December 31,
2011 consists of five loans totaling $1,709,000 that relate to
businesses/churches that have weak financial positions and/or are in
liquidation. Allocations of the allowance for loan losses have been established
for the estimated loss exposure.
Foreclosed assets were $1,689,000 at
December 31, 2011. The foreclosed assets relate to the foreclosure of two loans
which were secured by commercial real estate buildings in St. Louis County and
St. Charles County, Missouri. These buildings are currently listed for sale and
have been recorded at their estimated fair value less costs to sell. 
The Company does not have any foreign
loans. The Company's loan portfolio does not include a significant amount of
single family real estate mortgages, as the Company does not market its services
to retail customers. Also, the Company had no sub-prime mortgage loans or
residential development loans in its portfolio in any of the years presented.

The Company does not have any other
interest-earning assets which would have been included in nonaccrual, past due
or restructured loans if such assets were loans. 
Summary of Nonperforming
Assets 




December 31,

(In thousands)
     
2011
     
2010
     
2009
     
2008
     
2007

Commercial and
      industrial:
















       Nonaccrual

$     
56

$     
46

$     
—

$     
278

$     
1,277

       Contractually
      past due 90 days or more and
      still              accruing


—


—


—


41


496

Real estate – mortgage:
















       Nonaccrual


1,653


519


1,608


900


708

       Contractually
      past due 90 days or more and
      still              accruing


29


—


—


—


—

Total nonperforming
      loans

$
1,738

$
565

$
1,608

$
1,219

$
2,481

Total foreclosed assets


1,689


1,910


1,910


2,177


1,388

Total nonperforming assets

$
3,427

$
2,475

$
3,518

$
3,396

$
3,869
Operating Expenses
Operating expenses in 2011 compared to
2010 include the following significant pre-tax components: 
Salaries and
employee benefits expense increased $5,205,000, or 10%, to $56,573,000. An
increase in the number of employees primarily drove this increase. Occupancy
expense decreased $167,000, or 7%, to $2,318,000 as a result of decreased rental
square footage. Equipment expense decreased $36,000, or 1%, to $3,525,000
primarily due to lower depreciation expense. Amortization of intangibles
remained the same in 2011 as 2010, at $107,000. Other operating expense
increased $1,743,000, or 16%, to $12,506,000 primarily due to an increase in
legal fees. 
Operating expenses in 2010 compared to
2009 include the following significant pre-tax components: 
Salaries and
employee benefits expense increased $754,000, or 1%, to $51,368,000. This is
mainly attributable to higher incentive compensation related to higher pre-tax
income. Occupancy expense increased $89,000, or 4%, to $2,485,000 as a result of
additional maintenance and repairs expense. Equipment expense increased
$213,000, or 6%, to $3,561,000 primarily due to increased software license and
maintenance expenses. Amortization of intangibles decreased $115,000, or 52%, to
$107,000 because the software from the 2004 PROFITLAB, Inc. acquisition was
fully amortized during the third quarter of 2009. Other operating expense
increased $958,000, or 10%, to $10,763,000 primarily due to an increase in
professional fees. 
Income Tax Expense 
Income tax expense in 2011 totaled
$8,497,000 compared to $7,623,000 in 2010 and $5,405,000 in 2009. When measured
as a percent of income, the Company’s effective tax rate was 27% in 2011, 27% in
2010 and 25% in 2009. The effective tax rate varies from year-to-year primarily
due to changes in the Company’s pre-tax income and the amount of investment in
tax-exempt municipal bonds.
18


Investment Portfolio 
Investment portfolio changes from
December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011: 
State and
political subdivision securities increased $42,793,000, or 16%, to $307,362,000.
The investment portfolio provides the Company with a significant source of
earnings, secondary source of liquidity, and mechanisms to manage the effects of
changes in loan demand and interest rates. Therefore, the size, asset allocation
and maturity distribution of the investment portfolio will vary over time
depending on management’s assessment of current and future interest rates,
changes in loan demand, changes in the Company’s sources of funds and the
economic outlook. During this period, the size of the investment portfolio
increased as the Company purchased state and political subdivision securities.
These securities all had A or better credit ratings and maturities approaching
fifteen years. With the additional liquidity provided by the increase in
deposits and accounts and drafts payable, the Company made these purchases to
continue to reduce the level of short-term rate sensitive assets. All purchases
were made in accordance with the Company’s investment policy. As of December 31,
2011, the Company had no mortgage-backed securities in its portfolio.

There was no single issuer of
securities in the investment portfolio at December 31, 2011 for which the
aggregate amortized cost exceeded 10% of total shareholders' equity. 
Investments by Type 




December 31,

(In thousands)
      
2011
      
2010
      
2009

State and political
      subdivisions
 
$
307,362
 
$
264,569
 
$
224,597

Certificates of deposit


3,250
 
 
—
 

—

       Total
      investments

$      
310,612

$      
264,569

$      
224,597 Investment Securities by Maturity(At
December 31, 2011) 




Within
      1

Over 1 to
      5

Over 5
      to

Over




(In thousands)
      
Year
      
Years
      
10 Years
      
10 Years
      
Yield

State and political
      subdivisions

$
13,262


$
44,131
 

$
124,680

 
$      
125,289

 
5.49
%

Certificates of deposit


3,250

 

—

 

—
 

 
—
 

.47
%

       Total
      investments

$     

16,512
 

$     

44,131


$     

124,680



125,289


5.44
%

Weighted average yield1


5.67
%


6.01
%


5.46
%


5.32
%

     
    5.44
%



1 
     
Weighted average yield is presented on a tax-equivalent basis
      assuming a tax rate of 35%.
Deposits and Accounts and Drafts
Payable 
Noninterest-bearing demand deposits
increased $18,859,000, or 17%, from December 31, 2010 to $131,956,000 at
December 31, 2011. The average balances of these deposits increased $18,965,000,
or 17%, from 2010 to $132,603,000 in 2011. These balances are primarily
maintained by commercial customers and churches and can fluctuate on a daily
basis.
Interest-bearing deposits increased
$10,919,000, or 3%, from December 31, 2010 to $416,412,000 at December 31, 2011.
The average balances of these deposits increased to $408,734,000 in 2011 from
$356,458,000 in 2010. This increase came from new and existing customers who
transferred deposits from other institutions. 
Accounts and drafts payable generated
by the Company in its payment processing operations increased $79,094,000, or
15%, from December 31, 2010 to $595,201,000 at December 31, 2011. The average
balance of these funds increased $63,318,000, or 12%, from 2010 to $596,935,000
in 2011. The increase relates to the increase in transportation invoice dollars
processed. Due to the Company’s payment processing cycle, average balances are
much more indicative of the underlying activity than period-end balances since
point-in-time comparisons can be misleading if the comparison dates fall on
different days of the week.
The composition of average deposits and
the average rates paid on those deposits is represented in the table entitled
“Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity; Interest Rate and
Interest Differential” which is included earlier in this discussion. The Company
does not have any significant deposits from foreign depositors. 
The Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed
into law on July 21, 2010, permanently increased the FDIC insurance limit to
$250,000 (retroactive to January 1, 2008), repealed the prohibition against
paying interest on demand deposits (effective July, 21, 2011), and extended the
Transaction Account Guaranty Program (i.e., unlimited FDIC insurance coverage
for certain non-interest bearing demand deposit accounts) to December 31, 2012.

19 


Maturities of Certificates of
Deposits of $100,000 or More 


(In thousands)
      
December 31, 2011

Three months or
    less

$      
55,519

Three to six months


46,644

Six to twelve
    months
 

6,714

Over twelve months

 
9,037

Total

$
117,914
Liquidity 
The discipline of liquidity management
as practiced by the Company seeks to ensure that funds are available to fulfill
all payment obligations relating to invoices processed as they become due, meet
depositor withdrawal requests and borrower credit demands while at the same time
maximizing profitability. This is accomplished by balancing changes in demand
for funds with changes in supply of funds. Primary liquidity to meet demand is
provided by short-term liquid assets that can be converted to cash, maturing
securities and the ability to obtain funds from external sources. The Company's
Asset/Liability Committee (“ALCO”) has direct oversight responsibility for the
Company's liquidity position and profile. Management considers both on-balance
sheet and off-balance sheet items in its evaluation of liquidity. 
The balances of liquid assets consist
of cash and cash equivalents, which include cash and due from banks,
interest-bearing deposits in other financial institutions, federal funds sold,
and money market funds, which totaled $235,962,000 at December 31, 2011, an
increase of $97,033,000, or 70%, from December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011
these assets represented 18% of total assets. The Company increased liquid
assets during 2011 as a result of the increase in deposits and accounts and
drafts payable. Cash and cash equivalents are the Company’s and its
subsidiaries’ primary source of liquidity to meet future expected and unexpected
loan demand, depositor withdrawals or reductions in accounts and drafts payable.

Secondary sources of liquidity include
the investment portfolio and borrowing lines. Total investment in debt
securities available-for-sale at fair value was $310,612,000 at December 31,
2011, an increase of $46,043,000 or 17% from December 31, 2010. These assets
represented 24% of total assets at December 31, 2011 and were primarily state
and political subdivision securities. Of the total portfolio, 5% mature in one
year or less, 14% mature after one year through five years and 81% mature after
five years. The Company sold $5,887,000 in securities available-for-sale during
2011. 
As of December 31, 2011, the Bank had
unsecured lines of credit at correspondent banks to purchase federal funds up to
a maximum of $88,000,000 at the following banks: Bank of America, $20,000,000;
US Bank, $20,000,000; Wells Fargo Bank, $15,000,000; PNC Bank, $12,000,000;
Frost National Bank, $10,000,000; JPM Chase Bank, $6,000,000; and UMB Bank
$5,000,000. The Company had secured lines of credit with the Federal Home Loan
Bank of $132,578,000 collateralized by commercial mortgage loans. There were no
amounts outstanding under any of the lines of credit discussed above at December
31, 2011 or 2010.
The deposits of the Company's banking
subsidiary have historically been stable, consisting of a sizable volume of core
deposits related to customers that utilize many other commercial products of the
Bank. The accounts and drafts payable generated by the Company have also
historically been a stable source of funds. 
Net cash flows provided by operating
activities for the years 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $25,642,000, $23,776,000, and
$19,079,000 respectively. Net income plus depreciation and amortization accounts
for most of the operating cash provided. Net cash flows from investing and
financing activities fluctuate greatly as the Company actively manages its
investment and loan portfolios and customer activity influences changes in
deposit and accounts and drafts payable balances. Further analysis of the
changes in these account balances is discussed earlier in this report. Due to
the daily fluctuations in these account balances, management believes that the
analysis of changes in average balances, also discussed earlier in this report,
can be more indicative of underlying activity than the period-end balances used
in the statements of cash flows. Management anticipates that cash and cash
equivalents, maturing investments, cash from operations, and borrowing lines
will continue to be sufficient to fund the Company’s operations and capital
expenditures in 2012. The Company anticipates the annual capital expenditures
for 2012 will be consistent with the last few years and, accordingly, should
range from $1 million to $3 million. As in the past, 2012 capital expenditures
are expected to consist primarily of equipment and software related to its
payment and information processing services business. 
There are several trends and
uncertainties that may impact the Company’s ability to generate revenues and
income at the levels that it has in the past. In addition, these trends and
uncertainties may impact available liquidity. Those that could significantly
impact the Company include the general levels of interest rates, business
activity, and energy costs as well as new business opportunities available to
the Company.
As a financial institution, a
significant source of the Company’s earnings is generated from net interest
income. Therefore, the prevailing interest rate environment is important to the
Company’s performance. A major portion of the Company’s funding sources are the
non-interest bearing accounts and drafts payable generated from its payment and
information processing services. Accordingly, higher
levels of interest rates will generally allow the Company to earn more net
interest income. Conversely, a lower interest rate environment will generally
tend to depress net interest income. The Company actively manages its balance
sheet in an effort to maximize net interest income as the interest rate
environment changes. This balance sheet management impacts the mix of earning
assets maintained by the Company at any point in time. For example, in a low
interest rate environment, short-term relatively lower rate liquid investments
may be reduced in favor of longer term relatively higher yielding investments
and loans. If the primary source of liquidity is reduced in a low interest rate
environment, a greater reliance would be placed on secondary sources of
liquidity including borrowing lines, the ability of the Bank to generate
deposits, and the investment portfolio to ensure overall liquidity remains at
acceptable levels.
20 


The overall level of economic activity
can have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to generate revenues and
income, as the volume and size of customer invoices processed may increase or
decrease. Higher levels of economic activity increase both fee income (as more
invoices are processed) and balances of accounts and drafts payable generated
(as more invoices are processed) from the Company’s transportation
customers.
The relative level of energy costs can
impact the Company’s earnings and available liquidity. Higher levels of energy
costs will tend to increase transportation and utility invoice amounts resulting
in a corresponding increase in accounts and drafts payable. Increases in
accounts and drafts payable generate higher interest income and improve
liquidity. 
New business opportunities are an
important component of the Company’s strategy to grow earnings and improve
performance. Generating new customers allows the Company to leverage existing
systems and facilities and grow revenues faster than expenses. During 2011, new
business was added in both the Information Services and Banking Services
segments. 
Capital Resources 
One of management’s primary objectives
is to maintain a strong capital base to warrant the confidence of customers,
shareholders, and bank regulatory agencies. A strong capital base is needed to
take advantage of profitable growth opportunities that arise and to provide
assurance to depositors and creditors. The Company and its banking subsidiary
continue to exceed all regulatory capital requirements, as evidenced by the
capital ratios at December 31, 2011 as shown in Item 8, Note 2 of this report.

In 2011, cash dividends paid were $.61
per share for a total of $6,279,000, an increase of $831,000, or 15%, compared
to $.53 per share for a total of $5,448,000 in 2010. The increase is
attributable primarily to the per share amount paid and the 10% stock dividend
paid by the Company in December 2011.
Shareholders' equity was $160,548,000,
or 12%, of total assets, at December 31, 2011, an increase of $18,454,000 over
the balance at December 31, 2010. This increase resulted from net income of
$23,009,000, $1,256,000 related to stock bonuses and an increase in other
comprehensive income of $7,240,000 offset by cash dividends paid of $6,279,000,
the pension adjustment per FASB ASC 715 of $6,713,000, $27,000 from the 10%
stock dividend paid by the Company and $32,000 in foreign currency translation.

Dividends from the Bank are a source of
funds for payment of dividends by the Company to its shareholders. The only
restrictions on dividends are those dictated by regulatory capital requirements
and prudent and sound banking principles. As of December 31, 2011,
unappropriated retained earnings of $20,465,000 were available at the Bank for
the declaration of dividends to the Company without prior approval from
regulatory authorities. 
On October 17, 2011, the Board of
Directors re-authorized the repurchase of up to 330,000 shares of the Company’s
common stock, pursuant to a treasury stock buyback program maintained by the
Company. Under the program, the Company repurchased 12,000 shares (not restated
for 10% stock dividend) for an aggregate purchase price of $467,000 in 2010.
There were no repurchases in 2011. As of December 31, 2011, 330,000 shares
remained available for repurchase under the program. A portion of the
repurchased shares may be used for the Company's employee benefit plans, and the
balance will be available for other general corporate purposes. The stock
repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of
repurchase activity will depend on factors such as levels of cash generation
from operations, cash requirements for investments, repayment of debt, current
stock price, and other factors. The Company may repurchase shares from time to
time on the open market or in private transactions, including structured
transactions. The stock repurchase program may be modified or discontinued at
any time. 
Commitments, Contractual Obligations
and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
In the normal course of business, the
Company is party to activities that involve credit, market and operational risk
that are not reflected in whole or in part in the Company’s consolidated
financial statements. Such activities include traditional off-balance sheet
credit-related financial instruments and commitments under operating and capital
leases. These financial instruments include commitments to extend credit,
commercial letters of credit and standby letters of credit. The Company’s
maximum potential exposure to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the
other party to the financial instrument for commitments to extend credit,
commercial letters of credit and standby letters of credit is represented by the
contractual amounts of those instruments. At December
31, 2011, no amounts have been accrued for any estimated losses for these
instruments.
21 


Commitments to extend credit are
agreements to lend to a customer as long as there is no violation of any
condition established in the contract. Commercial and standby letters of credit
are conditional commitments issued by the Company or its subsidiaries to
guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party. These off-balance
sheet financial instruments generally have fixed expiration dates or other
termination clauses and may require payment of a fee. At December 31, 2011, the
balance of loan commitments, standby and commercial letters of credit were
$10,485,000, $22,302,000 and $4,518,000, respectively. Since some of the
financial instruments may expire without being drawn upon, the total amounts do
not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Commitments to extend credit
and letters of credit are subject to the same underwriting standards as those
financial instruments included on the consolidated balance sheets. The Company
evaluates each customer’s credit worthiness on a case-by-case basis. The amount
of collateral obtained, if deemed necessary upon extension of the credit, is
based on management’s credit evaluation of the borrower. Collateral held varies,
but is generally accounts receivable, inventory, residential or income-producing
commercial property or equipment. In the event of nonperformance, the Company or
its subsidiaries may obtain and liquidate the collateral to recover amounts paid
under its guarantees on these financial instruments. 
The following table summarizes
contractual cash obligations of the Company related to operating lease
commitments and time deposits at December 31, 2011: 




Amount of Commitment Expiration
      per Period






Less than
      1

1-3
 
3-5

Over
      5

(In thousands)
      
Total
     
    
Year
     
    
Years
     
    
Years
       
Years

Operating lease
      commitments

$
1,664
 
$
615

$
807

$
242

$
—

Time deposits
 

131,081

 
119,394
 

9,097


2,590


—

       Total

$    
132,745

$    
120,009

$    
9,904

$    
2,832

$    
—
During 2011, the Company contributed
$9,000,000 to its noncontributory defined benefit pension plan. The contribution
had no significant effect on the Company’s overall liquidity. In determining
pension expense, the Company makes several assumptions, including the discount
rate and long-term rate of return on assets. These assumptions are determined at
the beginning of the plan year based on interest rate levels and financial
market performance. For 2011 these assumptions were as follows: 


Assumption
      
Rate

Weighted average discount rate
 
5.75
%

Rate
      of increase in compensation levels

4.00
%

Expected long-term
      rate of return on assets

7.25
%

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
RISK 
Interest Rate Sensitivity

The Company faces market risk to the
extent that its net interest income and its fair market value of equity are
affected by changes in market interest rates. The asset/liability management
discipline as applied by the Company seeks to limit the volatility, to the
extent possible, of both net interest income and the fair market value of equity
that can result from changes in market interest rates. This is accomplished by
limiting the maturities of fixed rate investments, loans, and deposits; matching
fixed rate assets and liabilities to the extent possible; and optimizing the mix
of fees and net interest income. However, as discussed below, the Company's
asset/liability position often differs significantly from most other financial
holding companies with significant positive cumulative "gaps" shown for each
time horizon presented. This asset sensitive position is caused primarily by the
operations of the Company, which generate large balances of accounts and drafts
payable. These balances, which are noninterest bearing, contribute to the
Company’s historical high net interest margin but cause the Company to become
susceptible to changes in interest rates, with a decreasing net interest margin
and fair market value of equity in periods of declining interest rates and an
increasing net interest margin and fair market value of equity in periods of
rising interest rates. 
The Company’s ALCO measures the
Company's interest rate risk sensitivity on a quarterly basis to monitor and
manage the variability of earnings and fair market value of equity in various
interest rate environments. The ALCO evaluates the Company's risk position to
determine whether the level of exposure is significant enough to hedge a
potential decline in earnings and value or whether the Company can safely
increase risk to enhance returns. The ALCO uses gap reports, twelvemonth net
interest income simulations, and fair market value of equity analyses as its
main analytical tools to provide management with insight into the Company's
exposure to changing interest rates. 
Management uses a gap report to review
any significant mismatch between the re-pricing points of the Company’s rate
sensitive assets and liabilities in certain time horizons. A negative gap
indicates that more liabilities re-price in that particular time frame and, if rates rise, these liabilities will re-price faster
than the assets. A positive gap would indicate the opposite. Gap reports can be
misleading in that they capture only the re-pricing timing within the balance
sheet, and fail to capture other significant risks such as basis risk and
embedded options risk. Basis risk involves the potential for the spread
relationship between rates to change under different rate environments and
embedded options risk relates to the potential for the alteration of the level
and/or timing of cash flows given changes in rates.
22 


Another measurement tool used by
management is net interest income simulation, which forecasts net interest
income during the coming twelve months under different interest rate scenarios
in order to quantify potential changes in short term accounting income.
Management has set policy limits specifying acceptable levels of interest rate
risk given multiple simulated rate movements. These simulations are more
informative than gap reports because they are able to capture more of the
dynamics within the balance sheet, such as basis risk and embedded options risk.
A table containing simulation results as of December 31, 2011, from an immediate
and sustained parallel change in interest rates is shown below. 
While net interest income simulations
do an adequate job of capturing interest rate risk to short term earnings, they
do not capture risk within the current balance sheet beyond twelve months. The
Company uses fair market value of equity analyses to help identify longer-term
risk that may reside on the current balance sheet. The fair market value of
equity is represented by the present value of all future income streams
generated by the current balance sheet. The Company measures the fair market
value of equity as the net present value of all asset and liability cash flows
discounted at forward rates suggested by the current U.S. Treasury curve plus
appropriate credit spreads. This representation of the change in the fair market
value of equity under different rate scenarios gives insight into the magnitude
of risk to future earnings due to rate changes. Management has set policy limits
relating to declines in the market value of equity. The table below contains the
analysis, which illustrates the effects of an immediate and sustained parallel
change in interest rates as of December 31, 2011: 


Change in Interest Rates
       
% Change in Net Interest
      Income
       
% Change in Fair Market Value
      of Equity

+200 basis points

9%

12%

+100 basis points
 
5%
 
6%

Stable rates
 
——

——

-100 basis points

(1%)

(5%)

-200 basis points

(2%)

(7%)
Interest Rate Sensitivity Position

The following table presents the
Company’s interest rate risk position at December 31, 2011 for the various time
periods indicated. 




Variable

0-90

91-180

181-364

1-5

Over




(In thousands)
   
Rate
   
Days
   
Days
   
Days
   
Years
   
5 Years
   
Total

Earning assets:
























             
      Loans:
























                    
      Taxable

$   
    
237,987

$   
    
31,461


$   
    
11,553


$   
    
22,504

$   
    
330,113

$   
    
37,204

$   
    
670,822

                    
      Tax-exempt


—


29



—



—


714


—


743

             
      Securities1 :
























                    
      Tax-exempt


—


2,965



2,028



8,269


44,131


249,969


307,362

                    
      Certificates of deposit


—


—



3,250



—


—


—


3,250

             
      Federal funds sold and other
























                    
      short-term investments


223,383


—



—



—


—


—


223,383

Total earning assets

$
461,370

$
34,455


$
16,831


$
30,773

$
374,958

$
287,173

$
1,205,560

Interest-sensitive liabilities:
























             
      Money market accounts

$
175,961

$
—


$
—


$
—

$
—

$
—

$
175,961

             
      Now accounts


81,333


—



—



—


—


—


81,333

             
      Savings deposits


28,037


—



—



—


—


—


28,037

             
      Time deposits:





















 


                    
      $100K and more


—


55,518



46,644



6,715


9,037


—


117,914

                    
      Less than $100K


—


5,839



3,554



1,125


2,649


—
 

13,167

             
      Federal funds purchased and
























                    
      other short-term borrowing


—


—



—



—


—


—


—

Total interest-bearing liabilities

$
285,331

$
61,357

 
$
50,198
 

$
7,840

$
11,686

$
—

$
416,412

Interest sensitivity
      gap:

 






 
 






 







      
      Periodic

$
176,039
 
$
(26,902
)

$
(33,367
)
 
$
22,933
 
$
363,272
 
$
287,173

$
789,148

       Cumulative
 

176,039

 
149,137
 


115,770



138,703


501,975


789,148


789,148

Ratio of interest-bearing assets
























       to interest-bearing
      liabilities:
























      
      Periodic


1.62


0.56



0.34



3.93


32.09


0.00


2.90

       Cumulative


1.62


1.43



1.29



1.34


2.21


2.90


2.90



1 
     
Balances shown reflect earliest re-pricing
  date.
23 


ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY
DATA 
CASS INFORMATION SYSTEMS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIESCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 














December 31,

(In thousands except share and per share
data)
      
2011
     
    
2010

Assets









Cash and due from banks

$      
12,579


$      
12,277


Interest-bearing deposits
      in other financial institutions


123,551



67,299


Federal funds sold and other short-term
      investments


99,832



59,353


             
      Cash and cash equivalents


235,962



138,929


Securities available-for-sale, at fair
      value


310,612



264,569


 

Loans


671,565



708,633


             
      Less: Allowance for loan losses


12,954



11,891


                    
      Loans, net


658,611



696,742


Premises and equipment, net


9,587



9,617


Investments in bank-owned
      life insurance


14,375



14,191


Payments in excess of funding


61,378



33,609


Goodwill


7,471



7,471


Other intangible assets, net


161



268


Other assets


21,144



22,639


                    
      Total assets

$
1,319,301


$
1,188,035


 

Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity









Liabilities:









Deposits









             
      Noninterest-bearing

$
131,956


$
113,097


             
      Interest-bearing


416,412



405,493


                    
      Total deposits


548,368



518,590


Accounts and drafts
      payable


595,201



516,107


Other liabilities


15,184



11,244


                    
      Total liabilities


1,158,753



1,045,941


 

Shareholders’
      Equity:









Preferred stock, par value $.50 per share;
      2,000,000









       shares
      authorized and no shares issued


—



—


Common stock, par value
      $.50 per share; 20,000,000









       shares authorized
      and 10,890,163 and 9,949,324 shares






 


       issued at December
      31, 2011 and 2010, respectively
 

5,445



4,975


Additional paid-in capital


80,971

 

46,653


Retained
earnings


89,853



107,263


Common shares in treasury, at cost (532,233
      and 561,533





 



       shares
      at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively)

 
(12,968
)


(13,549
)

Accumulated other
      comprehensive loss


(2,753
)


(3,248
)

                    
      Total shareholders’ equity


160,548



142,094


                           
      Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity

$
1,319,301


$
1,188,035

See accompanying notes to consolidated
financial statements. 
24 


CASS INFORMATION SYSTEMS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIESCONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 



      
For the Years Ended December
      31,

(In thousands except per share data)

2011
     
    
2010
     
    
2009

Fee Revenue and Other Income:










Information services payment and processing
      revenue

$      
60,688

$      
54,183

$      
48,665

Bank service
fees


1,354


1,410


1,324

Gains on sales of securities


43


—


697

Other


739


553


552

             
      Total fee revenue and other income


62,824


56,146


51,238

 

Interest Income:










Interest and fees on loans


39,515


39,785


36,003

Interest and dividends on
      securities:










             
      Taxable


41


43


58

             
      Exempt from federal income taxes


9,993


8,704


7,553

Interest on federal funds sold and










      
      other short-term investments


686


514


170

             
      Total interest income


50,235


49,046


43,784

 

Interest Expense:










Interest on deposits


4,374


4,875


4,924

Interest on short-term
      borrowings


—


—


23

Interest on subordinated convertible
      debentures


—


—


106

             
      Total interest expense


4,374


4,875


5,053

                    
      Net interest income


45,861


44,171


38,731

Provision for loan
      losses


2,150


4,100
 

2,050

                    
      Net interest income after provision for loan losses


43,711


40,071


36,681

                    
      Total net revenue


106,535


96,217


87,919

 

Operating Expense:










Salaries and employee benefits

 
56,573


51,368


50,614

Occupancy


2,318

 
2,485

 
2,396

Equipment


3,525


3,561


3,348

Amortization of intangible
      assets


107


107


222

Other operating


12,506
 

10,763


9,805

             
      Total operating expense
 

75,029


68,284


66,385

                    
      Income before income tax expense


31,506


27,933


21,534

Income tax
    expense


8,497


7,623


5,405

                    
      Net income

$
23,009

$
20,310

$
16,129

 

Basic Earnings Per
      Share

$
2.23

$
1.98

$
1.60

Diluted Earnings Per Share


2.21


1.95


1.57
See accompanying notes to consolidated
financial statements. 
25 


CASS INFORMATION SYSTEMS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 




For the Years Ended December
      31,

(In thousands)
      
2011
     
    
2010
     
    
2009

Cash Flows From Operating Activities:













Net income

$      
23,009


$      
20,310


$      
16,129
 

Adjustments to reconcile
      net income to net cash provided













       by operating
      activities:













             
      Depreciation and amortization


4,528



4,026



4,039


             
      Net gains on sales of securities


(43
)






(697
)

             
      Stock-based compensation expense


1,390



1,472



1,881


             
      Provisions for loan losses


2,150



4,100



2,050


             
      Deferred income tax expense (benefit)


2,145



1,268



(650
)

             
      Decrease in income tax liability


(192
)


(487
)


(869
)

             
      Decrease in pension liability


(6,817
)


(4,259
)


(398
)

             
      FDIC insurance prepayment


—



—



(2,124
)

             
      Other operating activities, net


(528
)


(2,654
)


(282
)

             
      Net cash provided by operating activities


25,642



23,776



19,079


 

Cash Flows From Investing Activities:













Proceeds from sales of securities
      available-for-sale


5,930



—



21,906


Proceeds from maturities
      of securities available-for-sale


18,510



4,770



5,655


Purchase of securities
      available-for-sale

 
(61,768
)


(49,944
)


(51,160
)

Net decrease (increase) in
      loans


35,981

 

(67,169
)


(50,198
)

Increase in payments in excess of
      funding


(27,769
)

 
(10,972
)

 
(772
)

Purchases of premises and
      equipment, net
 

(1,925
)


(1,190
)
 

(1,077
)

             
      Net cash used in investing activities


(31,041
)


(124,505
)


(75,646
)

 

Cash Flows From Financing Activities:













Net increase (decrease) in
      noninterest-bearing demand deposits


18,859



(54
)


9,851


Net increase in
      interest-bearing demand and savings deposits


36,956



39,392



104,390


Net (decrease) increase in time
      deposits


(26,037
)


41,376



46,094


Net increase (decrease) in
      accounts and drafts payable


79,094



85,856



(48,774
)

Cash dividends paid


(6,279
)


(5,448
)


(4,925
)

Purchase of common shares
      of treasury


—



(467
)


—


Other financing activities, net


(161
)


(291
)


(260
)

             
      Net cash provided by financing activities


102,432



160,364



106,376


Net increase in cash and cash
      equivalents


97,033



59,635



49,809


Cash and cash equivalents
      at beginning of year


138,929



79,294



29,485


Cash and cash equivalents at end of
      year

$
235,962


$
138,929


$
79,294


 

Supplemental
      information:













             
      Cash paid for interest

$
4,424


$
4,893


$
5,128


             
      Cash paid for income taxes


6,287



7,934



5,677

See accompanying notes to consolidated
financial statements. 
26 


CASS INFORMATION SYSTEMS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS
OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 



















Accumulated














Additional









Other











Common

Paid-in

Retained

Treasury

Comprehensive





Comprehensive

(In thousands except
      per share data)
  
Stock
  
Capital
  
Earnings
  
Stock
  
Loss
  
Total
  
Income
      (Loss)

Balance, December 31, 2008

$   
4,975

$     
45,746


$     
81,197


$     
(18,264
)

$        
      
(7,413
)

$     
106,241






Net
      income









16,129











16,129



16,129


Cash dividends ($.48 per share)









(4,925
)










(4,925
)





Other comprehensive income (loss):




























      
      Reclassification adjustments for gains










 

















             
      included in net income, net of tax

















(453
)


(453
)
 

(453
)

       Net unrealized gain on
      securities


 






 

 









 






             
      available-for-sale, net of tax

















6,145

 

6,145



6,145


FASB ASC 715 adjustment, net of
tax
 











 

 


1,540



1,540



1,540


Issuance of 42,500 common shares pursuant

 



 









 
 











       to stock-based compensation
      plan, net



 
 
(910
)
 





910







—


 



Exercise of stock options





(388
)






408




 

 
20






Stock-based compensation expense





1,881


 












1,881






Subordinated debenture conversion





(633
)






3,623







2,990






Balance, December 31, 2009

$
4,975

$
45,696


$
92,401


$
(13,323
)

$
(181
)

$
129,568






      
      Comprehensive income for 2009
























$         
23,361


 

Net income









20,310











20,310



20,310


Cash
      dividends ($.53 per share)









(5,448
)










(5,448
)





Purchase of 13,200 shares













(467
)






(467
)





Other comprehensive income (loss):




























       Net
      unrealized loss on securities




























             
      available-for-sale, net of tax

















(2,149
)


(2,149
)


(2,149
)

FASB
      ASC 715 adjustment, net of tax

















(918
)


(918
)


(918
)

Issuance of 16,664 common shares
      pursuant




























       to
      stock-based compensation plan, net





(349
)






108







(241
)





Exercise of stock options and SARs





(166
)






133







(33
)





Stock-based compensation expense





1,472















1,472






Balance, December 31, 2010

$
4,975

$
46,653


$
107,263


$
(13,549
)

$
(3,248
)

$
142,094






      
      Comprehensive income for 2010
























$
17,243


 

Net income









23,009











23,009



23,009


Cash
      dividends ($.61 per share)









(6,279
)










(6,279
)





Stock dividend


470


33,643



(34,140
)










(27
)





Other comprehensive income (loss):




























       Net
      unrealized gain on securities




























             
      available-for-sale, net of tax

















7,268



7,268



7,268


       Reclassification adjustments
      for gains




























             
      included in net income, net of tax

















(28
)


(28
)


(28
)

FASB ASC 715 adjustment, net of
tax

















(6,713
)


(6,713
)


(6,713
)

Issuance of 28,611 common shares pursuant




























       to stock-based compensation
      plan, net





(519
)






436







(83
)





Exercise of stock options and SARs





(196
)






145







(51
)





Stock-based compensation expense





1,390















1,390






Foreign currency translation

















(32
)


(32
)


(32
)

Balance, December 31, 2011

$
5,445

$
80,971


$
89,853


$
(12,968
)

$
(2,753
)

$
160,548






      
      Comprehensive income for 2011
























$
23,504


See accompanying notes to consolidated
financial statements. 
27 


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS 
Note 1Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
Summary of Operations
Cass Information Systems,
Inc. (the
“Company”) provides payment and information services, which include processing
and payment of transportation, utility, telecommunications and environmental
invoices. These services include the acquisition and management of data,
information delivery and financial exchange. The consolidated balance sheet
captions, “Accounts and drafts payable” and “Payments in excess of funding,”
represent the Company’s resulting financial position related to the payment
services that are performed for customers. The Company also provides a full
range of banking services to individual, corporate and institutional customers
through Cass Commercial Bank (the “Bank”), its wholly owned bank subsidiary.

Basis of
Presentation The accounting and reporting
policies of the Company and its subsidiaries conform to U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles. The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries after elimination of
intercompany transactions. Certain amounts in the 2010 consolidated financial
statements have been reclassified to conform to the 2011 presentation. Such
reclassifications have no effect on previously reported net income or
shareholders’ equity. The Company issued a 10% stock dividend on December 15,
2011. The share and per share information have been restated unless indicated
otherwise for all periods presented in the accompanying consolidated financial
statements. 
Use of Estimates
In preparing the consolidated financial
statements, Company management is required to make estimates and assumptions
which significantly affect the reported amounts in the consolidated financial
statements.
Cash and Cash
Equivalents For purposes of the
consolidated statements of cash flows, the Company considers cash and due from
banks, interest-bearing deposits in other financial institutions, federal funds
sold and other short-term investments as segregated in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets to be cash equivalents. 
Investment in Debt
Securities The Company classifies its
debt marketable securities as available-for-sale. Securities classified as
available-for-sale are carried at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses, net
of the related tax effect, are excluded from earnings and reported in
accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of shareholders’ equity. A
decline in the fair value of any available-for-sale security below cost that is
deemed other than temporary results in a charge to earnings and the
establishment of a new cost basis for the security. To determine whether
impairment is other than temporary, the Company considers whether it has the
ability and intent to hold the investment until a marketplace recovery and
considers whether evidence indicating the cost of the investment is recoverable
outweighs evidence to the contrary. Evidence considered in this assessment
includes the reasons for impairment, the severity and duration of the
impairment, changes in value subsequent to year-end and forecasted performance
of the investee. Premiums and discounts are amortized or accreted to interest
income over the estimated lives of the securities using the level-yield method.
Interest income is recognized when earned. Gains and losses are calculated using
the specific identification method.
Allowance for Loan
Losses The allowance for loan losses is
increased by provisions charged to expense and is available to absorb
charge-offs, net of recoveries. Management utilizes a systematic, documented
approach in determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses.
Management’s approach, which provides for general and specific allocations, is
based on current economic conditions, past losses, collection experience, risk
characteristics of the portfolio, assessments of collateral values by obtaining
independent appraisals for significant properties, and such other factors which,
in management’s judgment, deserve current recognition in estimating loan losses.

Management believes the allowance for
loan losses is adequate to absorb probable losses in the loan portfolio. While
management uses all available information to recognize losses on loans, future
additions to the allowance may be necessary based on changes in economic
conditions. Additionally, various regulatory agencies, as an integral part of
their examination process, periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan
losses. Such agencies may require the Company to increase the allowance for loan
losses based on their judgments and interpretations about information available
to them at the time of their examination. 
Premises and
Equipment Premises and equipment are
stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is
computed over the estimated useful lives of the assets, or the respective lease
terms for leasehold improvements, using straight-line and accelerated methods.
Estimated useful lives do not exceed 40 years for buildings, the lesser of 10
years or the life of the lease for leasehold improvements and range from 3 to 7
years for software, equipment, furniture and fixtures. Maintenance and repairs
are charged to expense as incurred. 
Intangible
Assets Cost in excess of fair value of
net assets acquired has resulted from business acquisitions. Goodwill and
intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but instead
are tested for impairment at least annually. Intangible assets with definite
useful lives are amortized over their respective estimated useful
lives.
28 


Periodically, the Company
reviews intangible assets for events or changes in circumstances that may
indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. Based on
those reviews, adjustments of recorded amounts have not been
required.
Non-marketable Equity
Investments The Company
accounts for non-marketable equity investments, in which it holds less than a
20% ownership, under the cost method. Under the cost method of accounting,
investments are carried at cost and are adjusted only for other than temporary
declines in fair value, distributions of earnings and additional investments.
The Company periodically evaluates whether any declines in fair value of its
investments are other than temporary. In performing this evaluation, the Company
considers various factors including any decline in market price, where
available, the investee's financial condition, results of operations, operating
trends and other financial ratios. Non-marketable equity investments are
included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
Foreclosed Assets
Real estate acquired as a
result of foreclosure is initially recorded at the lower of its cost, which is
the unpaid principal balance of the related loan plus foreclosure costs, or fair
value less estimated selling costs. Fair value is generally determined through
the receipt of appraisals. Any write down to fair value at the time the property
is acquired is recorded as a charge-off to the allowance for loan losses. Any
decline in the fair value of the property subsequent to acquisition is recorded
as a charge to non-interest expense.
Treasury
Stock Purchases of the
Company’s common stock are recorded at cost. Upon reissuance, treasury stock is
reduced based upon the average cost basis of shares held.
Comprehensive
Income Comprehensive income
consists of net income, changes in net unrealized gains (losses) on
available-for-sale securities and pension liability adjustments and is presented
in the accompanying consolidated statements of shareholders' equity and
comprehensive income.
Loans Interest on
loans is recognized based upon the principal amounts outstanding. It is the
Company’s policy to discontinue the accrual of interest when there is reasonable
doubt as to the collectability of principal or interest. Subsequent payments
received on such loans are applied to principal if there is any doubt as to the
collectability of such principal; otherwise, these receipts are recorded as
interest income. The accrual of interest on a loan is resumed when the loan is
current as to payment of both principal and interest and/or the borrower
demonstrates the ability to pay and remain current. Loan origination and
commitment fees on originated loans, net of certain direct loan origination
costs, are deferred and amortized to interest income using the level-yield
method over the estimated lives of the related loans.
Impairment of
Loans A loan is considered
impaired when it is probable that a creditor will be unable to collect all
amounts due, both principal and interest, according to the contractual terms of
the loan agreement. When measuring impairment, the expected future cash flows of
an impaired loan are discounted at the loan's effective interest rate.
Alternatively, impairment could be measured by reference to an observable market
price, if one exists, or the fair value of the collateral for a
collateral-dependent loan. Regardless of the historical measurement method used,
the Company measures impairment based on the fair value of the collateral when
the Company determines foreclosure is probable. Additionally, impairment of a
restructured loan is measured by discounting the total expected future cash
flows at the loan's effective rate of interest as stated in the original loan
agreement. The Company uses its nonaccrual methods as discussed above for
recognizing interest on impaired loans.
Information Services
Revenue A majority of the
Company’s revenues are attributable to fees for providing services. These
services include transportation invoice rating, payment processing, auditing,
and the generation of accounting, transportation and environmental information.
The Company also processes, pays and generates management information from
electric, gas, telecommunications and other invoices. The specific payment and
information processing services provided to each customer are developed
individually to meet each customer’s specific requirements. The Company enters
into service agreements with customers typically for fixed fees per transaction
that are invoiced monthly. Revenues are recognized in the period services are
rendered and earned under the service agreements, as long as collection is
reasonably assured.
Income
Taxes Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences
attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax
assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the
year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or
settled. Deferred tax assets are reduced if necessary, by a deferred tax asset
valuation allowance. In the event that management determines it will not be able
to realize all or part of net deferred tax assets in the future, the Company
adjusts the recorded value of deferred tax assets, which would result in a
direct charge to income tax expense in the period that such determination is
made. Likewise, the Company will reverse the valuation allowance when
realization of the deferred tax asset is expected. The effect on deferred tax
assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the
period that includes the enactment date.
Earnings Per
Share Basic earnings per
share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of
common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing
net income, adjusted for the net income effect of the interest expense on the
outstanding convertible debentures, by the sum of the weighted average number of
common shares outstanding and the weighted average number of potential common
shares outstanding.
29


Stock-Based
Compensation The Company
follows FASB ASC 718 “Accounting for Stock Options and Other Stock-based
Compensation” which requires that all stock-based compensation be recognized as
an expense in the financial statements and that such cost be measured at the
fair value of the award. FASB ASC 718 also requires that excess tax benefits
related to stock option exercises and restricted stock awards be reflected as
financing cash inflows instead of operating cash inflows.
Pension Plans
The amounts recognized in the
consolidated financial statements related to pension are determined from
actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations are assumptions including
expected return on plan assets, discount rates at which the liabilities could be
settled at December 31, 2011, rate of increase in future compensation levels and
mortality rates. These assumptions are updated annually and are disclosed in
Note 10. The Company follows FASB ASC 715, “Compensation – Retirement Benefits,”
which requires companies to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of a
defined benefit postretirement plan as an asset or liability in its statement of
financial position and to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in
which the changes occur through comprehensive income. The funded status is
measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the
projected benefit obligation as of the date of its fiscal year-end. There have
been no significant changes in the Company’s long-term rate of return
assumptions for the past three fiscal years ended December 31 and management
believes they are not reasonably likely to change in the future. Pursuant to ASC
715, the Company has recognized the funded status of its defined benefit
postretirement plan in its consolidated balance sheet and has recognized changes
in that funded status through comprehensive income.
Impact of New and Not
Yet Adopted Accounting Pronouncements 
In June 2011, the FASB
issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2011-05 – Comprehensive Income (ASC Topic 220)
– Presentation of Comprehensive
Income. This ASU improves the
comparability, consistency, and transparency of financial reporting and
increases the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income. This
ASU requires companies to present the total of comprehensive income, the
components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income
either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two
separate but consecutive statements. This ASU eliminates the option to present
the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes
in shareholders’ equity. This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim
periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011, and should be
applied retrospectively. ASU No. 2011-12 deferred the presentation of
reclassification adjustments and superseded certain pending paragraphs in ASU
No. 2011-05. As these ASU’s address financial statement presentation, the
adoptions will not impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements or
results of operations.
In September 2011, the FASB
issued ASU No. 2011-08 – Intangibles –
Goodwill and Other (ASC Topic 350)
– Testing of Goodwill for
Impairment. This ASU simplifies
how entities test goodwill for impairment. The amendments under this ASU permit
an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more
likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its
carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform
the two-step goodwill impairment test. The more-likely-than-not threshold is
defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. If an entity concludes
that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is
less than its carrying amount, it would not be required to perform the two-step
impairment test for that reporting unit. This ASU is effective for annual and
interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2011. The adoption of this ASU is not expected to have a material
impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements or results of
operations.
Note
2Capital Requirements and
Regulatory Restrictions
The Company and the Bank
are subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the
federal banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can
result in certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary actions by
regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the
Company’s consolidated financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines,
the Company and the Bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve
quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items
as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. The Company and the Bank’s
capital amounts and classifications are also subject to qualitative judgments by
the regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors.
Quantitative measures
established by regulators to ensure capital adequacy require the Company and the
Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of total and Tier I capital to
risk-weighted assets, and of Tier I capital to average assets. Management
believes that as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company and the Bank met all
capital adequacy requirements to which they are subject.
The Bank is also subject to
the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. As of December 31, 2011
and 2010 the most recent notification from the regulatory agencies categorized
the Bank as well capitalized. To be categorized as well capitalized, the Bank
must maintain minimum total risk-based, Tier I risk-based, and Tier I leverage
ratios as set forth in the table below. There are no conditions or events since
that notification that management believes have changed the Bank’s
category.
30


Subsidiary dividends are a
significant source of funds for payment of dividends by the Company to its
shareholders. At December 31, 2011, unappropriated retained earnings of
$20,465,000 were available at the Bank for the declaration of dividends to the
Company without prior approval from regulatory authorities. However, dividends
paid by the Bank to the Company would be prohibited if the effect thereof would
cause the Bank’s capital to be reduced below applicable minimum capital
requirements. 
There were no restricted
funds on deposit used to meet regulatory reserve requirements at December 31,
2011 and 2010. 
The Company’s and the
Bank’s actual and required capital amounts and ratios as are as follows:












Capital

Requirement to be



Actual

Requirements

Well
      Capitalized

(In
      thousands)

Amount
 
Ratio

Amount
 
Ratio

Amount
 
Ratio

At December 31, 2011





















Total capital (to risk-weighted assets)





















       Cass Information Systems,
      Inc.

$
166,605

  
19.03
%

$
70,033

  
8.00
%

$
N/A

N/A
%

       Cass Commercial
      Bank


66,851


12.71



42,070


8.00



52,588

10.00


Tier I capital (to risk-weighted
      assets)





















       Cass Information Systems,
      Inc.


155,638


17.78



35,016


4.00



N/A

N/A


       Cass Commercial
      Bank


60,248


11.46



21,035


4.00



31,553

6.00


Tier
      I capital (to average assets)





















       Cass Information Systems,
      Inc.


155,638


11.53



40,502


3.00



N/A

N/A


       Cass Commercial
      Bank


60,248


9.49



19,044


3.00



31,741

5.00


At December 31, 2010





















Total capital (to risk-weighted assets)





















       Cass Information Systems,
      Inc.

$     
148,659


16.82
%

$     
70,695


8.00
%

$     
N/A

N/A
%

       Cass Commercial
      Bank


58,838


10.72



43,916


8.00
 


54,895

10.00


Tier I capital (to risk-weighted
      assets)



 






 




 





       Cass Information Systems,
      Inc.

 
137,603


15.57
 
 

35,348


4.00



N/A

N/A


       Cass Commercial
      Bank


51,955


9.46



21,958


4.00

 

32,937

6.00


Tier
      I capital (to average assets)








 












       Cass Information Systems,
      Inc.


137,603


11.18



36,923


3.00



N/A
 
N/A


       Cass Commercial
      Bank
     

51,955
     

8.92

     

17,472
     

3.00

     

29,121
     
5.00
 
Note
3Investment in
Securities
Investment securities
available-for-sale are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. The
Company’s investment securities available-for-sale at December 31, 2011 and 2010
are measured at fair value using Level 2 valuations. The market evaluation
utilizes several sources which include “observable inputs” rather than
“significant unobservable inputs” and therefore falls into the Level 2 category.
The table below presents the balances of securities available-for-sale measured
at fair value on a recurring basis. The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains,
gross unrealized losses and fair value of debt and equity securities are
summarized as follows: 




December 31,
      2011






Gross


Gross






Amortized

Unrealized


Unrealized




(In
      thousands)

Cost

Gains


Losses

Fair
      Value

State and political subdivisions

$
287,585

$
19,797

$
20

$
307,362

Certificates of
      deposit


3,250


—


—


3,250

       Total

$
290,835

$
19,797

$
20

$
310,612

   



December 31,
      2010






Gross

Gross






Amortized

Unrealized

Unrealized




(In
      thousands)

Cost
 
Gains

  Losses

Fair
      Value

State and political
      subdivisions
 
$
255,929

$
9,829

$
1,189
 
$     
264,569

       Total
     
$     
255,929
     
$     
9,829
     
$     
1,189
     
$
264,569
31


The fair values of
securities with unrealized losses are as follows: 




December 31,
      2011



Less than 12
      months

12 months or
      more

Total



Estimated

Unrealized

Estimated

Unrealized

Estimated

Unrealized

(In
      thousands)

Fair
      Value

Losses

Fair
      Value

Losses

Fair value

Losses

State and political subdivisions

$
4,362

$
20

$
—

$
—

$
4,362

$
20

Certificates of
      deposit


—


—


—


—


—


—

       Total

$
4,362

$
20

$
—

$
—

$
4,362

$
20

     



December 31,
      2010



Less than 12
      months

12 months or
      more

Total



Estimated

Unrealized

Estimated

Unrealized

Estimated

Unrealized

(In
      thousands)
 
Fair
      Value

Losses

Fair Value

Losses

Fair value

Losses

State and political
      subdivisions

$
53,741

$
1,189
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$     
53,741
 
$
1,189

       Total
     
$     
53,741
     
$     
1,189
     
$     
—
     
$     
—
     
$
53,741
     
$     
1,189
There were 7 securities
(none greater than 12 months) in an unrealized loss position as of December 31,
2011 compared to 61 securities (none greater than 12 months) in an unrealized
loss position as of December 31, 2010 . All unrealized losses are reviewed to
determine whether the losses are other than temporary. Management believes that
all unrealized losses are temporary since they are market driven and the Company
has the ability and intent to hold these securities until maturity. 
The amortized cost and fair
value of debt and equity securities by contractual maturity are shown in the
following table. Expected maturities may differ from contractual maturities
because borrowers have the right to prepay obligations with or without
prepayment penalties. 




December 31,
      2011

(In
      thousands)

Amortized
      Cost

Fair
      Value

Due in 1 year or less

$
16,289

$
16,512

Due
      after 1 year through 5 years


41,109


44,131

Due after 5 years through 10 years
 

114,454


124,680

Due
      after 10 years


118,983

 
125,289

No stated
      maturity


—
 

—

       Total
     
$     
290,835
     
$     
310,612
The amortized cost of debt
securities pledged to secure public deposits, securities sold under agreements
to repurchase and for other purposes at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were
$3,250,000 and $27,776,000 respectively. 
Proceeds from sales of debt
securities classified as available-for-sale were $5,930,000 in 2011, $0 in 2010,
and $21,906,000 in 2009. Gross realized gains on the sales in 2011, 2010 and
2009 were $48,000, $0 and $699,000, respectively; gross realized losses on sales
in 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $5,000, $0 and $2,000, respectively. 
Note
4Loans
The Company originates
commercial, industrial and real estate loans to businesses and churches
throughout the metropolitan St. Louis, Missouri area, Orange County, California
and other selected cities in the United States. The Company does not have any
particular concentration of credit in any one economic sector; however, a
substantial portion of the commercial and industrial loans are extended to
privately-held commercial companies in these market areas, and are generally
secured by the assets of the business. The Company also has a substantial
portion of real estate loans secured by mortgages that are extended to churches
in its market area and selected cities in the United States. 
A summary of loan
categories is as follows: 




December
      31,

(In
      thousands)

2011

2010

Commercial and industrial
     
$     
136,916
     
$     
135,061

Real
      estate







       Commercial:







              Mortgage


140,848


152,215

              Construction

 
9,067


18,434

       Church,
      church-related:







              Mortgage


347,726


365,378

              Construction


36,497

 
36,318

Other


511


1,227

       Total loans

$
671,565

$
708,633
32 


The following table
presents the aging of loans by loan categories at December 31, 2011: 




Performing

Nonperforming












90 Days












30-59

60-89

and

Non

Total

(In
      thousands)

Current

Days

Days

Over

Accrual

Loans

Commercial and industrial

$
136,850

$     
—

$
10

$
—

$
56

$
136,916

Real
      estate



















       Commercial:



















              Mortgage


139,249


137


—


29


1,433


140,848

              Construction


9,067


—


—


—


—


9,067

       Church,
      church-related:



















              Mortgage
 

347,506


—


—


—


220


347,726

              Construction

 
36,497
 
 
—

 
—


—
 
 
—


36,497

Other


511


—
 

—


—


—


511

Total
     
$     
669,680
     
$
137
     
$     
10
     
$     
29
     
$     
1,709
     
$     
671,565
The following table
presents the aging of loans by loan categories at December 31, 2010: 




Performing

Nonperforming












90 Days












30-59

60-89

and

Non

Total

(In
      thousands)

Current

Days

Days

Over

Accrual

Loans

Commercial and industrial

$
134,936

$
79

$
—

$
—

$
46

$
135,061

Real
      estate



















       Commercial:



















              Mortgage

 
151,581


145


—


—


489


152,215

              Construction


18,434


—


—


—


—


18,434

       Church,
      church-related:



















              Mortgage


363,424


1,924


—


—


30


365,378

              Construction


36,318
 

—


—


—
 

—

 
36,318

Other
 

1,227


—

 
—


—


—


1,227

Total
     
$     
705,920
     
$     
2,148
     
$     
—
     
$     
—
     
$     
565
     
$     
708,633
The following table
presents the credit exposure of the loan portfolio by internally assigned credit
grade as of December 31, 2011: 




Loans

Performing

Nonperforming






Subject to

Loans Subject to

Loans Subject to






Normal

Special

Special

Total

(In
      thousands)

Monitoring1

Monitoring2

Monitoring2

Loans

Commercial and industrial

$
132,475

$
4,385

$
56

$
136,916

Real
      estate













       Commercial:













              Mortgage


125,850


13,536


1,462


140,848

              Construction


9,067


—


—


9,067

       Church,
      church-related:













              Mortgage


336,727


10,779


220


347,726

              Construction
 

36,497


—


—


36,497

Other


511

 
—


—


511

Total
     
$     
641,127
     
$     
28,700
     
$     
1,738
     
$     
671,565


1

Loans subject to normal monitoring involve
      borrowers of acceptable-to-strong credit quality and risk, who have the
      apparent ability to satisfy their loan obligation.

2
     
Loans subject to special monitoring possess
      some credit deficiency or potential weakness which requires a high level
      of management attention.
33


The following table
presents the credit exposure of the loan portfolio by internally assigned credit
grade as of December 31, 2010: 




Loans

Performing

Nonperforming






Subject to

Loans Subject to

Loans Subject to






Normal

Special

Special

Total

(In
      thousands)

Monitoring1

Monitoring2

Monitoring2

Loans

Commercial and industrial

$
130,148

$
4,867

$
46

$
135,061

Real
      estate













       Commercial:













              Mortgage


143,009


8,717


489


152,215

              Construction


18,434


—


—


18,434

       Church,
      church-related:













              Mortgage


353,578


11,770


30


365,378

              Construction


36,318

 
—


—

 
36,318

Other

 
1,227
 

—


—


1,227

Total
     
$     
682,714
     
$     
25,354
     
$     
565
     
$     
708,633


1

Loans subject to normal monitoring involve
      borrowers of acceptable-to-strong credit quality and risk, who have the
      apparent ability to satisfy their loan obligation.

2
     
Loans subject to special monitoring possess
      some credit deficiency or potential weakness which requires a high level
      of management attention.
Impaired loans consist
primarily of nonaccrual loans, loans greater than 90 days past due and still
accruing interest and troubled debt restructurings, both performing and
non-performing. Troubled debt restructuring involves the granting of a
concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty resulting in the
modification of terms of the loan, such as changes in payment schedule or
interest rate. The allowance for loan losses related to impaired loans was
$1,066,000 and $120,000 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. There were
no impaired loans without a valuation allowance at December 31, 2011 or 2010.
Nonaccrual loans were $1,709,000 and $565,000 at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. Loans delinquent 90 days or more and still accruing interest were
$29,000 and $0 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. At December 31, 2011
there were two loans totaling $4,479,000 classified as troubled debt
restructuring, with a total pre-modification loan balance of $4,486,000; there
were no troubled debt restructurings at December 31, 2010. The average balances
of impaired loans during 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $5,276,000 $1,130,000 and
$1,568,000, respectively. Income that would have been recognized on non-accrual
loans under the original terms of the contract was $107,000, $83,000 and
$134,000 for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Income that was recognized on
nonaccrual loans was $102,000, $35,000 and $131,000 for 2011, 2010 and 2009
respectively. There are two foreclosed loans with a book value of $1,689,000
which have been reclassified as other real estate owned (included in other
assets) as of December 31, 2011.
The following table
presents the recorded investment and unpaid principal balance for impaired loans
at December 31, 2011: 







Unpaid

Related



Recorded

Principal

Allowance for

(In
      thousands)

Investment

Balance

Loan
      Losses

Commercial and industrial:










              Nonaccrual

$
56

$
56

$     
28

              Troubled
      debt restructurings still accruing


83


83


8

Real
      estate










       Commercial –
      Mortgage:










              Nonaccrual


1,433


1,433


149

              Past
      due 90 days or more and still accruing


29


29

 
—

              Troubled
      debt restructurings still accruing


4,396


4,396


766

       Church –
    Mortgage:
 


 


 



              Nonaccrual


220


220


115

Total impaired
      loans
     
$     
6,217
     
$     
6,217
     
$
1,066
34 


The following table
presents the recorded investment and unpaid principal balance for impaired loans
at December 31, 2010: 







Unpaid

Related



Recorded

Principal

Allowance for

(In
      thousands)

Investment

Balance

Loan
      Losses

Commercial and industrial:










              Nonaccrual

$
46

$
46

$
5

              Troubled
      debt restructurings still accruing


—


—


—

Real
      estate



 






       Commercial –
      Mortgage:










              Nonaccrual


489


489


100

       Church –
    Mortgage:







 


              Nonaccrual

 
30


30
 

15

Total impaired
      loans
     
$     
565
     
$     
565
     
$     
120
The Company does not record
loans at fair value on a recurring basis other than loans that are considered
impaired. Once a loan is identified as impaired, management measures impairment
in accordance with FASB ASC 310, “Allowance for Credit Losses”. At December 31,
2011, all impaired loans were evaluated based on the fair value of the
collateral. The fair value of the collateral is based upon an observable market
price or current appraised value and therefore, the Company classifies these
assets as nonrecurring Level 2. The total principal balance of impaired loans
measured at fair value at December 31,2011 and 2010 was $5,151,000 and $445,000.

A summary of the activity
in the allowance for loan losses is as follows: 




December 31,

Charge-








December 31,

(In
      thousands)

2010

Offs

Recoveries

Provision

2011

Commercial and industrial

$
2,732

$
1,118

$
58

$
922


$
2,594

Real
      estate

















       Commercial:

















              Mortgage


3,356


—


—


1,420



4,776

              Construction


269


—


—


(102
)


167

       Church,
      church-related:

















              Mortgage


5,135


28


1


(311
)


4,797

              Construction


387
 

—


—


229



616

Other

 
12

 
—
 

—
 

(8
)
 

4

Total
     
$     
11,891
     
$     
1,146
     
$     
59
     
$     
2,150

     
$     
12,954
Loan transactions involving
executive officers and directors of the Company and its subsidiaries and loans
to affiliates of executive officers and directors decreased during 2011 by
$2,000 in payments, from an aggregate balance of $580,000 on January 1, 2011 to
$578,000 at December 31, 2011. Such loans were made in the normal course of
business on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and
collateral, as those prevailing at the same time for comparable transactions
with other persons, and did not involve more than the normal risk of
collectability. 
Note
5Premises and
Equipment
A summary of premises and
equipment is as follows: 




December
      31,

(In
      thousands)

2011

2010

Land

$
873

$
873

Buildings


10,491


10,491

Leasehold improvements


836


1,794

Furniture, fixtures and equipment


10,072


11,247

Purchased software


5,894


5,390

Internally developed
      software


2,650


3,283



$
30,816
 
$
33,078

Less accumulated
      depreciation
 
 
21,229


23,461

Total
     
$     
9,587
     
$     
9,617
35


Total depreciation charged
to expense in 2011, 2010 and 2009 amounted to $1,955,000, $2,024,000, and
$2,243,000, respectively. 
The Company and its
subsidiaries lease various premises and equipment under operating lease
agreements, which expire at various dates through 2016. Rental expense for 2011,
2010 and 2009 was $598,000, $767,000 and $814,000, respectively. The following
is a schedule, by year, of future minimum rental payments required under
operating leases that have initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms in
excess of one year as of December 31, 2011: 


(In
      thousands)

Amount

2012


614

2013


487

2014


321

2015


196

2016

 
46

Total
     
$     
1,664
Note
6Acquired Intangible
Assets
The Company accounts for
intangible assets in accordance with FASB ASC 350, “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets,” which requires that intangibles with indefinite useful lives
be tested annually for impairment and those with finite useful lives be
amortized over their useful lives. Details of the Company’s intangible assets
are as follows: 




December 31,
      2011

December 31,
      2010



Gross Carrying

Accumulated

Gross Carrying

Accumulated

(In
      thousands)

Amount

Amortization

Amount

Amortization

Assets eligible for amortization:















       Customer List

$
750

$
(589
)

$
750

$
(482
)

              Total


750


(589
)


750


(482
)

Unamortized intangible assets:






 








       Goodwill1

 
7,698


(227
)


7,698


(227
)

              Total
      unamortized intangibles


7,698

 
(227
)


7,698


(227
)

Total intangible
      assets
     
$     
8,448
     
$     
(816
)
     
$     
8,448
     
$     
(709
)



1
     
Amortization through December 31, 2001 prior
      to adoption of FASB ASC 350.
The customer list that was
acquired in the NTransit purchase is amortized over seven years on a
straight-line basis. The weighted average remaining amortization period at
December 31, 2011 was two years for all amortized intangible assets combined.
Amortization of intangible assets amounted to $107,000, $107,000 and $222,000 for
the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Estimated future
amortization of intangibles is as follows: $107,000 in 2012 and $54,000 in 2013.

Note
7Interest-Bearing
Deposits
Interest-bearing deposits
consist of the following:




December
      31,

(In
      thousands)

2011

2010

NOW and money market deposit
    accounts

$
257,294

$
215,927

Savings deposits


28,037


32,447

Time deposits:







       Less than $100


13,167


20,950

       $100 or more
 
 
117,914
 

136,169

Total
     
$     
416,412
     
$     
405,493
Interest on deposits
consists of the following: 




December
      31,

(In
      thousands)


2011


2010


2009

NOW and money market deposit
    accounts

$
2,162

$
2,082

$
1,797

Savings deposits


225


321


335

Time deposits:










       Less than $100


1,297


1,658


1,729

       $100 or more
 

690
 

814
 

1,063

Total
     
$     
4,374
     
$     
4,875
     
$     
4,924
36


The scheduled maturities of
time deposits are summarized as follows: 




December
      31,



2011

2010






Percent




Percent

(In
      thousands)

Amount

of
      Total

Amount

of
      Total

Due within:













       One year

$
119,394

91.1
%

$
134,217

85.4
%

       Two years


7,362

5.6
%


19,442

12.4
%

       Three years
 
 
1,735
 
1.3
%

 
914

0.6
%

       Four years


2,332

1.8
%


447

0.3
%

       Five years


258

.2
%


2,099
 
1.3
%

Total
     
$     
131,081
     
100.0
%
     
$     
157,119
     
100.0
%
Note
8Subordinated Convertible
Debentures and Unused Available Lines of Credit
On August 24, 2004, the
Company issued $3,700,000 of 5.33% subordinated convertible debentures in
partial consideration for the acquisition of the assets of PROFITLAB, Inc.
Interest was payable annually on the anniversary date of the acquisition. Prior
to 2010, all debt-holders converted the principal balance into shares of the
Company’s common stock in accordance with the conversion provisions. As such, no
convertible debentures are outstanding as of December 31, 2010 and
2011.
As of December 31, 2011,
the Bank had unsecured lines of credit at correspondent banks to purchase
federal funds up to a maximum of $88,000,000 at the following banks: Bank of
America, $20,000,000; US Bank, $20,000,000; Wells Fargo Bank, $15,000,000; PNC
Bank, $12,000,000; Frost National Bank, $10,000,000; JPM Chase Bank, $6,000,000;
and UMB Bank $5,000,000. The Company had secured lines of credit with the
Federal Home Loan Bank of $132,578,000 collateralized by commercial mortgage
loans. There were no amounts outstanding under any of the lines of credit
discussed above at December 31, 2011 or 2010.
Note
9Common Stock and Earnings
per Share
The table below shows
activity in the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock during
2011.



2011

Shares outstanding at January 1
9,387,791

10%
      stock dividend issued December 15, 2011
940,839

Issuance of common stock:


       Issued under stock-based
      compensation plan
21,195

       Stock options/SARs
      exercised
8,105

Shares outstanding at
      December 31
10,357,930
Basic earnings per share is
computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding. Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing net income,
adjusted for the net income effect of the interest expense on the outstanding
convertible debentures, by the sum of the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding and the weighted average number of potential common shares
outstanding. Under the treasury stock method, outstanding stock options and SARs
are dilutive when the average market price of the Company’s common stock,
combined with the effect of any unamortized compensation expense, exceeds the
option price during a period. In addition, proceeds from the assumed exercise of
dilutive options along with the related tax benefit are assumed to be used to
repurchase common shares at the average market price of such stock during the
period. Anti-dilutive shares are those option shares with exercise prices in
excess of the current market value.
37


The calculations of basic and diluted
earnings per share are as follows:




December
      31,

(In thousands except
      share and per share data)

2011

2010

2009

Basic










       Net income

$
23,009

$
20,310
 
$
16,129

       Weighted-average common
      shares outstanding


10,297,244


10,268,812

 
10,072,340

              Basic
      earnings per share
     
$     
2.23
     
$     
1.98
     
$     
1.60

Diluted










       Basic net
income

$
23,009

$
20,310

$
16,129

       Net income effect of
      5.33% convertible










              debentures


—


—


55

       Diluted net
    income

$
23,009

$
20,310

$
16,184

       Weighted-average common
      shares outstanding
 

10,297,244


10,268,812


10,072,340

       Effect of dilutive
      restricted stock, stock










              options
      and SARs

 
135,138


123,521


136,862

       Effect of convertible
      debentures


—


—
 

102,274

       Weighted-average common
      shares outstanding



 



 


              assuming
      dilution


10,432,382


10,392,333


10,311,476

                     Diluted
      earnings per share
     
$     
2.21
     
$     
1.95
     
$     
1.57
All share and per share
data have been restated to give effect to the 10% stock dividend issued on
December 15, 2011.
Note
10Employee Benefit
Plans
Defined Benefit
PlanThe Company has a
noncontributory defined-benefit pension plan (the “Plan”), which covers most of
its employees. The Company accrues and makes contributions designed to fund
normal service costs on a current basis using the projected unit credit with
service proration method to amortize prior service costs arising from
improvements in pension benefits and qualifying service prior to the
establishment of the plan over a period of approximately 30 years.
A summary of the activity
in the Plan’s projected benefit obligation, assets, funded status and amounts
recognized in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets is as follows:





December
      31,

(In
      thousands)

2011

2010

Projected benefit obligation:









       Balance, January
    1

$
43,337


$     
36,588


       Service cost


2,073



1,771


       Interest cost


2,423



2,290


       Actuarial loss


7,357



3,853


       Benefits paid


(1,218
)


(1,165
)

Balance, December
      31

$
53,972


$
43,337


Plan
      assets:









       Fair value, January
      1

$
45,427


$
33,362


       Actual return


686



3,880


       Employer
      contribution


9,000



9,350


       Benefits paid

 
(1,218
)


(1,165
)

Fair value, December
      31

$
53,895
 

$
45,427


Funded status:





 
 
 

Accrued pension asset
      (liability)
     
$     
(77
)
     
$
2,090

The following represent the
major assumptions used to determine the projected benefit obligation of the
Plan. For 2011, 2010 and 2009 the Plan’s expected benefit cash flows were
discounted using the Citibank Above Median Curve.




2011

2010

2009

Weighted average discount rate

4.75%
     
5.75%
 
6.25%

Rate
      of increase in compensation levels

4.00%

4.00%
     
4.00%
The accumulated benefit
obligation was $43,421,000 and $34,881,000 as of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. The Company expects to contribute approximately $3,000,000 to the
Plan in 2012. The following pension benefit payments, which reflect expected
future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid by the Plan: 



Amount

2012
1,315,000

2013
1,359,000

2014
1,512,000

2015
1,640,000

2016
1,855,000

2017-2021
13,025,000
38 


The Plan’s pension cost
included the following components: 




For the Year Ended



December
      31,

(In
      thousands)

2011

2010

2009

Service cost – benefits earned during the
      year

$
2,073


$     
1,771


$     
1,606


Interest cost on projected benefit obligations

 
2,423



2,290



2,080


Expected return on plan assets
 

(3,314
)


(2,440
)

 
(1,880
)

Net amortization and
      deferral


603

 
 
616

 

873
 

Net periodic pension
      cost
     
$     
1,785

     
$
2,237

     
$
2,679

The following represent the
major assumptions used to determine the net pension cost of the Plan:




2011
 
2010

2009

Weighted average discount rate
5.75%

6.25%

6.50%

Rate
      of increase in compensation levels
4.00%

4.00%
 
4.00%

Expected long-term rate of return on
      assets
7.25%
     
7.25%
     
7.25%
The investment objective
for the Plan is to maximize total return with a tolerance for average risk.
Asset allocation is a balance between fixed income and equity investments, with
a target allocation of approximately 50% fixed income, 34% US equity and 16%
Non-US equity. Due to volatility in the market, this target allocation is not
always desirable and asset allocations can fluctuate between acceptable ranges.
The fixed income component is invested in pooled investment grade securities.
The equity components are invested in pooled large cap, small/mid cap and Non-US
stocks. The assumed long-term rate of return on assets, which
falls within the expected range, is 7.25% as derived below: 



Expected Long-Term









Asset
    Class
Return on
      Class
     
X
     
Allocation
     
=
     
Assumption

Fixed Income
4 – 6%



50%
 


2.0 – 3.0%

US
      Equity
5 – 9%



34%



1.7 – 3.1%

Non-US
Equity
5 –
      10%

 

16%

 

0.8 –
      1.6%










4.5 –
  7.7%
A summary of the fair value
measurements by type of asset is as follows: 




Fair Value
      Measurements as of December 31



2011

2010






Quoted Prices







Quoted Prices









in Active







in Active









Markets for

Significant




Markets for

Significant






Identical

Observable




Identical

Observable






Assets

Inputs




Assets

Inputs

(In
      thousands)

Total

(Level
      1)

(Level
      2)

Total

(Level
      1)

(Level
      2)

Cash

$
219

$
219

$
—

$
203

$
203

$
—

Equity securities
 


















       U.
      S. Large Cap Growth


4,497


—


4,497


3,844


—


3,844

       U. S. Large Cap
      Value


4,586


—


4,586


3,853


—


3,853

       U.
      S. Small/Mid Cap Growth


1,856


—


1,856


1,594


—


1,594

       U. S. Small/Mid Cap
      Value


1,888


—


1,888


1,597


—


1,597

       Non-U. S. Core


8,470


—


8,470


7,236


—


7,236

       U. S. Large Cap
      Passive


5,387
 
 
—


5,387
 

4,542

 
—


4,542

Fixed Income










 








       U. S. Core
      Opportunistic


19,410


—

 
19,410


16,227
 

—
 
 
16,227

       U. S. Passive


7,582


—
 

7,582


6,331


—


6,331

              Total
   
$     
53,895
   
$     
219
   
$     
53,676
   
$     
45,427
   
$     
203
   
$     
45,224
Supplemental Executive
Retirement PlanThe Company
also has an unfunded supplemental executive retirement plan (“SERP”) which
covers key executives of the Company. The SERP is a noncontributory plan in
which the Company’s subsidiaries make accruals designed to fund normal service
costs on a current basis using the same method and criteria as the Plan.

39


A summary of the activity
in the SERP’s projected benefit obligation, funded status and amounts recognized
in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets is as follows: 




December
      31,

(In
      thousands)
     
2011
     
2010

Benefit obligation:









       Balance, January
    1

$     
5,479


$     
5,369


       Service cost


89



78


       Interest cost


295



315


       Benefits paid


(236
)


(235
)

       Actuarial loss
      (gain)


1,807



(48
)

Balance, December
      31

$
7,434


$
5,479

The following represent the
major assumptions used to determine the projected benefit obligation of the
SERP. For 2011, 2010 and 2009, the SERP’s expected benefit cash flows were
discounted using the Citigroup Above Median Curve.



     
2011
     
2010
     
2009

Weighted average discount rate
 
4.50
%
 
5.50
%
 
6.00
%

Rate
      of increase in compensation levels

4.00
%

4.00
%

4.00
%
The accumulated benefit
obligation was $5,109,000 and $4,136,000 as of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. Since this is an unfunded plan there are no plan assets. Benefits
paid were $236,000 in 2011, $235,000 in 2010 and $317,000 in 2009. Expected
future benefits payable by the Company over the next 10 years are as follows:




     
Amount

2012

236,000

2013

235,000

2014

234,000

2015

233,000

2016

245,000

2017-2021

1,714,000
The SERP’s pension cost
included the following components: 




For the Year
      Ended December 31,

(In
      thousands)
     
2011
     
2010
     
2009

Service cost – benefits earned during the
      year

$     
89

$     
78

$     
33

Interest cost on projected benefit obligations


295


315


278

Net amortization and
      deferral


250


258


130

Net periodic pension
      cost

$
634

$
651

$
441
The pre-tax amounts in
accumulated other comprehensive loss as of December 31, were as follows:





The
      Plan

SERP

(In
      thousands)
     
2011
     
2010
     
2011
     
2010

Prior service cost

$     
24

$     
33

$     
—

$     
50

Net actuarial
    loss


21,376


11,985


3,802


2,194

      Total

$
21,400

$
12,018

$
3,802

$
2,244
The estimated pre-tax prior
service cost and net actuarial loss in accumulated other comprehensive loss at
December 31, 2011 expected to be recognized as components of net periodic
benefit cost in 2012 for the Plan are $8,000 and $1,387,000, respectively. The
estimated pre-tax prior service cost and net actuarial loss in accumulated other
comprehensive loss at December 31, 2011, expected to be recognized as components
of net periodic benefit cost in 2012 for SERP are $0 and $421,000 respectively.

The Company also maintains
a noncontributory profit sharing plan, which covers most of its employees.
Employer contributions are calculated based upon formulas which relate to
current operating results and other factors. Profit sharing expense recognized
in the consolidated statements of income in 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $5,270,000,
$4,665,000, and $3,668,000, respectively. 
The Company also sponsors a
defined contribution 401(k) plan to provide additional retirement benefits to
substantially all employees. Contributions under the 401(k) plan for 2011, 2010
and 2009 were $497,000, $450,000 and $470,000, respectively. 
40


Note
11Stock-based
Compensation

In 2007, the Company’s
shareholders approved the Omnibus Incentive Stock Plan (“the Omnibus Plan”) to
provide incentive opportunities for key employees and non-employee directors and
to align the personal financial interests of such individuals with those of the
Company’s shareholders. The Omnibus Plan permits the issuance of up to 968,000
shares of the Company’s common stock in the form of stock options, stock
appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance
awards.
The Company also continues
to maintain its other stock-based incentive plans for the restricted common
stock previously awarded and the options previously issued and outstanding.
Restricted shares are amortized to expense over the three-year vesting period.
Options currently vest over a period not to exceed seven years. The plans
authorize the grant of awards in the form of options intended to qualify as
incentive stock options under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code, options
that do not qualify (non-statutory stock options) and grants of restricted
shares of common stock. The Company issues shares out of treasury stock for
restricted shares and option exercises. These plans have been superseded by the
Omnibus Plan and accordingly, all remaining unissued shares under these plans
have been cancelled. 
All share and per share
data have been restated to give effect to the 10% stock dividend issued on
December 15, 2011.
Restricted
StockChanges in restricted
shares outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2011 were as follows:




     
Shares
     
Fair
      Value

Balance at December 31, 2010

55,297


$     
25.92

       Granted

28,611



33.05

       Vested

(31,438
)


25.84

Balance at December 31,
      2011

52,470


$
29.86
During 2010 and 2009,
16,664 and 42,500 shares, respectively, were granted with weighted average per
share market values at date of grant of $28.10 in 2010 and $24.82 in 2009. The
fair value of such shares, which is based on the market price on the date of
grant, is amortized to expense over the three-year vesting period. Amortization
of the restricted stock bonus awards totaled $787,000 for 2011, $848,000 for
2010 and $1,194,000 for 2009. As of December 31, 2011, the total unrecognized
compensation expense related to non-vested restricted stock awards was $897,000
and the related weighted average period over which it is expected to be
recognized is approximately 0.80 years. 
Stock Options
Changes in options
outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2011 were as follows: 







Weighted Average

 
     
Shares
     
Exercise
      Price

Balance at December 31, 2010

40,290


$     
16.05

       Exercised

(9,662
)

$
13.22

Balance at December
      31, 2011

30,628


$
17.79

Exercisable at December
      31, 2011

26,954


$
17.65
The total intrinsic value
of options exercised during 2011 and 2010 was $212,000 and $159,000,
respectively. The average remaining contractual term for options outstanding as
of December 31, 2011 was 0.84 years and the aggregate intrinsic value was
$545,000. The average remaining contractual term for options exercisable as of
December 31, 2011 was 0.81 years and the aggregate intrinsic value was $505,000.

A summary of the activity
of the non-vested options during 2011 is shown below.







Weighted Average

 
     
Shares
     
Grant Date
      Fair Value

Non-vested at December 31, 2010

13,684


$     
2.67

       Vested

(10,010
)

$
2.67

Non-vested at December
      31, 2011

3,674


$
2.69
As of December 31, 2011,
the total unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested stock options
was $17,000 and the related weighted average period over which it is expected to
be recognized is approximately 0.80 years. For the year ended December 31, 2011,
there were 3,444 non-qualified options exercised and 6,218 incentive stock
options exercised. During 2011, the Company recognized stock option expense of
$27,000. 
41


Stock Appreciation
Rights (SARs)There were
82,508 SARs granted during the year ended December 31, 2011. The Company uses
the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine the fair value of the SARs
at the date of grant. Following are the assumptions used to estimate the $9.05
per share fair value. 



    
Year Ended December 31,
      2011

Risk-free interest rate

2.70%
 

Expected life

7
      yrs.


Expected volatility

27.86%


Expected dividend
      yield

1.77%

The risk-free interest rate
is based on the zero-coupon U.S. Treasury yield for the period equal to the
expected life of the options at the time of the grant. The expected life was
derived using the historical exercise activity. The Company uses historical
volatility for a period equal to the expected life of the options using average
monthly closing market prices of the Company’s stock. The expected dividend
yield is determined based on the Company’s current rate of annual dividends.

During 2011, the Company
recognized SARs expense of $577,000. As of December 31, 2011, the total
unrecognized compensation expense related to stock appreciation rights was
$616,000, and the related weighted average period over which it is expected to
be recognized is 0.60 years. Changes in SARs outstanding for the year ended
December 31, 2011 were as follows: 



     
Shares
     
Weighted
      Average Exercise Price

Balance at December 31, 2010

265,911



$     
24.85

       Granted

82,508


$
32.95

       Exercised

(15,833
)

$
24.81

Balance at December 31,
      2011

332,586


$
26.87

Exercisable at
      December 31, 2011

188,265


$
24.97
The total intrinsic value
of SARs exercised during 2011 and 2010 was $175,000 and $188,000, respectively.
The average remaining contractual term for SARs outstanding as of December 31,
2011 was 7.42 years and the aggregate intrinsic value was $3,166,000. The
average remaining contractual term for SARs exercisable as of December 31, 2011
was 3.76 years and the aggregate intrinsic value was $2,149,000. 
Note
12Other Operating
Expense
Details of other operating
expense are as follows: 




For the Years
      Ended December 31,

(In
      thousands)
     
2011
     
2010
     
2009

Postage and supplies

$     
2,239

$     
2,031

$     
2,171

Promotional expense


1,646


1,588


1,508

Professional fees


3,141


1,892


1,388

Outside service fees


2,628


2,282


1,956

Data processing services


362


356


339

Telecommunications


641


627


550

Other


1,849


1,987


1,893

Total other operating
      expense

$
12,506

$
10,763

$
9,805
Note 13Income
Taxes
The components of income
tax expense (benefit) are as follows: 




For the Years
      Ended December 31,

(In
      thousands)
     
2011
     
2010
     
2009

Current:











       Federal

$     
5,372

$     
5,435

$     
5,458


       State


980


920


597


Deferred:











       Federal


1,983


1,178


(602
)

       State


162


90


(48
)

Total income tax
      expense

$
8,497

$
7,623

$
5,405

42


A reconciliation of
expected income tax expense (benefit), computed by applying the effective
federal statutory rate of 35% for 2011, 35% for 2010 and 34% for 2009 to income
before income tax expense, to reported income tax expense is as follows:





For the
      Years Ended December 31,

(In
      thousands)
     
2011
     
2010
     
2009

Expected income tax expense

$     
11,027


$     
9,777


$     
7,322


(Reductions) increases resulting from:













       Tax-exempt
    income


(3,760
)


(3,273
)


(2,798
)

       State taxes, net of
      federal benefit


742



657



694


Other, net


488



462



187


Total income tax
      expense

$
8,497


$
7,623


$
5,405

The tax effects of
temporary differences which give rise to significant portions of the deferred
tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are presented below:




December
      31,

(In
      thousands)
     
2011
     
2010

Deferred tax assets:









       Allowance for loan
      losses

$     
4,912


$     
4,419


       ASC 715 pension funding
      liability


9,679



5,452


       Net operating loss
      carryforward1


384



421


       Stock
    compensation


834



731


       Supplemental executive
      retirement plan accrual


634



474


       Other


454



288


              Total
      deferred tax assets

$
16,897


$
11,785


Deferred tax liabilities:









       Premises and
      equipment


(440
)


(352
)

       Pension


(7,327
)


(4,499
)

       Intangible/assets


(752
)


(652
)

       Unrealized gain on
      investment in securities available-for-sale


(6,922
)


(3,024
)

       Other


(315
)


(300
)

              Total
      deferred tax liabilities

$
(15,756
)

$
(8,827
)

Net deferred tax
      assets

$
1,141


$
2,958




     


1
 
As of December 31, 2011, the Company had
      approximately $1,097,000 of net operating loss carry forwards as a result
      of the acquisition of Franklin Bancorp. The utilization of the net
      operating loss carry forward is subject to Section 382 of the Internal
      Revenue Code and limits the Company’s use to approximately $122,000 per
      year during the carry forward period, which expires in
  2020.
A valuation allowance would
be provided on deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that some
portion of the assets will not be realized. The Company has not established a
valuation allowance at December 31, 2011 or 2010, due to management’s belief
that all criteria for recognition have been met, including the existence of a
history of taxes paid sufficient to support the realization of deferred tax
assets. 
The reconciliation of the
beginning unrecognized tax benefits balance to the ending balance is presented
in the following table:


(In
      thousands)
     
2011
     
2010
     
2009

Balance at January 1

$     
1,877


$     
1,750


$     
1,399


       Changes in unrecognized
      tax benefits as a result of
      tax              positions
      taken during a prior year


287



560



119


       Changes in unrecognized
      tax benefits as a result of
      tax              position
      taken during the current year


475



555



387


       Decreases in unrecognized
      tax benefits relating
      to              settlements
      with taxing authorities


—



(466
)


—


       Reductions to
      unrecognized tax benefits as a result of
      a              lapse
      of the applicable statute of limitations


(570
)


(522
)


(155
)

Balance at December
      31

$
2,069


$
1,877


$
1,750

At December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009, the balance of the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits which would, if
recognized, affect the Company’s effective tax rate was $1,496,000, $1,465,000,
and $1,466,000, respectively. These amounts are net of the offsetting benefits
from other taxing jurisdictions.
43


As of December 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009, the Company had $95,000, $106,000, and $147,000 respectively, in
accrued interest related to unrecognized tax benefits. During 2011 and 2010, the
Company recorded a net reduction in accrued interest of $11,000 and $41,000,
respectively, as a result of settlements with taxing authorities and other
prior-year adjustments. During 2009, the Company recorded a net increase in
accrued interest of $34,000. The Company’s policy is to record interest and
penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax
expense.
The Company believes it is
reasonably possible that the total amount of tax benefits will decrease by
approximately $456,000 over the next twelve months. The reduction primarily
relates to the anticipated lapse in the statute of limitations. The unrecognized
tax benefits relate primarily to apportionment of taxable income among various
state tax jurisdictions. 
The Company is subject to
income tax in the U. S. federal jurisdiction, numerous state jurisdictions, and
a foreign jurisdiction. The Company’s federal income tax returns for tax years
2008 through 2010 remain subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service.
In addition, the Company is subject to state tax examinations for the tax years
2007 through 2010. 
Note
14Contingencies
The Company is the
defendant in a proceeding pending in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the
District of Delaware, which proceeding was initiated by Chapter 11 debtor LNT
Services, Inc. ("LNT"), an affiliate of Linens N' Things, on December 19, 2009.
LNT seeks to avoid and recover $33,825,773.71 in allegedly preferential payments
(the "Payments") made to the Company within 90 days preceding LNT’s bankruptcy
filing. The Company processed and paid the freight carrier bills for Linens N’
Things. The Payments were received by the Company in the normal course of
providing services to Linens N' Things, and were subsequently paid by the
Company to the appropriate Linens N’ Things freight carriers. In an attempt to
secure a favorable result prior to filing an answer, the Company has provided
the plaintiff with information and data which supports its primary
defenses.
On September 28, 2010,
Asentinel LLC ("Asentinel") filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court
for the Western District of Tennessee against the Company, AnchorPoint, Inc.
("AnchorPoint") and Veramark Technologies, Inc. ("Veramark"). The suit alleges
infringement of two Asentinel patents by the Company, AnchorPoint and Veramark.
Cass vigorously denies infringing any valid claim of either patent. Asentinel
has requested an order enjoining the Company from infringing the two patents at
issue, damages for the alleged infringement, interest and costs, treble damages
for willful infringement, and attorneys' fees. 
While there is some
uncertainty relating to any litigation, management is of the opinion that the
Company has valid defenses to both these claims. All other legal proceedings and
actions involving the Company are of an ordinary and routine nature and are
incidental to the operations of the Company. Management believes the outcome of
these proceedings, including the LNT and Asentinel proceedings, will not have a
material effect on the businesses or financial conditions of the Company or its
subsidiaries. 
Note
15Disclosures about
Financial Instruments
The Company is party to
financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk in the normal course of
business to meet the financing needs of its customers. These financial
instruments include commitments to extend credit, commercial letters of credit
and standby letters of credit. The Company’s maximum potential exposure to
credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the other party to the financial
instrument for commitments to extend credit, commercial letters of credit and
standby letters of credit is represented by the contractual amounts of those
instruments. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, no amounts have been accrued for any
estimated losses for these instruments.
Commitments to extend
credit are agreements to lend to a customer as long as there is no violation of
any condition established in the contract. Commercial and standby letters of
credit are conditional commitments issued by the Company to guarantee the
performance of a customer to a third party. These off-balance sheet financial
instruments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses
and may require payment of a fee. The approximate remaining terms of commercial
and standby letters of credit range from less than one to five years. Since
these financial instruments may expire without being drawn upon, the total
amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Commitments to
extend credit and letters of credit are subject to the same underwriting
standards as those financial instruments included on the consolidated balance
sheets. The Company evaluates each customer’s credit-worthiness on a
case-by-case basis. The amount of collateral obtained, if deemed necessary upon
extension of the credit, is based on management’s credit evaluation of the
borrower. Collateral held varies, but is generally accounts receivable,
inventory, residential or income-producing commercial property or equipment. In
the event of nonperformance, the Company may obtain and liquidate the collateral
to recover amounts paid under its guarantees on these financial instruments.

44 


The following table shows
conditional commitments to extend credit, standby letters of credit and
commercial letters: 




December
      31,

(In
      thousands)
     
2011
     
2010

Conditional commitments to extend
      credit
 
$     
10,485
 
$     
33,031

Standby letters of credit


22,302


23,587

Commercial letters of
      credit
 
 
4,518
 
 
3,821
Following is a summary of
the carrying amounts and fair values of the Company’s financial
instruments:




December
      31,



2011

2010



Carrying




Carrying




(In
      thousands)
     
Amount
     
Fair
      Value
     
Amount
     
Fair
      Value

Balance sheet assets:













       Cash and cash
      equivalents

$     
235,962

$     
235,962

$     
138,929

$     
138,929

       Investment in
      securities


310,612


310,612


264,569


264,569

       Loans, net


658,611


665,348


696,742


710,294

       Accrued interest
      receivable


6,125


6,125


5,857


5,857

              Total

$
1,211,310

$
1,218,047

$
1,106,097

$
1,119,649

 

Balance sheet liabilities:













       Deposits

$
548,368

$
548,985

$
518,590

$
518,733

       Accounts and drafts
      payable


595,201


595,201


516,107


516,107

       Short-term
      borrowings


—


—


9


9

       Accrued interest
      payable


159


159


208


208

              Total

$
1,143,728

$
1,144,345

$
1,034,914

$
1,035,057
The following methods and
assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial
instruments for which it is practicable to estimate that value: 
Cash and Other
Short-term Instruments For cash
and cash equivalents, accrued interest receivable, accounts and drafts payable,
short-term borrowings and accrued interest payable, the carrying amount is a
reasonable estimate of fair value because of the demand nature or short
maturities of these instruments. 
Investment in
Securities Fair values are
measured using Level 2 valuations. 
Loans The fair value of loans is estimated by
discounting the future cash flows using the current rates at which similar loans
would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and for the same
remaining maturities. 
Deposits The fair value of demand deposits, savings
deposits and certain money market deposits is the amount payable on demand at
the reporting date. The fair value of fixed-maturity certificates of deposit is
estimated using the rates currently offered for deposits of similar remaining
maturities. The fair value estimates above do not include the benefit that
results from the low-cost funding provided by the deposit liabilities compared
to the cost of borrowing funds in the market or the benefit derived from the
customer relationship inherent in existing deposits. 
Commitments to Extend
Credit and Standby Letters of Credit The fair value of commitments to extend credit and standby letters of
credit is estimated using the fees currently charged to enter into similar
agreements, taking into account the remaining terms of the agreements, the
likelihood of the counterparties drawing on such financial instruments and the
present credit-worthiness of such counterparties. The Company believes such
commitments have been made at terms which are competitive in the markets in
which it operates; however, no premium or discount is offered thereon.

Limitations Fair value
estimates are based on existing on- and off-balance sheet financial instruments
without attempting to estimate the value of anticipated future business and the
value of assets and liabilities that are not considered financial instruments.
Other significant assets or liabilities that are not considered financial assets
or liabilities include premises and equipment and the benefit that results from
the low-cost funding provided by the deposit liabilities compared to the cost of
borrowing funds in the market (core deposit intangible). In addition, tax
ramifications related to the realization of the unrealized gains and losses can
have a significant effect on fair value estimates and have not been considered
in any of the estimates. 
Because no market exists
for a significant portion of the Company’s financial instruments, fair value
estimates are based on management’s judgments regarding future expected loss
experience, current economic conditions, risk characteristics of various
financial instruments and other factors. These estimates are subjective in
nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment and,
therefore, cannot be determined with precision. Changes in assumptions could
significantly affect the estimates. 
45


Note
16Industry Segment
Information
The services provided by
the Company are classified into two reportable segments: Information Services
and Banking Services. Each of these segments provides distinct services that are
marketed through different channels. They are managed separately due to their
unique service, processing and capital requirements. The Information Services
segment provides transportation, utility, telecommunication and invoice
processing and payment services to large corporations. The Banking Services
segment provides banking services primarily to privately held businesses and
churches.
The Company’s accounting
policies for segments are the same as those described in Note 1 of this report.
Management evaluates segment performance based on net income after allocations
for corporate expenses and income taxes. Transactions between segments are
accounted for at what management believes to be fair value. 
Substantially all revenue
originates from and all long-lived assets are located within the United States
and no revenue from any customer of any segment exceeds 10% of the Company’s
consolidated revenue. Assets represent actual assets owned by Information
Services and there is no allocation methodology used. Loans are sold by Banking
Services to Information Services to create liquidity when the Bank’s loan to
deposit ratio is greater than 100%. Segment interest from customers is the
actual interest earned on the loans owned by Information Services and Banking
Services, respectively. 
Summarized information
about the Company’s operations in each industry segment for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, is as follows: 











Corporate,






Information

Banking

Eliminations




(In
      thousands)
     
Services
     
Services
     
and
      Other
     
Total

2011















Fee
      revenue and other income:















              Income
      from customers

$     
61,470

$     
1,354


$     
—


$     
62,824

              Intersegment
      income (expense)


10,088


1,859



(11,947
)


—

Net interest income (expense) after
      provision       for loan
      losses:















              Income
      from customers


21,030


22,681



—



43,711

              Intersegment
      income (expense)


17


(17
)


—



—

Depreciation and amortization


1,874


164



24



2,062

Income taxes


3,028


5,469



—



8,497

Net
      income


14,716


8,293



—



23,009

Goodwill


7,335


136



—



7,471

Other intangible assets, net


161


—



—



161

Total assets

$
698,685

$
622,996


$
(2,380
)

$
1,319,301

2010















Fee revenue and other income:















              Income
      from customers

$
54,732

$
1,414


$
—


$
56,146

              Intersegment
      income (expense)


8,939


1,656



(10,595
)


—

Net
      interest income (expense) after
      provision       for loan
      losses:















              Income
      from customers


19,381


20,690



—



40,071

              Intersegment
      income (expense)


23


(23
)


—



—

Depreciation and amortization


1,875


242



14



2,131

Income taxes


2,955


4,668



—



7,623

Net income


13,220


7,090



—



20,310

Goodwill


7,335


136



—



7,471

Other intangible assets, net


268


—



—



268

Total assets

$
612,981

$
580,948


$
(5,894
)

$
1,188,035

2009















Fee
      revenue and other income:















              Income
      from customers

$
49,913

$
1,325


$
—


$
51,238

              Intersegment
      income (expense)


6,964


1,632



(8,596
)


—

Net interest income (expense) after
      provision       for loan
      losses:















              Income
      from customers


19,220


17,461



—



36,681

              Intersegment
      income (expense)


94


(94
)


—



—

Depreciation and amortization


2,147


305



13



2,465

Income taxes


2,158


3,247



—



5,405

Net
      income


11,047


5,082



—



16,129

Goodwill


7,335


136



—



7,471

Other intangible assets, net


375


—



—



375

Total assets

$
527,897

$
496,286


$
(11,202
)

$
1,012,981
46


Note
17Subsequent Events

On January 6, 2012, the
Company acquired the assets of Waste Reduction Consultants, Inc., one of the
fastest-growing providers of environmental expense management services. This
acquisition positions the Company to expand its portfolio of services for
controlling facility-related expenses and accelerates the Company’s leadership
position as a back-office business processor. The results of operations for this
new service will be included in the Information Services business segment
beginning in January 2012. 
Note
18Condensed Financial
Information of Parent Company
Following are the condensed
balance sheets of the Company (parent company only) and the related condensed
statements of income and cash flows.




Condensed Balance Sheets



December
      31,

(In
      thousands)
     
2011
     
2010

Assets







Cash
      and due from banks

$     
26,986

$     
17,842

Short-term investments


95,043


61,775

Securities available-for-sale, at fair value


310,612


264,569

Loans, net


173,854


193,622

Investments in subsidiary


58,582


52,091

Premises and equipment, net


9,305


9,093

Other assets


93,582


66,080

              Total
      assets

$
767,964

$
665,072

Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity







Liabilities:







Accounts and drafts payable


595,201


516,107

Other liabilities


12,183


6,871

       Total
    liabilities


607,384


522,978

       Total shareholders’
      equity


160,580


142,094

              Total
      liabilities and shareholders’ equity

$
767,964

$
665,072




Condensed Statement of
  Income



For the Years
      Ended December 31,

(In
      thousands)
     
2011
     
2010
     
2009

Income from subsidiary:










       Interest

$     
18

$     
24

$     
115

       Management fees


1,794


1,849


1,882

              Income
      from subsidiary


1,812


1,873


1,997

Information services revenue


60,688


54,183


48,665

Net
      interest income after provision


19,933


18,373


18,157

Gain on sales of investment
    securities


43


—


697

Other income


701


549


551

              Total
      income


83,177


74,978


70,067

Expenses:










       Salaries and employee
      benefits


50,296


45,598


45,172

       Other expenses


14,462


13,205


11,690

              Total
      expenses


64,758


58,803


56,862

Income before income tax and equity in undistributed
      income    of subsidiary


18,419


16,175


13,205

Income tax expense


3,156


2,955


2,158

Income before undistributed income of subsidiary


15,263


13,220


11,047

Equity in undistributed income of
      subsidiary


7,746


7,090


5,082

 










              Net
      income

$
23,009

$
20,310

$
16,129
47






Condensed Statements of Cash
    Flows



For the
      Years Ended December 31,

(In
      thousands)
     
2011
     
2010
     
2009

Cash flows from operating
    activities:













Net
      income

$     
23,009


$     
20,310


$     
16,129


Adjustments to reconcile net income to net
      cash provided       by (used in)
      operating activities:













              Equity
      in undistributed income of subsidiary


(7,746
)


(7,090
)


(5,082
)

              Net
      change in other assets


(19,669
)


(4,463
)


187


              Net
      change in other liabilities


1,655



(4,930
)


(962
)

              Amortization
      of stock-based awards


1,390



1,472



1,193


              Other,
      net


(7,497
)


—



(325
)

              Net
      cash (used in) provided by operating activities


(8,858
)


5,299



11,140


Cash
      flows from investing activities:













Net increase in securities


(37,329
)


(45,173
)


(22,226
)

Net
      (increase) decrease in loans


19,068



(19,911
)


53,364


Purchases of premises and equipment,
      net


(2,107
)


(1,166
)


(901
)

              Net
      cash (used in) provided by investing activities


(20,368
)


(66,250
)


30,237


Cash flows from financing
    activities:













Net
      increase (decrease) in accounts and drafts payable


79,094



85,856



(48,774
)

Cash dividends paid


(6,279
)


(5,448
)


(4,925
)

Purchase of common shares for treasury


—



(467
)


—


Other financing activities


(1,177
)


(275
)


603


              Net
      cash provided by (used in) financing activities


71,638



79,666



(53,096
)

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash
      equivalents


42,412



18,715



(11,719
)

Cash
      and cash equivalents at beginning of year


79,617



60,902



72,621


Cash and cash equivalents at end of
      year

$
122,029


$
79,617


$
60,902

Note
19SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL
INFORMATION(Unaudited)





First

Second

Third

Fourth




(In thousands except
      per share data)
     
Quarter
     
Quarter
     
Quarter
     
Quarter
     
YTD

2011
















Fee
      revenue and other income

$     
14,832

$     
15,783

$     
16,447

$     
15,762

$     
62,824

Interest income


12,904


12,795


12,494


12,042


50,235

Interest expense


1,206


1,125


1,060


983


4,374

       Net interest
    income


11,698


11,670


11,434


11,059


45,861

Provision for loan losses


450


850


550


300


2,150

Operating expense


18,134


18,635


18,913


19,347


75,029

Income tax
    expense


2,227


2,229


2,358


1,683


8,497

Net income

$
5,719

$
5,739

$
6,060

$
5,491

$
23,009

Net
      income per share:
















Basic earnings per share

$
.55

$
.56

$
.59

$
.53

$
2.23

Diluted earnings per
      share


.55


.55


.58


.53


2.21

2010
















Fee
      revenue and other income

$
13,225

$
13,968

$
14,401

$
14,552

$
56,146

Interest income


11,628


12,131


12,489


12,798


49,046

Interest expense


1,176


1,199


1,249


1,251


4,875

       Net interest
    income


10,452


10,932


11,240


11,547


44,171

Provision for loan losses


900


1,150


950


1,100


4,100

Operating expense


16,197


16,850


17,098


18,139


68,284

Income tax
    expense


1,831


2,000


2,013


1,779


7,623

Net income

$
4,749

$
4,900

$
5,580

$
5,081

$
20,310

Net
      income per share:
















Basic earnings per share

$
.46

$
.48

$
.54

$
.50

$
1.98

Diluted earnings per
      share


.46


.47


.54


.48


1.95
48


Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm
The Board of Directors and
ShareholdersCass Information Systems, Inc.: 
We have audited the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Cass Information Systems, Inc. and
subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related
consolidated statements of income, shareholders’ equity and comprehensive
income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2011. These consolidated financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion. 
In our opinion, the
consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Cass Information Systems, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.
We also have audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011 based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report
dated March 9, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting. 
/s/ KPMG LLP
St. Louis,
MissouriMarch 9, 2012 
49




ITEM 9. 
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
      FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND
PROCEDURES 
Conclusion Regarding the
Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
Under the supervision and
with the participation of our management, including our principal executive
officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of our
disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
“Exchange Act”), as of December 31, 2011. Based on this evaluation, our
principal executive officer and our principal financial officer concluded that
our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2011.

There have not been changes
in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during our fourth
fiscal quarter that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to
materially affect our internal control over financial reporting. 
Management’s Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
Our management is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f). All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have
inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective
can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement
preparation and presentations.
Under the supervision and
with the participation of our management, including our principal executive
officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the
framework in Internal Control –
Integrated Framework issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on
our evaluation under this framework, our management concluded that our internal
control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011.

The effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 has been
audited by KPMG LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm. KPMG
LLP’s report, which expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, is included
below. 
50


Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm 
The Board of Directors and
ShareholdersCass Information Systems, Inc.: 
We have audited Cass Information
Systems, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2011, based on criteria established in
Internal Control – Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying
Management’s Report on Internal Control
over Financial Reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial
reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining
an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the
risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our
audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary
in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for
our opinion. 
A company’s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate. 
In our opinion, Cass Information
Systems, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established
in Internal Control – Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
We also have audited, in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States), the consolidated balance sheets of Cass Information Systems, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated
statements of income, shareholders’ equity and comprehensive income, and cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011,
and our report dated March 9, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on those
consolidated financial statements. 
/s/ KPMG LLP 
St. Louis, MissouriMarch 9, 2012

51 


ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION

None. 
PART III. 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
Certain information required by this
Item 10 is incorporated herein by reference from the following sections of the
Company’s definitive Proxy Statement for its 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
(“2012 Proxy Statement”), a copy of which will be filed with the SEC no later
than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year: “Election of Directors,”
“Executive Compensation and Related Information,” and “Ownership of Securities”.

The Company has adopted a Code of
Conduct and Business Ethics policy, applicable to all Company directors,
executive officers and employees. The policy is publicly available and can be
viewed on the Company’s website at www.cassinfo.com. The Company intends to
satisfy the disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding the
amendment to, or a waiver of, a provision of this policy that applies to the
Company’s principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal
accounting officer or controller, or persons performing similar functions, and
that relates to any element of the code of ethics definition enumerated in Item
406(b) of Regulation S-K by posting such information on its website. 
There have been no material changes to
the procedures by which shareholders may recommend nominees to the Board.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
Certain information required pursuant
to this Item 11 is incorporated herein by reference from the sections entitled
“Election of Directors,” “Executive Compensation and Related Information,” and
“Ownership of Securities” of the Company’s 2012 Proxy Statement, a copy of which
will be filed with the SEC no later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal
year.


ITEM
      12.  
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
      MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS
Information required pursuant to this
Item 12 is incorporated herein by reference from the sections entitled
“Executive Compensation and Related Information” and “Ownership of Securities”
of the Company’s 2012 Proxy Statement, a copy of which will be filed with the
SEC no later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year. 
Securities Authorized for Issuance
under Equity Compensation Plans 
The following information is as of
December 31, 2011: 









Number of
      securities








remaining available
      for





Weighted-average

future issuance
      under



Number of securities
      to

exercise
      price of

equity
      compensation



be issued upon
      exercise

outstanding

plans
      (excluding



of outstanding
      options,

options,
      warrants

securities reflected
      in



warrants and
      rights

and
      rights

column
  (a))

Plan Category
     
    
(a)
     
    
(b)
     
    
(c)

Equity compensation
      plans

30,6281
 
$      
17.79
 
—
1

approved by
    security

385,0562

 
27.28

481,7282

holders
 







  

Equity compensation
      plans

—


—

—

not approved by
      security








holders








Total

415,684

$
26.58

481,728


Note: All share and per share data have been
      restated to give effect to the 10% stock dividend issued on December 15,
      2011.

1
     
Amount disclosed relates
      to the Company’s 1995 Performance-Based Stock Option Plan and 1995
      Restricted Stock Bonus Plan. There will be no more shares or options
      granted under these plans.

2

Amount disclosed relates
      to the 2007 Omnibus Incentive Stock
Plan.

Refer to Note 11 to the consolidated
financial statements for information concerning stock options and bonus
plans. 
52 




ITEM
      13.  
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND
      DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
Information required by this Item 13 is
incorporated herein by reference from the section entitled “Election of
Directors” of the Company’s 2012 Proxy Statement, a copy of which will be filed
with the SEC no later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 
Information concerning our principal
accountant’s fees and services is incorporated herein by reference from the
section entitled “Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm” of the Company’s 2012 Proxy Statement, a copy of which will be
filed with the SEC no later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year.

PART IV. 
ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT
SCHEDULES 


     
(a)
     
The following
      documents are incorporated by reference in or filed as an exhibit to this
      Report:


  




(1) and
      (2)
     
Financial Statements and Financial Statement
      Schedules Included in
      Item 8 of this report.


  




(3)

Exhibits listed under
      (b) of this Item 15.


  


(b)

Exhibits


 




     
3.1

Restated Articles of
      Incorporation of Registrant, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
      Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 333-44499, filed with the SEC on
      January 20, 1998.


 





3.2

Articles of Merger of
      Cass Commercial Corporation, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to
      the quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006
      (File No. 333 – 44497).


 





3.3

Second Amended and
      Restated Bylaws of Registrant, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to
      the current report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on April 18, 2007 (File
      No. 333 – 44497).


 





10.1

1995 Restricted Stock
      Bonus Plan, as amended to January 19, 1999, including form of Restriction
      Agreement, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Post-Effective
      Amendment No. 2 to Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-91456, filed
      with the SEC on February 16, 1999.*


 





10.2

1995
      Performance-Based Stock Option Plan, as amended to January 19, 1999,
      including forms of Option Agreements, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      4.3 to Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 to Form S-8 Registration Statement
      No. 33-91568, filed with the SEC on February 16, 1999.*







  
    





10.3

Form of Directors’
      Indemnification Agreement, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
      the quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2003
      (File No. 333 – 44497).*


  





10.4

Amended and Restated
      2007 Omnibus Incentive Stock Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      10.1 to the quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
      30, 2007 (File No. 333-44497).*


 





10.5

Amendment and
      Restatement of the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the
      quarter ended September 30, 2007 (File No. 333 – 44497).*


  





10.6

Form of Restricted
      Stock Agreement Award Agreement, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3
      to the quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
      2007 (File No. 333 – 44497).*







  





10.7

Form of Stock
      Appreciation Rights Award Agreement, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      10.4 to the quarterly report on Form
      10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 (File No. 333 – 44497).*







 





21

Subsidiaries of
      registrant.







 





23

Consent of
      Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.







 





31.1

Certification
      Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.







 





31.2

Certification
      Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.







  





32.1

Certification
      Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of
      the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
      2002.







  





32.2

Certification
      Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of
      the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
      2002.







 





101.INS

XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT







 





101.SCH

XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA







  





101.PRE

XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION
      LINKBASE







  





101.LAB

XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL
    LINKBASE







 





101.CAL

XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION
      LINKBASE







 





101.DEF

XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION
      LINKBASE____________________
* Management contract or compensatory
plan or arrangement. 
(c) None.
53 


SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated. 



CASS
      INFORMATION SYSTEMS, INC.

 

Date: March 9, 2012
By   
/s/
      Eric H. Brunngraber
 

 

Eric H. Brunngraber
 



President and Chief Executive
      Officer
 



(Principal Executive
    Officer)
 

 

 

Date: March 9, 2012
By
/s/
      P. Stephen Appelbaum
 



P. Stephen Appelbaum
 



Executive Vice President and Chief
      Financial Officer
 



(Principal Financial and Accounting
      Officer)
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below on the dates indicated by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in their capacity as a member of the
Board of Directors of the Company.


Date: March 9, 2012
By   
         
                /s/  
K. Dane
    Brooksher 




 
K. Dane Brooksher 


 


Date: March 9, 2012
By
/s/  
Eric H. Brunngraber
 




Eric H. Brunngraber 


 
 

Date: March 9, 2012
By
/s/  
Bryan S. Chapell





Bryan S. Chapell
 

 


Date: March 9, 2012
By
/s/  
Lawrence A. Collett





Lawrence A. Collett
 

 


Date: March 9, 2012
By
/s/  
Robert A. Ebel





Robert A. Ebel


 


Date: March 9, 2012
By
/s/  
Benjamin F. Edwards, IV





Benjamin F. Edwards, IV
 

 


Date: March 9, 2012
By
/s/  
John L. Gillis, Jr.





John L. Gillis, Jr.


 


Date: March 9, 2012
By
/s/  
Wayne J. Grace





Wayne J. Grace


 


Date: March 9, 2012
By
/s/  
James J. Lindemann





James J. Lindemann


 


Date: March 9, 2012
By
/s/  
Randall L. Schilling





Randall L. Schilling


 


Date: March 9, 2012
By
/s/  
Andrew J. Signorelli





Andrew J. Signorelli


 


Date: March 9, 2012
By
/s/  
Franklin D. Wicks, Jr.





Franklin D. Wicks, Jr.

54 





